Assuming it is intended to throw a 1 m^2 patch in front of your bike suggests it may be a ~35 lumen or so light. I think you'd be safe in looking for 100 lumen (or greater) light to replace with. Looking at that price range, I'd think those were reasonable assumptions to make. Unfortunately, without knowing how large a patch it it intending to throw, you'll never be able to make a direct comparison. 

That is an older style octalink crankset. The documentation is available here for the octalink version and here for the square version. As to what size BB you'll need that will depend on your frame. There are several sizes of octlink BBs available depending on how your frame was manufactured. If you don't have your old BB available with a legible size on hand, I would recommend taking the frame and cranks into a shop and having it measured so they can order you the correct size. 

There are many companies today producing "lugged" frames out of aluminum/steel/titanium with carbon fiber tubes. Seven Cycles is one example, but there are others. Additionally, some people are independently making carbon frames with lugs that have been created using 3D printer madness. Reading various forums and the last link, 3M, Loctite and West System all make epoxies that would work for such an application. Your best bet would likely be to contact the company and have them recommend which product would be appropriate. All of this assumes that you are trying to lug a piece that will be under compression. Lugged bicycle frames work because the triangle largely experiences compression forces which actually force the tubes into the lugs. Forces acting to pull the tube out of the lug are more rare and the epoxy acts mainly to hold the setup together and isn't as "structural" (bad use of the term) as the lugs or tubes. If this is not what you are trying to accomplish, you may look for a different solution since gluing/epoxying together two pieces that will be under tension will rely on the strength of the epoxy to hold them together and likely not be appropriate for the forces generated cycling. 

Seems like I'm a Necromancer again... Most likely a spacer. No, I take that back; Almost certainly a spacer. With the Hybrid cassette fitting correctly, it's quite often that they are slightly thicker, even by a couple of millimeters. An easy way to check is to check the limiter screws on the deraileur if you haven't adjusted them. If there's too far away from the wheel for where the jockey wheels line up, it's probably missing a spacer. If not, it needs a thicker spacer or more, assuming the gears were properly set up before you took it to pieces. Also, good call, taking the cassette off to clean it. Too many times, people leave it on their wheel using a degreaser to clean it, and it breaks down the grease inside the hub and freehub body! Annoying because I usually get asked to replace them when it happens, then I lecture them about all the problems from doing so..... Boring! 

So, I broke a Shimano Sora rear derailleur last night... Ouch, there goes a load of cash... What had happened was the hanger was bent slightly inwards, yet was functioning fine, so I rode it home. Came to a slight bump in the road whilst in first gear, and then the rear wheel spokes decided the derailleur looked tasty, caught the mech and bent it all the way up, over, in front of and then below the chain-stay. Long story short, it broke. Just in case you hadn't gathered. :P I've repaired bikes for years, but I've never come up to this part; Can I use HeliCoils to place into the bolt holes for where the hanger itself is meant to meet? I cannot bring myself to part with this frame as it was my best friend's, and he had died after riding this bike in a small criterium near me, I brought it up to scratch, offered it to the family to help pay for funeral costs and they decided I should be the one entrusted to look after and care for it. I screwed up big time. Theoretically, HeliCoils should ('should') work in this application; If it works holding brake calipers on cars, it should work for this. But, would there be any other way to fix the threads (which are warped and stretched, not even a thread chaser would work on it!) so I can still use the same bolt size? I don't want to have to bodge it together with a bigger bolt size in a larger, re-tapped hole. In fact, I'm not even sure THAT would work, either. Could I put a big tack weld in where the hole is and then drill the weld out to tap a thread into? (After rubbing the paint back and all, though Aluminium is a pain to weld) I've never tried anything to do with frame/fork work directly, I'm used to fixing bikes, not frames, if you know what I mean by that. Any help would be great, and I'm curious if HeliCoils would actually work. Cheers. 

I have a feeling that article is utter lunacy with a lot of big quotes mostly troll style to elicit a response. Mountain biking is a competitive sport similar to road racing. It's highly unlikely the rules governing it will allow for electric assists anytime soon. That being the case, the idea that sometime soon all mountain bikes will be sold with an assist, is also highly unlikely. For non-competitive riders, the advantages of an electric assist are many. Mountain biking is an up and down sport where long climbs lead to long descents. Being able to more easily complete those climbs and still get in the descents may be preferable to some mountain cyclists looking for an easy out. It may also allow less fit cyclists to keep pace with their peers. All that being said, you can expect it to be almost as frowned upon as electric assist is in the road racing world. While mountain biking may have a slightly more "bro" culture than road racing, it's hard to justify a shared experience with someone who is doing far less work than you. 

I've had many sets of painted rims. All of them were painted by a professional whose day job was cars. I have no idea what the prep and such involved was, but all of them looked great until I cracked the rims, had large rocks take chunks out, whichever. Paint is certainly not going to hurt your metal rim, and it may offer it some protection. Whether or not the paint stays on (which doesn't actually seem to be your question) is a matter involving far too many variables (prep, materials, care, conditions) to answer. Unless you are planning to use some frightening type of paint I haven't heard of, you won't damage the rim by painting it. 

I have no interest in racing, for me a bike is a mode of transport or a pleasant way to enjoy the countryside. Currently, the only time I ever stand is to accelerate from stationary or for a very short, steep hill... I can't do it for more than about 30s and it ruins my legs! Friends of mine say they never stand, us it something that's useful to practice or really only for racing? Does it perhaps use different muscles so can be used to alternate with sitting on a hilly route or something, or is it fundamentally a hard core skill? 

I'm new to cycling and got a cheap (not the very cheapest probably one step up) mountain bike as a way to get around the country lanes in Cornwall, with the odd rough track here and there down to a beach. I am curious about the quantitative differences I'd see if I had: 

As a total noob to cycling the thing that really kills me is hills steep enough I get into anaerobic territory. My general fitness lets me cycle for hours without really getting tired even working fairly hard, but my thighs have a pretty limited total amount of ascent in them which takes a long time to replenish. I feel like on steeper hills (say 10% and above) I have to go anaerobic to get enough speed... if I shift down to my lowest gear at my regular cadence I am so slow I risk falling off, and of course the climb just takes much much longer anyway! My beginner question is: should it be possible to get up most/all hills aerobically using gears, or is it a fundamental feature of cycling that you will end up burning, and you will find sometimes your legs just give out mid-hill until you improve your muscles/fitness? 

I'd look into a manufacturer that actually makes saddles in different widths, get your sit bones measured, and try one of their recommended saddles. Keep in mind that there may be a conversion involved. I rode the wrong width saddle for a year because I assumed that my measurements should match the listed width of the saddle (not true, the company I prefer has a chart and there is basically an offset, ie my 137mm or whichever sitbones actually use a 143mm saddle, not the 135mm one). Here is an example style size chart. It sounds like you are looking for a particular width, but there wasn't mention of you having your sit bones measured. If you've done this, but it hasn't worked out for you, I'd be next wondering about abnormal anatomy. Just like people have different length arms and/or legs occasionally, perhaps your sit bones are not spaced evenly from your midline and you might need to get some inbetween size to accommodate. There are companies making adjustable width saddles, so that's also something you could look into. 

A warped frame will not cause wobble when the wheel is moved by hand. A warped frame can cause wobble when riding at speeds since the wheel is not straight. However, if the wheel has play (moves side to side without rotating) in the frame, then the hub is not properly adjusted or is damaged. The noise issues could be from any number places and should probably be looked at as well. You are correct in the lesson, but perhaps not in the reasoning. Buying from a LBS should ensure you are purchasing a properly assembled and adjusted bicycle. Hub adjustments (like the issue you are describing) are one of the many build steps a good shop will perform when assembling a new bicycle. It's part of why you are paying a higher price at your LBS instead of an internet warehouse with no overhead. 

Nope, and riding with it locked is quite beneficial in certain factors of riding, and if you have a locking suspension, you are very lucky compared to me, who has a bike without it. The bike will not break from simply having your suspension locked; It still absorbs impact, just in extremely minute amounts. Seeing as many web sites have covered this, I'd thought I may as well throw some info out there. Imagine the fact that I have 22mm tyres on my road bike; you should have about an inch and a half. Not much of a difference? In terms of absorption, I can swap my tyres for 25mm and feel a huge difference in comfort and less shock through the frame. If you have an inch and a half or even just an inch, you should be more than perfectly fine, no matter what terrain. I mean, come on, I ride a road bike off-road on bumpy-ass terrain. 

Anyone who can help, or anyone with one of these with these tyres, please, please, please help! Thankyou all in advance. 

How long is a piece of string? Honestly, the life of a bike can vary dependant on whether your bike is regularly serviced, if you're going to actually replace parts like chain, cassette, chainrings, bearings, brake pads, brake cables, gear cables, bottom brackets, headset bearings, etc. If you don't do ANYTHING to it, and ride it daily, you'd be lucky to get about a year and a half out of my personal experience. If you constantly service it and you don't torture it, you could have it outlive you. It's down to the owner's effort in keeping the bike running. I know people who have four chains that they interchange after each ride and people who use multiple wheelsets. 

I personally prefer as little plastic as possible on my rigs. Plastic gets brittle when it gets cold. All of the frame bags I have ever owned had full velcro all way around the bag. I've ridden them in snow, ice, mud, rain and dust and never had an issue with the velcro. Velcro rarely "fails". If it gets gummed up, you can clean it (usually on the spot). Plastic buckles require an extra stitch area (where the buckle connects to the strap) and the plastic itself can fail. All that being said, sliders are a good choice for often on/off straps or frequently adjusted straps (the sleep systems I have carried on my bike have had sliders). A frame bag shouldn't fall into this category. 

Most bikes come flat shipped from the manufacturer. A good bike shop will do the following: Check/adjust the wheels/hubs and then install them. Install and lubricate/paste the seatpost. Install the handlebars. Check/Adjust the headset. Check and adjust the drivetrain. Install pedals (if the bike came with them, many high end bikes do not). Install the reflectors (required by law in most areas). Tune/check air levels (tires and suspension). To answer your question specifically, the crankset/bottom bracket will most likely come pre assembled. However, talk to your shop. They may be willing to give you some credit for the FSA crankset if they keep it and they can assure it is unridden (but not uninstalled). I have worked in a shop that did so regularly with the stock SPD pedals that come on bikes if people wanted flats. 

I've just started cycling on a cheap mountain bike. I've never cycled more than 90min in one go and average around 12mph. The idea of cycling all day for days on end just sounds horrific and training for it sounds full without having a destination. What would a novice cyclist tend to do in terms of distance and hours cycling if doing say a week long trip? Do I need to train at such long durations or once I'm past a certain duration is it just about keeping hydrated and fed? 

My interest is more on ease of getting up hills and conserving energy in general than raw speed... Can anyone give me firm figures or real life comparisons? 

Riding my mountain bike on the roads in experiencing tingling and numbness in my hands, especially the left, after 10-15 minutes. It's intermittent and I can disperse it by wiggling my hand when it's safe to take one hand of the bars for a few seconds. I wondered if adjusting the handlebar height might help? I recently corrected my saddle height by raising it about 3" but maybe that puts more weight on my wrists as I lean further forward? 

Body armor works fairly well at preventing abrasions and cuts, but does not do as well against impact damage. I wore a SixSixOne pressure suit for many years when downhilling. Basically during all the slow and medium speed crashes it keeps you from walking away bleeding from rocks, bark and maybe small punctures (from exposed tree branches and such) depending on where they land. It doesn't keep you from getting bruised (that much), and will do little to mitigate the forces you encounter during a high speed crash. I still managed to dislocate my collar bone during a high speed crash in full armor. However, I wasn't bleeding where my shoulder slammed into the tree, so there is that. I'd sum up by saying body armor is NOT like a helmet for your body. It will not protect your spine from a high impact crash, but it may keep the skin on your back from getting torn up. As far as what to look for, I recommend the same things you's look for in any cycling gear. It should fit well and be well made. Depending on your riding conditions and weather, ventilation can be very important. Even at 75F, my armor made me sweat like the dickens. At 85F or 90F, I don't think I could have stood the heat, but I was used to riding in sub arctic (interior Alaska) conditions. 

Not sure I'd call that a clutch.... ;) More a freewheel. I have done jobs like this in the past, and I found using a Lithium Grease (very thin, textured a bit like facial cream) works great, so long as you only line it on the teeth. 

On the one I had, however, it had a seal which meant there was no way the grease could get out. Something important to note is that, if you DO have one of these with a seal on them, don't competely fill it with grease. Where you have moving parts, you want a void and a way for it to 'breathe', otherwise the seal will physically pop. You want more air than grease; Air is compressible, grease (classed as a liquid) is not. If it's not sealed, only a very thin layer. It's purpose is to keep it lubricated and to keep the teeth themselves clean and not directly contacting metal-on-metal, a bad thing in an electric motor which moves very fast under heavy load. If you use too little, the gears will chew each other up, making what little grease there is turn into a grinding paste. Too much grease, and it'll start blurting out of the side, onto other vital, expensive components. Good luck!