Combine a much smaller steam engine with an electric generator, some batteries, and a good flywheel, and you're good to go. It might be possible to get that ruthless 25% value up to 75%, which hits the believability zone. 

But... Could such a planet have a thick enough atmosphere and a strong enough magnetosphere to block enough of the nebular material from falling and allow for an inhabitable 70% water planet? 

You can't set people back that far without basically killing everyone over the age of 6... and then you risk killing the species. There is a LOT of knowlege in people's heads. It took less than 500 years to move from basic metalurgy to today. 90% of our advanced technology was developed in the last 150 years. And that really was from scratch. You have starting knowledge and books floating around with a fair amount of experience. Knowing something can be done is an enormous part of the battle. When it really was from scratch, the idea of (e.g.) a steam locomotive was non-existent. People had to develop the ideas, then dream about the applications, then slowly develop the applications... etc. Once you know it can be done you skip decades of trial-and-error. 

This is an interesting question. All metals conduct reasonably well. Besides, your knights want to look good! They want to feel important! They want silver and gold on their armor, which would be like lightening rods to magic. But... what if we coat the armor? In an ideal world where all materials were present, if you coated the inside of your armor with rubber (a wonderful insulator), then you'd have armor that could withstand sword and wand alike and sill make the knight feel grand! On the other hand, if we assume all materials aren't present and we only have access to those materials available in medieval Europe... 

I've got it! Layered satin or silk would probably do the trick. And your knights would look smashing at the same time. Those layers would still become more conductive with sweat, but the trade-off is they'd last longer than plant fiber, wouldn't chaffe like leather, would breath almost like Egyptian cotton, and would look good. In fact, you'd look a bit like a Roman soldier. 

Historically, we humans have already had to solve this problem on a smaller scale: train schedules. Trains could move fast enough for long enough periods of time that sunrise and sunset was different between the beginning and end of the journey. Complicated schedules were created that specified when the train would arrive/depart a specific location in "local time." In the case of a larger macro system, the only real question is can we create two references that are independent of or minimally dependent on relativistic properties? I'm not a nuclear physicist, but we probably already have. The SI unit of "one second" is defined as... 

I'm a Noble with a reasonably complex economy to worry about. There are roads to maintain, my troops to worry about, people to bribe, not to mention my mistresses (ahem) wife to spend money on. I have a coffer under my wife's side of the bed (woe to the bandit who tries to get at THAT coffer!) with my land's budget and it currently has 1,200 gold pieces. I'm considered wealthy and the envy of my peers. But, I have a castle to build. It just honks my horn that Lord Jones over there has a castle and I'm not coming in second place to him. Have you seen his daughters? He'd better gold-plate that castle as their dowery. And just wait until you see MY daughters. anyway, I need 1,504 gold pieces in my coffer after a year's passed so I can keep up with the Jonses. That means I need 42 gold in extra tax each month. I'm declaring my expenses to be 10 gold pieces each month and I need 100 gold pieces each month just to keep the coffer where it is. That's 152 gold each month. I tax by families, and I have 2,500 families in my lands. 500 of them are peers. The rest are serfs. I collect twice from my peers as I do my serfs and I'm not allowing them to collect taxes. They can get rent, but not tax. So, I need 3,000 shares of 152 gold each month or 0.05067 gold per serf family and twice that for those mooching peers. At 10 silver per gold and 10 copper per silver that's 5.067 copper per month from my serfs and 10.13 copper per month from my good-for-nothing peers. Using a standard told me by a Seer who claims he can see into the future (what exactly is "tie-dye" anyway?), rent is 24% of each family's average income, food/clothing/medical another 24%, savings (better known as my when-I-decide-to-give-that-Jones-guy-the-beat-down-of-his-life fund) is 10%, booze money is 5%, farm animals and tools are 14%, and my taxes are 15%. That means the average family income is 33.78 copper for serfs and 6 silver 7.56 copper for those hangabout peers. Sometimes I need to bring a heavy hand against my merchants because they get a little greedy (that's my job, afterall) and try to gouge people. But when everything's running smoothly, the value of a cow (and therefore the straw that feeds it) is easily calculated from the available money my people have to spend. When I need to improve the economy a bit, I'll co-opt some of my serfs to hit the mines and dig out a bit more gold. Not too much! Copper is good for serfs, silver for my honking peers — and gold for me! 

I'd like to invite you to broaden your perspective. Generally speaking, the police would do what they've always done. Magic apps on smartphones are just another murder weapon to them. Yes, a bit more eccletic, but still just a knife or a gun in digital/magical form. What's really interesting to me is how the law would change. Law (at least in the U.S.) changes very slowly. This is intentional. Basically, it's thought that it's better to be imperfect for a while than to impose a poorly thought through law in the heat of the moment — because laws basically never go away. So what happens if one of your apps is clarivoyance and that leads to what somebody might call "insider trading?" However, there's no law that admits to the existence of clarivoyance... so what can the police actually do about it? What about an app that produces good luck? We had a recent question that asked about how casinos would react to sudden good luck. How can the law punish you for good luck? A law would have to be written saying you can't create your own non-random luck using an app — but no such law exists! How do judges decide cases involving teleportation apps when your neighbor claims you suddenly have the really nice hammer he once owned? What if you use the teleporter to bring home a laptop from your employment that would normally require check-out via security? What if you teleported to Canada, bypassing customs? So, in my opinion, the interesting question isn't what the police would do — it's what the politicians would do. Especially when they start using the mind-control apps themselves to secure their constituencies. It's a popular belief that strong DUI laws don't exist because the politicians would be subject to them. Same problem, my friend, and a very slow legal process insues! 

I regret that this answer, given our comment conversation, might be a hair disappointing in that I haven't put in all the horrid equations. However, the basic calculus will stand up. Simplifying this discussion almost to the point of making angels weep.... Entropy describes the tendency of the universe to "settle down" to an energy state after which no work can be done. From the point of view of electricity, you need a difference in voltage to make something happen. For example, your hair dryer needs (in the U.S.) 110 volts AC. It has two prongs. It doesn't matter1 if one prong is 0 and the other 110, or one prong is 10,000 and the other 10,110. So long as the difference is 110 volts, the hair dryer operates. The problem is when both prongs are, for instance, 10,000 volts AC. Your hair dryer stops working. There's no "potential" with which it can operate. That's entropy. Everything settles to a "common value" after which there's no potential for more work. (Can you hear the angels weep? I can....) Now, a little Calculus... Entropy can be thought of as the limit of all potential energy as time approaches infinity. $ \lim_{t→∞} E \frac{de}{dt} = 0 $ That differential (de/dt where e and E are energy and t is time) is the problem. Time is always in the denominator. No matter how much E you have, no matter how great the de you have, you will always have a finite energy in each individual universe and divide by infinity. (If you want interesting reading, go to math.SE.com and read questions and answers about infinite finite systems.) Because this simple oversimplification (the angels are starting to break mirrors in preparation for slitting their wrists), it doesn't matter how many universes you have. Since each individual universe must obey the same rule, no matter how much energy is transferred between any of them, and no matter how many universes there are... An infinite number of parallel universes will eventually succumb to entropy. If one universe discovered how to rape all the others of their energy, because entropy is defined as time approaches infinity, entropy will always win. It'll just take a little longer. Here's the easiest way to look at the problem. This is what is meant by an infinitely finite system. Remember, E is always a finite number, the final thermal bias of any universe. $ \sum_{i=1}^\infty \frac{E}\infty = 0 $ (And the dead bodies of angels have just started to fall from heaven. It doesn't change the intrinsic veracity of the result... but I do feel bad about the angels.) One last thing from our comments above. There is no magic bullet here. Even if each universe settled to a different thermal bias, allowing for a potential to exist between universes, entropy would still win. The universe draining all the others would last a little longer (as I said above), but in the end, everything stops. The only way to change this is the impossible: a power source independent of all universes that outlasts time itself. Perpetual energy. (And the last angel just hit the ground.) It's difficult to imagine what the end result of entropy is: no planet moves because all mass has settled into gravimetric balance. No light, no background radiation, no emissive sources at all. No kinetic energy such as asteroids colliding. Not even a quantum burp. It is, IMHO, the most lonely and depressing thing I can imagine. But it's why I can say, from the perspective of the mathematics we understand today, that each universe is a closed system, and therefore the "parent system" of all parallel universes is also closed, despite the infinite number (remember that math.SE link). You can rob Peter only so long before there's nothing left to pay Paul because everything's draining toward zero at the same time, if not the same rate. 

First of all, you must resolve the technology dichotomy A technology dichotomy is when the fundamentals required for a particular technology do not exist, but the technology exists nonetheless. You have one. A high tech society that doesn't have the order and predictable lawfullness needed to permit the millions of scientists, technicians, and engineers necessary to create it? (Much less the farmers, miners, carpenters, masons, pawn brokers, morticians, and even teachers that support them?) Your first problem is explaining how this society even exists. Are they getting the tech as off-world imports? Is it magically summoned? Is it a gift from the Flying Spaghetti Monster? Because it can't exist in the world you described in your question. Second, you need to explain how it's being maintained And maybe this is how your question gets answered. Tech breaks down. If no one is being educated to repair it, then your society has maybe 10-20 years before that tech is gone and all that's left is a few Westworld androids and Mad Max. You've suggested that all the education is online but there's no predictable lawfulness (dichotomy!). Who's the benign being operating the Ineternet on your world? Wouldn't they, being corrupt, want to starve people of education to guarantee the tech breaks down, reserving only to himself and a cadre of consecrated ones the precious juice knowledge that keeps his tech (and that one seemingly unkillable dude) going? If that's the case, then he's forcing people to get an education just to keep his power over the world's apparently only source of knowledge. Social entropy would kill this society fairly quickly Most people don't realize just how complicated the dance of life really is. High technology is a luxury. Any society can exist without it. Every society must work like dogs to maintain it. Take a couple of hours to think through the pyramid of people needed to design, produce, and maintain high-tech. And then outline the minimal pyramids needed for food production, mineral production, and basic safety. What you quickly realize is that 90% of our society exists to support the luxury of technology. How were the pyramids built? You guessed it... social organization Every one of those people I just mentioned must work with a basic expectation of law and order or the pyramid quickly becomes a house of cards. Even a criminal society has order. The majority of any society must predictably work together or that society implodes — and the luxuries are the first thing to go (well, maybe the second. Frozen burritos might be the first to go). Why will you need face-to-face teachers? Because society can't be so lawless that the children won't be required to receive a predictable education, from Kindergarten through college. High tech doesn't exist with a 6th grade education. Somebody will need to motivate the kids to focus on their education or the luxury of technology will vanish. And history has proven that it generally won't be their parents. Even homeschoolers are highly organized. Just talk to one. They'll tell you all about all the other people they depend on just to educate their children at home. It is not chaotic. And they'll tell you that face-to-face time, while not necessary all the time, is nevertheless crucial. Why? Because it takes little time for an 8-year-old to figure out how to play everything from solitaire to Halo — anything other than their homework.