The Heartland Institute's claims about conflict of interest policies and funding disclosure, at least, are incorrect. The conflict of interest policy for Science Bulletin states: 

(In lay writing, an "acknowledgements" section is optional and usually informal, but in scientific writing it's a formal part of the paper with explicit rules.) The claim that Soon did not receive the grant funding directly is irrelevant. It's rare for academics to receive funding directly. Grants are almost always made in the name of the researcher's institution, and the institution almost always keeps a large portion to cover their costs. Similarly, it's not relevant that the Smithsonian approved the grant, because no one is claiming that there was something wrong with the grant. The claim is that it needed to be disclosed. 

note: This question was originally much longer and quoted section 1 of this response by The Heartland Institute. My comments here are in reference to those claims. 

Yelp itself attempts to refute extortion claims in three ways: First, they cite an independent study by researchers at Boston University and the Harvard Business School, finding that advertisers were no more likely than non-advertisers to have unfavorable reviews hidden. Note that the focus of the study was predictors of fraudulent reviews, but they did address the extortion hypothesis, as shown in this excerpt. This is a persuasive statistical argument, but of course it relies on Yelp providing honest data on which reviews were hidden in the first place. If they deleted positive reviews of non-advertisers or excluded them from the subsection that supposedly shows questionable reviews, this analysis would not be able to detect that. Second, Yelp points out that the extortion claims have not held up in court. I haven't evaluated this claim one way or another (for example, if some of the lawsuits led to undisclosed settlements those wouldn't prove anything). Third, Yelp invites readers to use google to search for poor reviews of yelp advertisers. They ask, "if these Yelp advertisers get a special “Delete” button for negative reviews, why in the world aren’t they using it?" This does provide evidence that there's not a literal, unlimited "delete this review" option provided to advertisers, but of course there could be more subtle, statistical bias. More importantly, it addresses whether they show honest results for advertisers -- not your specific question about whether they show honest results for non-advertisers. Overall, I would say that Yelp offers some suggestive but not decisive evidence against the extortion hypothesis, some of which comes from (very likely) unbiased research studies. Probably the strongest evidence either way would come from interviewing business owners who are offered advertising on Yelp, but I'm not aware of any systematic data on this. 

The Jerusalem church is described in Acts (which is not by Paul but by the author of Luke), and Acts 15 has an account of the conflict between Paul and the Jerusalem church. The same conflict is described by Paul in Galatians 2, hence we have two independent sources, which at least establish the existence of the church. (The council is not surprisingly described somewhat differently in the two accounts, but the premise that there were a church and a council is established by both.) We don't have any archaeological evidence and wouldn't expect to, since there most likely were no dedicated church building (the disciples met in private according to Acts - church just means congregation at this point, not a specific building) and distinct Christian symbols like crucifixes etc were not used at the time. I don't see anything suggest that the church should be fictional, especially since the story of the conflict kind of weakens the authority of the early church and Paul, so it wouldn't be in anybody's interest to make such a story up. You are correct that Christianity shows a lot of Greek influence, especially in later iteration, but this has clearly been a gradual process. John (the latest gospel) shows much more Greek (perhaps even Gnostic) influence, while Mark (the earliest) is more purely Jewish. This is fully consistent with the mainstream view that the first Christians and the Jerusalem church where basically a Jewish sect, and Paul transformed it into a more Hellenistic religion approachable by non-Jews - a transformation which caused the conflict described in Acts. 

Yes. Per Xuguang Guo et al's 2014 study (Dr Honglei Chen is the part of this research group), "compared to nondrinkers, drinking coffee or tea without any sweetener was associated with a lower risk for depression, adding artificial sweeteners, but not sugar or honey, was associated with higher risks. Frequent consumption of sweetened beverages, especially diet drinks, may increase depression risk among older adults, whereas coffee consumption may lower the risk." 

The origin of the quake (hypocenter) was about 100 kilometres south of where the ship was stationed. 

High Brix values may indicate a sweeter taste and also that the fruit will keep from perishing for longer duration i.e. harvest-fresh fruits tend to have higher Brix values. 

3. NMES should be considered in combination with resistance training for optimum improvement of muscle function. Per Gondin J et.al's overview of the currently acknowledged benefits and limitations of neuromuscular electrical stimulation (NMES) training programs in both healthy individuals and in recreational and competitive athletes regarding muscle performance in 2011. 

Research shows that decreases in melatonin production in human and animals are known to be caused by environmental lighting, especially short-wavelength lighting (between 470 and 525 nm). Research by NASA shows neither bright nor dim 555 nm light at night could improve performance to the same extent as blue light. Melatonin effects on sleep patterns and alertness are reported here, here and here. Effects of light 

Regarding claim 3, this seem to be a misunderstanding of the hypothesis that languages evolve words for colors gradually and in a universal order. The claim is not that on a specific day, languages around the world invented a word for "blue", but rather that "blue" will typically be the sixth color term to appear in a language (after dark, light, red, green and yellow). This hypothesis is controversial and some counterexamples have been found, but it is not totally ridiculous. The answer by March Ho examines this in more detail. 

Regarding claim 2, this is actually contradicted by the article you link to, which states that Egyptian was the only ancient language which had a word for blue. But even this claim is wrong since we specifically know ancient Latin and Greek words for the "Egyptian blue" dye. 

This is quite different and does not match 9/11 very well. 9/11 did not happen in Rome, and it wasn't just three walls the fell that day. And neither the ruler of Rome nor the ruler of New York died that day. And if you starts to read the surrounding context, they don't fit very well either. For example a star with seventy flames was supposed to be revealed on the firmament on the same day and then disappear again after seventy days. I don't remember this happening. I don't know Hebrew so I cant say which translation is most correct, but from the given I strongly suspect the prophecy only vaguely fits 9/11 if you create you own biased translation and crop the context. If you read further in the bloggers analysis of the passage, he posits that the prophecy refers to Osama bin Laden hiding in a cave, from where he will detonate a nuclear bomb, escape in a plane, and become ruler of the world. It did not exactly happen like this... Btw. the footnote in the above book states that: 

The purpose of the SVCP was to find viruses in human cancer cells and relate them to specific cancers. 

These results also provide reassurance that multiple prenatal ultrasound scans are not followed by smaller body size in infancy or childhood. Per FDA, ultrasound scans should be done only when there is a medical need, based on a prescription, and performed by appropriately-trained operators. Ultrasound waves can heat the tissues slightly and in some cases, it can also produce small pockets of gas in body fluids or tissues (cavitation). The long-term consequences of these effects are still unknown. Combining ultrasound and MRI is essential for the prenatal diagnosis of teratomas and neuroepithelial tumors and determining their prognosis. The overall absence of any deleterious effects of prenatal scans on childhood development is consistent with results from two other studies mentioned below. 

Calcitonin gene related peptide from the skin of Phyllomedusa bicolor is noted to the most potent CGRP of all reported species in nature. 

A meta-analytic review of 196 papers of comparison between organic and conventional milk found that organic milk has a better fatty acid composition than conventional milk. 

The conclusion for Stapleton et al's research into risk factors for contact lens related microbial keratitis (MK) in Australia found that the risk factors included overnight use, poor case hygiene, smoking, internet purchase, less than 6 months’ wear experience and higher socio-economic group. If safety is to be maximized in contact lens wear, practitioners should ensure their patients wear their lenses according to the recommended wearing schedule, are properly instructed in lens handling, lens case hygiene and replacement, and patients should be aware of the importance of good hand hygiene and the increased risk associated with overnight use. 

This is extremely embarrassing. In the last moment he looses faith, thinks God has abandoned him, and dies with a whimper. Even Jim Jones or David Koresh did not lose faith like this! And people around him does not understand what he is saying and are making fun of him. Now consider the later account in Luke: 

Now, not only does Jesus bravely accept his fate, it actually turns out it was part of the big plan all along! And the sponge-guy is not taunting Jesus anymore, but rather offering the sponge as an act of grace. The whole scene is just so much more dignified and meaningful. It is quite easy to see how the narrative could have developed like this. First the crucifixion and the pitiful death of Jesus is an embarrassing fact. But over the following decades (it is assumed to be about 40 years between Mark and John) it is re-interpreted (or spun as we would say today) to actually becoming a meaningful event which shows the greatness of Jesus, and was planned all along. Now consider if it was a fictional account. it makes no sense to make up such an embarrassing end for Jesus (which the Christians later had to spin heavily), if the point of the story was to convince people that this guy was God! The case for the purely fictional Jesus simply does not make sense. Tl;dr: Jesus most likely were a real person.