Actually, the desire for more teeth in the cassette is only understandable if the cyclist has no front derailleur. Or, say, only two rings in the front. Otherwise, the desire is, well, still understandable as a desire, but not all that rationally founded. If you have three rings, there is no need for anything larger than a 23 cog in the cassette. With the small ring engaged in the front and the 23 in the back, you have a ridiculously low gear that feels akin to riding a five-year-old's tricycle. If there is a section of road you can't climb with that, just get off and walk. The only cyclists who need anything lower are athletes who do mountain cycling as a sport, involving ridiculous feats like climbing very steep sections of a rough trail. (They must stay on the bike, because that's the sport; a "normal person" either wouldn't go there with a bike at all, or would just carry it up that section of trail). Bicycles marketed at the mass consumer market often come with ridiculously fat cassettes combined with three speeds in the front, which reinforces the consumer belief that these are good and necessary. It's not clear why this is, but it's probably for two or three reasons. It simplifies the use of the bike: the user can find every gear they need using the front derailleur only. Secondly, the number of speeds is often touted as a selling point to the general public. What happens when you put an 11-34 "Mega Range" cassette (say 9 speeds) into a mountain bike with three rings in the front is that the user ends up with effectively a 9 speed bike, with 18 additional gears that are either redundant or uselessly low. However it can be marketed in the flyer as a 27 speed bike. The large cassette also looks impressive, and consumers like words like "mega"; they think they are getting something special, or more for the money. 

In considering the efficiency of exercise with regard to weight loss, the variable which should be optimized is time. If we put in some hours walking versus cycling, which is better use of our time? The answer is: whichever you put your gut-busting effort into! Leisurely cycling on a flat course for an hour will use less energy than a one hour race-walk. Conversely, all-out cycling for an hour to go as far as possible in that time will beat a leisurely one hour stroll. Either activity will make you fit and lean if you treat it as a sport, and train progressively to bring down your times. 

The valve has two different sized threads. There is a small diameter thread for the cap, and then a wider diameter for the nut. You only thread the nut onto the the second thread by just one or two turns. Lightly tighten the cap, and then turn the nut left slightly to add that little bit more tension. Of course, in this position, the nut interferes with pump chucks, and so you have to completely remove it to inflate. But that only takes one or two turns since it is right on the end of the threads, a noted. 

When the orange rubber padding dried up and cracked away on my guitar stand, I peeled it off and replaced it with clear, PVC hose of a similar diameter, plugging the hose ends with the original plugs. It provides good cushioning. PVC is the same thing as what is already on the hook, namely vinyl. The word "vinyl", when it refers to a material, is usually just a short name for polyvinyl chloride (PVC). PVC hose is an easy way to effectively get a really thick vinyl coating onto a steel rod instantly, without any dipping or painting. Because some of the curves are rather tight, the hose inner diameter should be generously larger than the hook's diameter. The extra width, thickness and air gaps between the hose and the hook will also provide better cushioning than the original coating, letting you be more abrupt in your movements when you hang the bike or take it down. It doesn't specifically have to be PVC. I chose it for that guitar stand because it's durable: it will last long without drying up and cracking like the original covering. Being transparent, it also looks kind of good on that particular guitar stand, over its chrome tubing. Tip: if pulling hose onto the hook gets a little difficult, in spite of good sizing, a dab of vaseline will help. 

From the picture, it's clear you have a "short cage" rear derailleur. That could be a big contributor to the problem. Rear derailleurs are rated for a certain maximum "capacity" that they can handle, which is the difference between the smallest total number of teeth and largest total. In your case, your system goes from 12+36=48 teeth to 29+52=81. This requires a capacity of 33T. Suppose your chain is almost snug when shifted into the 29 + 52 combination, so that the derailleur's tension pulley is almost horizontal, and then you shift into 12 + 36, the derailleur's tension pulley has to then pick up 33 teeth of slack. A 33T range is about right at the edge of the capacity of a typical short cage derailleur, which is probably why you're having trouble setting things up to be okay at both extremes. It would be more comfortable with a middle cage length unit. 

Whether you use both brakes evenly or alternate, you have no idea whether one of them is getting hotter than the other. You cannot control a variable that isn't monitored. If you had a display showing brake temperature, then the best way to brake would be whatever manner keeps both brakes at the same temperature. This would be almost certainly be achievable with a multitude of braking patterns, alternating and not. 

A snap, causing a rubbing noise "every few seconds" indicates that you popped a spoke. A broken spoke might not be apparent at a glance because sometimes the broken end of the spoke stays near its place of origin. Spokes usually break right at the hub, at the little elbow where they bend to enter the hub, where they take a lot of stress. More often than not, they break on the drive side (where the cogs are). On a "department store quality" bike, another cause of rubbing can be that the wheel axle slips along the dropout due to the nut loosening. (Such bikes always have horizontal dropouts, with no clear position for where the axle should be.) That rubbing is not intermittent, however; if the wheel is true, it is constant. It can also severely hinder the bike, making it near impossible to ride. Usually when this happens, the wheel slips forward on the drive side due to chain tension. Finally, another cause of rubbing can be a snapped wheel axle. Astonishingly, it's not impossible that a bike which uses axle nuts to tightly a wheel to the dropouts can still be somewhat ridden with a broken rear axle. The two broken pieces of the axle are so rigidly attached to the frame with the nuts that they somewhat support the wheel anyway. 

How about using a file to file some flat surfaces onto the nut, so that it then takes an ordinary wrench for hex nuts? 

The RD-M310 is actually a 7/8 speed derailleur. Kind of between the bottom-line Shimano Tourney line, designated as 7 speed, and the Acera 8 speed (RD-M360). Still, just this morning I saw a Tourney on someone's 8 speed commuting bike (one chainring front, 11-34T 8 in the back). I can't think of any reason why your shifters wouldn't work with the Claris RD-2400. The derailleur doesn't see the shifter, just the cable movement. The derailleur's ratio is the same 1.7 as your Altus. Make a careful selection between the "SS" (short cage) and "GS" (medium cage) version of the Claris. If you have three rings in the front (which I see from googling is standard on that Cannondale hybrid), you probably want the "GS", which can better pick up the chain slack if you shift to the small ring, and a small cog at the same time. 

Since this is a safety issue I really don't recommend this. However, that's one way you can stop a crack from spreading. It can also be welded closed. 

If you take into account the time spent and the quality of the results of trying to straighten bent chain rings, you are probably better off just buying new rings. Also check the condition of the teeth: if they are badly worn, all you get for your effort is straight rings that have bad teeth. Rings (and individual teeth, if necessary) can be straightened with an adjustable wrench. It's better done with the ring firmly attached to the crank, and the crank attached to the bike, so you can spin it and easily see where it is deviating from true. You may be able to do the large ring, depending on how much room you have to grab it with the wrench (how much larger it is than the middle one). The middle one will be impossible to do because the large one gets in the way. You have to remove the rings from the crank and then attach just the middle one to the crank. You will probably find that when the large ring isn't there, the bolts, which go through the crank and both rings, cannot tighten; you will need a couple of washers which have an inner diameter similar to the bolt holes to make up the missing thickness in place of the large ring. The way the adjustable wrench is used is the obvious: just tighten it down, as firmly as you can, onto the area of the ring that you would like to bend back, and then apply leverage. Check for individual teeth being bent relative to adjacent teeth, and apply individual small bends to correct them. Teeth that are out of whack can cause nasty problems under load, like the chain riding up on the teeth and then snapping down, with each pedal revolution. It might be fine on a flat road, but as soon as you hit a hill: thunk, thunk, ... I have experience trying to use a rubber mallet to straighten out a ring (off the bike of course). It wasn't entirely ineffective, but not very. Never tried a metal hammer; it seems like it could damage the teeth. About special tools: if I do anything requiring removal of the rings, I remove the crank off the bottom bracket. That requires a crank puller tool. I'm not sure whether it's needed. If you can easily access the chain ring bolts without removing the crank, you're okay without the crank puller. 

So that is to say, when you shift to "1", the cable becomes quite slack. The front derailleur wants to move, under its own spring tension, much farther than necessary, and will happily dislocate the chain off the small ring: what stops the derailleur from moving too far inward isn't the shifter, but the position of the "L" (low) trim screw on the derailleur itself. Since the derailleur is stopped by the "L" screw, it is not able to maintain tension on the cable, and the cable goes slack. 

You don't. That situation is remedied by the device known as the "tension wheel": the bottom one of the two small cogs in the derailleur. Under spring action emanating from the joints between the derailleur parts (hanger-pivot and pivot-cage) the tension wheel picks up slack in the chain. The tension wheel is necessary because various gear combinations generate various amounts of chain slack (relative to the most tense combination of largest ring to largest cog). Given that your chain fits into the tightest combination (largest ring to largest cog), try shifting to the extreme opposite: smallest ring to smallest cog. You will see that the derailleur picks up this extreme amount of slack by the tension wheel swinging radically rearward. If the chain is not too loose in this situation, and isn't rubbing against itself anywhere (or coming close to doing so), then everything is cool. The derailleur can pick up slack in excess of the minimum; a few extra links won't exceed its range. It's a good idea to have a few extra links in the chain, in case you have a road-side repair emergency that requires you to splice out and throw away a damaged link. 

Patches will leak if they aren't done properly; the more of them you have on a tube, the greater the likelihood of a leak. If you have three patches, and two are good, but one is not so good, that's exactly like a tube with a single not-so-good patch. They all have to be excellent. When I patch a tube, I press the patched area between two wooden planks using a pair of F-clamps, and leave it clamped for at least 24 hours. After that I pack it up into a box; I don't use that tube right away, but carry it as a spare. That gives it more time to cure before the first inflation. After all that, I still cross my fingers when using the tube for the first time, and closely monitor the tire pressure in the days that follow. 

I'm not so sure about "I'm sorry", but the gesture for the related "I'm sorry for you" is simply to pass hundreds of cars that are stuck in bumper-to-bumper traffic. If you're sorry frequently, it means you have some kind of problem that causes you to carry out actions that you didn't plan, or which have consequences that you didn't forsee. Fix that problem. Do things deliberately and own them. Correctly predict their results and own them also. Consequently, don't be sorry. Then when you're not sorry, you don't require any gesture to express it: you just do in order to achieve a result, the result occurs, and you don't regret anything. When you're on your bike mingling with traffic, you can't afford to be taking unintentional actions, or poorly predicting the results of intentional actions. "I'm sorry" won't cut it when there are serious negative consequences. What does "I'm sorry" really mean in traffic? Usually this: "I regret that someone else had to take an action to avert a disaster that would otherwise have been caused by what I did." It's vastly more important not to have this occur than to have a well researched and rehearsed gesture for the accompanying sentiment of regret.