There is already a company in California doing this (soliculture), they are called "smart greenhouses" and use glass tinted magenta. They claim plants grow just as well in their green houses and have the potential to produce solar power as well. Take a look at this article detailing more about the idea. $URL$ you can also go to their corporate page. $URL$ 

We can use a see through material at the poles as a green house. Have a see through material like quartz cover the top of the water ice and over time the heat from the sun will gather under it, melting the ice down to the surface. This will make the environment warm. The surface should be an easily drain able material like sand. This way as the ice melts to reveal the ground the water drains down into the earth. This will provide the environment to be dry. The planet will need a 0 degree axis to sustain this and simulate a night/day at the poles. The rest of the planet, and even above the pole it can be a ball of ice making the planet much like you wish. As per one of your comments, this sort of environment will doubtfully create human like species. 

I can't recall reading your other answers, so please forgive if this has been covered elsewhere, but there are a couple of possibilities, the first that spring to my mind are how each is 'cast'. 1) Direct Divine intervention requires some form of request/prayer (i.e. "[insert name of god], in thy name [please do xxxx]") 2) There is a direct visual effect (i.e. a golden halo/glow appearing around the caster, the gods/spirits symbol appearing briefly) 3) Divine intervention/spells are only available to the truly faithful or devout, and may need some form of holy symbol to use as a focus (i.e. crucifix etc) 4) Magic requires the use of spell components and incantations. Material items that are used as to cast the spell but are consumed in the process (I think this used to be a requirement in D&D - too many years since I played it), whereas Divine magic doesn't. 5) Possibly, the divine intervention can only occur if the 'caster' is possessed by the God/Spirit that could leave a visually noticeable imprint on the caster, literally becoming a vessel of the divine will - eyes glowing, tattoos appearing that kind of thing. 

Child Care In our current world we have a rising rate of single mothers. They require things like daycare, school, and after school organizations to keep their child in relatively safe locations and under super vision while the mother is at work. With most people entering the work force by the end of 6th grade your society would have a higher birth rate than right now. With more children you need a larger child care workforce and what better way then a government subsidized baby sitter who also tries to get your child an education and better job? 

Volcanoes Volcanoes even today prevent air travel in a large region near where they are active. This should be even worse for early planes as they required clear weather to fly properly, or at least radar. They also make mountains seemingly out of nowhere. These are called Volcanic Mountains, while not the largest will slow down early travel across the land. Volcanoes can be clustered, on earth they are typically at sea in the Ring of Fire but I would suggest this could also take place over land and in a smaller area. The location would be very active geologically but would create a physical barrier to other parts of the world preventing flight and foot travel. 

By building of the societal implications and urges present in normal society, and bringing them in-line with the existing structures. It would simply be approached in a similar manner as recruitment for the armed forces/police etc. The want civil minded/patriotic/reliable people to help defend their nation/way of life/love of pineapples. Just because the subjects have super-powers, they are still raised as part of normal society. They might have a sense of civic duty, a desire to be a part of something greater than themselves for the greater good. They may even buy into the "with great power comes great responsibility", or they might just do it for the solid pay, accommodation and meals that army life provides. The presence of their super-powers just means they'll be fast-tracked for a specialist position (in much the same way that defence forces have SSO's for example). Opinion: I don't see how this would be any different than for 'normal' people. The fact that they have undefined super-powers is largely irrelevant. 

What you are describing sounds more like territorial clashes/border raiding than war. War has a purpose - annihilation, conquest, resources, whatever it may be, it's a concentrated military endeavour undertaken for a specific purpose. It's an all or nothing thing, and usually a successful war is a short war, with clearly defined objectives, as they are rather taxing on resources (manpower, materiel etc) - and any successful campaign relies on maintain or increasing your resources while denying them to your opponent. Instead of war between the two nations, have you considered the idea of disputed territories - a kind of borderland area between the two nations. Or perhaps have factions within each nation constantly at war - think medieval England and Scotland - most often the skirmishes would be between clans/houses raiding each other. Trade continues between the two nations themselves, but there's constant fighting between some factions. Otherwise, your only other realistic course is, as others have mentioned, some kind of black market/smuggling operations. Or, alternatively, an enterprising third nation acts as a middle-man/distribution centre and makes a tidy profit in the meantime. 

I'm no expert but I believe that more gravity would result in faster compression of carbon substances (dead things) and therefor more oil and other fossil fuels would be produced. This would make up for the excess amount of fuel needed to power the much more powerful engines needed for flight in such a place. As for the question of flying creatures, yes, they will develop, but they would look strange to us as they will have had to adapt to the gravity there. They will probably be large winged and small bodied in order to make up for the mass to propellant ratio. 

He may not have been able to see her future because it ultimately lead to his own death. Most people would agree that seeing ones own future would be a horrible burden. When Natura created Chronos, she wouldn't have wanted him to be scared or depressed all the time. Hoping to avoid this, she may have blocked out his ability to see his own future. In doing so, she would've caused him to be unable to see her death, because it would lead to him killing himself, which is a major part of his own future. 

you may wish to look into the "Barbary Coast" which was a collection of pirate city-states that operated from the 1500's until the 1800's. They raided the Mediterranean during this time. These city states were so powerful that deals had to be made with groups like France, and Britain just to avoid Piracy in the Atlantic. When the US stopped being a British colony, the Barbary Coast began harassing American vessels. It got to the point where Two vessels were captured and held for ransom. This was the primary reason for the first 6 American frigates being built by Thomas Jefferson during his time as a minister to France during George Washington's presidency. It ended with American Marine's capturing one of the Barbary Cities. I suggest looking into how these cities operate as they were primarily piracy states funded through bribes, piracy, and the slave trade while being ruled by the Ottoman Empire. EDIT: It was pointed out that I did not make a full explanation for their Industry. I will do that now. The Barbary Pirates were investments for many goverments and merchants in this location of the world and most acted as privateers without letters of Marque. This was made possible under Ottoman rule for the primary purpose of slavery. For those who may not know, in the Quran it states a Muslim cannot own another Muslim. This makes Christian Slaves very valuable. It is estimated that somewhere between 1 to 1.25 million Christian Europeans were sold into slavery in the Barbary Coast during this time. The slaving locations for these pirates went as far north as Iceland. Many European nations did as much as they could to prevent being raided. This included ransoms and tribute, where it was said 20% of US government annual revenues were spent to pay Barbary Pirates prior to the wars (we have no concrete numbers from other countries). Notice that I have not made mention of any other industries. That is because these cities had very little control over their own territories. in Algeria, one of the capitals of Barbary Piracy, over 69% of the land disobeyed Ottoman rule. They refused to pay taxes, ignored rule of law, and were not held by central power. These people added little to no economic activity for the Ottomans to consider. The governments were themselves encouraging this slave trade. The Barbary Coast was ruled by the janissaries. They were an independent military arm for the Ottoman Empire. They slowly came to finance the majority of the Barbary Pirates. 

As Gary Walker pointed out, the prevalence of high quality 'counterfeiting donut machines' world wide means that it is nigh impossible to ensure that you are the only one making them. What needs to happen, then, is the addition to the donut of a singular ingredient that isn't readily available anywhere else. What this is, I donut know. I'm not a pastry chef. Whether this is some kind of special sprinkle, or even some kind of microdot ($URL$ it doesn't matter. Whatever system is designed to prevent donut counterfeiting is going to have a lot of holes in it, and leave a bad taste in the governments mouth. 

The Hero is a figurehead, a symbol, there solely to inspire people. It's no longer about tradition and warfare, it's political. It's less about the Hero BEING heroic as much as it is about the Hero now APPEARING heroic. 

Given the technological constraints of 1910's-1950's, and that war would have evolved from a set of decisive battles on a single field (ala Azincourt) to a series of fronts (ala WW I +), the easiest way is simple: Spin. Run a massive PR campaign. The hero is selected and sent to an unspecified 'front line' location (unspecified for Operational Security reasons, of course). Given the spread out nature of the war, the Hero is always "over there", and the population would be relying on news reports, press releases and propaganda to give them their information - so give it to them: 

There are two approaches you could take with this. Science If your saying they downright don't need to be trees then it makes this a little easier to solve. I'm going to assume that all you care about is the fact that this is some sort of tree-like vegetation. This means the material the trees are made of could be different than our trees. Assuming you could make up a material that is light enough to grow this big without being crushed under it's own weight, strong enough to hold the weight of an entire city, and have a planet with a gravitational pull weak enough to make it all possible, it could work. (Also note that having a weak gravitational pull can also make it easier for elves to get around on trees such as the ones you describe) Fantasy This is a fantasy world and you are talking about elves, a magical race, so clearly this story contains magic, right? This makes it even easier to solve as some ancient elves may have enchanted this species of trees to make them capable of withstanding their own weight at that size. This could also add an interesting element to the story. You could even include the legend of how the trees got to be so big. 

Fallout 4 has an organization similar to what you are asking about. The Railway Faction, in game, is an underground organisation that protects and relocates escaped synths - they communicate the dead drops and signs, operate in cells and basically run interference for synths escaping from the Institute. If you want an actual transition though, from thugs and petty criminals to thugs and criminals with ideals, then there are a number of ways it could be achieved. The first is to make the change over time, slowly, so that it soon becomes accepted. Rules and regulations are put in place on who can and can't be targeted, and transgressions are dealt with severely. A change of leadership is also commonplace in heading towards a new direction. Another, is to create a secret society within the secret society, so that a select few (say the upper echelons) are aware of the true purpose and utilize the existing structures to get the end result. 

But, as Shalveny states in their answer, generally names/titles are derived from the power source and the method in learning/developing. At the end of the day, it is your world and you get final say, but generally speaking it's commonly broken down along four main lines in popular fiction: Divine magic: i.e. magic either imbued as a direct result of appeal to a divine being (prayers, wardings etc) and used by religious bodies and agents (clerics, priests, magisters, acolytes etc) Arcane magic: magic that is not associated with any particular god or diety. Most commonly used by magicians/wizards/sorcerers etc and often depends on the strength of the wielder. Elemental/Natural Magic: Magic that is natural in source, often describe as maintaining the balance of life and guarding the natural world. Often straddling the border between Divine and Arcane. Users are most often depicted as Druids/shaman Ritual magic: Power is drawn through the completion of rituals - sigil, ceremonies, relics. Takes time to complete, and can often involve a sacrifice of some description. Shamans, cultists etc are often portrayed performing ritual magic, generally speaking doesn't necessarily require innate magical abilities and is very often used by the antagonists/big bads.