That is a camel spider, they became famous when the US invaded Iraq in the middle east where they are more common, and the troops started taking pictures and sending them home. Apparently they are also found in the SW USA, which I didn't know. Good news is they aren't venomous, they just have really nasty jaws that can rip and shred flesh. They're known to "chase" people, but really they're only trying to hide in the shade of people's shadows. If one comes after you, just stop moving and it will stop too, it's just trying to use you as shelter from the sun. 

The people to talk to are in your municipal office. Administration are the ones who deal with all that stuff. If you were to take your proposal to a Town Council meeting as a delegation and ask these questions there, I can pretty much guarantee that Council would differ to Administration for the answers, who in turn would likely tell Council that they will look into it and get back to them. After Administration provides Council with all the necessary details (budget, legality, liability, policy, bylaw), they would then take the matter to resolution and vote on whether or not to grant you the funds and or enact a new policy which would cover you under their insurance. Ultimately the decision is made by Council, if they decide they want to accommodate you, then they can likely make it happen. The smartest thing to do would be to go to your Town office, and ask about your local bylaws and policies, Administration will be able to tell you what your best course of action would be. They could help you first of all by letting you know if it's at all a possibility, and if it is they'll help you write out a request for action which can be added to the agenda for the next regular meeting of Council. You should have a member of Council who is assigned to your committee and attends your regular meetings. They're the ones that are supposed to be reporting back to Council and making requests such as this on behalf of your committee. Just last night we had a Councillor request an additional $10,000 for one of the Committees he's on, and they're gunna get it. I actually just started a new job this year in government administration in a town in Alberta, everything we do in administration is dictated by the Municipal Government Act of the Province of Alberta (MGA), your local government is likely also regulated by such an act, so the process may be a bit different down there, but your town office is still the place to start. A few recommendations for your committee: if you don't have one already you should try get a botanist on the committee, as well as someone who works for Parks, either with the Town, County or even the State. At the very least you should have a liaison who works for the State or National Parks. These people would be valuable assets. EDIT I just talked to one of my co-workers who is on the Communities in Bloom committee here. She said for the most part what they do in regards to invasive species is education, they have representatives from weed control companies contracted by the Province do information sessions and distribute booklets on invasive plants to the community, she showed us the ones we have for distribution in the office (see Invasive Plants of the Crown of the Continent, and Alberta Invasive Plants Identification Guide). There's also the Alberta Invasive Species Council, who are undoubtedly an invaluable resource. If you haven't already you should contact the Massachusetts Invasive Plant Advisory Group. As far as using commercial chemicals, only Town employees are permitted to spray here, residents are encouraged to use retail products to control weeds. But the biggest piece is education so residents can identify invasive plants, as many people can't distinguish between a pretty flower and a noxious weed. 

Considering how light canoes are, and how easy they are to tip, I think both outriggers and leeboards are pretty much essential for beginner canoe sailors. With some skill and experience you may be able to go without one or the other, but you're definitely going to have a much easier time with both. 

I think the simplest solution would be to wear ankle-high gaiters and salt the gaiters instead of your boots. This way you will get even added protection from the gaiter, and spare your expensive boot from the inevitable abuses of applying chemical treatments. 

Putting a tent inside another tent would work, but it would work better if the tents were closer in size, then you wouldn't have a large of a volume of air to try and warm. If you really want to insulate your tent, try putting a blanket or old sleeping bag in between the tent and the fly. In a pinch you can use dry grass or leaves, that's what Siberians do, they make a shelter inside of a shelter and fill the gap in-between with grass. 

One thing about canyons, is that they all have one thing in common: water. Every canyon is cut out of the earth by flowing water, and the best canyoneering is in the canyons that have flowing water. Descending down waterfalls, sliding down natural waterslides, cliff jumping into deep pools and swimming through long winding meanders with tall cliff faces on either side of you in a place that receives fewer visits than most others are the big attraction for serious canyoneers. If you're planning on visiting a wet canyon, then you need a few more things, namely: a wetsuit. Then you'll want to get a seat protector for your harness to protect your wetsuit while sliding on your bum: Seat Protector 

VIDEO: Freeskier survived avalanche accident with ABS Airbag (Notice in this video that the skier first attempts to escape the avalanche by shooting straight down the mountain to try and out run in and get out of the way of it's path. You don't get buried as deeply at the sides of an avalanche, so even just trying to get as close to the sides as possible can help your chances.) 

The answer to this question depends a lot on the situation. If the bear runs away after being sprayed, then it gets away with a runny nose and burning eyes/lungs for a while and a reason not to approach people again. Problem solved. The people who sprayed the bear may or may not report it depending on the whole situation. I've met multiple bears I could have sprayed, but instead just let them keep moving along. If the bear leaves and everyone is doing fine then there's no need to do anything else. If it's a nuisance bear, and keeps returning after getting sprayed, then officers get involved and relocate the bear as they would any other nuisance bear. If people get hurt, or if the bear is acting aggressive, or harassing people, then it's most likely going to get euthanized. 

Depends on what's causing the cramps. In your situation, high stepping is what was causing your quads to seize up. The best solution there would be to slow down and stretch frequently. If you start chugging fluids you can actually give yourself more cramps, the kind that you'd have to simply wait out. I think electrolytes are the best way to get rid of most cramps that you can't stretch out, aside from rest. I keep a bottle of those electrolyte water drops to squirt into my water bottle if I need a little extra recovery. One thing that I'll do in this situation–when I know that I'm going to post hole no matter how lightly I tread–is actually break the surface before transferring my weight to my leg. I do this by spearing through the crust with my pointed toe. It takes less energy to kick with each step than it does to lift your whole body out of the hole, so you fatigue slower, and put less strain on your muscles. 

Rolled aluminum descending rings like the SMC Descending ring are light (11g) and cheap ($3) which makes them great for carrying and leaving behind on long descents, but in my mind they are disposable pro, you use them once for retrieving your rope after a rappel and then then leave them to rot. More than once I've seen these rings used with mallions on bolted anchors at high-traffic rappels, but I never use them, some I've replaced with strong 50kN steel rings. They're rated for 14kN, which is more than enough for body weight on a nice controlled rappel, but are they suitable for multiple uses? What's the rule of thumb for this style of descender ring? 

My Dad, being an experienced voyageur from NW Ontario, instinctively jumped out of the canoe up onto the log jam. Me, being barely 13, watched the water hit the hull of the canoe with wide eyes for about 2 seconds before the canoe suddenly flipped in the swift current and took me under the log jam with it. Fortunately for me, the logs were piled there during higher waters, so after a couple of seconds of getting drug along the rocks at the bottom of the river under the logs and my canoe, I eventually popped back up on the other side of the jam, with my Dad close behind me (he jumped in after me when I got towed under). After that incident I just considered jumping out of the canoe onto the jam before it gets sucked under to be the appropriate course of action in this situation. But now that I'm a father, I've been wondering, "What would my Dad have done, if there was no way out the other side?". He just dove in blindly after his son, and we were lucky that there was room under the jam for us to go all the way underneath. What if there was no way out the other side? What can you do to help yourself or someone else if they get sucked under a jam and get pinned against the logs underneath by the current? 

To answer your first question, I'm assuming you're referring to a life and death situation on the mountain where someone desperately needs an emergency transfusion to survive an accident, and whether or not it is safe to offer your blood. My answer would be yes, you could, but don't expect to be making your summit attempt right after. Giving your blood won't necessarily put your body at risk of altitude sickness, but it will likely delay or postpone the rest of your expedition. Acclimatization to elevation involves building your red blood cell count so that you can more effectively transfer oxygen from you lungs to the rest of your body. After you donate blood, your plasma will replenish after 24 hours, but you're typically expected to wait at least 6 weeks to rebuild your red blood cell count. This process could take longer at altitude depending on the person: 

Learning how to place gear is a lot different than actually using it. Trad climbers place their pro, but hope they never have to fall on it. They give it a few tugs, maybe weight it to make sure it'll hold, but for the most part it's there just in case of a fall. Aid climbers on the other hand, they use every piece of gear that they place, they get real practical experience with their gear because not only do they place pro every couple feet, they weight it and hang off of every piece. When they set up an anchor, that anchor isn't there just in case of a fall, they're using it to haul heavy loads and often their followers will be ascending a rope secured from that anchor. I think learning how to aid climb before trad climbing will benefit your skills with placing pro the same way sport climbing and bouldering will benefit your strength and endurance. Strong sport climbers (5.12+) with the experience of big wall aid climbing are the most well rounded climbers in my opinion, and will naturally be very strong Trad Climbers. 

Go somewhere with a shower, get as much of the stuff off of you as you can with a rag/towel, shower (soap very well), then wash any areas that still smell using the H2O2 concoction. Note: H2O2 breaks down quick so use the stuff immediately after mixing. Breath through your mouth. Burn your clothes. But seriously... remove your affected clothes and put them in a plastic bag (to burn later-or wash). Remember that the spray is an oil, so washing in creek water will just spread it around and not necessarily wash it off, dab off as much as you can, wash up to the best of your abilities and then just deal with the smell. There really isn't much else you can do. If the smell is making you gag, put some sap on your lip, or pee into a rag and tie it around your face (it works for mustard gas...). 

Use the purcell prusik as a personal anchor, clip the top bolt with the prussic fully or mostly collapsed, set up your top anchor, have your belayer take up the slack in the rope, then slowly extend the Purcell Prusik to load the anchor. 

Most styles of snowshoes are symmetrical, and will work on either foot, but some bindings are designed to be right or left handed, meaning that they are easier to operate with one hand or the other. Lace up bindings can be worn on either foot without any problem, but snowshoes equipped with buckles and straps on one side of the binding are easier to operate on the respective feet they are designated for (ie. right-handed buckles on the right foot, left-handed buckles on the left foot), which puts the buckles and straps to the outside of the feet. There are also however some styles of snowshoes that are asymmetrical, specifically engineered to provide clearance over the adjacent shoe, these shoes are meant to be worn on specific feet: Left Foot Running/speed snowshoe: Right-foot snowshoe: 

The go to shoe repair glue I've always used is Shoe Goo. I've used it mostly for when my soles started to separate from my uppers, and it's always done the job for me.