How can we investigate causes and results? For example, we observe how feelings are being created, and what phenomena they lead to. This way we learn how various mental factors interact and develop. In that sense, we understand their meanings. This understanding of meanings constitutes the knowledge of what is proper and why exactly. This practice will not only solve the problem, but also will give some insight in mechanisms working in our mind. Knowing those mechanisms, we could improve our practice, as well as help others better. Let it be helpful! 

Karma originally means "work" - intended actions. Let's imagine we travel outdoors and find a good fruit. We eat it, it's tasty, then we go on. With regard to that experience, we can do different things, for example: 

Basically, Reiki is healing by means of feeling energy and letting it to harmonize. It might help to be healthier, to develop inner and outer harmony, and therefore to advance in Buddhist practice more easily. For example, it can happen that if our feelings are coarse, we remain tense, and our practice of calming does not go well. But if our feelings are subtler, the harmony is deeper and calming practice progresses better. In Tantric Buddhism, energy practices are a part of the training. In Zen they are used for good health and swift progress. Therefore I think that Reiki is not harmful in itself. It might become a distraction, but also it might become somehow helpful on Buddhist path. 

That's an interesting text, and there are more interesting articles by Lysenko - on Dignaga, Dharmakirti, Vasubandhu, Vachaspati Mishra etc., e.g. "What is immediate perception? The Buddhist answer". Download PDF here: $URL$ or from Academia.edu: $URL$ (2) So if you asked what I think, I approach it from Madhyamaka (as I understand it). Or, in modern logic, from what they call "constructivism". How did ideas of "momentary" and "discrete" appear in our thinking? They might look self-evident, from the point of view of our experience: 

It's a sublime Dharma, hard to understand, so let's examine some analogies. Modern physics says that there are electromagnetic waves, such as radio waves and visible light. We can imagine them as some surface where waves spread from the center: 

When we say "someone is conscious" we speak in terms of existing human being who is conscious. Buddha may appear to us as such being. To Buddha, however, it may appear that there are no human beings, and no one is conscious. For example, Buddha may see instead of human beings an immense field of intertwined causes and effects. PS. See some detailed explanations here: Is causation (hetu) in SN 22.82 different to conditions (paccaya) in Dependent Origination? 

Sensual desire is like feeling thirst for something (Pali tanha, Sanskrit trishna). If you feel cold and decide to put some clothes on, normally it has nothing to do with sensual desire. It's a normal act of regulating something. If you develop thirst to possess some special clothes, that is developing sensual desire. When you see those clothes, your hands might start to tremble, your breathing might become heavy - because of that thirst. It shows that sensual desire is developed by our own mental activity - with the attitude of unhealthy longing for something - and it generates vexations. In that sense we can speak about guarding the sense doors: 

These two decisions can transfer you from a position of a victim to a function of explorer and scientist who studies how to improve human life for the benefit of all sentient beings. 

Having any confusion about what is proper and what is not, we can approach the question by investigation. Even if we don't find the answer for a long time, our skills of investigation would probably grow; so this would help not only in solving that question, but also for all the future questions. Feelings are the primary data for our mind. Therefore, in order to reach clean perception, it might be natural to accept feelings exactly as they come, not trying to change them in forceful ways. Therefore, whatever feelings come, we can practice by 

It means prajna - the ability to see everything as it is. It guides our practice of all the other five paramitas. And these five paramitas in turn create open, clean mind, which means the mind of wisdom. That way we actually drop oppositions and concerns. We have no burden anymore. We naturally are doing something to make the world more beautifil, but we definitely understand that doing that we don't need to make ourselves suffer. 

and so on. It means, not developing thirst (tanha), we are satisfied and unconstrained, not squeezed between oppositions. So there is one thing in common: troubles of this life end, both by suicide or by nirvana. But Buddhism points out that tendencies from this life have continuation. So there is the difference - for example, for people around, 

If so, then what should you do when a delusion, e.g. an attachment, comes to your phenomenal field and starts to develop? Should you be at peace with it and let the attachment develop? It seems to be a question worth some exploration, because we could use various approaches, each might have some merit: 

Such deep lapses of the awareness happen because of tension. If you try to keep awareness moment to moment, the longer you do it and the harder you try, the more dramatic lapse will happen. I recall when I tried to keep stable tight grip of awareness, eventually I discovered myself floating among dream-like images. Perhaps the same mechanism worked in your case: your mind eventually got tired, and its attention started to wander - that's a way to give the brain some rest. Apart from that, I don't know, are there any pathological processes involved in your case or not. Another point: with meditative practice people develop such strong concentration that the perception of time and place might disappear. For example, you meditate or do some other calm, meditative things, and suddenly you discover that much time has passed. I recall once when I painted my self-portrait and finally got more or less satisfied, I stretched my back, looked around and wondered, why the light was on. It was not dark yet. So why did I turn on the light? I went to the kitchen to look at the clock. It was almost half past ten. So it was late, then why it was not dark outside? I looked out of the window. Was there a nuclear war, a comet falling or something? Why the sky was bright? But people walked down the street quite calmly, as if nothing unusual was happening. So gradually I realized that it was morning already. Such experience might be called samadhi - deep meditative absorption. A practitioner is so immersed in his activity - sitting meditation or something else - that doing it he might not notice that several days passed. There is a story of some practitioner who lived secluded in mountains. He boiled himself some porridge, but before eating he decided to meditate a bit. Soon shepherds came and asked why he didn't visit their village for some time. He didn't realize that several days had passed, but when he opened his pot of porridge, he saw there long strands of mold. When the control over our actions is lost, it's probably not samadhi, but mental wandering. However that wandering had deep concentration, that's why the awareness was lost so completely. The moment of losing control likely happened because the brain got tired of tension. That's a basic explanation which I can think of. Not sure, is your brain in good health or not, such tension can be not a very healthy sign, though not necessarily. In any case, take a good care. Investigate: which habits create the excessive tension in your body-and-mind? What are the causes? Change those causes in your life and abandon those unhealthy habits. Direct your practice at developing more openness and relaxation. Don't grasp meditation so tightly. Rather, let it be relaxed. It' like putting an object down, rather than squeezing it in your hands. When it lies on the ground, it won't run anywhere, so relax and let it stay. Let yourself stay, relaxed and unconstrained. Even if your mind starts to wander, it's better to follow that wandering and remain aware, rather than struggling with it and eventually losing the awareness at all. The ultimate mastery in meditation is effortless. Good health to you! 

by gods as healing nectar of pleasure, by humans as water, by hungry ghosts as pus and blood, by hell beings as torturing flames. 

For example, we can contemplate that causality is rather our assumption than reliably known truth. We guess that this is the cause of that. But it's just our guess, conventional truth. In the absolute sense, we can not ultimately know it. "Absolute truth" is understood here as something that appears directly (phenomena, dharmas). Any judgments - e.g. views about causality - are just guesses. For practical purposes, we take such guesses to be "true", but we should realize that's just a convention in our mind. 

and so on (see Twelve Nidānas). Briefly speaking, intentional work, accompanied with limited consciousness, develops desire, and then both good and bad events would cause vexations. That is the power of karma: we put our energy in something limited, it's like putting there a part of ourselves. Then that energy works separated from us. Thus we have lost our wholeness. We feel that "external forces" influence us, pushing us to feel vexations, and pushing us to do this or that. This is called karmic impulses. In fact what really hooks us is not external forces, but our own energy which we invested earlier, separated from our wholeness. Imagine this as particles of various colors, which we have thrown in some mental space. They got kinetic energy, so they remain flying in the space. That is called karmic seeds. When we meet again with such particles, that kinetic energy pushes us to act and to perceive the world according to their direction, speed, color, etc. It is called manifestation of our karma. So in order to remove our karma we have to withdraw our energy from the desires we developed. It's just like habits: bad karma is bad habits, good karma is good habits - such as sharing with others, being friendly, kind and attentive, etc. The point is to change our habits, just in Buddhism we analyze them really deeply, so we are able to find their weak spots and change them very efficiently. PS. With this explanation you can understand why with bad karma we meet enemies where with good karma we meet friends. 

Androsov has translated and commented it. I'm not sure if his translation is very good - he might have some strange terminology sometimes - but he is one of the leading Russian scholars in that field. See "Nagarjuna's teaching on Middle Way" - Андросов В.П. Учение Нагарджуны о Срединности... М., 2006 

We can meditate on the awareness that doesn't develop attachments. Phenomena come and go - freely, "not landing anywhere". It can be described as the practice of Letting Go With practice, we realize: 

Just watch, in a non-attached way, how the delusion develops. Eventually it could help to realize, through direct experience, how the mental processes work. Perhaps that realization could lead to liberation from such delusions. Or we might wish to dissolve somehow that development of the delusion which came to our phenomenal field. Perhaps that might help to reform our mental habits directly. Maybe it could be reasonable to combine those two methods, in accordance with particular circumstances? Then when should we use this or that approach? 

accepting them as they are, observing whatever phenomena accompany them, and investigating causes and results. 

It means the Buddha was in deep meditative absorption, and that helped Avalokiteshvara to immerse in deep clarity and gain insight. I noticed such things in my own life. For example, when I sat down with a silent mind near people whose mind was scattered and troubled, often they realized something, e.g. solutions to their problems, or they recalled something they wanted to do. Therefore we can say that harmony, clarity, calmness and concentration of our mind might help others too be in harmony, clarity, calmness and concentration. When turbulence of mind ceases, our bodies naturally tend to optimize their self-regulation. So there are Buddhist practices, especially in Mahayana, such as Bhaishajya Guru ($URL$ sadhanas, which are used for healing. Among the mental factors conductive to awakening, there are Four bases of spiritual power, or riddhipada. See Iddhipada (Wikipedia) and Four Steps to Magical Powers by Master Sheng Yen. Improving our states of mind as means of practice is the basis of the concept of Six paramitas. It might be considered the central concept of Mahayana Buddhism, with the role similar to the role of the Eightfold path for Buddhism in general. Six paramitas (six perfections) can be explained as developing puṇya (Pali puñña, English merit) - the energy of good karma. As we practice the first paramita, selfless giving, and so on, we move the burden of egoism away from our shoulders. It can be felt as natural "unconditional happiness". Like feeling warm sun on the skin, warm smile inside, clarity and calmness pervading everything, as unlimited as space. That process of abandoning egoism therefore is explained as developing the energy of good karma. Our actions become more powerful and clean, our mind more stable and perceptive, and so on. When we try to study Dharma intellectually, we can find it's hard to understand complex ideas like emptiness etc., but when we practice Six perfections, we develop punya, and understanding becomes easier. Therefore Mahayana teachers say: "The path of giving is the supreme path". (See e.g. "Ratna avali"). Some students misunderstand that, theoretically thinking that such words were addressed to laymen and so weren't ultimately true. They think that it's clear that the supreme path is studying emptiness. But in real practice we develop punya, and that enables us to realize emptiness, so it's the same path. Therefore we shouldn't think that developing good karmic energy is somehow a lower path; it is indeed the supreme path, inseparable from the realization of emptiness. That's why Mahayana practitioners, especially after a session of formal practice, pronounce "dedication of merit". In order to keep our giving selfless, and to keep our energy from dissipation, we give it away, to benefit everybody. We dedicate the developed punya to the awakening of all beings, or to other goals in that direction. For example, after a session of meditation etc., we can transfer merit dedicating it to healing a sick person. Also note that causes created mentally become more powerful when they are expressed in actions of body and speech.