Mindwin actually made a very good comment. Instead of sending an email, another good option would be to turn it into a wiki. That way, you don't need to rely on email documents to keep a record. The wiki can be edited by anyone, and the subordinate can be as detailed as he wants. 

My current resume has a skill matrix, where I try to give a relative indication of how skilled I feel in the .NET stack. In my current matrix, when indicating how much experience I have with a certain language or software, with some, I included experience from college as an indication of how long I've been working with that tech or software. For example, I say I have 3 years of experience with Visual Studio, with which I mean "1.5 years as actual work experience in a company, and 1.5 years of experience from my school assignments and tests". Should I include college experience in my skill matrix? On a related note, my current skill matrix gives an indication of my skill from 1 to 5, with 5 being the product that I judge myself to be best at and the other languages and technologies being relative to that point. Is this how skill matrixes usually are made? 

I don't have a driver's license, and I doubt I'll ever be able to get one due to my Asperger's. I'm currently on the hunt for a job, and during the about 2 years in total (including previous job hunt periods), I've had about a half-dozen times that I've been late to a job interview because of extenuating circumstances (usually missing my transfer due to a bus or a train being late). Most times, it was less than 5 minutes, but I had one time on a snowy day where the trains were heavily disrupted causing me to be over an hour late, and recently, I was 15 minutes late. Both of these longer times, I have informed my contact at the company as soon as I knew I would be late and gave them an estimated time of arrival. I've also had some cases where I arrived 10 minutes or more early to an interview, usually because the time tables were such that those were the only time I could arrive without risking being late. One time, I arrived half an hour early, even though I took my bike, due to a combination of taking some room for error and a route that was unexpectedly mostly downhill, skewing the Google Maps prediction. Usually, when this happens, the interviewer is understanding, especially when I inform them in time. However, being late can't possibly be helping my chances, and I doubt that being excessively early is all that positive either. How much does being late or early to a job interview affect my chances? 

Forget the law about smoking in a public building for a moment. Even if you are right that he can be fined, bringing that up is going to cause a lot of sore feelings. Nobody appreciates being ratted out to the authorities, no matter how wrong they are, and it should be your last resort. Instead, consider the problem as if there were no legal remedy. I think most people, especially smokers, would consider smoking in a personal office to be reasonable behavior. If he keeps the door shut while smoking, then there shouldn't be enough smoke leaking out to cause problems for the grand majority of people. It's possible you are the only one bothered this, so don't approach him as if he is posing some dire health threat to the entire office. He's not; he's acting in a reasonable way that happens to cause problems for you, and you need to find a solution that is agreeable to you both. I suggest you meet with him at your desk or a conference room. Say something like "I understand you like to smoke in your office, but even small amounts of smoke bother me due to a medical condition." Then suggest a solution that allows him to smoke and you to not have to suffer it. Can you be assigned a desk that's farther away from his office? Can you find someplace to meet other than his office in the future? Can he keep the door shut for at least fifteen minutes after finishing a cigarette and/or open a window? You get the idea. In short, there is likely a solution that will make you both happy. Find it and pitch it to your boss. Do not attack, threaten, or blame him. He's not your adversary; he's someone you need to work with to solve a problem. If you go to him with a cooperative attitude rather than a confrontational one, he is very likely to want to help you. 

And then just answer them tomorrow. If the request is urgent, I'll call them on their own phone so I can discuss it at length. 

A recruiter calls a prospective employee for a phone interview. Who should call back? A client calls a company for a support problem. Who should call back? 2 coworkers call each other for a business-related matter. Who should call back? Is there a difference if one of the coworkers has seniority over the other, either through years or through rank? 

During my previous employment, I noticed that I am a developer who needs at least some mentoring to be effective, namely in scheduling and project analysis. I found that I'm not that good in making a schedule for my projects or analysing the customer needs, but once I have that schedule and analysis, I can work based on that just fine. This is also the feedback that was given by my employer on my debriefing. This mentoring might sound like it could be a challenge, but I did some research and I noticed that what I need is basically a company that uses Agile programming: daily morning meetings and a separate functional analyst. So I basically need a company that uses Agile development. I can also get a job coach from an outside company to clear out any issues between me and my employer. I also don't have a driver's license and no urge to get one, because I have had too many accidents with my bike during my commute to be comfortable behind the wheel of a car. Now that I'm back on the hunt for a job, I regularly get contacted by recruiting companies who are looking for people to place in other companies. I'm wondering when the best time is to discuss mentoring with the recruitment companies. I don't want to end up getting a job that would not work out in the end, either due to the commute being unmanageable or because the company does not use Agile programming. I usually explain my situation during the first real discussion with the recruiting company, since I feel it's the honest thing to do so noones time is wasted by interview that won't work out. I always clarify that this mentoring I need is basically Agile programming, so the recruiter isn't too put off by all of this. Is the first interview indeed the best time to discuss this, or should I keep it for a later interview? 

This is easy. Don't ask for anything; make them give you an offer. You should never name a number first when negotiating anyway. If they bring it up, say that you're sure the two of you can come to terms on compensation if the position is a good fit. If they insist, say the salary you expect depends on what else is in the total compensation package, and you'll be happy to talk about it after they make you an offer. You have nothing to gain by giving them a number first, unless you just happen to guess at the high end of the range they're considering offering you. Have them make an offer first, and then you know the ballpark of what they consider reasonable, and you can go from there with confidence. 

Yes, it is absolutely fine for you to use your time off. If your employer balks at you for this, then you do not want to work for them. However, you still need to get the exact timing approved by your manager. Before you go to them, think about your responsibilities. Will the time off cause you to miss any deadlines you've committed to meet? Are you responsible for any tasks that will need to be performed while you're gone? If so, find a solution if at all possible. If you say to your supervisor "I'd like to take the last week of January off. This will not affect my ability to meet my deadline on Project X, and Sally said she will run my weekly reports for me while I'm gone. Is it okay for me to take that week off?", then they will likely respond with, "Enjoy your vacation!" Show that you've been thoughtful about the impact of your absence, and you will be seen as a team player that cares about the company. If there is a lot going on that particular week and you being gone then will cause problems that aren't easily solved, then they may ask you to take a different week off instead. This is reasonable, especially if you're giving them short notice. You absolutely should insist that you get to take the time off that you're entitled to, though, even if you don't get to take it exactly when you want to. 

If you are unable to find sites like that, the comment from Colin Young about turning it into a company product might be of interest for you. Indeed, such a site can be of commercial value, because there are plenty of people out there that would love to be able to save on their shopping bills just by visiting other stores. 

Others have already discussed the merits and issues with using a company-issued computer for this kind of stuff and I agree with the general "not recommended and probably not allowed either" pattern. However, depending on the size of your company and the main business the company does, you might have alternatives. More specifically: 

I can imagine using your company data for this purpose is tempting, but there might actually be a better solution for this that doesn't involve using the hard work your company has put into this. There are plenty of sites that already have done this kind of work and are willing to provide this information either for free or for a small monthly fee. Depending on where you live, it is entirely possible that you can access this information without relying on the work your company has done. $URL$ has a list of 10 popular comparison shopping engines. Aside from that, many countries have a local version just for their specific country. I do not know what country you're from, but it's likely that you can already access such data freely through non-company mediums. 

One thing that might be a feasible solution is to ask him whether he can provide these updates through email. This has multiple advantages: 

It creates a document trail so you can track progress and easily see whether there is evolution in how much he can do and how many problems he has; Reading text is faster than listening to someone speak; If you don't have time, you can simply ignore it; you can tell him to limit his email to a certain amount of lines so he's forced to keep it short and simple; it's asynchronously, so you don't need to both be available.