Running properly isn’t bad for your knees, but running in bad form certainly can be. As a matured human being, you should train like a matured human being. It doesn’t matter what age or sex you are, the only factors that might change the way you train are things like injuries, sickness, disabilities, etc (goals too). I read an article once that spoke of how much a person should run, and the expert in that article suggested that a person should only run as long as they can maintain the pace of an 8 minute mile (7.5mph). Read more on that —> $URL$ In general though, long distance running isn’t recommended unless you have a specific purpose in doing so. A nice HIIT routine with sprints (anywhere from 10-30 minutes) is more advantageous for cardiovascular endurance, and a walk (from 30 minutes and up) is easier on the knees and body in general. Long distance jogging just sort of takes the negatives of both sprinting and walking (physically demanding and time consuming respectively). Like Mr. Cooper, I would also advocate high intensity training. I would suggest doing it 2-3 times a week and keeping it under 30 minutes. Doing sprinting intervals with jogging or walking in between in a great way to build up the muscles and endurance needed to go on longer jogs. If participating in long distance runs is a goal of yours however, I would suggest doing one sprint-centric HIIT routine and one long distance run a week. Running too often too soon and too much will cause your knees to wear out for sure even if you are doing everything in proper form. The only danger in HIIT is doing more than your body can handle. If you have heart/lung problems, be extra careful, but try to build what you can regardless. If you feel like your heart is about to jump out of your chest, slow down or take a break. The more you do, the better you will understand your own limits and how to better push yourself beyond those limits (without harming yourself). 

Yes, it’s possible. Is it possible for the vast majority of people? No. Is it beneficial? No. How long would it take? 52 hours at a pace of 2.5 minutes per 100 meters. Here is one guy that could do it. $URL$ 

You don't necessarily need variety, but your body does require certain nutrients that it might not necessarily get without that variety. Micronutrients such as all of your vitamins and minerals are important. On the macronutrient side of things, getting enough protein to at least sustain your muscles is important, and having healthy fats is also important. Carbs are your body's main source of energy, so lacking in those will cause problems as well. Bottom line? You don't necessarily need variety in food choices, but you do need the nutrients that they would typically provide. Regardless, the body will take whatever you give it and utilize it the best that it can. The human body is designed to live under sub-optimal food choices for extended periods, so you don't have to worry about getting things exactly perfect. That being said, the better you provide for your body, the better it will do. 

Cycling is fine for exercise (if you’re not worried about building muscle), but your diet is far from being a long term solution. Given your statistics, you should be burning roughly 3200 calories a day. Even without any activity whatsoever (lying in bed all day), you should be burning 2000 calories just to function properly. To lose weight long term, you need to keep your caloric deficit reasonable. If you starve yourself like you are currently doing, you’ll only hold yourself back and wreck your metabolism in the process. To lose weight, you should be eating 2500-2700 calories a day with your current level of activity and size. To slow down muscle loss, you’ll also want to make sure that you’re getting enough protein in your diet, try to get 0.5-0.8 grams per pound of your body weight (117-188 grams). As you lose more and more weight, your body will need fewer and fewer calories. You’ll want to re-adjust your total to compensate for this. Google “TDEE Calculator” (Total Daily Energy Expenditure) and you’ll find several calculators that will calculate this number for you. 

Your body makes no distinction between types of training. Body weight work, dumbbells, and bands are all capable of building muscle. This is because the body perceives muscular tension as being the same no matter what the source of that tension is. The level of tension that can be achieved can vary obviously, with dumbbells and bands having an easier route to higher tension. However, body weight work usually requires variations on exercises in order to increase the tension to a desirable level (after building sufficient muscle in the basic version of an exercise). Because of this, body weight work can be a bit confusing to beginners. Regardless, any muscle that can be trained with weights or bands can be trained doing body weight work. The simple truth is that one of the three mentioned methods of training will usually be more efficient than the other two for reaching certain goals, and your goals will determine which method you'll want to utilize (sometimes all three). You mention fat loss here, but I believe that you're looking at this the wrong way. Exercise does many things, but two things in particular that most people are concerned with are that it builds muscle and burns calories. The amount of calories that can be burned through exercise pails in comparison to what can be achieved with a proper diet. If fat loss is your goal, you should be focusing on your diet first. Exercise is a fantastic thing, but your diet will determine how much fat you gain or lose, not your style of exercise. ... Okay, that said, let's now address your questions specifically... 

I've also begun to supplement with Glucosamine, but I don't expect to see results until 2-3 weeks later. I'm going to refrain from box jumps, jumping air squats, and jumping lunges until I feel no pain whatsoever in my knee. Followup (Injury +8 days) I continued to stick to my CrossFit schedule. I accomplished one of the most intense CF workouts on I+4: Murph (scaled pull/push ups and squats by 1/2). I wore sneakers instead of Vibrams. Neither the running nor air squats were an issue for my knee. I+6's workout had my a little worried: 60 seconds jumping squats with a 45-lb barbell. This is exactly what injured my knee to begin with. Luckily I saw my PT earlier this day. She confirmed that I have an ACL strain due to my overly aggressive jumping air squats in combination with poor form. My ridiculously short and weak hamstrings prevent me from getting deep in the squat without losing anterior pelvis tilt. As my hamstrings get tight they pull my pelvis and the rest of my body forward, shifting my weight toward my toes. I compensate for this by shooting my knees forward over my toes. This puts an enormous amount of shear on my knee joint. It's really important to keep your tibia vertical if you have a weak/injured ACL. The PT did some PNF hamstring and quad stretches with me, and prescribed lots of box squats with vertical tibias. I'm to do 50 of these a day, keeping my knees back and maintaining my lumbar curve. As they get easier I am to lower the box until I get down to my ankles (this will take a while). She had me try some jumping squats with a PVC pipe and corrected my form here as well, again emphasizing keeping my knees back. I performed 33 45-lb jumping squats in 60 seconds without any knee pain! None of the basic CF movements have been deemed off-limits by my PT. For exercises, like the push-press, where my knees are supposed to come forward I have to compensate by taking a wider stance and opening my hips up. This allows me to keep my knees back further, but still get the benefit of a powerful hip extension. (I sacrifice sheer power by compensating this way, but I don't injure myself). Here are some videos that are must watch for fully understanding and working with sore knees: 

6:03 I felt some twinges in my knee during the cleans, but I found that focusing really hard on preventing my right foot from pronating and my right knee from turning inward I avoided all pain. I also felt fine doing 5 minutes of jump rope during my warmup. It's a bit of a funny coincidence but the same day I asked my question here the Mobility WOD posted a video about poor hip ROM. Kelly's description of my squatting technique (feet turned out) is spot-on, and I found that the mobility exercises shown in the linked video really helped me keep my knees from shooting inward and putting strain on my MCL/ACL. Injury +3 days Today I decided to go all out and try a modified Fran today. Success! 21-15-9 

8:34 Conclusion I wore the Vibram's both days without issue. I actually think they're making me more aware of my foot, knee and hip position and preventing the poor form that sturdier shoes allow me to use safely. I need to be super conscious of keeping my knees spread when squatting. I've found the following cues help me: 

I want to be able to convert the power required to do one exercise, specifically running down then up four flights of stairs, into terms of a run of distance x in time y. I've found several work and power calculators online, but none of them include stair runs. Here are the variables: 

With very minimal equipment you can add even more exercises. Since you mention home gym I'm going to assume that a set of dumbbells is a given: 

CrossFit is a free program. It's completely "open source" insofar as the exercises are published and free to use without charge. You just can't slap CrossFit logos on everything and try to make money off of it without becoming an affiliate. You can do a great many CrossFit style workouts with bodyweight alone. Some ideas include: 

The only thing that's noticeably lacking is pullup equipment. You're stuck with either buying a bar, or you could spend $30 and get one that fits in a door frame: Iron Gym Total Upper Body Workout Bar. I have one of these and it works great for pullups. Unless you're really short you won't be able to do kipping or butterfly pullups, just deadhangs. 

I highly recommend a product called IdealStretch. The standing/seated hamstring technique is ok, but at some point you're going to cheat and bend your back. The IdealStretch gives you all the benefits of the partner stretch that Dougman describes, but without needing another person. I've been using this for a few weeks now and I've gone from only being able to touch my ankles to being able to wrap nearly my entire hand over my toes. One great thing bout the IdealStretch is it easily allows you to load your hamstrings at both ends. If you don't know what this means, let me elaborate a bit. Your hamstrings are attached at two locations: your hips and your knees. Your hamstrings are stretched when your knee is in extension and your hips are in flexion. If you lock your knee fully extended and then begin to flex your hip, you're going to feel that stretch targeted high on your hamstring where it attaches to your hip. If you do the opposite, flexing your hip first and then extending your knee, you'll feel the stretch target your lower hamstrings where they attach to your hip.