1 location. Are there trees or porch's you can use? 2 Insects, snakes, & such. It needs a roof & mosquito net sides. 3 does all zip or fit together tight closed? 4 take a small flashlight to bed with you. 5 There main purpose is to get you of the ground while sleeping. Protect you from insects, shield you from rain or night mist. A small tent is better to sleep in. They are made for the tropics. To get you off the ground. Not best to sleep in. 6 take some tinfoil to wrap around the lines to keep scorpions from walking them. & if you need get up in the night use flashlight to look at ground below you before stepping out. Here we have more types or poison reptiles than any place in the world. Not to mention insects, spiders. Why we use them over a small tent. Your area I would advise a small tent. Much warmer, more room to roll over in them at night. Hammocks are for safety in sleeping & make for cool sleeping at night. 

If they are above water. Instruct them to turn around. Back to ice. Put there hands on the ice & lever up. This throws the body backwards onto the top of the ice. Next remove your coat shirt belly down on the ice flip it toward them and drag them a foot at a time towards you. as you back off. Take my word for this. I ran a trap line going to school in America as a teen. Been threw the ice a few times. 

In the Philippines. A 1 litter bottle. Cut of top, insert in bottle. Like a funnel. Sugar water a pinch of yeast does work. Or set near light zapper. So very cheap to make. Mint oil. Contact with mint oil is deadly to all mosquitoes. So they avoid that sent. A oil lamp with mint oil burning will repel mosquitoes. What I use in the Philippines when setting out on the porch at night. Set the oil lamp near the ground slightly upwind. 

You will find many of the smaller palm trees have a soft inner fiber if split open & dug out with a flat stick. Or coconut fiber removed from green coconuts. Some like silk. Leaves I do not use most have a sharp edge to them so does grass. Just split them open remove soft fibers wad them up & use. Will be slightly damp. Often better than toiletpaper. A squat in the river is not bad use left hand to clean. 

Look for a small drier to dry stick. Take knife & cut upward into it so tou have feathers on it. Sick bottom in ground. upright light bottom feathers. Have small light tender handy. This will give you about 15 seconds of flame. Build fire up from there. between 2 larger small logs. once fire is going place 2 to 3 small logs above it. Dry as you can find. Leave room to keep your fire going. heat drys out the top logs & side logs. Pine is best as has oil in it. You need to look at sheltered sticks were rain don't hit to bad. for your starter stick. Stick about as big around as little finger is best. You may need to shave bark off it first. 

Were I live they were first goat trails. Goats pick the easy way. Next waterbuffalo walked them, These were soon hooked to sleds to pull more. & are still in use to walk. 

Mint oil. Mint oil is fatal to all mosquitoes. Some on a rag here & there or mix it with lamp oil & burn it in a lamp. There are also mosquito coils you can burn at night. 

The cheap & tight way? 1 box of black trash bags. 24 rubber bands. 12 1/4 inch plastic tubes. 4 foot long. catch container's. fill bags with water. Pull tight at top, put in tubes. secure with rubber bands. run tubes down hill. catch evaporated water in pans. This is drinkable water. I keep a kit like this in the nose of the boat in the S Pacific. + have trash bags when I come into shore. You never know when out in the big lonely. Set bags in sun. Keep tubes in shade & covered with a damp rag or such if have. This the bags of water set in the sun will give you hot wash water in the bush when you come in also. Reuse bags for trash when breaking camp. I have only expermented with this in the boat. It worked. Have used to heat water in the bush to wash with. 

Big cats as a general rule. Like to attack from above. So do not sleep close to steep facings. Sleep Away from cover. Wild cats do not like the smell of humans. They are probably approaching camp for other food than you. Unless very hungry. Do not get up with out shining a light around area first. Most tiger attacks happen to women. Going for water after dark. Walking trails to springs. But snake bites are far more common. So they like to ambush over stalk. This is big cats in general. 

The name of it was a bomber. Back in the 50s. Very good old lure back then. Or plug. Have used them often in younger years. They were a good fish catcher & have been for years. It seems lures work for a while then quit. As fish get use to seeing them. The fish had not seen that type of lure before plug. That is not a real old one as it uses hook eyes rather than the 3way seat on the treble hooks. 

It is very close to a 12 hour day of light every day in the Southern Philippines. The mountains behind were I live have some effect on shorter afternoon. & the sun rises over the S Pacific. We have about 5 months the sun is in the North side of the house. About 7 months the sun is south side. But on a boat at sea at the equator it could be done. But still on land only 1 day a year were we would have the exact 12 hour day. 

It is from what I hear. Best to hire a guide. They have a union kind of. To just hire a local they often get beat. With out a guide you get robbed. That is only what I hear. I do live in Asia. So good sources but not first hand. 

Waterproof. Use parifin. Candle wax. Dissolve in dry cleaning fluid. Just enough to dissolve overnight in it. Shake several times. Paint on with brush. Nothing better except for long life use white bees wax. 1 coat will do. High wind go with a dome tent I think is best. A tent fly over tent is a big help. 

They are called weed burners for a reason. Find a long stiff weed. drop it across wire with leaves. In 15 min you will know as to damage to the leaves. Remove weed with long stick, 

I use a bullock knife. 24 inch blade. slight drop from the handle. 1/4 thick blue steel 4 inch wide blade. Good point on it. then a slight curve to the blade for cutting threw vines bamboo & such. Then it flattens for use as a draw knife or such. Good for splitting wood cutting vines, knoching coconut trees to climb them & drop coconuts. Same knife we use when working the watterbuffalo. For bush use. Made by Felix out local blacksmith. With a recap tire handle riveted on for non slip. But has weight to carry. Much depends on were you are & use of knife. Think large bowey knife you call them for jungle use. You can set up a shelter or build a bamboo raft with them to float back with them. 

Trees such as this in the jungle. Bent in a certain way. By natives tell you something. So the tree was bent. Normally to point in a way to lead you. Such as to a spring, trail, village, or other. Bent as that it could not native to that area be cave or shelter with rock under it this way. If it was bent for a reason. It looks like the tree top was buried with the second limb left to grow. Some from of land mark. I see water near it. So did some one want you to know there was shelter near a stream if using it for a trail?? 

Yes. Yum Yum yellow is used as the tent on life rafts as it is easy to see at sea. Red midcolor holds heat in the cold but reflects heat in the summer. Dull colors blend in better if you do not want seen. White is cool in the summer. Black heats best in winter. So use of tent. 

For animal viewing. I would go to N Dakota. Drive the back roads not the mains roads. Stop at the badlands see some wild goats & buffalo. Mt Rushmore. Take the ranch roads around from there. Many are still gravel roads. 

We do it often in the Philippines. But you can cut your feet. We find there a pair of flip flops improve traction. Easy to pack. Rocks can be slick. 

In a dirty kitchen, Cooking shed. A chimney or stack. Needs be 6 inch's above roof peak. For proper draft. So no back draft. Were the pipe goes threw the roof you need double wall vent pipe. Cut a 12 inch square hole in the roof. Next lay over the hole a 24 inch sheet metal. Cut a hole round in the center with tin snips. like triangles. This is fitted down the double wall pipe. Onto the roof wood. Keeps rain out. Keeps heat from wood so no fire there. Next a dirty kitchen needs vented. So you will need leave a window open. Or door when cooking. On a wood roof this is important to prevent fires & proper venting. Nothing better than a plain stove pipe to set a roof on fire in a cook shed. Be sure & check vent pipes often. They can have no holes in then were a spark or hot cinder can escape. Keep cooker away from walls. Use cheap sheet metal on the walls near them to deflect heat & sparks. 

Best I could advise is a plastic bag over the end of the bag. It it only gets wet at the bottom do to tent flap. 

No flint here. We do have many volcanic rocks that will spark. All I can say is walk the rivers, creeks, & such were water polish's stones. Hard rocks have a shine to them. Pick them up. Dry well & try them. You will soon learn what to look for in your area that sparks. 

Camel brand shoes. Closed toe sandals. 1 tube shoes glue. have in Thailand,Cambodia,Vietnam,Philippines. The one with cat soles are the best. For allround wear. Found in most malls. In S.E.Asia. Or ask for them once there. If in the bush wear heavy socks in them. I get about 1 year use out of a pair in the Philippines. Heavy use. If you see a part starting to fail on them shoes glue supper repairs them. American made shoes fall apart in Asia. Different glue used for the tropics. Nike sandals do well with the over top. for city use & shopping. Buy there. These are not cheap shoes U.S. $30 to $50 in Asia price range a pair. Take my word for this. A different glue is used in Asia for shoes. So for long lasting buy there. These have a leather upper. Better yet see a local cobbler. But it takes 3 days to make a pair of shoes there. Select your sole stile & custom fit to your feet. U.S.$50 up for good ones. 

If it were me. I would take my binoculars the 20x to 180x ones with me. Set up a base camp & study from there the best way to get to the top. You have the valley there with water run off a trail of sorts. You also have the ridge line you may be able to walk. Also try to spot any animal trails you could follow. Or were others have gone up. Also to the left a area of sheet erosion. Those can be easy walking.But look before you leap as they say. There are maps that can be studied, Googlr earth photos & such also. Before going. 

You need know the magnetic variation for the area you are in. This gives you 2 positions to triangle your position & were the sun rises at in the area you think you are in at that time of year. You now have 3 points to go on. Look up magnetic variation on line. Now you are in the area. Next you need know how to float a stick. This will tell you current variation. Even small islands change the course of currents 200 miles out. With that you head for land & hope you are on the right island or close to the one you want. But I cheat. take a small transistor radio. Pull out the antenna. Know what radio towers are were & station they are. Note on your chart. Buy knowing were they are by the way a cheap radio fades in & out. You know what way to go to that tower. 2 towers are better for exact location to land at. 

Kind of like the key keeper on the swim trunks. Some young girls make a cord like that that goes around your ankle to sell at S. Pacific beach's. They seem to work. Elastic cord. 

You could only travel short distance at night. You would need a snake stick. The death toll is high for night walkers. Most from snake bite. But even the beach has scorpions at night on it. This is not a advisable thing to do unless above 6,000 feet. Or the snake zone. But then you might take a fall of a cliff. I would avoid such. 

I find the Bushnel 10 x 90 0r 20x180 do a fair all round job. For around $60 U.S. 70 or 90 mm. lens. 90 is better for low light. 70 for daytime. These are made in China. The India made ones are junk. Remember the further away the more humidity in the way. Any thing over 20x you need a support to hold steady. But I use these most for setting up photos threw a telescope. For a good clear shot. You should be able to find them on line. Lazada does not ship to the U.S. 

N Pacific water landing. Summer. 15 min. if in the water. 30 min on the plane raft. On land. 15 min unless you can get a fire going or find a way to stay warm. At -30 below. Longer the warmer it is. Heat is the main thing. With heat for 40 days with water.