Time to learn - strong side winds are horrible for anyone on a bike, and this gets worse if your bike has aero rims. So you have to figure out what went wrong and avoid doing that, or change things to avoid being in that situation again. Perhaps take the lane a little more, and stay away from the edge and thus from parked cars and so on. Personally in a strong wind I tend to stay well away from the side of the road. If it had happened to me, I might have slowed down in a straight line on the gravel and then manoevered slower back to the tarmac. I would not have unclipped, but I might have done a small two-wheel bunny hop by rotating the wrists and ankles to lift the bike and place it on the sealed tarmac. Its hard to know, easy to be wise after the fact. You will need to replace your helmet, and give your bike a good check over for damage or misalignment. As for the triathlon, you're probably withdrawing from this year. If you want to be involved can you volunteer at a feed station or as a marshall? That way you'll still be connected with the event. Plan your training for next year's event - you have ~13 months. See if there's something similar in 6-10 months from now to act as a test. Stick to this training plan. Consult with a physio too - ideally one that does sports physio so they are aware of the differences. 

I suggest taking it back to the shop you got it from, as it looks like a manufacturing defect. Since the bubble isn't visible on the inside it's clear that the layers of cloth inside the tyre have separated, and that's not supposed to happen. You should be able to get a warranty replacement. Sheldon Brown has an explanation of how the tyre is made that may help you picture what's going on: $URL$ 

My theory is endorphins. Our bodies generate them when we exercise. Or not, when we stop. All those days of steadily pumping out the good stuff makes the tour feel great but when I stop, ooops. I suggest you not try replacing them with synthetic endorphins as those are illegal and tend to be more addictive. There's also a body habit transition, where a bunch of the cycles in my body are set up for big exercise every day and suddenly I'm back behind a desk 8 hours a day. Half an hour each way does not cut it, I'm barely warmed up by then. So I bloat (very thirsty in the morning but then water retention), feel stiff but twitchy, and after the first couple of days tend to lose interest in food. This is my body saying "hey, you used to exercise, what happened to that?" What works for me is: 

The good news is those bolts aren't load bearing parts directly. The bad news is those are holding the load-bearing parts in place, so a failure of the bolt will allow the pivots to fail very quickly. I'd strongly recommend taking them out and getting replacements from the maker of your frame. Have a look at the answers to this question about shearing rotor bolts notice how little beef there is between the head and the shaft? Damage to bolt heads needs to be fixed. 

PeteH has implied it, but sounds like something has gone drastically wrong in a bearing somewhere. I'd suggest you remove the chain from the front chainring and try to spin the pedal crank. It should turn easily, with no side-to-side slop. If not, check the rear wheel for the same, it should not feel gritty or notchy, and should not have sideways movement. Depends on your mechanical inclination if you want to try fixing this, or give it to a LBS (local bike shop). Related: I'm reasonably competent at bike stuff, but I got them to reinstall my front deraileur properly because after three goes I still couldn't get it right. Took the shop an hour and cost me $52, which was a good trade-off IMO. 

The problem IMO will be that you need a glue that flexes with the rubber tyre. A rigid glue will just break off taking some of the rubber from the tyre with it. But given a flexible glue that bonds to the rubber and fills the space between tyre and metal object, I think it could work. I'm imagining something like the sealant glues that come in a sealant gun, rather than a cyanoacetate type super glue. The ones used to glue concrete together, for example, that have to fill gaps as well as adhere. The metal bits will be more of a problem I think. You need a good area for the glue to stick to, but you also need sharp edges to grip the snow. So just attaching 10mm washers flat on the tyre probably won't help. I suspect you'll end up gluing screws across the tyre to more or less match the way the DIY screw tyres work. I suggest covering the screw with glue, then let the glue wear away from the outside when it hits the track. I'd be tempted to start by trying a few screws with each type of glue that I had available just to see whether any of them work at all. And whether you can ride the bike with this setup. Usual caveats apply: I haven't done this, I doubt it will work, but this seems to be to be the approach least unlikely to fail. 

I have bought $80 lights locally that work fine, and $5 chinese lights where different units of the same model have different construction. I now carry two front and three rear lights, and if I expect to ride at night will pack one more each way. Answer: So with cheap lights, you're taking a risk that they work as stated. With buying locally, someone else has taken that risk and confirmed they work as expected, and will take responsibility via warranty if they don't work. 

That wedge bit at the bottom sounds like its come unscrewed completely. Take the stem out, and look down the hole. If you see a lot of light, then you've dropped the wedge and its gone. If there's only a little light coming through the bolt hole in the wedge, then flip the bike, take the front wheel off, and any front mudguard, and poke the long bolt up from below. The wedge should fall out the top. Once you have a wedge again, loosely bolt it to the stem with the long bolt as pictured, insert into the steerer tube, and reassemble. 

I prefer floating, mostly because they're easier to get in and out of. The extra half second at every traffic light, plus the problem that I'm not really moving or in good control of the bike for that time, means I prefer the easy-in option. If you are used to the low-float cleats then that may not be an issue, but I see very few cyclists in that category on my commute (most are the "faff about while wobbling across the intersection" type). Almost all pedals have the same thread (some BMX and kids bikes use a visibly smaller thread, I've seen a Shimano one with a huge thread). Note that there's a left hand and a right hand thread. Don't get that wrong or you'll probably need new cranks. So yes, the pedals shown will work. The basic test is: if you can't turn the pedal into the crank with your fingers you've done it wrong. Clean the threads, check the direction, then try again. Only use a tool for the last 1/2 turn of tightening. 

Noone's mentioned age/mileage. A new tyre can be extremely stubborn to fit, but they will conform to your wheel a little over time. After a few months they will get easier - perhaps never "easy" but definitely easier. 

I personally have this problem as well, but I need an XL or larger frame and most common ones are Medium or Large. You can fit a longer seatpost, but they stop at ~400mm with a very few at 450mm long. The danger is that a long seatpost gives more leverage, and I've bent 4 seatposts in ~30 years of adult riding. Also, trying to get the most height out of a seatpost can lead to frame damage. I had a post at the minimum insert line, and the frame cracked around the seatpost clamp because it was not in the frame enough. Effective length of top tube can't be changed easily - you can increase the stem length but that has follow-on effects on steering. Personally I have a bad back and a "normal proportion" bike is too long and uncomfortable for me. If you're talking about UCI compliant frames, then the wheelbase stays the same as height increases, leading to tall bikes that are "lifty" in the front on climbs. Bikes that aren't constrained by UCI limits can be a bit longer, giving you a more stable platform at speed and a better climber. Its impossible to change the wheelbase on a bike without welding. 

Or you can use cheap plastic adhesive tape, usually two to five layers. It's cheaper and lighter than any of the above, but it doesn't last especially long. It helps if you de-burr and round off the edges of the spoke holes. After a while you will start getting punctures where the tape has given way and the tube gets cut by the spoke holes. I was surprised to find that even two layers worked in MTB tyres at ~60psi. When every gram counts this is what I've done. It also works as a desperate measure when you fix a flat and the existing fix is damaged. Rim tape also comes in plastic variants that are lighter, last longer and cost more than rubber ones. Often with tapered edges (you really only need it to cover the spoke holes), but they're still heaver than rim tape and costs more. In real life (rather than for one race) I use rim tape. It's cheap, easy to get, lasts ages and it works. 

So to summarise - 130 BPM is a good "endurance" workout. You'd need to be doing that speed for a couple hours, and frankly that's boring on a trainer. If you're dead against training on the road, try riding at a velodrome or some other kind of off-road track. An athletic track may work, or around the local park? If you can work a decent climb into your trip then that will be excellent exercise. Use a tool like strava to measure your gains, cos it never feels faster. 

Remove your bike's front wheel and put it aside. Flip your bike over, and identify the dark hole in between the fork legs. You may need to remove any mudguard or fender too. Squirt some penetrating oil down this hole and let it sit overnight. Probably a good idea to put some rags, paper or basin down to catch any oil that comes through. Some will sneak around the sides. After a day of sitting, try and undo the bolt. 

The most practical approach we found for larger posters was trailers. Like this They're somewhat inclined to fall over in the wind so you have to be a little cautious, but the group who were using them lent them out to a range of people without any problems (other than getting the trailers back afterwards). You can attach the same A frames to a loadbike if you have one. Up to about A3 you can strap to your back, ideally to a backpack, or to the sides of a rear rack. I've either laminated posters or printed on coreflute, then stapled them to a wooden frame and cable tied them to the bike. The problem is that you have to print large for people to be able to read it, and that means "BIKES GOOD" rather than a paragraph. The graphic below I stole from a guy in Sydney because it's IMO good - simple, easy to grasp and direct. You could leave the "critical mass" off if you wanted to, obviously. 

I would say buy a used bike of similar age, and a similar style. That means if its a road bike, don't expect to fit the parts to a MTB. Bicycle makers have regularly changed things over time, so what fits a 1990 bike probably won't fit a 2000 bike and has no chance of fitting a 2010 bike. I wouldn't waste money on a new frame unless the parts you have are less than 5 years old and show minimal wear. Your other option is to part out what you have on ebay or similar, and buy a complete bike (new or used) 

You're right - there's an awful lot of overlap between the gear ratios offered. I dunno about your riding, but I have a 21 speed (3x7) and the lowest gear is 26/28 (that's a 26 tooth front chainring with a 28 tooth big cog on the back block) and I occasionally want one lower on the super steep climbs. At the other end I have a 52/12 and on a downhill I am spinning out too soon.