I just started a software development internship and I'm working on two really fun projects. Project A is self assigned to help me learn a new language and environment, and B is the same thing but a manager recently added some additional requirements. I had to go home early today to make sure I didn't go over my hours and I was really disappointed because I was on a roll with project A. If I wait until after the weekend to continue A I may not get a chance to work on It for a while because I'll be expected to make a lot of progress on B. I have plans to eventually combine the two projects. I have no big plans this weekend and want to work on project A, but I'm already at the max hours I can work, so I want to just work on it and not clock my hours. On one hand I don't think it would be a big deal even if it was obvious I worked from home because who cares what I do in my free time? On the other hand I had a previous (retail) job where I was told that working off the clock was a fireable offense. I know I'm probably overthinking this, but regardless if it is allowed or not why would it not be allowed? Is there any reason why I shouldn't just risk it now and ask permission when I get back on Monday? 

I don't usually stand when someone enters my cubicle, but I've been wondering lately if I'm supposed to. I'm an intern so almost everyone who comes to see me is a supervisor in some way. Is it rude not to stand? Also, is it rude to offer someone a chair without standing first? 

I don't see any reason NOT to tell them why you need time off. I will be in the same situation next month and unless I said something would probably be asked to stand at the booth. I plan to say something along the lines of "I know (company name) will be at the career fair at school, may I have time off to attend it myself?" They'll say yes, because its school and there is even a chance it will trigger a conversation about plans after graduation/intentions with the company :) 

Early last month I was offered an internship and verbally accepted over the phone. I was then emailed an offer letter, and a bunch of information and forms to fill out. The email said to let them know if I had any questions and told me what day/time to show up. I did not reply to the email but did fill out some forms it linked to. All of our communication has been over phone/skype/email because I attend school out of state and flew home right before my first interview. Now, it's been a month, and that was our last communication. The internship starts in about a week and a half. I don't have any questions to ask (at least not any that I feel are worth asking before I show up in person -- maybe I could ask about the dress code). I am worried that my failure to respond to the email and continued silence will make me look bad, or they will think I'm not serious about the internship. I don't think they are going to take the internship away or anything; I just don't want to make a bad impression before I even meet them. Should I send an email now just to break the silence sooner than later, or would an email the day before saying I am looking forward to my first day be sufficient? 

If you are faced with a situation where you would need to interview someone you know - either someone you like or someone you dislike, it doesn't really matter - you will have a bias towards that person, either positive or negative. And that alone is unprofessional. If a friend, relative, spouse, ..., of yours is to be considered for a position in your company - would you favor them in detriment of other professionals? That wouldn't be professional... it is okay to refer someone to your company, but you need to disclose that information. And you shouldn't be the one doing an interview. The same applies for someone you dislike for personal reasons. You should disclose the fact that you know them, mention you do have a bias towards them for personal reasons. Should management ask for additional information, please, share the aspects you feel comfortable sharing, but keeping in mind you need to keep the hiring process fair to the candidate, to yourself and to your company - every story has two sides to it, and if you are the only one sharing your point of view - you may influence the hiring process in an unfair way. For fairness and professionalism's sake you should mention to management you wouldn't feel comfortable doing the interview and excuse yourself from the process. Let them assign someone else to the interview if they still want to consider that person. It will be professional and a strong enough message on your ethics. It will at the same time make them pay close attention to everyone in the hiring process to make sure they are a good fit to company culture and won't bring more trouble than benefit for your company, keeping it fair and a healthy workplace for everyone. 

On your first question: how can I get more time from company A - I would say - Just ask for it. Be honest. Just say you need a little more time to consider your career choices. The effect? If they really like you, they will probably give you a few days - but they have a business to run, so it will not be a long time. If they just consider you to be an "okay" candidate, they will tell you they can't wait, and pressure you to give them an answer or they will just move on to the next person in line. On your second question: what you should do about companies B, C and D - you need to establish a limit date for each one of them - how many days are you able/willing to wait for each one of those companies to get in touch with you? Start from there, then make your decision. It is a good practice to always reach out to a candidate with an answer - either a positive or negative one - but unfortunately it's not all companies that follow good practices, so you may never hear from them again. Be prepared for that. In case you do get a positive answer from one of them - same thing applies as in question #1: if it wasn't your favorite who made you an offer and you want more time to wait for another company, just ask for it. But always bear in mind that when negotiating there is always a risk the other part will not agree and it may jeopardize your chances with them. It all depends on how much you want - or don't want - to work on each of those companies. Also, if I can add an opinion - you already said you don't want to work for company A. Would you be happy there? Would you be committed? Would you be doing your best? If not, why are you still considering it? Maybe the honest thing to do for yourself and for that company is to just withdraw or decline from the process. And they can move on to find someone who is better suited for the job (in terms of actually wanting it).