Now, powerful lasers are certainly one of the best counters against incoming missiles, thus a really big spaceship can be expected to be able to defend itself against large missiles. The additional shield thickness also works to help it defend against smaller ammo. So, talking offensive vs. defensive, I believe that the big ship is better. However, the size has the cost of reduced maneuverability due to the reduced acceleration. A strategy a fleet of small ships could try against a single large space ship would be to try to exhaust their emergency energy production by launching a big number of nuclear looking missiles against them, forcing them to use their lasers to destroy the missiles, overheating their reactors. A last round of actually nuclear missiles could subsequently overwhelm the big ships defenses. This puts an upper limit on the usable size of space ships. So, sorry, no death star class ships... 

Storms are a big problem for your floating islands, though. Hurricanes have immense power, and they will tear at the trees on the floating islands. And with the high equatorial temperatures, you have to expect many strong hurricanes. The hurricanes will threaten to tear your floating islands apart. You might work around this problem by suggesting that the floating islands consist of plants with extra long horizontal roots, which actively entangle themselves with each other. They actually evolved to stabilize the floating islands. If you have a several meters thick layer of entangled roots, you should get some robustness against even hurricanes. This should work out, since the forces exerted on land by storms are similar for nearby points: The whole island will feel an enormous amount of force acting in a certain direction, but the forces trying to tear the island apart will be orders of magnitude smaller. 

Taking this into consideration, I guess a good location for your under-water station would be a spot like Hawaii, which is very far from all continents. You don't need many nukes to eradicate life on Hawaii as it's small. However, it is surrounded by a vast ocean across which the initial fallout can distribute and dilute. And the isle is a believable reason for an under-water station to be built on its base. Of course, you can take any other isle either on a hotspot, or on a mid-ocean ridge as well, as long as it's far enough from the next continent. Bonus points, if you can find an island that is located in a region where ocean water rises from depth to the surface: That will make sure that the station will remain relatively unaffected by the ration for a very long time. And when the fallout finally arrives with the upwelling water many years in the future, it will be diluted real good. 

What would survive? Well, first of all humans unless they starve from the long-term impact. Also, any non-electrical luxury in existence would survive the first impact, but since the factories are crumbling, there will be replacement problems very quickly. Thus, in the first years, you will still have functional cars, ships, and airplanes. However, a car without gas is worthless, and how do you operate the pumps at the gas station? Of course, people will try to make the best of it, and likely pump gas by hand for a while. However, they' quickly run out of gas anyway as the refineries are crumbling due to the concrete eating bacteria. I guess, the longest running machines would be ships, as their engines use the most evil wastes from the oil refineries as fuel - they'll run fine on crude oil. And you can get at crude oil without use of concrete via offshore drilling platforms. 

Since all planets are Lagrange Points relative to each other, their orbits are relatively stable, however they will still require corrections from time to time since it's just the L1,2,3 points. 

From a physics perspective, you are pretty much out of luck: Air has a density of only $1.2 \frac{kg}{m^3}$, hydrogen, the lightest gas there is, has a density of $0.1 \frac{kg}{m^3}$. This means that you need to displace at least $0.9m^3$ of air to make a single kg float. Now, if you want it to be more practical to displace air than "water", you need your water to weight less than $2.4 \frac{kg}{m^3}$. Radon, which is the heaviest noble gas, weights about $9.7 \frac{kg}{m^3}$, and still it mixes with air. That is, you cannot have a clear cut "sea" surface with it at room temperatures. And I didn't even take wind into account yet. Point is, at these densities, you won't have anything that we would recognize as a "sea". To put this into perspective: If we assumed the "sea" to be $10 \frac{kg}{m^3}$, you'd be able to generate a lift of $8.8\frac{kg}{m^3}$ by displacing the "water" with air, and only a lift of $1.1\frac{kg}{m^3}$ by displacing air with hydrogen (which is not a very good idea, btw.). Displacing "water" gives you roughly eight times the bang for the buck, even though you do not even have a well-defined sea surface yet. And the heavier you make your "sea", the more clearly physics favor normal boat designs over your proposed balloons. On the practicability of boats on very light weight materials: You just need to scale up your boats. The mass a boat can carry is directly proportional to the amount of water it displaces, and that is base area times depth. If your boat is ten meters below the "water" line, every square meter will carry $88kg$ of load with the numbers above. That's an average human plus 18 kg for one square meter of floor. Not much, but definitely something to work with. So you build your boats by simply laying down a large "water"-tight floor, attach a high wall around it, and you are ready to float. Much easier to manage than producing balloons of sufficient size and strength to carry you through the air. 

The same will apply in your setting. Just much more abstraction levels, and much less people caring about hardware. You might still stumble across the odd individual that cares so much about abstractions that they actually know the principles of all the abstraction levels involved. But these individuals will not be of much use to any company, as they won't be able to outperform the various level specific experts. In any case, the secret services will likely be the ones with the deepest knowledge of the different abstraction levels involved: Each lower level may serve as a back-door into the next higher level. Now, computers are connected at the most basic levels (electro magnetic radiation, or even wires), but the interesting stuff happens at the highest levels (Alice sending Bob some message with interesting stuff in it). So, secret services will want to attack at the lowest levels where their intrusion remains invisible to virtually anybody, but be able to hack their way up through the entire stack to get to the actual contents of the digital communication. Again, this is happening today. As such, you have to expect the secret services to have their hands/back-doors in every level that IT experts come up with. Right from the definitions of the relevant standards to the actual implementations. They are likely the secret rulers of the world. They are the ones that can find out about anything they happen to care about, and they are the ones that can blackmail anyone (its possible to prove anything about anyone if you have write access to all their devices/accounts). This is especially true, if law enforcement relies on prescribed governmental back-doors. It won't be just the police that has access, and the access by the secret services won't be read-only. No government will be able to control them. 

I think, what you really want is some alloy of titanium. The strongest titanium alloys can compete with a number of steels in tensile strengths (though not with the strongest, heat treated steels). I believe, titanium based weapons would go quite well with elves, as the wikipedia article describes titanium as a light metal, which is "lustrous, and metallic-white in color". Should make for perfect elvish style weapons... Comparing titanium alloy swords with their steel counterparts, I see three relevant points: 

Now, the beauty of this formulation is, that it fits any dominant trait: You cannot inherit a dominant trait unless either of your parents had it. Now, the wikipedia has a list of traits that could be useful to you: $URL$ Among these is the lactase persistence trait which can easily said that the mother did not have it due to her origin. This is a nice common trait, that can easily be tested, and that's a tell-tale trait if looked-at from the right angle. So it's something that can easily be noted early on without anybody being any the wiser. Later on, when you need to reveal the inheritance prove, you can let a biologist, doctor, or other knowledgeable person make the connection between the lactase persistence and the parentage of the child. But, of course, the colorblindness trait would definitely work due to being inherited via the X chromosome (which makes it useful for exactly your case, even though it's recessive). The only problem with that is that it's so rare that it looks odd for a character to have without a reason. 

Use a two-punch strategy: 1. EMP Bombing A few big nukes above the atmosphere work wonders to quickly turn all our electric toys into useless metal. Any insufficiently shielded electric devices will die. Including all the power switching technology in the electrical infrastructure as those are connected to long antenna-like lines by definition. 2. Concrete eating bacteria Evenly distribute these across the entire atmosphere to infect all concrete based buildings. Then wait for the infrastructure to come down. This won't kill our roads as most of these are not made from concrete, but it will kill all big buildings and bridges. Among the buildings are pretty much all factories. 

On the physics: If you take a sub, scale all its dimensions up in the same way, the resulting bigger sub won't be able to dive as deep as the original one. That is because you are decreasing the radius of the hull as you are increasing its size, and it is the curvature of the hull that allows it to withstand the water pressure. Obviously, you can still increase the size of a sub by simply joining several subs together. Likely, those bound-together pressure cylinders will be enclosed within a thin, non-pressure withstanding hull for hydro-dynamic reasons. Each pressure cylinder, however, will have a rather small diameter, to allow for large diving depths. 

Well, let's take a look at the scaling of a few vital numbers. If we grow the length (and width, and height) of a space ship by a factor of , we grow by a factor of 

What you are looking for is a moon pool: It's an opening in the floor of the underwater habitat, that connects the sea with the pressurized air inside the habitat. The air pressure keeps the water from filling the room. This is as simple and low-tech as you can get. In principle, this works as far down as pressurized air diving works: The limiting factor is the toxicity of the pressurized gases to the body. Afaik, this is somewhere around a depth around 40m for a human with normal air mixture (I couldn't find any precise numbers quickly). If you are willing to go with some other air mixtures (as they are used when people dive to greater depths), you can push that to somewhere short of 100 meters (again, no precise number, just something I vaguely remember). If you don't need to take humans through your moon pools, just your adapted species, you can make pretty much any depth believable. But, I guess, maximum depth is not your main concern anyway, as your amphibious species will want to live in conditions close to what they naturally live at, which is near the surface. 

If you want to optimize, you may also skip the compounds B and R, and have P directly inhibiting E. In this case, the toxicity of small doses would rely on P turning A into E more quickly than it can eliminate the produced E. The non-toxicity of large doses would rely on P quickly depleting A, so it destroys the produced E instead. The two path reaction seems easier to explain to me, though. 

All in all, there's a reason why they use titanium in aircrafts: Its performance surpasses that of steel when its put in relation to its weight. And swords do put their material strength in relation to their weight. The elves could thus use that exact same property to make for some extra long, strong, shiny looking swords. 

You can add pretty much anything you like, as long as you don't assume that additional, meaningful data magically appears on the device. 

The order of the steps is somewhat important, otherwise this is as simple a solution as it gets. Should be quite easy to implement in your post apocalyptic world, it allows you to move large amounts of water quickly with very little effort, and it does not require any energy use or complicated setup. Bonus points if the point where you load the fresh water is significantly higher (strong well has some pressure that allows the water to rise a floor or two above the ground) than the point where you dump the waste water (think cracked sewer next to the building). This would allow your protagonists to distribute flowing water throughout a few floors at the top of the building. Any floor between the waste water tank and the fresh water basin can have fresh water delivered and waste water removed by gravity. More bonus points, if you also collect some rain water at the top of the building. With that you can ensure that you have always more waste water that goes down than fresh water that goes up. Consequently, you won't have to move the water yourself, you just need to apply some brake on the rope/pulley to avoid the tanks becoming too fast. Gravity will do the work for you. Finally, as Peter Cordes points out in a comment, there is also the possibility to use two pulleys, one on each side of the building. This has several advantages: First, it would provide for a better separation of fresh and waste water, second, it would provide the operators with a convenient horizontal rope piece that can be grabbed to move the tanks, and third, it would make anchoring of the pulleys much easier. The simplest solution would be to just place a long, strong beam across the roof of the building, and fix the two pulleys at either end. Since the forces on both sides are almost perfectly equal, you would not even need to anchor the beam at all. A little more involved solution could look similar to this: 

First of all, see Kearsley's answer for the general formulas that will provide you with all possible solutions (he has my upvote for that). This answer gives a simple configuration that includes six planets and should be reasonably stable (= require only minimal amounts of corrections): You have 

I agree fully with all the points brought up in sdfgeoff's excellent answer, however, I want to add some points which work for your design, and which are not evaluated correctly in some of the other answers. 

Yes, your design could work from a statical view-point: Your intermediate platforms, pulleys, and motors will definitely add weight, how much depends on the specifics of your design. This will force you to increase the count of cables further up. But, as long as the extra weight is not too large in relation to the weight of the cable itself, this just adds to the costs of the design, it won't make the thing itself infeasible. There will be no danger of cables rubbing against each other: The rising cable will need to gain angular momentum, the descending cable will need to loose the same amount of angular momentum. Both will do so by not following a vertical path, rather the rising cable will bulge to the west, while the descending cable will bulge to the east. Thus, they will bulge away from each other, and away from the vertical static tethering. It would be very easy to provide power down from the space station to the motors by transferring ground via the static tether and the power via the rotating cable. Due to the bulging of the rotating cable, the two electrical poles will naturally be separated from each other. In a design that uses only static tethers, this won't be so easy: The opposing electrical charges will attract each other, so you will need to add some isolation between the cables carrying the opposing charges. With the rotating cable, space itself works as an isolation. Providing power up from the ground station would be next to impossible, unless you add an extra static cable on the last leg down to ground. That extra cable would increase the cost of the entire thing by something like 50%, because you are adding a third, otherwise useless cable. This adds extra weight, which requires 50% more cables further up to carry the load. Of course, you can try to make that extra cable thinner than the rotating cable, reducing that extra cost factor accordingly. However, adding that third cable would immediately allow you to directly transfer the power of a ground-based power plant up to space. It might be worth it. You have to think about how your cabins clamp on to the moving cable: You need to somehow accelerate your cabins to the cable speed without damaging the cable. Just clamping instantly would put way too much stress on the cable, using a slipping clutch would expose the cable to abrasive forces. A solution that could work would be to use some pulleys to connect the cabin with the cable, and to connect those pulleys to a small generator. The generator would provide electricity to the interior of the cabin during the ascent/descent by letting the cabin slowly slip downwards relative to the cable, and it could be used to make the acceleration at the ends of the trip graceful by changing how much power is extracted from it. This change of load on the generator could easily be effected by use of a small battery inside the cabin. The effect of this slipping for power generation would be, that the descent would be a bit faster than the ascent, but that shouldn't be any problem.