As a side note, I think a lot of people underestimate the diversity of interests that Aspies engage in. The idea that aspies are only interested in STEM fields (Science, Technology, Engineering and Math) is a misconception. My wife for instance is an amazing sculptor and visual artist. 

$URL$ As my dear old mother in her late 60's put it "I can't remember a time when we weren't at war with someone somewhere." That's pretty much your answer right there. You don't really need a capable enemy to justify a never ending militaristic buildup, you just need an enemy. Whether it be a cold war, a drug war, or a war on terrorism. It's pretty easy to frighten a populace enough to get them to go along with a seemingly unlimited military budget. 

I could see them playing a version of Chicken... Basically one player would taunt another into racing toward the boiling stone, the first to stop or turn away would loose and be deemed a chicken or coward. 

I'm guessing that if militaries are still functioning to any significant degree they're in charge. Your question specifically mentions Martial Law, which tends to imply that they're already running the show in the absence of a stable civilian government. Even if the civilian government is still around, it wouldn't be a stretch for military forces to make a power grab. Why pay for the vaccine when the labs can be seized by the military and thus the "state" or whatever is left of it... And from the sounds of it the military is the strongest remaining functional component... Militaries have access to hardware that make them really very difficult to argue with. It's a sad statement about humanity, but a reality regardless. If they decide to be in charge after an apocalypse, they effectively are. I guess what I'm saying is that governments, laws, and economies end up being the thin veneers' of society that fall away pretty quickly when someone rolls a tank up to the door, or points an ICBM in your direction. 

Using mosquitos as an example, you can expect a pretty big ripple effect on the ecosystem. They're a piece of the food chain, so if you wipe them out, you'll eventually harm/lose all the species that feed on them, and then the species that feed on the low level predators, and so on, and so forth on up the chain. Mosquito larvae are eaten by minnows, minnows are eaten by larger fish, larger fish are eaten by humans. See how it only took three simple steps to effect the top of the food chain? Now obviously this is a simplified model there's loads of other things that eat mosquitos and loads of things that eat those things. The point is that you​ can't really remove any species without it rippling out across the the entire chain. 

I have a little personal experience with this sort of thing, one of my first jobs was cooking short order. My shifts tended to flip between 6pm to 6am or vice versa... Honestly it takes a good while to adjust and the first few flips can be painfully jarring, but after an initial adjustment period of a few months... Well, you'd be surprised what you can get used to. After a point you can separate from the typical circadian rhythm. Having a windowless room to crash/sleep in will help tremendously. And yes, developing a cycle of greater than 24 hours is entirely possible. If you don't want to take my word for it, The National Center for Biotechnology Information made similar observations: 

What would happen if the purge was a really thing? Well... Probably the same things​ that usually happens when the authorities temporarily lose control. Rioting, looting, vandalism, and arson... The occasional assault, but probably comparatively little serious violent crime. These scenarios play out fairly often in the real world in the wake of natural disasters and political upheaval, but it isn't as though people go completely feral at the first sign that they can get away with it. They're still human, and most humans have some level of empathy, respect for human life, and dignity. There's also the awareness that this is a temporary state of affairs, in 12 hours you're going to have to live peacefully with these people again, probably best not to attack the neighbors. So... I'm thinking that you're likely to see a lot of property crimes, mostly directed at larger businesses​, so that people feel like they're committing "victimless crimes." On the other hand, you're always going to have a few "bad apples," the sort of people who would have committed horrific crimes with or without a purge... But I strongly suspect that this sort of person is the sort of person who wouldn't be capable or careful enough to wait for a purge, and given that they're a really small portion of the general population, they'll probably get wiped out pretty quickly by an outraged majority. Over time the purge may even devolve into another Halloween like holiday where people throw wild parties and engage in silly mischief and pranks. Most people really don't have the stomach for real world violence... 

You could try some medieval tech to go with your lodging... I'm thinking you could use an oversized trebuchet, or perhaps a few trebuchets to launch zombies a fairly long way away. With this trebuchet you could launch 1500lbs a little over 100ft, so that would be say ten 150lb zombies out of the moat and likely pretty well smashed upon landing. Or one zombie much further... 

Sufficiently powerful mortals... See: Odysseus Heracles Friedrich Nietzsche Richard Dawkins Margaret Some actively fought the gods, and some fought the premise of "god/s" both were pretty effective. 

On the whole I suspect that people would still just be people, perhaps older and wiser people, but still just people. Most any marriage arrangement or configuration you can imagine has been tried by someone in some culture at some point in human history. Monogamy, polygamy, polyandry, arranged, young men to old women, young women to old men, same-sex, gender neutral, and even chaste, non-sexual, and asexual. Some people have even married their deity/ies. Forgive me I know I've left some out, but you get the picture. Trust me if you can imagine it, it's probably been done. With all these variations and possible combinations it usually boils down to "the heart wants what it wants." Even in arranged marriages people make it work for the love of their family, traditions, religion and so on. So... People will likely do what they would have done anyway. 

I would start the journey upward with a hydrogen balloon, we all know steampunks have a soft spot for airships... This may sound a little absurd but for $75k you can catch a ride to the "edge of space" and spend a couple of hours at 98,000 feet. So, balloons could reasonable get you started. But that would only be about 1/6 of the way to what most people would consider "space" so we'll shoot for low earth orbit at about 160 kilometers up. To push the rest of the way we're probably going to need rockets. Big Rockets. But rockets seem to be well within the acceptable bounds of steampunk. Now once we've made it to low earth orbit we have some technical issues to consider. Could steampunk tech reasonably hold up to the vacuum of space? Most likely yes! If the you're basing your tech limits on the 19th century keep in mind that they were developing submarines as early as 1850. It stands to reason that if they could make a vessel that could withstand the pressures of the deep sea they could build a vessel that could maintain air pressure in space. Now we've gotten into space and we're "reasonably" safe, how long can we stay? Well that depends mostly on life support, primarily filtering out CO2. And here's a solution: