We do have layers for legs, it's just that most people don't think the extra bother is worth it for most conditions. Consider long underwear, various types of regular pants, and special wind/rain/snow pants. 

This was in Groton on 6 Nov 2016, and characteristic of many hemlocks in the area. Note the unusual pattern of needles at the tips of branches, with no needles further back towards the trunk. There was no adelgid directly visible in this tree and most others, although it could still be found here and there in this stand. Something interesting happened in the summer of 2016, which I'd like to understand. We had a unusually dry summer, with drought conditions in much of Massachusetts. Most of the hemlocks grow in wet areas, that at least stayed damp. I don't think the drought affected the hemlocks directly, but may have contributed to the adelgid decline. It seems this should be studied. It would be useful to understand what did in the adelgid during the summer of of 2016. Perhaps this could give a clue towards a new control technique. I've been trying to connect up with people doing research in this area, with only limited success. If anyone out there is researching this pest, I'm happy to help and be eyes on the ground in the Groton MA area. 

Optically, even cheap binoculars are very good these days so unless you need something special I wouldn't use this as a differentiator when looking. Instead the three I see as most important are size, weight and robustness. If they are going with you everywhere you need to make sure they will fit in your pack, not be too heavy and be able to take the odd drop, being bashed off trees, getting wet etc. 

I would suggest that if you can service them for a couple of years then you should definitely register them. At the end of that period, you can always deregister/delete and create community caches. As long as you handle the changes in a sensible way - ie not abandoning a cache - then I can't see that there would be a problem. Additionally, as @DonBranson commented - you can always hand over stewardship :-) 

One reason (and I don't know enough to suggest this is the main reason) is for identification. When putting a tent up you may have a bundle of fabric that you need to set down on an uneven surface, sort and erect. Having it in black distinguishes it from the varied colours of the tent walls so you can always place your tent floor down, without having to check all the sections. The floor is the strongest, most heavily waterproofed part of the tent skin, so this also means you are less likely to end up with a damp tent from placing it upside-down on damp ground, or tears from catching branches or roots on a thin piece of tent fabric. Found another reason: Because the floor is manufactured using a different process to the rest of the tent, making floors that matched the tops would require more complicated processes and cost more. A constant black means any floor can be fixed to a top of the correct size. 

While this is a good answer for us, and is what we are going forward with, it's not without issues and may not be for everyone. Getting technical specs was a tedious process. They are used to getting PDF files or Word files, but I wanted to have full control over where every bit of paint goes, and be able to squash and stretch fonts and spacings to make everything fit just right. I could have done these text signs more simply, but I wanted to pave the way for possibly doing arbitrary graphics with maps and the like. After some wrangling, I was put in direct contact with the person running the sign shop instead of having to go thru the sales people at MassCor headquarters. Eventually I got necessary specs, like the sizes and locations of the mounting holes, the radius of curvature of the corners, and the minimum required paint-free margin around the edges. Now I have templates for all that in my slide making program, and laying out new signs is fairly simple. We worked out a process where I send them a 400 DPI bitmap with white for the background and black to indicate where paint should be. So far each order has taken much longer than originally stated. That's not a problem for us since the woods will still be there 6 months later too. Keep in mind that the people doing the work have a lot of time on their hands, like 20 to life. I have no idea what is available outside of Massachusetts, but every state has to make road signs somehow and have felons that need to be kept busy. I'm guessing that something like MassCor is common, but I haven't looked around. Our Conservation Commission has now formally endorsed these signs for use on their properties. We are starting there, then will approach some of the private land owners about using the same system on their lands too. 

A version of crawl is your best bet - a bit like that used by triathlon swimmers when they come to close quarters swimming - but with breast stroke or sidestroke legs. Don't have the head in as you would for proper crawl stroke, but keep your face up. Use a low crawl arm stroke and a breast stroke or side stroke kick. This way you get the power of the crawl arms and the control of breast stroke legs. 

Picture from the RSPB website. If you get to hear one, they have a call that can be piercing or melancholy - and which gives them their common name, Peewit. 

However, as you have indicated, it may not be the ideal course upwind - for example if the sea is choppy a close hauled course may mean every wave halts the boat. Your close reach may be better so you can flow over the waves. You will be a couple of points lower off the wind, so will need to tack more, but if your speed across the water makes up for this then that may be the way to go. This varies a lot with the type of boat. Monohulls point much higher than catamarans, but catamarans are still faster over most courses simply because of the much high speed across water. Square riggers cannot point very high at all - in fact they are so bad at it, they used to choose routes specifically to avoid it. 

Since wide open plains is one of your objectives, I'd stick to the relatively drier areas east and north of the northern end of the Sacramento Valley. The coastal range is quite wet in comparison, so you won't find open valleys with no trees. You might enjoy exploring by starting in Westwood and heading north thru the Lassen NF. You will go thru small grassy valleys surrounded by wooded hills, although nothing on the scale of Rohan. Before you get further north, walk around there a bit. Hiking thru the forest here is a different experience than in most forests. There are large Poderosa pines spread out, with usually easy walking around between them. The climate gets drier as you go north and east. Around Eagle Lake, the area is more open with fewer trees. Further north instead of east it gets drier too. However, the open valleys won't be large grasslands but more rocky plains, culminating in a totally different landscape in Craters of the Moon and the Modoc NF by the OR border. Added: One thing you can do is poke around in Google Earth to see where the flat treeless areas are. Most places now have some uploaded photographs so you can see what it looks like from eye level. For example, go to 40.580N 121.078W. That's one of the meadows I mentioned north of Westwood. It's relatively small in the scheme of things, but is otherwise what I imagine Rohan to be. It's wet enough for there to be lots of grass to support horses, like Rohan. On the other hand, take a look at 40.903N 120.738W. That's a much bigger area, and you should be able to get a feeling of hiking around in large openess. However, it's dryer than I imagine Rohan. Further north are even larger, but also dryer flat areas. In this part of the world, the larger flat areas will be more desert than grassland. 

So what you want to do is look at the range of expected temperatures in the area you plan to camp, compare those with temperatures you are comfortable with and buy accordingly. Myself- I would want a very light sleeping bag, or some blankets unless I was up in the mountains. 

This can lead to them failing to hunt correctly, problems in rearing young, and even problems in courtship. Read this article and others on the rspb website. 

While the majority of national forests in the US and the UK are forested, there are also wide areas included within the boundaries that may be mountains, plains, lakes etc. Often the boundaries are a legacy of when the area was originally defined - sometimes forest has retreated, sometimes the boundary was defined to include lands which appeared to be used by particular animal herds etc. Simplest is to assume that the majority is forested, but in any area you are heading to you may encounter other land usage. 

Your final sentence is correct. The newspaper will wick water from internal fabric, but it will not pull water back through the Gore-Tex layer. It only allows water vapour to pass through. You actually need quite a head of pressure to force water through Gore-Tex, otherwise it would leak when you walk through a river, for example. The hiking boots my family has are all Gore-Tex, and we use newspaper after any wet hikes, and it works perfectly. 

This sign is by the side of a road, so is larger than what would be in the woods. However, this is the material I was mentioning. Apparently it is also available in brown. I have been told that this material will last much longer than wood, and is supposed to be able to stand up to long term UV exposure. I have meanwhile heard back from one sign maker with some good arguments against pressure treated wood. That and Karen's point about not knowing what volunteer resources might be available in the future to replace worn signs has me leaning towards a format like the wood signs shown above, but using the plastic material shown here. 

This is not a direct answer, but still relevant. Technically, "chipmunk" is the common name for a limited few specific species of ground squirrels. These usually have the stripes that run along their sides converge all the way to the nose. There are many more ground squirrels that are not really chipmunks. However, the name "chipmunk" is sometimes applied to any ground squirrel that has stripes on its sides. The point of all this that if you are trying to search for more information on these animals, widening to "ground squirrel" may lead to better results. It may also help get more scientific write-ups, as apposed to those from people that refer to anything small and furry that scurries around as a "chipmunk". Usually I find the best way to get good information on particular animals is to use the common names in searches just to get the scientific names. Then use the scientific names to get the real information. 

This is not exactly a direct answer but may be more appropriate: I feel that signposting a snare is a good way of getting your game stolen so in general I would advise not signposting but instead making the snare where animals will go but not where humans will walk. This is a lot easier than it sounds- you can usually spot popular routes for small animals just off the beaten track and set accordingly. 

While various sources suggest drinking some blood in emergency will help, the risks outweigh the benefits. From 5 Myths of Dehydration: 

A magnifying glass will not light it, and I don't think a flint and steel will directly - you need a flame rather than a spark - but that is easily solved through using a piece of newspaper with kindling, or taper. Just use your magnifying glass or flint to light the paper, then use that to light the lamp. Slightly messy, and you need to be careful where you put your taper, but pretty simple. 

Not really, no. What strengthens skin is damaging it, either by rubbing or by cutting/scuffing, so you end up with either thicker/rougher tissue or even scar tissue. I would imagine running through long sharp grass every day could do this quite well but it would not be fun. 

The first thing to do is to not pitch your tent in the middle of a flat area when there is a chance of thunderstorms. Sometimes that's not so easy, but that doesn't make it any less a good thing to do. For a properly sited tent, the best thing to do during a thunderstorm is to stay put. Lightning shouldn't hit the tent directly, but it could hit something else nearby. That can cause large ground currents, which causes voltage over a distance accross the ground. Inside your sleeping bag on a insulated pad on top of the tent floor should be fairly safe from voltages caused by large ground currents. If you are in badly sited tent, like in the middle of a flat area with the tent being the tallest thing around, then staying put inside your sleepping bag is still the best thing to do in a bad circumstance. If lightning does strike your tent, then there is at least some chance the current will be conducted by the wet skin of the tent or the tent poles (if metal). This will make the current go around you instead of thru you to the ground. It will be very unpleasant nonetheless, but still a whole lot better than getting zapped directly. Again, the right answer is to not get yourself into this circumstance in the first place. 

Try running on sand for your morning or evening run - sand is very good at early stages of toughening up your feet as it still spreads the load well. Once you have toughened the skin a bit, you will be able to walk on forest trails, stone, gravel etc. But for now, the best thing you can do is moisturise your feet - this helps the cracks smooth out so they don't dig into your foot (which is what causes a lot of the pain). Moisturise, and use a pumice stone to rub down any really hard bits of skin. Your feet will toughen rapidly if you walk barefoot every day. 

remember, a jump from 80 feet is pretty easy to stop - you don't need much depth of water to be safe. If I had 20 feet of water under me I'd be confident I could stop before hitting the bottom, especially with baggy clothing. 

Hydrostatic rating on a tent is the highest column of water a material can withstand for up to one minute before the water starts to penetrate (assuming good seams, no damage etc) The ratings translate as follows (have seen these quoted in a couple of places, this is from campingcrazy.com)