The soul needs time to leave the dead body - it's not something that happens in the moment of death and is done with. Over the lifetime the soul has become attached to the body, and only the slow decomposition in a hallowed ground will ascertain that the soul rises whole and intact into the afterlife -- and maybe even beyond to rebirth! Burning the body would also destroy parts of the soul, tearing it apart and not allow it to experience the afterlife at all. A most cruel act, reserved only for the worst of criminals and enemies. Incidentally that very link between soul and body is how necromancy works: It reanimates the body, and the remaining bit of soul will take over the operation of the body. Once the Necromancer's spell is broken, and the artificial conservation of the body, which binds the soul, is no more, the soul will be able to reform in the afterlife, merely suffering a delay, where it is split in two. Although similar to the "ghost" suggestions above, I don't think it's necessary to have and might add unnecessary complexity to a world. After all, a soul's wellbeing should be of paramount importance to the ex-loved ones of the body in question. 

Until they cease to get outside help: Sure, not everyone will survive, but I assume that some powerful people will be trapped, who have the ressources/allies to get outside help. If you have holes that big in the top, those can be used to air-drop supplies into the dome. Obviously, as the other answers have indicated, there will be quite a lot of death and destruction, but given the right resources (a boat might be incredibly helpful) you can probably weather the initial violence. Once order has restored, air-dropped supplies should keep you alive for a while, and you may even be able to reproduce. Being a nitpicker, the likely cause of death will be flooding, since your design allows for incoming water, but there's no drainage at the bottom. Eventually the sphere will fill with water up to the level of the holes, and survivors would again have to resort to boats or rafts. Since the sphere reaches several kilometers into the sky, there may also be an issue with people freezing or suffocating, depending on the altitude of the lowest holes. In that case no water or air would really circulatethrough those holes, so I suspect that the holes are only around 1000 - 2000m above ground. With six-inch-holes, you can even get newborns out, once the water level is high enough, allowing for your successors to leave the sphere. 

Imagine a country where once a year, the citizens file a sort of vote with their tax return, where each return decides how taxes will be spent. Each citizen controls an equal portion of the taxes, regardless of income. Taxes are allocated to programs. Anyone can establish a program by getting 0.5% of the citizen population to provide their signature endorsing the program. Programs are not allowed to violate any existing laws, and must publish an itemized report of where the tax money was spent. Each citizen who files taxes gets an equal say. They are allowed to split the vote between any number of programs with up to 0.1% precision. For example, suppose our country earns 1 billion dollars in tax revenue and has 1,000,000 citizens as population who file taxes. In this example, a program would require 5,000 votes to become established and each citizen would be responsible for determining the allocation of $1,000. Someone might choose to put 50% on a program to cure cancer, 20% on a program that repairs a highway they use regularly, 7.5% on a space exploration program, and the remaining 22.5% on a project to end homelessness by providing affordable housing for people. In that case, 500 dollars of the tax revenue would go to the cancer program, 200 dollars to the highway repair program, 75 dollars to space exploration, and 225 dollars to the homelessness project. Each year the projects would receive their budget based on the votes and the total taxes collected. Votes would be collected securely and projects would not be told who had voted for them. Now, I want you to come up with ways to break or game this system. Please assume the following: 

Camouflage: You can attempt to hide a base on the moon, because the moon is pretty big, and people expect it to be there. An orbital base is more difficult to hide. Armor: The surface of the moon is covered in craters, due to constant bombardment by rocks and ice travelling at up to orbital speeds. An underground moon base could be protected from this bombardment - and also from most weaponry (if they come with planet busters, your station doesn't matter anyway). This will also help with protecting a crew from radiation. Gravity: On the moon you don't need artificial gravity to stop everything from floating around. This is quite neat, when it's a manned station. On the other hand, lower gravity and lack of athmosphere means you can launch small craft quickly and easily - something a planetary base cannot provide. Mass of the moon: Your station will likely have a mass lower than the moon. Using an orbital space station to fire rail guns at an adversary, would change it's orbit. You would be limited to smaller, recoilless weaponry in most cases. The moon is a convenient emplacement for your heavy interplanetary artillery. Less collateral damage: Any shot that would miss an orbital defense station, could hit the nearby planet or be drawn into its gravity well, making for potentially devastating collateral damage, even from an unsuccessful attack on a military installation. The moon is more likely to provide a buffer for destroyed craft and malfunctioning/misaimed weaponry, where it wouldn't impact a planet's fragile ecosystem. 

First. On the scale of "modern" humans 32,000 years is a really really long time. All of human recorded history only goes back at best 5000 years and lets face it that is pretty hazy history. 32,000 years counts for something like 1/6 of all of human history (ballpark...depends on what dates you use). I would have trouble believing that anything could keep humanity from advancing for 32,000 years. Mainly meaning your world would be stretching my suspension of disbelief to the breaking point. I really think it is worth asking yourself if that kind of timeline is really necessary, what does it buy you? That said here are some things that you can use to slow down or even temporarily reverse societal and technological development. 

I would just add that, I would not want to keep an infectious shell of a former family around for sentimental reasons. Now, I can see a trade springing up if the zombies were not infectious, or perhaps they are only infectious for 6 months at which point they are harmless simpletons, but even then I wouldn't do that to a family member...well maybe one or two but not most of them. 

Here's the deal with crime and punishment. Generally speaking while prisoners in some countries retain SOME rights they lose rights in every country while incarcerated and sometimes, depending on the severity of their actions lose rights even after serving their time. Ethics is a matter of social norms. Not right and wrong. You can claim that ethics is based on good versus evil or religion and therefore ethics is innate and immutable but that is simply not true. Take the Catholic church as an example. It silently consented to the trans Atlantic Slave trade. Burned scientists and witches alike...and a whole host of other sins aside. As society changes, rules change. So. That in mind. Your society dictates what is ethically acceptable within said society. 

Runner's Toe is an entertaining way of having someone being very tender on their feet for a few days, and then recover quickly. Maybe your assailant just stubbed their toe badly, had something fall on it, or he's trying to get into running and wore shoes a size too small, or walked downhill all day. It looks pretty gruesome as well, so despite being maybe a bit on the harmless side, it could integrate into a horror story nicely. Also, even a little girl stamping on someone's Terrible Toe is a great way to cause distracting levels of pain. 

So, unless your base is the size of an Imperial Death Star, you would do well to keep it under the surface of the moon. As an advance outpost, a base on Pluto or similar sized rim-planet would be pretty neat, but out there you wouldn't be able to rely on solar power as much (at least for day-to-day operations), as on the moon, so you'd need either another locally available power source, or ship fuel out there every so often. My assumptions are of course only valid, if the moon in question is similar to the Earth's moon, and generally considerd inhabitable, with significantly lower gravity than a reasonably nearby planet. In a solar system with inhabited moons around a gas giant, you would probably want to have your defensive perimeter outside the planet's gravity well. 

These walls are all designed to keep out humans, but will work just as well on large wildlife and zombies. They are all at the kind of scale you are looking at. Their construction has been usually under adverse circumstances. By most metrics, they did their job. They are expensive in manpower (constructing and manning) but mostly low-tech (mines, some lights, sensors), and reasonably low maintenance. Given these examples, I'd say walls are pretty well proven, and an efficient way at reducing the surface of potential attacks.