*For the most part— there's some amount of resale that is sort of frictional, which arises from people not being able to attend a show and unloading tickets so they don't just eat the full cost, etc. 

The biggest issue (in the US national accounts, at least) is the fact that government production is recorded on a cost basis rather than a market value of output basis (due to the lack of market values for many government services). From the NIPA Primer, pages 2-3: 

No, the sale of a capital asset doesn’t count in GDP, as the cost of the asset was already accounted for when the plane was first sold to Delta. To your second point, if a broker somehow provided a service by facilitating the sale, that would count towards GDP, but the sale itself would not. 

Simply put, you can't tell exactly. It's just not possible to tell these entities' subprime losses apart from other losses, with the possible exception of Lehman Brothers, due to the detail made available through its bankruptcy proceedings. Even then, it would be an incredibly labor-intensive task. There are a number of reasons for this. First, most subprime mortgage exposures of major banks weren't held as on-balance-sheet loans, but in the form of (usually higher-rated) tranches of private-label mortgage-backed securities, which has a number of implications, including: the exposures appeared on the balance sheet as securities, not as mortgage loans; there's no way to know what fraction of those securities contained subprime loans; and due to the structures of the securities, there's not even a linear relationship between the fraction of subprime loans in a given security and the bank's exposure to losses from those loans, among other things. Second, they often had off-balance-sheet exposures in the form of support obligations (whether explicit or implicit) on structured investment vehicles. Third, their exposures varied significantly due to differences in the amount of leverage they used in funding their assets. As an aside: pre-crisis, none of the four entities you've named were actually banks. Though often referred to as "investment banks," all of those were nonbank broker-dealers. 

In Keynes's Treatise on Money he argued that the phenomenon you describe, known as "normal backwardation", is due to the fact that certain commodities producers hedge their price risk (importantly, they hedge their risk much more than consumers) by selling futures. The intuition for why the producer does this is that it allows the producer to lock in the price of the commodity in advance, allowing them to plan their production based on a guaranteed price. Now, remember that relatively fewer consumers hedge their risk than producers. Intuitively, this might be because, for example, if the price of pork rises significantly, consumers can easily adapt by substituting away from it; in contrast, if the price of pork falls significantly, pork producers who have been raising pigs for months are unable to adapt easily and may face a significant loss. So the risk is concentrated on producers, and selling futures is essentially just shifting this risk from the producers out into the financial system so that it is (hopefully) more dispersed. But now the twist: because there aren't a lot of consumers who feel that it's important to lock in today the cost of a ham in the future, there are no natural buyers of these futures. As a result, producers have to sell pork futures at a discount to the expected future spot price, to compensate people for accepting the risk. When this is the case, futures prices in these markets are said to experience normal backwardation. 

It's anecdote, but in this fantastic Planet Money piece on breaking Brazil's hyperinflation, there's a pretty good description of how in Brazil, shopkeepers would raise their prices multiple times a day. The strategies described (starting around the 10:00 mark, after the description of people running ahead of the guys with the price guns to buy things before they could raise the prices) include: 

Bureaucratic history time! Yes, this agency (and its predecessors) have always been responsible for GDP; GDP was created a couple decades after the Department of Commerce and the Department of Labor split up. The full answer is that the Bureau of Economic Analysis (BEA) was created in 1972 as a bureau in the Social and Economic Statistics Administration (SESA), then made an autonomous bureau within the Department of Commerce in 1975, with the abolishment of the SESA. When the BEA was created in 1972, it was created out of the Office of Business Economics (itself an autonomous unit) in the Department of Commerce. In turn, the Office of Business Economics was established in 1945 inside another autonomous unit, that parent unit being the Bureau of Foreign and Domestic Commerce. It was during the period of the Bureau of Domestic and Foreign Commerce (housed in the Department of Commerce) that GDP was created (in part by the work of Simon Kuznets on a measure of national income), but the agency preceded this by many years. The Bureau of Foreign and Domestic Commerce, for its part, was transferred to the the Department of Commerce when the DoC was created in 1913 (by splitting up the Department of Commerce and Labor into two separate cabinet departments). It had previously been within the Department of Commerce and Labor, and was known as the Bureau of Statistics prior to 1912. The Bureau of Statistics in the Department of Commerce and Labor was created out of the Bureau of Foreign Commerce (housed in the Department of State), and the Bureau of Statistics (housed in the Department of the Treasury). Each of those bureaus also had other names during the 19th century, but we've probably already gone way further back than you had intended. This history thanks to the National Archives. 

Not paying a mortgage is first known as delinquency (when payments are missed) and later, default (when the loan is written down and the lender seeks foreclosure). But an inability to pay has no particular term of art attached to it, because an inability to pay can arise either out of illiquidity (debts exceed liquid assets) or insolvency (debts exceed liquid assets and ability to borrow against future income). 

It peaks around \$14.8T, and hits bottom around \$13.2T. Being really lazy about it and assuming both that all that decline is due to mortgage defaults and just rounding up a bit, we come to about \$2 trillion in losses on mortgage debt over the entire history of the financial crisis. But here's the market capitalization of a few of the larger US financial firms prior to the crisis: C: \$260B BAC: \$231B JPM: \$168B MS: \$179B WFC: \$118B GS: \$86B ML: \$64B BS: \$19B ~$1.1T. Which doesn't look good, until you realize that a) many of our mortgage assets were held by foreigners, pension funds, and other entities; b) the GSEs (and ultimately taxpayers) absorbed hundreds of billions in losses, and c) the $2T figure I started with includes all losses up through the end of the mortgage crisis, and the actual financial crisis occurred only two year in to the mortgage crisis. Then you realize that the mortgage losses alone probably weren't enough to bring down the financial system. Derivatives also did not cause the financial crisis. To a first approximation, one could say that the financial system as a whole lost no money at all on derivatives, as any one party's loss was another's gain, and the only major firm to fail primarily as a result of derivatives exposures was AIG (and this failure did not cause the failure of any other major firm). So what was it, really? A bank run, just like every other financial crisis. Not a traditional bank run, but a run on repo, which is the core bit of the story that is omitted above. (To be fair, he does mention leverage in passing, but repo is more than leverage— it's leverage and liquidity transformation) Repo is essentially a form of collateralized borrowing used by financial firms— you lend me money, and I give you a pile of stuff that you're pretty sure is worth a little more than the money you're lending me as collateral, then later on, we trade back. Unfortunately, one of the "piles of stuff" that was being used heavily in repo was mostly high-quality, AAA tranches of the aforementioned PLMBS, which at first everyone assumed was as good as (actually, sometimes better than) gold, but then once people started seeing losses on PLMBS, because nobody sitting at a repo desk could figure out how to price the stuff, they started lending less and less against it, until they wouldn't accept it as collateral at all. One problem with this is that it had the same effect as a bank run, but there was no equivalent of government deposit insurance to help stop the run— people ran, and for a number of major financial firms, it was over. A bigger problem with this is that it meant that the entire shadow banking system seized up, causing a significant contraction in the broader money supply— which is what actually almost killed the global economy. It's this critical link— the fact that people not paying mortgages was amplified through wholesale finance in a way that transformed the mortgage debt into highly-liquid, money-like liabilities, so that the lost wealth actually translated into a contraction of the money supply— that is often lost. Stock market losses in the 2000 "Dot-Com" crash were actually greater than losses on residential mortgages. But it didn't destroy the global economy, because people weren't funding stock market positions with short term debt— if they were, it would look like— wait, now I'm actually just describing the Great Depression. Almost all the other stuff that @MD-Tech says is true— there were, for example, people who took out no-documentation mortgages with no intention of ever paying them back, borrowing sometimes more than the cost of their homes and blowing the money on stuff (I don't know what, exactly, but Las Vegas saw a lot of the housing boom and bust so gambling and strip clubs were probably in the mix). And yes, CDOs did play a role in getting to that point, but the role they played was mostly at the end— they were sufficiently complicated that errors in modeling correlations led some to believe that the more senior tranches were safe, while the more junior tranches were actually often purchased by people who were betting against the housing market (these individuals would take out large CDS positions but also buy junior CDOs, which gave them cash flow to fund CDS premiums until everything blew up, at which point the CDS paid out and they were rich(er) and people wrote books about them). 

Instead of using population weights, you could do a spatial average of county centroids using county-level personal income as the weight. The residence adjustment that is applied (LAPI is calculated on a place of residence basis, rather than place of work) will screw this measure up a little bit (fortunately, the adjustment mostly just shifts around income within metropolitan areas), and it doesn't account for differences in the capital intensity of various industries, but it's likely a better proxy than using population as a weight. More broadly, I'd really recommend checking out Jim LeSage's spatial econometrics work (he wrote the toolbox for Matlab), as much of it deals with spatial weight structures.