Unfortunately, tapering is one of those things that is far from an exact science, and varies from individual to individual. Generally it's learned through long trial and error. That being said, my taper period is 2-3 weeks depending on the intensity of the event and how much I am targeting it as an 'A' race. I generally cut 30% from my workouts in week 1, another 20% in week two, and light workouts/refresher only in week 3. I would try cutting by 20-30% this week, and light on the cardio next week as well as any lower body stuff. Other than making sure you replenish glycogen stores, you can probably keep the upper body, but if you start feeling fatigued don't be afraid to bag it. Then, you have a baseline of what to work from the next time you need to taper. 

Those three exercises are the minimum that I would recommend to hit all the major lower body muscles that are involved with the pedaling motion. There are also smaller, ancillary muscles that are worked with these exercises, but those won't matter as much as they will/should be adequately worked by the cycling itself. Note - This is not a substitute for regular riding, but intended to address the question raised by the study. 

The rest of it will be mental. You HAVE to believe, and be able to tell yourself "I got this". As soon as you start saying to yourself "Wow, never gonna make it!", you won't. Visualize it. See it in your head, believe it or it will never happen. 

Threshold work is swimming at 85-95% of your top pace, with short rest intervals. These kinds of workouts are designed to increase the amount of time you can spend at your top pace. Interval workouts are faster than your top distance speed, with long rest so that you can make every interval. So if you can sustain 2:30/100m, then a threshold workout might be something like 10x100 on 2:20, 15 seconds rest. This means 10 100m distances, each one completed in 2:20, and 15 seconds rest between each one. If you can't make every one, then you need to try it at 2:25. If you can make it easily, try the next one at 2:15. Interval workouts would be something like 10x100 on 2:00, 1:00 rest. If you can make them all easily, next time make it 1:50. If you can't make them all, then either increase the time or the rest until you can. 

Just after finishing a weight workout, you can eat whatever you like, not eat, snack, you name it. As long as you are meeting your overall calorie ratios and goals for the day, force type workouts don't require any special post workout nutrition. Where the confusion comes in is everyone talks about the "golden hour" to refuel, but that is really only relevant to extended aerobic endurance type exercise. Studies have shown a 3:1 carb to protein ratio intake (Such as chocolate milk, which is why it gets advertised as the perfect post workout drink, it really kind of is) gets carbohydrates/glycogen back into the muscles faster than other intake, especially when consumed within 10-45 minutes (ish) after a workout. 

Since you are already getting up every hour to stretch, I would do the 25 pushups every hour, as that will add less than a minute to your stretching routine. As your endurance builds you can gradually increase that amount as desired. However, if you want to increase muscle mass and tone, then the approach you are taking is going to be of extremely limited use. In an incline pushup, you are mildly engaging abdominal and lower back muscles, the triceps and chest. However, you aren't using them enough to really build mass. You are also doing nothing that would stress your cardiovascular system. If you want to combat a sedentary lifestyle, you really need a component that stresses your cardiovascular system, preferably at least 20 minutes, 3x per week, and a component that also helps build muscle and tone. There are many activities that fit both of these, such as circuit training, swimming, cycling/running with upper body weight supplementation, etc. I would recommend finding an activity that you enjoy doing, and making it a part of your daily lifestyle. More and more studies are coming out that show how bad a sedentary desk job/lifestyle can be, so I encourage you to combat this in any way you can and the sooner the better. 

It's a combination of things, actually. Anger causes the amygdala in the brain to go a little crazy, and it triggers the response of dumping adrenaline and noradrenaline into the body. This is similar to what happens when the "fight or flight" response is triggered. During this time, you are generally capable of greater physical feats than normal, driven by the excess exciter chemicals in your system. (This is commonly called an "adrenaline dump" or adrenaline rush). Part of this, however, means that your body uses itself harder than normal without you really realizing it, and you use up energy at a higher rate. Once this passes, your body basically kind of shuts down, and you get the fatigue, trembling, transient blackouts, and things of this nature (Depending on the nature and length of the emergency/adrenaline rush). Do a few searches on the effect of anger and adrenaline, and you will find many descriptions similar to yours. 

You should definitely do at least some of your training in the sea to get used to conditions, as well as being able to sight (Look for markers) to be able to swim in a straight line. There are also some tricks to it, such as being able to dive "under" oncoming large waves rather than swimming up and over the top of them. High turnover of your arms will help, as will working on good body positioning. A wetsuit (Unless the water is very warm) will also help, especially in the sea. For the rest of your workouts, the pool is fine. The vast majority of swim workouts by triathletes (From novice to professional) are done in pools. What many do is their speed workouts in the pool, and their long distance swim in open water to work on specific skills. 

Currently there is not a lot of research in human studies on the effects of high ambient temperature and increased energy expenditure. As is pointed out in another answer, the artificial inhibition of the cooling mechanisms of the body by wearing either many layers or heat trapping clothing will negatively impact the length and quality of exercise sessions. There is a study (With the caveat that it was funded by an energy drink company) that shows an unnamed commercially available thermogenic drink (Monster/Rockstar type) does have an effect on lipolysis, attributable to the already known effects of caffeine and EGCG (The active ingredient in green tea). That study can be found here. (Also of interest, near the end of the first paragraph in the discussion is a suggestion that EGCG also alters food digestability). There are two studies that I found suggesting that high ambient temperatures actually slow down, rather than speed up metabolisms and subsequent energy expenditure. This study using Zucker rats (Lab rats specially bred for obesity research) shows in this graph that metabolism and energy expenditure markedly drop with increases in ambient temperature, for both obese and non obese rats. This study on male weasels shows a similar curve. There is an associated decrease with both low and high ambient temperatures, with a peak in the "nominal" range, falling off even below the lower temperature curve as the temperature increases. There is also a suggestion found here that in endothermic animals, being unable to dissipate body heat is a limiting factor as well, which is a new theory called Head Dissipation Limit. This theory suggests that energy expenditure is limited by the ability of the subject to dissipate heat. The HDL hypothesis has somewhat been validated, as there have been studies on the effects of cold on energy expenditure, and as this study shows, cold environments tend to increase lipolysis in humans. The common misconception that wearing lots of clothing increases weight loss is a correlation error, in that people wear a ton of clothes, sweat a lot, and mistakenly think that the water weight they have lost is equivalent to fat weight lost. This is reinforced by the common practice of boxers, wrestlers and other athletes that need to make weight being shown exercising in many layers. While there has not been a definitive study on high heat environments and the effects on lipolysis in humans, there is quite a bit of evidence that metabolism and energy expenditure both decrease in response to high heat environments, which is the opposite of what you want when trying to reduce fat.