As you rightly say, seismicity is one geological proof of an almost spherical planet, but surely it is far easier to prove your case by satellite data, such as scenes from $URL$ Irrespective of the position of the satellite, the Earth always appears as a disc, never 'edge on'. For that matter, if the Earth wasn't approximately spherical there wouldn't be any stable satellite orbits - so no satellite pictures in the first place. You could use your mathematical skills to demonstrate that the only stable orbital configuration is around a sphere. Also the consistency of gravity, at any known point on the planet's surface, points to a spherical Earth. Then there are commercial and military flights which have, over time, flown arcs along almost every conceivable great circle, without ever coming to an edge. Turning to astronomy, every stellar or planetary object large enough to form under gravity appears as a disc - never edge on - surely no coincidence..... etc. etc. But I'm curious - why bother?! You are never going to convince the likes of creationists, climate-change deniers, 'flat earthers', and the like. They have already made up their mind, and don't want to be confused by the facts. No matter how much evidence you supply, it is like water off a duck's back to the closed mind. They are comfortable with their own warped model of reality in their head - no matter how erroneous. Paradoxically, they view the discomfort of having to adjust their world view as a form of 'cognitive dissonance'. So trying to convince flat earthers is like the proverbial 'flogging a dead horse'. 

Cirrus cloud is already widespread in the tropics, and is slowly spreading polewards in response to global warming. If the air temperature is around -40 deg C, as it commonly is at the cruising altitude of modern jets, then ice crystals form almost immediately as the water vapour crystallizes around nuclei (soot particles from the burnt aviation fuel). High level winds then disperse the ice crystals to form additional cirrus. The effect is pretty small, with high-level contrail cirrus covering about 0.1% of the global surface area, compared to about 20 to 25% coverage that was there in the first place. The effect seems larger because most high level jet traffic is at mid latitudes. See $URL$ (but beware - this page is addictive). The next question is 'what effect does increased cirrus have on the global heat balance'? Ice crystals reflect incoming solar radiation, but also reflect outgoing thermal radiation - acting as a kind of Greenhouse blanket. According to theory, the latter should slightly exceed the former, thus constituting a positive feedback to global warming. In the tropics the cirrus is known to cause slight warming, but at other latitudes the jury is still out. The ice crystals in cirrus vary according to size, shape, orientation with respect to incoming solar radiation, cloud density and cloud thickness. Also, it is known that tropical, mid-latitude and polar cirrus all behave differently, so there is still some research required to get a good handle on the global effect of cirrus in general, and contrails in particular. Liou gives a good summary of current (?) knowledge in $URL$ This is an area of active research. Does anyone have a more up-to-date assessment? 

From an Earth Sciences perspective there is no distinction between Asia and North America. They are geologically continuous, comprising mostly Mesozoic sediments in a block-faulted continental shelf setting. The Diomede Islands just happen to be the highest points of this tectonically complicated area. That they are islands at all is purely an accident of the current post-glacial sea level rise. The surrounding Bering Strait is only about 50 metres deep, whereas, for most of the last 2 million years the global sea level was up to 120 metres lower than present. Hence it is only recently that the Diomedes became islands at all. 

Your intuition is quite correct: Other factors being equall, a dense magma will not rise through lighter rocks. The exception is if it is under pressure, in which case a fluid magma will escape through 'pressure release' pathways, either laterally or vertically (or in complex geologic structures, in a variety of irregular pathways). Magmas may begin to crystallize at depth. As they do so, the volatile components, such as water, carbon dioxide, halogen acids, and sulphur dioxide, become relatively enriched in the residual magma, where they can build up enormous gas pressures. The most spectacular results are in Plinian-type volcanoes, and in many less dramatic eruptions. Consider, for example, pumaceous lava, which is essentially gas bubbles frozen-in during the process of escape. At depth there are no such bubbles. but the gasses are still there, and still exerting a huge pressure. Otherwise, a magma may simply rise because of thermal expansion reducing the density to less than that of the host rock. Most likely the magma will rise as a combination of both mechanisms. Also, you mention the Great East Africa Rift, which is notable for some extraordinary carbonatite lavas and related carbonatite-silicate hybrids, which are less dense than almost all of the other African crustal rocks. 

The question is not very clear, but if a Mars sized object were to collide with Earth, at any angle, believe me, that would be an undoubted total extinction event for every organism on the planet. You can do a 'back of an envelope' calculation on the kinetic energy expended by such an impact. That is, E=1/2M.V^^2, where M and V are the mass and relative velocity of the impacting bolide. Then express that as thermal energy - very obviously there wouldn't be any ice left on Earth's surface. There probably wouldn't be much left of any oceans or continents either. Much of the planetary debris would be flung into space, with some being lost, some condensing into another moon (or multiple moons), and some raining down on the planet in a new 'Hadean' event. The entire geochemical distribution of the atmosphere, oceans, crust, mantle and core, would be back into the melting pot (literally) and would take between a few hundred thousand and a few million years to re-equilibrate into something resembling a normal planet. But to address the tilt problem, if the spin axis was orthogonal to the incoming solar radiation, the nett annual insolation at the poles wouldn't change - only the seasonal distribution. Without the seasons the entire heat distribution of the planet would be radically changed, and it is impossible to estimate the myriad knock-on effects without extensive modelling on a supercomputer, and then drawing a consensus from 20 to 30 of the most sophisticated global climatic models. For example, the cloud distribution, ocean current strengths, polar vortices, rainfall distribution, river flows, groundwater storage, tropical storm distribution and frequency, CO2 absorbtion by vegetation, and many other co-variables would all be affected. 

The only possible linkage between moderate earthquakes and population is that more people create increased groundwater extraction, and hence near-surface fault planes tend to dry out. This effectively increases the friction so that there are less frequent but more violent quakes. However, this would only affect near-surface earthquakes which seldom exceed about magnitude 3 or 4. The really big earthquakes originate at plate tectonic interfaces at depths from about 10 km to hundreds of kilometres. There is nothing that humanity can do to influence processes on this scale. Another issue is that micro-seismicity occurs all the time - millions of small quakes that go un-noticed every year. Some of these can certainly be caused by humans - but does this really count? 

Pont is correct. It is only the uppermost supracrustal rocks that seem brittle to us, and even then they are somewhat plastic when considered on a long enough timescale. Most of the crust is about 10 km thick (oceans) to >40 km thick (continents), almost all of which is sufficiently hot and pressurized to be somewhat plastic. To give just one example of lateral compression caused by the non-spheroidal world, the Indian tectonic plate is rapidly moving north and crashing into the Tibetan plate (hence the Nepalese earthquake earlier this year). The Indian plate is being squeezed laterally, i.e. sub-parallel to lines of longitude, partly due to relative displacement of tectonic plates, and partly due to the geometric adjustment caused by the plate movement pole-wards from the tropics. That is, to a narrower Earth-radius geometry. The resulting deformation has caused a slight bulge over north India which has reversed the drainage of the Ganges over the past 25 million years or so. I should point out that the geometry is not the only reason for the bulge - there is also the little matter of Himalayan compression, the two processes resulting in both north-south and east-west compression. 

Laccoliths, lopoliths, dikes and sills are all characteristic modes of occurrence of hypabyssal rocks, generally small in scale compared to most magma chambers. They are magmas which have cooled in a near-surface environment. None of these terms necessarily implies a particular petrologic texture. So, for example a dike or sill may be aphanitic, porphyritic, aplitic, pegmatitic or even glassy obsidian - and other less common textures. Nevertheless, many hypabyssal rocks are porphyritic. All this means is that the magma crystallized in two stages. The first stage was deeper and slower cooling, allowing some crystals to grow, sometimes to much larger size than the rest of the crystalline matrix. The second stage is when the magma is intruded at shallow depth, resulting in much more rapid crystallization of the remaining melt. Hence the porphyritic texture of large crystalls within a fine-grained matrix. 

Yes, there is much more than enough limestone, by several orders of magnitude, to neutralize the acidity that we are creating - so much so that I am not even going to bother with the back of an envelope calculation. Given enough time (many millennia and possibly several million years) this will happen naturally. However,the process of re-equilibration with the introduced CO2 is sluggish because of both the reaction kinetics and, more particularly the deep ocean water mixing time. The current rate of CO2 emissions far exceeds both the rate of neutralization and the rate with which we could seed the oceans with CaCO3. Consider that, for limestone neutralization to succeed we would have to micronize entire hills and mountain ranges of limestone, and then distribute it, reasonably uniformly, over the world's oceans. Technically do-able, perhaps, but mind-bogglingly expensive and probably politically divisive. For many reasons it would be cheaper, easier and more ecologically appropriate to convert to renewable energy ASAP. The above comment that the ocean's pH is temperature-controlled is wrong. There is a temperature effect upon pH - see for example $URL$ . However, this is insufficient to counter the oceanic acidification. Already the pH has decreased by between 0.06 and 0.10, with a global average decrease of about 0.075 (to 1990). See $URL$ The last two decades have seen an acceleration of this trend. By century end most models project a mean pH decrease from 8.2 to 7.8 in the upper few hundred metres of ocean, where biological productivity is greatest. This is faster than at any time in the last 300 million years. To be effective, any neutralization with limestone would have to be achieved within a few decades, at a rate of neutralizing about 100 ppm CO2 over the entire ocean surface, and to a depth of several hundred metres. 

I don't know for sure, but my guess is that at least a part of the high Iberian elevation is due to NNE-SSW compression in northeast Spain, caused by rotation of the Iberian block. That is,the same rotation that opened up the Bay of Biscay deep basin, whilst compressing the Pyrennean mountains. The gentle dip of most of Iberia towards the southwest would fit well with such an explanation. But then you may ask: 'Why is there a low elevation sedimentary basin just southwest of the Pyrenees?' Check the age of sediments in this trough. I would bet they are pretty recent, and I suspect that there may well be some late-stage counter-rotation caused by the relative east-west displacement along the Rif-Betic arc. 

Nowadays impact craters are of little significance. Back in the Hadean era of early planetary crust formation, bolide impacts were the defining process of planetary evolution. As for diamonds, one might expect micro-diamonds to be formed in rare instances of carbon-rich impact craters. On the other hand, back in the days of early lunar exploration, some earth scientists expected abundant impact diamonds to be found on the moon's surface. They even tooled up a special laboratory to analyze diamonds brought back from the moon. Alas, none were found. 

Define 'significant' effect. Yes, in principle, both volcanoes and major fault lines can, in some cases, be affected by higher global temperatures. It works like this: higher temperatures cause glacial melt and thermal expansion of seawater, which causes sea level to rise. In ocean sediments and coastal aquifers this raises the hydrostatic pressure, increasing groundwater circulation, and hence providing more 'lubrication' to fault planes, and increasing the seepage above magma chambers. However, the effect is small. 

Given the known average distance to the Sun, and the radii of Sun and Earth, the basic trigonometry is simple. If the Earth and Sun were exactly the same size, and there was no atmospheric refraction, then exactly half the planet, or 180 degrees, would be illuminated. But since the Sun is so much bigger, again assuming no atmospheric refraction, then exactly 180.522 degrees of the Earth would be illuminated. Calculating the additional illumination caused by atmospheric refraction of sunlight into the zone of darkness is fraught with difficulty because of variable atmospheric haze, temperature-controlled differences in air density, and cloud distribution. I'm guessing you could add a degree or two more if you were to include refracted twilight.