As I understood from my lectures, a multiplicative function means that the marginal product of one factor increases when another factor increases, and decreases when another factor decreases. The extreme cases (leontieff or additive) don't have this property. At the moment the teacher explained this, it made sense to me. If one factor increases, it expands the capacity of the other to produce more. I think it makes sense. 

I think this is because of liquidity. If I am a poor household, and I own stocks (maybe via my pension?), if the price of those stocks go up, I cannot consume such extra income. Actually, if the stock market crashes, my capital gains can be wiped out! So in a sense, this is not "actual purchasing power", as it is the case with direct income like wages or transfers. So, to the day to day interest of a household, capital gains should not be relevant for their wellbeing. 

Thank you Brian for the suggestion, and the others too. It took me a long time to find it in the Coca-Cola report, and it was under Current Liabilities: 

There was a time when they did, but it's a less common tool of monetary policy now. At any rate, altering the minimum reserve ratio at this point would be pointless due to the huge quantities of excess reserves banks have been holding since the 2008 bailouts and subsequent rounds of quantitative easing. The reserve ratio is a relevant tool of monetary policy only if banks are actually at or near that ratio, which few are at this time. 

As I had hoped to learn enough macroeconomic theory to get some research ideas, my goal at the beginning of this summer was to read through and complete the problems in an introductory advanced macroeconomics text (my first-year PhD macro courses left me more stunned than enlightened). I started with The McCandless's ABCs of RBCs, and quickly found that it was above my ability level when I reached problems I didn't even know how to set up, so now I'm trying Romer's Advanced Macroeconomics. I've gotta say that after having to consult the solutions manual several times through Chapter 2 out of 12, I'm feeling rather discouraged as the solutions involve methods that are not intuitive to me and not discussed in the text. Is there even any point in someone with my skill level tackling such a task? I can't really see myself being a macroeconomic theorist after this, and it seems that the vast majority of empirical macroeconomic studies use reduced-form linear models backed by hand-waving arguments based on principles or intermediate theory, so I'm starting to doubt the utility of studying advanced theory at all. I understand this may be an an "illegal" question here on Stack Exchange, so I won't protest if it's closed. But if not, does anyone have any tips for how to proceed? 

Your understanding is wrong. FinCEN is a bureau of the United States Department of the Treasury. The director reports to the Secretary of the Treasury, who is appointed by the President and confirmed by the Senate. Further, the Federal Reserve system is also a government entity. It was established under the Federal Reserve Act. The Federal Reserve Board of Governors, which supervises the Federal Reserve Banks, is an independent agency of the federal government. Its members are appointed by the President, with the advice and consent of the Senate. The system's structure was deliberately designed by Congress to grant it independence in its conduct of monetary policy, with the intent of minimizing political interference in monetary policy. However, this independence was granted and is maintained via democratic consensus. 

The answer is in the text of IAS 12, and basically amounts to "it's unreasonable to require it, and if we allow firms discretion in doing it, they will only do it when it's in their favor": 

This is only inflationary if the monetary authority monetizes the borrowing. If the Treasury borrows $1000 on the open market by issuing a bond and sends the money to a consumer, no money has been created— it has simply been borrowed from one person and given to another. However, if the monetary authority purchases that bond (swapping base money for the bond), then it is indeed inflationary, as the amount of money now in circulation has increased. As far as its role in monetary policy— the decision of whether to monetize fiscal authority borrowing is part of standard monetary policy. The phrase you'll often hear is, "the monetary authority moves last," which reflects the fact that the monetary authority can either accommodate spending by monetizing it, increasing inflation, or do nothing, which has the effect of increasing interest rates on government borrowing. 

I am looking at the balance sheet of Coca-Cola ($URL$ but I cannot guess where loans with banks are. These liabilities accounts are: 

Your idea was proposed more than 100 years ago by Silvio Gesell ($URL$ He wanted to create a National Currency Office, in charge of money. No private banks. Money would be created in accordance with amount of wealth available. It would also depreciate, to make people spend it. Read his book "Natural Economic Order". It is online. You might be interested also in Social Credit ($URL$ I am reading about this at the moment. Very interesting. 

Risk is important. A bond (or even a credit) is backed up by the company's assets. Companies go bankrupt because of a mismatch between assets and liabilities maturities (e.g. cannot pay a bond of a loan), but not because they are unsustainable in the long run. If a company goes bankrupt, debtholders are the first on the list (after workers, in some countries) to receive compensation. Sometimes they do assume losses, when the debt is negotiated at a lower value. The shareholder is the last one to get any money out of the assets of the company. So being a shareholder is more risky than being a bondholder. 

This would represent an extreme increase in long-run aggregate supply. In the AS/AD framework, this would result in a long-run increase in production growth and a decrease in the inflation rate. How "badly" it will disrupt today's global market? You've built an assumption that it's bad into your question, but sure, it will be bad for anyone who has invested in current energy sources. It will be fantastic, however, for anyone involved in literally any other entrepreneurial activity. The only disruption in such a sudden and unexpected technology improvement would be that some financial institutions would find themselves overinvested in the energy sector. Insofar as they cannot handle the financial capital losses, there may be a private debt crisis that pushes politicians to bail them out again (ideally using the increases in tax revenues caused by increased productivity), or to simply declare their debt null and void. This would cause some consternation, but given that people tolerated financial bailouts after the housing crisis (where financial assets were wasted without any obvious social benefits at all), it's unlikely that there would be overwhelming protest in such a scenario. The negative impacts of such a productivity shock would only be temporary, however. Energy is one of the limiting factors of production, so free energy would cause production to grow as fast as entrepreneurs can find a use for it, which would be very quickly. 

Houses are therefore counted just as any other capital asset is. Just as a machine that makes bolts first appears in GDP when the machine is constructed then later its output is also counted, a house appears in GDP as output when it is constructed (or renovated) and its output— housing services— is also counted. 

The value of money is derived entirely from others' willingness to accept it in exchange for things of value. Money has in fact emerged— Rai stones on Yap is the classic example— without the existence of either a "trusted authority" mandating its use (I assume that by "trusted authority" you mean a government-mandated fiat currency) or any recourse to a scare resource (e.g., notes redeemable for silver or gold). While the Yap stones themselves (the monetary base) were in fact scarce, and some degree of scarcity is a necessary condition for money to act as an effective store of value, it's not a sufficient condition, as FooBar noted in his comment. Even if a monetary base is finite, what matters is that people are willing to accept that form of money as payment, which is in turn generally determined by whether other people will be willing to accept that form of money as payment. It's collective agreement that money has value that makes it valuable. If people some day find no reason to continue using the Rai stones as money (they've been replaced by US dollars for day-to-day use, and they're only used for certain traditional exchanges now), they will lose their value as currency, despite their continued scarcity. Specifically regarding Bitcoin, there has been significant skepticism in the economics community about whether it is actually a currency, with Yermack (2013) noting that it functions poorly as a store of value and unit of account, and that its transaction volumes have been quite low. 

I have a question. A company is worth 1 million dollars, in terms of present value of revenues, discounted at rate R. Can I borrow 1 million dollars from a bank and buy the company? If the bank charges me R, I am indifferent? Or, can I issue a bond for 1 million, with coupon R? Am I indifferent too? Do these things happen? Do businesses ask for credit or issue bonds in order to buy companies? 

The "common man" conception of money is not helpful to think about these issues. Money is not ONLY currency and notes anymore. These are just a TOKEN used to distribute goods and provide exchanges. They are not the real stuff. For example, when you make a bank account transfer, you are not moving TOKENS. Why would you? Banks are given these tokens by the central bank in order to keep a smooth movement of payments. So Apple does not have 80% of all tokens of the US economy in a vault somewhere. Why would they? It's dangerous! They have such ownership of wealth, but in the form of a current account and other assets. So you need to think differently between a claim on wealth, WHICH CAN BE TURNED INTO TOKENS, and the TOKENS THEMSELVES. 

Insofar as technology fails to substitute for all menial tasks, economic theory would dictate that those tasks pay a high enough wage to attract workers, so the wage for those jobs would likely be higher than they are in the absence of a UBI. The only serious pushes I see for a universal basic income come in response to the threat of technology advancement making many menial jobs obsolete, so this may not be as big a problem as you worry about (assuming a UBI scheme is in fact sustainable at all). In this context, the UBI is pitched as a way to more quickly distribute the "technology dividend" to displaced labor instead of letting it concentrate in the hands of capital owners. The strongest arguments I've heard for a UBI are based more on positive externalities. Consider how many intelligent people work menial jobs simply because they're the best-paying available. Perhaps if a few dozen hours of their weeks were freed up (for millions of people), they'd be able to engage in intellectual, artistic, or entrepreneurial pursuits with more long-term benefits to economic growth. This result, however, is contingent upon technology advancing fast enough to truly displace labor in the market. If capital equipment doesn't plunge in price to accompany the initial increase in tax costs, this would be a very hard sell. 

Unfortunately, I'm not aware of any publicly-available concordance, and I can promise you that there's no clean mapping between UCC and NAICS. Obviously, some categories will map well at low granularity (UCC 190903 will definitely map to 722, for example). While I'm sure it's fine for whatever you're doing if multiple UCC codes map to a single NAICS code, the big problem is that some UCC codes will map to multiple NAICS codes. For example, 190113, "lunch at vending machines and mobile vendors" will map to some combination of NAICS 454210, "vending machine operators" and NAICS 722330, "mobile food services". The way this is usually handled is through some form of allocation— you assume, for example, that the CES population you're observing has exactly the same distribution of expenditures as the overall economy. 

Given the relatively simple assumptions, lack of transparency regarding input data, and reliance on assumed homogeneity in housing stock both internationally and intra-city, I wouldn't rely on these data to arrive at any conclusions, let alone the conclusion that price-to-rent ratios are particularly low in the US. 

For a lot of things, including average effective (Federal) tax rates, the Urban Institute/Brookings Institution Tax Policy Center is a great place to start. Look at the table that reads "Average Individual Income Tax Rate," as the first one also includes payroll, excise, and corporate taxes.