A typical example would be, in France, moving from a small town to Paris, where life is notoriously more costly. Increases by 20% are not unheard of. On the other way, people moved from Paris to smaller towns are usually told "don't expect any pay raise for the 10 or 15 next years". The tough part is to find enough references to provide a basis of negotiation. If it's as common knowledge as in France, it's rather easy. "Everybody" knows that there is a 10% difference between Paris and Lyon, and 20% with most other towns. If it's not as clear in your country, you must find references that stipulate that in your job, life is 12% costlier in average in your target town, compared to your source town. It will be far easier to negotiate a salary adaptation with such references. 

It depends where you live. French example. If you live in Saint-Maurice, it's an asset. If you live in Bobigny, it's a liability. The demographics of both towns is vastly different, and, unfortunately, prejudice is strong in our country(like probably everywhere else). Prejudiced in favor of Saint-Maurice's demographics, against Bobigny's one. From what I understand, you live in your local equivalent of Bobigny. That's why J J's answer applies fully. 

You don't manage them You don't manage them - it's not needed. You give them a goal, and try to help them on the path. they are seniors, they are experimented - even if not in your branch - and they should find their way to do the job. Don't micromanage them, they know themselves better than you do. 

I've definitely been in group interview situations. That is not the uncommon part of this. The uncommon-seeming part of this would be conducting part of the interview in a language which is not going to be used in the workplace at all (in the US, at least, if language was important, the entire interview would be conducted in English and if the applicant didn't understand then that would be a good reason not to hire said applicant). Asking for specifics of where else you've applied is also strange, especially when said question is being asked by an actual HR person (I've been asked that question as well but only by managers at smaller businesses who don't know any better), to the point that I would answer "I do not feel that is an appropriate question, so please pardon me for not answering it". The bottom line, though, is that interviews are as much about you determining if a company is the right fit for you as the other way around. If the HR person is giving you a bad vibe, then don't continue with the interview process. You are better off wasting an extra couple weeks looking for the right job than wasting 6+ months at a company you don't "get". 

The trick to contracting is, in my mind, figuring out how long a particular project is going to take and then, after advising your client of this, delivering the goods within the timeframe expected. If a company lays additional responsibilities on you, I don't think that the proper answer is to balk and refuse, it's to take them on, advising them all the way that you will need extra time to complete stuff, whether that extra time comes in the form of literally needing longer than, say, the 3 months they gave you on the contract, or in the form of overtime (many clients don't want to pay for overtime except under dire circumstances because in addition to paying you time and a half, they're usually paying your contractor an extra premium as well for the added work). On the other hand, if you were really only putting in 20 hours of work a week before this, or if you were going to finish ahead of schedule, I think it's okay to let them know this as well and just take on the extra work. In the end, the client views you as a resource rather than one of their own employees. This has the advantage, in many cases, that they will actually be more reticent to exploit you unfairly (i.e. trying to get you to work overtime off the clock) because you don't actually work for them. It's also my experience (which may not be yours in this particular situation) that often the people who hired you are not as informed about the technology you support as you are and as such trust you when you tell them what impact an added responsibility will have upon your work. The flip side of that is, if you are giving them 40 hours a week plus overtime, they kind of do get to ask/tell you how to spend those 40 hours. I mean, I'm not generally going to do data entry for 80 hours over two weeks but the way I'm going to express that is "you're paying me quite a bit of money to do something that's outside of my area of expertise; are you sure that's the best use of my time?" rather than "no, I can't do that". You also don't really get to say "hey, you hired me to be an admin, and if you want me to develop stuff too (for example) I will need X more money". You were hired on by the company because, in the words of Liam Neeson, you have a particular set of skills. I would go so far as to say that the difference between a bad contractor and a good one is that, when asked if something can be done, the former will say "no" and the latter will say "yes, but it will take X amount of additional time", or, at worst, "yes, but I am not familiar with the technology required to do this so it will take X amount of time for me to ramp myself up to where I will have that familiarity and Y amount to then actually do the work". You've already done around half of what a good contractor does, which is to never flat-out say "no", now you just need to follow through on the second part if necessary. Answering your questions in specific: 

What is the local norm for the job you are taking What are the specific points taht you could lever on to get your own value over the norm(or under, if you've got weaknesses) Is the prospective employee in a hurry? Does he have other candidates ready? How good did you seduce? 

All those points will help you establish for a clearer strategy. My first job, well, I was not from the domain, they were hiring in big numbers, so there was no place for negociation at all. I just had to take what they offered. My second job, I was one amongst a few others. I asked slightly over the norm, and nearly got what I asked - but only from one propsective employer. The three other ones did decline my bet. My current job, well, I'm a perfect fit, they had noone else available, and would have lost 6 important months had they not recruited me. I played dirty, and it payed above my own expectations. Because circumstances were favorable. I had the wind in my sails. That's ultimately the thing to gauge : do you have wind in your sails? If not, like for my first job, then shut up and accept whatever misery you are offered. If yes, have fun and negotiate hard. And there are plenty of intermediate positions between those. The more wind you have, the bolder you can be. 

don't take the proper table therefore, don't find the proper field choose randomly another field rename the other field do something stupid with the feeding, instead of the specifications claim that everything is fully tested, and push the modication to production, and QA has to stop them at the last minute before they break the production(we were lucky, this time). 

It's two weeks' notice, not 10 working days' notice, and on top of that it's a courtesy, not a requirement. You ought to provide your company with as much time as you feel is appropriate for them to find a replacement. I've worked at places where the winding down period was spelled out in months, not weeks, and other places where I came into work and people were like "okay, we have no need for you anymore, bye". If you don't want to burn bridges, of course, don't just walk up to the boss and say "I quit". However, I would go so far as to say that a company that was like "NO YOU CANNOT QUIT UNTIL THE FOLLOWING TUESDAY BECAUSE TWO WEEKS DO NOT INCLUDE HOLIDAYS HERE" is probably not a place you want to ever return to work at anyway. 

To be blunt, this is an issue that you need to deal with, not the women you are interacting with. First and foremost, color me highly skeptical to say the least that women at an "academic conference" are "scantily clad". That does not jibe with any academic conference I have ever heard of, like, anywhere. But regardless, even if all the women at said conference are wearing string bikinis, the fact that you can't concentrate around them is your problem, not theirs. Millions of men around the world are able to concentrate just fine when surrounded by women dressed in all manner of clothing. My first recommendation would be to talk to a therapist. You may not want to do this; well, what would you like to do less: speak to a therapist and get over what sounds like deep seated gender-oriented anxiety issues, or do poorly at your conference because you never addressed them? It will necessarily be hard and I predict there are a great many things you will hear in those talks that you will not like, but If you are in the United States you might get away with asking for some kind of religious accommodation but I think that's unlikely. I do not know if you are religious and am only guessing because I honestly have not met very many non-religious people with your particular hang-ups with the opposite sex. However, I don't believe that you can expect other people to cover up to a level you deem appropriate. That is not accommodating your religious beliefs so much as it is forcing everyone else at the conference to be subservient to yours. At the end of the day - and this may well be one of the tough things that your therapist tells you, but it doesn't make it any less true - I think you're best off considering that each and every single woman you are losing concentration over due to "scanty clothing" is a human being in their own right with their own thoughts, feelings, desires, and expectations. In fact, given that this is an academic conference I would go so far as to say that many of these women may know as much or more about your field than you do and you may well find yourself in a situation where you can learn things from them. I suspect that thinking of women as primarily sexual objects is something that has been ingrained in you from a young age; considering why each woman you meet, individually, is there might help you begin to overcome this. 

In other words, depending on wether people arriving to help will be mediocre or superstars, the appropriate answer is completely different. Often(but not always, it's also personality-dependent), a mediocre coworker needs to be pushed in the back to advance. A superstar coworker will advance alone by himself, but not always on the most important direction - those people tend to be more independant-minded. TL;DR : learn to know those people, and learn how to help them being helpful. 

Go a few minutes in your management shoes. Not only your direct manager : the overall management. What they want is operations that are working. Developing, a website or whatever in C, is giving the operations more tools for going faster and better. Resources are limited. You are a limited resource, as there is only one of you. The role of the management is to allocate the limited resources to the best interests of the operations. If the management as a whole decides that what you have to do in C/C++ is more important for the firm than the nice little tool you've done up to there, there's not much place for your personal wishes. If everyone above you thinks that the C/C++ code is more important, you're screwed(though I don't see it as a punition, but I'm not in your shoes). OTOH, if some important people want you to stay ine the web tools, be sure they are your allies, and ask them to do some politics in your own interest. Yeah, politics. A word we developers don't like. But it's important, and I hope for you you'll discover its importance with a positive outcome for you(hint : my discover of its importance was catastrophic at many levels, and my career suffered). If you play it well(hey, I'd love to help you, it seems so important, but I need my boss to assign me some time - can you touch him a word?), you can build yourself a strong network that will help you with short-term objectives(keep some web), but also on other topics that might appear later. If you don't play politics, the management isn't gonna play in your favor. 

This is a flaw in the way that humans think in general, so good luck. I think you did a good job of explaining it in the OP. Continue to use numbers and tangibles like "this is going to take 3 weeks to build vs. 2 months to build the other thing" and away from intangibles like "look, it just makes more sense to do it this way". I think the only way you can really get around this flaw is by saying "X is larger than Y, therefore X". Even if your boss objects by saying "we've pushed so many resources into this so far, we can't switch courses now", I think you've got to answer with "yes, I know, but the situation we're in right now is that it's going to take less time to ignore that work". I will say that whatever you do, don't actually say "sunk cost fallacy" in the conversation unless you're in the (very rare in the business world) position of having to win an argument over a third party where you don't care about their feelings. It's also a basic aspect of human intellect that nobody likes to be told that they are wrong, and they especially don't like to be told that they are committing a fallacy. Even if they are. Especially when they are. There is an art to explaining stuff like this to people. 

I agree with what Joe Strazzere said but I also want to add that, generally speaking, it is not a great idea to compare your salary with that of others you are currently working with. There are all kinds of reasons why someone else may be making more money than you, some of which you are not going to want to hear (for instance, it's entirely possible that one of these people simply interviewed better, or else they increased their standard job offer in order to lure them away from a competitor). This isn't to say you should just take whatever your employer gives you. If you are informed about how much money people are making in your line of work and know that people with your level of experience are making more than you are, then this is a pretty valid thing to raise. If they're unresponsive, then this is information you can use as well - they may be telling you they don't value you enough to keep you at a competitive rate. The other point here to note is that small differences in really in my experience don't amount to much in a paycheck and can sometimes even be a little bit of an albatross when an HR department is told that layoffs need to be made or what have you. And this may be a bit on the Pollyanna side but it's also my experience that sometimes it's very valuable to take on a slightly lower salary to get your foot in the door, prove your worth, and then see the amount rise as your employers take notice. 

It is very common for graphists to have that kind of elements in their portfolio. It is commonly thought to be a bad idea for a programmer to include them, at the same time. tradition, habits..... My understanding is that most potential employers want "serious" programmers, and are looking for corporate looking candidates. Another reason is automation. Many recruiters are lazy, and it's easier to automate the parsing of a Word CV than a nice graphical thing. That's the two reasons why noone does it. Though in your specific case, it might be worth looking for a middle ground : a standard CV with nothing graphical for the HR robots to be happy, but with a link to your best graphics. A more efficient HR person would have a look, and be impressed. 

The bad news is that there are more positions open in software development than in music. The even worse news is that, even in the musical industry, you are likely to meet a corporate-like environment. That being said, you're the one setting up your own objectives. Don't feel guilty. You get paid(or not, depends on the kind of trainee you are) for doing a job, you do the job, fair enough. As long as you respect your countries laws in temrs of leaving, you shall not feel guilty. But don't leave without a clear plan. A colleague left us recently by saying "oh, by the way, early September, I'm entering a school of helicopter pilots in another country". He had a plan. As soon as you have a clear, definied plan, and everything set up for that plan to work OK(he had his visa, was accepted by the school, and had already budgetised the whole year), there is nothing keeping you at this place. Be sure to have a clear, realistic plan, with as much elements as strong as possible(the ideal situation being to have already another contract signed).