Is the universe much like the earth, in that if I were to travel in one and only one direction, I'd eventually end up where I started from? 

I've always been stumped with the question of what lies beyond the universe, and I've come to the firm conclusion - void (i.e. completely empty). Does it make sense then to think of the universe as a finite 'blob' of atoms (the completely full) flying around each other in nothing? Furthermore, and more importantly, does it have a shape like a sphere? 

From another question I posted, I learned that not only was matter created from the Big Bang, but more importantly, space itself. What does it mean for space to be created? Does it exist in the same way substances exist? In other words, what do we mean by 'space exists?' 

If we suppose we and everything in the universe is perfectly flat. That is, we have width and depth, but no height. And we are situated on the surface of a balloon blowing up with air and expanding "outwards". Us flat people can move around on the surface of our balloon but not through it, in much the same way we navigate around the earth, in a plane say. No matter where something is situated on the surface of the balloon, one point is no more central than any other point. In other words, the surface of a balloon (the "universe") has no centre. Is this why we say it makes no sense to say the universe has a centre, or edge for that matter, or is this analogy stupid? 

In a published scientific paper, the significance of any error bars should be explained. If this has not been clearly stated then peer review is not doing it's job. However, in some fields there may be unstated conventions which slip through without explanation. In my own field (star formation) plots which shows averages over a large data set would show means with error bars representing one standard deviation, while plots which show single measured values might have error bars representing calculated uncertainties on the measurement, for example due to detection limits or instrumental uncertainties. 

A lot of the data we have on the inner structure of the Earth comes from seismology - the study of earthquake waves travelling through the ground. This requires sensors placed at different points around the planet to pick up the waves and infer the structures they passed through. I haven't looked into it but I would think that this would be very difficult to do on other planets in terms of getting lots of sensors there and positioning them correctly, so maybe we just don't know this sort of thing about other planets yet! 

I'm playing around with Sérsic profiles, and would like to retrieve the effective (half-light) radius that I put in by integration of the profile. I'm not managing to, so perhaps someone can help me out. I create the profile using astropy: 

is there a way to infer the luminosity in X (or Y)? I'm think not because any information on units has fallen out through this definition, but I could be wrong. I'm just not sure how to compute the luminosity straightforwardly otherwise, as this color index is the only output (along with the distance modulus) from an interpolation scheme of stellar templates. Help would be much appreciated. 

In general, better refrain from using 'inflation' unless you're talking about the early Universe-inflation. Rather, the Universe is expanding at an accelerated rate. The crux of this question seems to be in what you call 'the' time. There is no such thing as 'the' time, and I'm not sure what definition of time you're expecting to stop. Time is perfectly well defined in any restframe and will not be affected by the overall expansion of the Universe, at whatever rate. 

The event will be live streamed on youtube here: $URL$ The will also be tweeting: $URL$ A video of the conference will also be available afterwards if you miss it. It starts at 10:30 EST, which is 3:30 GMT. 

You want to use this to find the distance from the planet to the star, using trigonometry and converting to the correct units 

Quick answer: no I think the problem the use of the word "energy" here. Energy comes in many forms, such as heat, electrical energy, kinetic energy... The energy released by a supernova is kinetic (material being thrown out into space), electromagnetic (light created by atomic interactions), etc. Gravitational waves are not like light waves. They are only created by the movement of mass. So the material being thrown off will produce gravitational waves, the spinning of a star or stellar remnant will produce gravitational waves, but the masses and speeds involved are so much lower. Black holes have 10 or 100 times the amount of mass of a single star, and binary black holes are orbiting each other incredibly fast (the peak speed of the GW150914 black holes was 60% the speed of light), so they will produce much stronger gravitational waves, but not as much light. 

The Sun is a fiery mass of colliding particles. We still know very little about what it is. Could it possibly be the output of the sun fluctuates, like our weather, from one extreme to another. From hot durations to cold durations and back again. I think global warming is the result of higher amounts of solar energy being released from the Sun; that's why it's getting hotter here. I believe the question is important to all people on planet Earth, par excellence; is humanity, namely our consumption of fossil fuels, the cause of our predicament? 

So, suppose I'm standing next to, but safely away from, some train tracks. As the train approaches, sounding its whistle constantly, the pitch will appear to increase until it reaches me, upon which I will briefly hear the whistle's 'rest pitch' (the pitch of the whistle as if I were aboard the train), then it would decrease as the train moves away. Thus, the lower the pitch, the further away the train is. I hope that's right. So, if we know the rest frequency of galaxy GN-z11, its measured frequency indicates how far away it is from earth. Trouble is, how do we know what the rest frequency of light coming from this distant galaxy is? 

I'm not sure if this is a misunderstanding or just a matter of scientific terminology, but the "star cycle" is not something you can "drastically change". The life cycle of a star (as we currently understand it) is a fairly predictable set of stages of evolution from the formation of a star from a cloud of gas, along the main sequence (the stable stage out own star is currently in) and then to "death" of the star as it's internal fuel runs out, and material can be released back to the interstellar medium. For more details see the Wikipedia page, this video from NASA, or this very simplified diagram from the BBC. But to answer the underlying question, stars at different stages of their life cycle can definitely affect other stars, planetary systems, or interstellar matter that is nearby in many ways. Here are a few examples: 

You are missing a step in the understanding of this concept. "Two celestial bodies rotate around a centre of mass" in a system which only has two bodies. In larger systems all objects will rotate about the centre of mass of the whole system. So each planet in our solar system and the sun will all be rotating around this common centre of mass, called the barycentre. 

As opposed to spiral galaxies, which are rotationally supported, elliptical galaxies are said to be supported by random motions of their stars. I don't really have an intuitive understanding of this. How do random motions prevent a collapse? 

My question about this is the following: If we know the PSF of a system, and use this to deconvolve the raw image (purpose 1 from the quote above), why would we convolve a model with the PSF to compare it to an image (purpose 2 from the quote)? That is, can't we just compare the original, unconvolved model, with the deconvolved image? In terms of maximizing the information that seems like the way to go. 

You are quite right: Einstein's theory says the curvature of space is locally deformed. The essence of this is captured in the spacetime 'metric', a mathematical tool that tells us what space looks like and, derived from this, what is meant by 'a straight path', which photons take. If there is no source of gravitation present, the path of a photon will be what you know intuitively as a straight line. However, for some mass concentration (e.g. a black hole, as you say), this path will be bended such that the mass concentration acts as a lens. This is immediately clear from this image from the CFHTLenS survey: 

This website has a mathematical in depth analysis of the Apollo 11 translunar trajectory. It looks to be a reasonably reliable resource but I've only had a quick skim through so you should check on the sources cited. There should be enough information there to make a computer program to calculate the orbits. 

We didn't only visit the Moon once! Neil Armstrong, Buzz Aldrin and Michael Collins were the first manned mission to land on the Moon with the famous Apollo 11 landing, but 5 later Apollo missions also landed safely on the Moon and did various exciting things. This Wikipedia article gives a brief list of all the manned and unmanned missions that have investigated the Moon, and this NASA article gives a nice history of the Apollo program with all the manned missions. (So far the US are the only country to land astronauts on the Moon.) As for why there haven't been more visits since Apollo, there are a couple of points: 1) We have continued investigating the Moon, through remote observation, close encounters and landings, just not with humans on board. The future of human space flight is quite a debated question, since humans are very fragile, have lots of requirements in terms of food, space, health etc. and are not really very efficient at many tasks. Automated investigation of space is by far cheaper and easier. The main advantages humans have are intuition and adaptability. We can change plans, make snap decisions and respond much quicker than a robot controlled by people far away on Earth. 2) Turn the question around: why would we go back to the Moon? Why spend money and time investigating this rather boring lump of cold rock when we could go to places we have absolutely no data on, or very shaky theories, or places that have environments hugely different to our own? If we want to test scientific theories, we often want extreme environments, not just something a little bit different to home. And if, as your comment says, we are looking for other life or future homes, these things are very rare so we will have to look a lot further away than the Moon to find something that interesting! 

This is typically a bit tricky to show because (1) some phases (e.g. the main sequence) are much, much longer lived than other phases and (2) a number of phases are spaced very close together in HR-space. Be that as it may: any elementary text book on stellar structure will guide you through the path of a star through the HR diagram, usually accompanied by pictures. The book by Prialnik on this subject matter, or Ostlie & Carroll, are both excellent. Here is a very crude version of the temporal path through the HR diagram I made some time ago. Numbers show the different phases (2 is MS), colorcoding shows the ages. 

Are you familiar with Hubble's Law? Because this is just it, in a slightly less familiar form. Note that the distance in this formula is the proper distance, the distance between us and some source, not the distance travelled. Other than that, the speed of light in a sense defines our conception of time and space, so it is mentioned in the formula. ;) 

A comet is usually characterized by its tail. A dead comet has lost all its ices and gases (responsible for producing this tail), leaving just a rocky core. The Halloween comet is such a dead comet, in that it has no tail, but furthermore it resembles a skull, making it particularly relevant for Halloween.