I would like to automate the installation of FreeBSD 8.2 for a project I'm working on. I know the answer to every question in the standard installation, so even a script that just pushes keystrokes would be acceptable. All clues appreciated. FWIW, I tried this question on the FreeBSD fora ($URL$ but only got one response that didn't solve the problem. Maybe ServerFaulters will have more ideas. 

I have a couple of VMs that cannot have guest additions installed, and I pause and resume them with days between. I normally forget to nudge NTP when I start up the VM. Is there a good way to tell ntp to be very aggressive in how often it should check for changes? 

I have been using RootBSD ($URL$ for years and remain impressed. Low-cost, excellent tech support. Lots of different VPS plans. 

The "default" category is supposed to get all of the logging that doesn't happen in other categories. However, when I start named, I get a bunch of messages in /var/log/daemon.log, and then more in the named file. I would like them all to go into the named file so I don't have to look two places to figure out what might have gone wrong when starting. 

I am creating a test system that will be run by others. It will have some kernel mods, and some of the default software in /usr/bin will be replaced. Because of this, I want to prevent the users from doing "sudo apt-get update" or "sudo apt-get install". These systems will not have any valuable data, and will mostly be behind corporate firewalls, and thus it is safe to completely punt on security-based releases. FWIW, moving apt-* and dpkg* to /usr/dontusethese does not work because some other processes like (gag) MOTD updating relies on them being in /usr/bin and whine if they are not there. 

Where can the pfsense log files be located and viewed? I have searched the documentation and it doesn't indicate the log files location for the various components of pfsense. 

Scenario: Excel file, with a SSAS data source connection Pivot Table/Charts with filters and slicers Published to Sharepoint 2010, such that users can access the report as a Excel Web Access Web Part, such that they can't break/change the pivot table other than changing filters and slicers. Note that I am NOT talking about powerpivot. Rather just using a regular data source connection. As users access the report, I would like the most current data(within the last day) from SSAS to be reflected in the report. Assume that the SSAS database is refreshed daily already. 1) Does Excel Services and/or the webpart automatically refresh the data when the report is opened/viewed through the Web Access Web Part? And/or can it be configured to periodically refresh the data? 2) What are the server software requirements to support this? Does it require SQL Server Enterprise edition? Or is standard enough? Does it require Sharepoint 2010 Enterprise, or is standard enough? when I say "support this" I mean both the Excel Web Access Web Part as well as the refreshing of the data from SSAS into Excel. 3) Does the Web Part allow them to only interact with filters/slicers? Or will they be able to mess with/break the pivot table? If so, will changes/breakage they make only be persisted for their session and not effect future sessions or other users? I would test this myself but I have had difficulty getting the trial of Sharepoint setup on my home computer(ultimately I won't even be the person setting it up in production anyways) and I just want to know what edition will support these features. Thanks. 

This is a feature/bug of putty, not FreeBSD. putty always tells the other OS what its width and height are. You can show this easily by doing one of your truncating commands, then widen the putty screen. You can see that the lines were truncated. Now give the comand again: you will see more columns. In essence, what you are asking putty to do is to lie about the width of your window (giving a number larger than what it really is showing) and to wrap the longer lines intelligently. That will work fine for and and so on, and fail miserably for or any other full-screen editor. Such lying can also cause display of information that can be misinterpreted because of the wrapping. There may be a mode of putty that does this, but I could not find it. 

In Ubuntu, I have two ethernet interfaces eth1 and eth3 that I want to call "foo0" and "foo1", respectively. Basically, I want something like "ip link alias DEVICE SECONDNAME". Is there a way to do this without mucking in the kernel? 

First-hand recommendation: Rootbsd.net. They are part of a larger Linux hosting house, but their FreeBSD expertise is quite high. I have had a few in-depth conversations with tech support, and always come away impressed. 

II am working on a project where I need to create a virtual machine that acts like a home gateway, so I am looking for the firewall/NAT that is most flexible. My hope would be that I could give some configurations that would make the VM act like some of the gateways typically installed in homes and small offices. Has anyone tried this before? Which software might be best for this? I can use any OS, so it could be pf, pfSense, iptables, ipfw, ipfilter, or even something more obscure. Any clues are appreciated. 

I installed SQL Server 2008 and typed in an instance name of but it seems to have been isntalled as a default isntance. Trying to connect using fails but using just the computer name succeeds. The service is listed with as if it is the default instance, but the data directories all have the .sql2008 instance name suffix. So not only is it not what I wanted, but the data directories and service names have inconsistent suffixes. Was there something else I needed to do besides specifying an instance name during installation? Maybe a checkbox I missed? Is there a way to change from a default instance to a named instance? 

I am running pfsense 2.0.3 nanobsd 4g i386 on virtualbox. VM configured with 4gb ram, there's 8 gb total on host system, with two net interfaces configured as host only. This will go on an SSD mini atx box, but for now I am just running on VM for learning pfsense. I assigned interfaces, em0 to WAN, and em1 to LAN. From the windows host(hosting the VM) I brought up the browser and tried to connect to the LAN IP. I was intermettently getting timeouts and I would reboot the server or use the reboot web configurator option, and sometimes I could get the login screen but after logging in with default user/pass, I'd get a blank page. Absolutely no error messages or feedback of any kind. I typed password carefully, thinking maybe it was doing anonymous authentication, since according to their documentation provides a blank page by-design. After many tries and reboots I finally got the wizard screen. I completed the wizard and the final page indicated it was going to redirect after a few moments, after a few minutes it redirected but failed to retrieve the next page. From there the web configurator again was not responsive, timing out. I rebooted and still same thing. How do you troubleshoot something that gives you absolutely no feedback or error messages? Any ideas about what might be wrong would be welcome, but primarily: How do I troubleshoot failures in the web configurator? Is there logs specific to the web configurator, or do I need to poke around in the web server logs, pfsense logs, etc.? Is there any documentation on directory structure that would help me find these? I've found from distribution to distribution, that each has it's own idea of where user programs, logs, etc are stored. 

It has nothing to do with Plesk. The problem is with the way SSL and HTTP work. Basically, SSL doesn't know the name of your server before it starts, and so Apache can't pick which set of certs to use. See $URL$ for more detail on this chicken-and-egg problem. 

I host my FreeBSD image at Opus One ($URL$ They are a long-lived small ISP with a pretty impressive setup in their own facility. I had been on a pizza box with them for years, but have just transitioned to their VMware cloud. If you read Network World reviews, you'll know Joel Snyder's name. Highly recommended. 

I have a small Python-based server program that runs fine, but I want launched each time the server is rebooted. What is the least that I need to put into an /etc/init.d script to work? I only care about "stop" and "start" (and thus probably the trivial "restart"). 

I need to make a quick-and-dirty NAT out of a Ubuntu 10.10 box. Just "this side is NATted with DHCP handing out 192.168.x.0/24" and "this side gateways to the Internet", and nothing else interesting. There seems to be many choices with varying degrees of documentation. What's the easiest way to do this? 

Is there a way to get all of BIND's startup messages to go into the log named in the config file? For example, in named.conf, I have: 

In a lab setup, I want eth0 on a Ubuntu server box to get a DHCP address for talking to the outside world, and I also want to assign it a static 10.x.y.z address for talking to other boxes on the local network that have 10.x.y.z addresses. I want to do this by editing /etc/network/interfaces. The man page for /etc/network/interfaces is modeled after "here's a bunch of examples, I hope you can figure out the actual rules on your own". I don't see a way to give one interface two addresses using two different methods (static and dhcp), and initial fumbling didn't produce useful results. 

EveryDNS used to have this, but I switched to DynDNS because I found out my router has support for DynDNS. 

Just FYI, the case sensitivity is dependent on the collation. There are case-insensitive colations you could use as a workaround, perhaps temporarily. 

If I have a mirrored pair of 250GB drives in a pool, and I later buy two more drives and add another mirrored pair to the same pool, can that second mirrored pair be 500gb? Such that my total usable space would be 750GB? Or do all the mirrored pairs in a pool need to be the same size? 

I have seen people recommend RAID 10 over RAID 5 for databases due to RAID 10 giving better performance and a better chance of recovering from a hardware failure. This confuses me as I thought the purpose of using RAID 5 was more a matter of the parity allowing the detecting and correcting write errors to ensure the integrity of the data. My understanding was that RAID 10 can not recover from write errors. I.e. if a bit has an error, it will be the opposite of the bit in the mirrored drive, and thus it will be impossible to tell which bit is the one with the error, and which is the correct one. However, I tried googling along the lines of detect "write error" with raid 5 vs raid 10 to see if anyone covered this point, and came up empty handed. Am I making this all up in my head? Can a RAID 5 array detect and recover from write errors using the 3 parity bit? Or does the detection not occur until much later when the data is read and the parity indicates an error? If a RAID 10 array has a write error, will it be able to determine which of the mirrored bits is the one in error? I.e. the drive indicates a read failure for that particulor bit, or does it just see the bits do not match and since there is no parity it can't determine which is in error? I see some discussion of rebuilds being triggered by a read error. Do write errors not get detected until later when the data is being read? In other words, does the writer error occur, but the erroneous data just sits there until possibly much later when the data is read and the parity indicates an error. Is that why you are at risk of getting additional read errors during rebuild, in that you could be writing a large amount of data with errors but the errors will not be detected until the next time the data is read? I would like to clarify that tape backups do not address the above question. If you have a scenario where data integrity is very important, and you can't detect write errors, then all the tape backups in the world won't help you if the data you are backing up already has errors.