You have proposed two moral principles: 1) You don't want to be a "wage slave" (as you define it). 2) You don't want to live on the resources of others. There are two assumptions a) working for yourself is not readily available and b) you want to survive. In the context of the assumptions, the two moral principles are, on their face, inconsistent -- a common human problem. We usually try to live with the inconsistency, using one principle at one time and the other at another depending on the situation or our emotional state. Alternatively, you could choose one and jettison the other. In doing so you will have to compare their value. Which principle does the most good? Which one can you live with? Under what circumstances would you be able to change your mind? As is typical, I have answered a question with more questions. 

The definition seems to imply that THE SM has to have all of the listed attributes. Otherwise it is just defining A SM, a collective set of methods which are scientific, i.e., those methods which include some of the listed attributes and none of their negations. For example, someone who just observes and reports on the behavior of snails could be a scientist. And a mathematician, who just formulates hypotheses and tries to prove them could also be a scientist. They would be scientists if they do what they are doing methodically, taking into account prior efforts. I question whether any scientific method can or should be used to give either a necessary or a sufficient condition to determine if something is "science." 

It may depend on how you define both probability and possibility. If you define them in a similar framework. For example, a thing has 0.2 probability if it is the case in 20% of all possible world*. A thing is possible if there is at least one possible world where it is the case. Then, to say that an event has a probability of 0 would be to say that there does not exist a possible world such that the event occurs in that world. This would thereby deny the possibility of that event at all. *These conclusions don't depend on a sort of Modal Realism, but I'm merely using the possible worlds as a useful fiction for the purposes of explanation. 

A primary text on this sort of thing is Thomas Nagel's "What is it Like to Be a Bat". This doesn't directly answer your question but you will see why it applies to how you find your answer. Nagel's argument is that we lack epistemic access to the mental states of animals in two senses. Not only can we not conceptualise the phenomenal experience of a bat, as even if we were to do so, we would be doing so through the lens of human experience and thus we would only be able to experience how a human would experience being a bat. The second sense is that we lack the linguistic capacity to express these phenomenal states. Consider how hard it is for us to accurately express phenomenal states with other humans. This issue is far greater when doing the same for other animals. This is why Wittgenstein writes that "If a lion could talk, we would not understand him." 

This is because validity and soundness don't exactly refer to the the same properties of an argument. Consider the following conditions for validity and soundness from Philosophical Writing: An Introduction (Martinich 2005): 

Even though both premises are true and the conclusion is also true, the argument isn't valid because the conclusion doesn't logically follow from the premises. Therefore accepting the truth of the premises and of the conclusion doesn't imply accepting the validity of the argument. Soundness, on the other hand, requires not only that the argument be valid, but also that the premises be actually true. It's not sufficient to assume that premises are true, they must be true in our world. Consider the following example: 

Premises P1 and P2 are false, but the argument is nevertheless valid because if P1 and P2 were true the conclusion C would necessarily follow. Validity is thus a property of the logical structure of the argument and doesn't depend on the truth of the premises. That means it's also possible to have an invalid argument containing only true premises. Consider the following example: 

First, it might be useful to recall that Hume claimed that all propositions can be classified into two categories: 1) relations of ideas and 2) matters of fact. The truth of relations of ideas is known a priori, without the aid of experience. Logical or mathematical propositions are such relations of ideas and we can be sure of their truth because denying them would involve a contradiction. As for matters of fact, their truth depends on how the world is and thus can only be justified a posteriori, i.e. with experience. That X causes Y or that the colour of Napoleon's horse is white are propositions whose truth depends on experience of the world. This distinction is often called 'Hume's Fork' and it mirrors to some extent the necessary/contingent, analytic/synthetic, a priori/a posteriori divide. To come back more specifically to your question, I think Hume would say that the necessary connection between a cause and an effect is a matter of fact, but the 'necessary connection' (this term is perhaps misleading) between premisses and a conclusion in a deduction is a relation of ideas. The following proposition, 'Were the premisses of a valid deductive argument be true, the conclusion would necessarily follow.', is true in virtue of the meaning we ascribe to the words involved like 'valid, 'deductive' or 'argument'. Basically, one is only spelling out the meaning of the proposition and what this meaning logically entails. So is it the case that "the rules of the deductive game" necessarily apply? Here I might be deviating from Hume, but the short answer is no. It is relative to a language and there are many types of logics, paraconsistent logic, fuzzy logic, relevance logic, free logic, modal logic, etc. But in a language where 'deduction' means what it commonly means, yes, the rules necessarily apply. One cannot deny that the conclusion of a valid deductive argument necessarily holds provided the premisses are true. That would contradict one's own concept of deduction. But it doesn't mean that necessarily 'deduction' ought to mean that, if that is what you asked. Finally, concerning Kant, one central idea of the Critique of Pure Reason is that some a priori concepts, the categories of understanding, necessarily apply to all the objects of human knowledge. They structure all our thoughts and experience. One such category is of 'Causality and Dependence' and contains the idea of the necessary connection between a cause and its effect. Also, Kant didn't buy Hume's Fork. The Critique's main motivation was to show that synthetic a priori judgments were possible, i.e. that it is possible to know a priori some propositions about the world. 

A set of sentences can be shown to truth-functionally entail the conclusion so long as there does not exist a model capable of satisfying the premises whilst the confusion fails to obtain. This proof of truth-functional entailment (⊨) is distinct from the deductive entailment (⊢) which might standardly be used in a derivation. 

Not necessarily, it depends on how you define each of the words. Let us take three distinct cases and tease out how their definitions determine what classes as having those properties. An entity may class as having the property of being a "Can-Opener" if it plays the functional-role of opening cans. You put in a closed can, you get out an opened can, and so long as the entity can fulfil that role, it is a can-opener. Bear in mind the use of can fulfil that role; a thing need not have ever opened a can for it to classify as a can opener, so long as it bears the disposition to do so given that the right conditions occur (i.e. A can is put between its teeth and the process performed). On the other hand, an entity classes as having the property of being a "murderer" if it has (I suppose, deliberately) taken a life. Differently to the can-opener, this entity only classes as a murderer given that it has taken a life, whilst a thing may be a can-opener despite never having opened a can, but by simply bearing the disposition to do so. To clarify, classing as a murder requires that the entity has performed the specific task required to class as a murder, namely, the act of murdering. If we consider being stupid, which of these types definitions fits "being stupid" (bear in mind, there are many others available, but for now let us consider only these two). I am inclined to say that "being stupid" is defined as a disposition to act stupidly (given the right conditions), in a similar way to have we defined the can opener as having the disposition to perform a certain function. Say that we have the same conditions twice, and in one case, a person does something stupid, and in the other case, they do not, then it does not seem as though they truly have the disposition to at stupidly, so we might say that they do not class as "stupid". Alternatively, if one appears to regularly display acts of stupidity, then it may be enough to suggest that have a disposition to act stupidly, and thus potentially class as stupid. So, perhaps we should say that a single act of stupidity may not be enough for one to class as stupid, but perhaps after a number of stupid actions, it may be sufficient to suggest that they have a dispositon to act stupidly, and thus we may class them as stupid. 

As you can see, the condition for validity doesn't state that all the premises are true, only that if they were true the conclusion would necessarily follow. Put differently, validity concerns an hypothetical situation where the premises are assumed to be true. If in that hypothetical situation the truth of the premises necessarily makes the conclusion also true we then say the argument is valid. Consider the following example: 

I am afraid such review/book does not exist if only because philosophy of science is mostly examined inside the analytic tradition and because science as we know it is a relatively new activity in human history, thus being of course less discussed by eastern philosophy. Moreover, as one comment to the question pointed out, the constraint that the review/book should be both on general philosophy and especially about science limits considerably the options. That said there are a lot of sources in the analytic philosophy on philosophy of science which also sometimes addresses topics that are usually considered more 'continental'. Hereby a couple of suggestions which I post even though they are certainly not as complete as what your question asks for. Perhaps it is nevertheless useful. 

Curd, M. and Psillos, S. (2013). The Routledge Companion to Philosophy of Science. Routledge, second edition. 

A formal system is expressively complete if and only if it is capable of expressing, as a formula, everything that is the subject of that formal system. A deductive system is semantically complete if and only if every sentence that is truth-functionally entailed by a set of sentences can be derived from that set. Is there a relation between these two types of completeness? If the two are related, what type of relation is this? 

So, in short, the answer is no, but I can understand the intuition behind this. The issue comes from the nature of each of these things; truth and possibly. What is possible to tends to be divided into three branches: 1) that which is logically possible 2) that which is metaphysically possible 3) that which is physically possible Whilst, on the other hand, truth is generally taken as a relation between language (or propositions) and reality, depending on which view you're taking. The more popular views on truth tend to be correspondence or deflationary views which equate the truth of a truth-bearer with that truth-bearing expressing something and that thing is the case. In each possible world, the set of true propositions will be specific to that world; each proposition will be true with respect to the reality that is the case in that possible world. The sets of each of these things will be distinct, as the set of all possible propositions is far greater than the set of all true propositions. This is because the set of all contingent/possible propositions contains all the true propositions, as they must be possible if they are true. But the set also contains non-true propositions; i.e. "the Eiffel tower is in London" is possible on all three versions of possiblity mentioned above, yet it fails to fall into the set of true propositions. It would be correct, concerning conjunction with necessary propositions, to claim that the set of all contingent propositions contains the set of all necessary propositions. But it wouldn't be the case that the set of all true propositions is identical to the set of all contingent propositions - the latter set is far greater. 

If you are looking for a congregation of almost all atheists which provides religious-like activities such a Sunday school, baby naming ceremonies, memorial services, wedding ceremonies and a community nurtured by regular meetings, you should try Ethical Culture. Ethical Culture congregations are located primarily in the northeast from Washington to Boston. The biggest congregations are in St. Louis and Washington. There are also congregations in Texas, North Carolina, Silicon Valley, and a few other places. Check the website of the American Ethical Union for more information. (Disclosure: I am a member of the Baltimore Ethical Society and the AHA). Some Ethical Culture Societies are affiliated with the American Humanist Association (AHA). Other Humanist related congregations in which atheists can feel comfortable include The Society for Humanistic Judaism, Reconstructionist (Jewish), some but not all Unitarian-Universalist congregations, and some Buddhist groups. Each of these secular congregations has found their own way to make peace with religion, the professed dominant culture in the US and most Western countries. You might also investigate Humanism, which, for some, is a philosophy and, for others, a big tent encompassing ideas that range from Naturalism to Deism. The AHA is a strong advocate for Secularism; it publishes books and a monthly magazine and it holds an annual conference. In all these venues various non-theistic ideas are discussed. For reading, I suggest the 2009 book "Good Without God: What a Billion Nonreligious People Do Believe" by Greg M. Epstein, the Humanist Chaplain at Harvard. It contains a nice Appendix with thumbnail sketches and contacts for over a dozen "Humanist and Secular Resources." 

If you have the particular/universal distinction in mind, then it is likely that one who wishes only to proport the former will take individual events of death as particulars. So, either the process of dying, or the property of being non-living, depending on what you're interested in. With regards to: 

Most logical systems will have two distinct forms of entailment, one is system-based entailment (logical consequence), and the other is proof-based entailment (derivability). In the former, an entailment follows from showing how, in all cases, a designated value is preserved. In the latter, a set of rules is used to prove that an entailment holds. Completeness is the step that allows us to claim that system-based entailment implies proof-based entailment; ⊨P ⇒ ⊢P. Are systems that lack this rule considered as having failed? Are there any Philosophers who consider completeness, or a lack of completeness as a virtue of a system? 

One thought is that death is a lack of experience. In trying to experience non-experience, we destroy the lack of phenomenon so we cannot truly experience non-experience; that is, experiencing non-experience is impossible because to experience anything is immediately not non-experience. I know this section is less related to your original question about nominalism, but I feel it is relevant to the sentence quoted above. Hopefully it leads you down some new and interesting lines of thought.