The amount of energy hitting the planet from stars The thickness and composition of the planet's atmosphere Other characteristics of the planet (mass, composition of solids, presence/absence of geological cycles, internal heat sources, etc.) 

If the planet was rotating slowly enough, then I don't think the basic "Eyeball" picture would not change too much, but would simply be slowly shifting as the planet spun. 

In contrast to the other answers, your setup IS possible (at least, most parts of it). And, before you go thinking I'm nuts, I will mention that I am an astrophysicist who works on celestial mechanics and planet formation. (for instance, see my website here). Let me explain. Let's start with planets orbiting a star. In systems like the Solar System, each planet has its own orbit and successive orbits can't be too close together or the system will go unstable (details here). Two planets can share the same orbit in some situations. That is called a co-orbital setup, and the most common one has two planets in their common Lagrande 4/5 points (see here). It can go further. Rings of planets that are evenly-spaced are stable for long timescales if they are appropriately set up (details here). It looks like this: 

Extra-solar planets have been found orbiting isolated stars (like the Sun) as well as in a range of multiple-star systems. A planet can either orbit around a close binary (or "Tatooine" binary -- this is called a P-type orbit) or orbit one star that has a more distant orbiting companion star ("S-type") 

I'm not sure this would work. The G and B stars orbit each other and each have their own planets. That works as long as the planets are much closer to each other than they are to the other star. Next, there are circumbinary gas giants. This is reasonable as long as the gas giants' orbits are much larger than the mutual orbit of the G star and B star. To have an O star orbiting in this system, its orbit would again have to be much bigger than the orbit of the circumbinary gas giants, otherwise those planets' orbits would not be stable. Finally, to have a circumtrinary comet belt, those comets' orbits would again have be much larger than the mutual orbit of the O + G/B stars. I think this is all possible as long as the system is very very big. The trick is, every time I say an orbit is "much larger" than another, think 10 times wider. In your setup there are 5 levels of hierarchy: 1) G star planets, 2) G star - B star, 3) G+B star - gas giants, 4) O star - GB+gas giant, 5) comet belt around everything else. That means your system spans a factor of about 10^5 = 100,000 in size scales. If you add in the fact that there are multiple planets per system, which must be spread far-enough out to be stable, you're probably at about a factor of 1,000,000. In the local parts of our Galaxy, a system can't be larger than about 100,000 AU without getting torn apart by the Galactic gravitational field ("galactic tides" is the technical term). In the denser environments where stars form, that limit is somewhere between 100 and 10,000 AU depending on the environment. Where O stars form it's more like 100-1000 AU since those form in denser star-forming clouds. Your system is basically at the optimistic (local Galaxy) limit and implausible in the more constraining (star-forming region) limit. If your smallest orbit is 0.1 AU then your largest one is 100,000 AU. I would recommend reducing the number of levels you have (where you have to make orbits bigger) and packing the levels you have with more planets/asteroids/comets. For example, here is a system with 8 stars but only three levels of hierarchy: 

There have been a couple studies about the climates of planets with high obliquities. See here: $URL$ and here: $URL$ The main result is that the seasonal variations are much higher on planets with large obliquities. This is not too surprising since the obliquity is the main driver of seasons on Earth. Orbital eccentricity can also drive seasons, especially in concert with obliquity. For instance, here is one simple climate model of a planet on an eccentric orbit with a large obliquity such that it only thaws once per year at the south pole (Details here: $URL$ 

The spins of all large moons in the Solar System are locked to their host planet, meaning that they always show the same face to the planet. This is sometimes called "tidal locking", and it's pretty much unavoidable for the case of a large moon (even in systems with many moons, like Jupiter's Galilean satellites). It looks something like this: 

In this system there is an 8 year stretch in which there is no night time on the planet. (For details see here: $URL$ This is clearly a special kind of system, but this kind of thinking could easily be expanded upon to create a system in which there is no night time at all. In fact, if this is of interest to anyone please let me know. 

The simplest answer was given above: give the planet a perfectly circular orbit with zero obliquity (no axial tilt) and each part of the planet's surface will receive the same energy from the star year-round. You could take this a step farther and assume your planet is orbiting a red dwarf star such that its habitable zone is close enough that the planet becomes tidally locked to the star, so the planet always shows the same face to the star. This can make the planet look like an eyeball (see here: $URL$ or here: $URL$ For an eyeball planet the temperature structure would vary a lot across the planet but not in time. The thicker the atmosphere, the more uniform the temperature across the planet's surface (Venus is the extreme example, but one to be avoided if you want life on your planet). I don't have a good feeling for the effect of the spin rate on the stability of the local temperature. Faster-spinning planets will have more "banding" structure in their atmospheres but I don't know if that is a stabilizing force. Someone with a specialty in atmospheric dynamics would probably know. 

For your planet, people could most easily protect themselves by either moving out of the sunlit side, hiding in caves. Beware also that the science of how flares affect planets is very thin. We really don't know whether they are as dangerous as the news articles suggest. The early Sun had a lot of flares and outbursts but Earth seems to have survived okay. Of course, we don't know what things were like back then. 

Most debris disks are relatively cold, made of bodies on very cold (think Neptune-ish) orbits. But a few do have warmer belts closer to where terrestrial planets live. The trick is this: very dense belts don't last long. The best way I can think of to have a super dense debris field is to make your story take place during a late heavy bombardment-type event. Like the Solar System's bombardment ($URL$ but much heavier. This is totally plausible from an astrodynamical point of view. 

One theory proposes that life on Earth originated in deep-sea hydrothermal vents (see here: $URL$ This type of life takes advantage of chemical gradients created by volcanism, and does not care much about the Sun. So, if your planet has an ocean, then the length of the day would not matter in terms of the origin of this type of life. (One can imagine this type of life existing almost anywhere; see here: $URL$ A planet that spins that slowly is basically tidally-locked for practical purposes. One possible state of a planet like this is an "Eyeball" world, where the part of the planet that faces the star gets the lion's share of the stellar energy and has different properties than the rest of the planet. One flavor of Eyeball planet is an ice-covered world that has a large thawed pond where it receives the most energy from the star (see here: $URL$ 

If you were standing on such a moon, the gas giant would always be in the same place in the sky. In the image, the little guy would have the gas giant immediately overhead. Tidal locking implies that the day-night cycle is completely determined by the moon's orbit around the gas giant. The Sun will go through a full cycle of rising and setting once for every orbit the moon makes around the planet. There is no dark side of the moon: since it is locked to the gas giant (not the star) the whole planet will receive sunlight. And, as you figured out, there will be a brief eclipse every time the planet passes through the shadow of the gas giant. This will happen at noon every day for the guy who has the giant planet immediately overhead and at midnight for someone on the opposite side of the planet (who never sees the gas giant). More details on habitability of giant planet moons (focusing on Pandora): $URL$ More details on how to calculate illumination (using a complicated example -- yours would be much much simpler): $URL$