And it tries to warn you that the assumption these things as "me", "mine" or "my soul" leads to suffering rebirth (hence Aging, Sickness, Death) While both seem to look at the same things, Quantum mechanics has a different objective from that of Buddhism. Thus, Quantum mechanics does not address the three questions clearly where as Buddhism does 

Being mindful about these things are called Satipattãna (wedging consciousness) meditation. (Which you call mindfulness here) 

Kãyãnupassanã - is the observation of body of oneself and others with Sammä Ditti explained in the Noble Eightfold Path. Védanãnupassanã - is the observation of mind of oneself and others with Sammä Ditti explained in the Noble Eightfold Path. Cittãnupassanã - is the observation of experiences of oneself and others with Sammä Ditti explained in the Noble Eightfold Path. Dhammãnupassanã - is the observation of phenomina of oneself and others with Sammä Ditti explained in the Noble Eightfold Path 

Unwavering impression of Buddha Unwavering impression of Dhamma Unwavering impression of Sangha Maintains Aryakäntha sîla 

You can see it arise (being created) You can see it transform within the thing it resides You can see it perish 

Permanence is something we use to describe something that is created but lasts for ever. Buddha clearly states in many places that things that are created are perished. Hence the definition of permanence is not usable in this context. Furthermore, assuming Nirvana is me, or mine, or my souls, is also a false view according to Buddha. 

Vipassana meditation will help in studies. Since vipassana meditation focuses on removing craving, anger and illusion, you will notice your mind clear of when you study. 

I hope you get well soon. May I suggest you start focusing on the times you feel well and better; use it to practice dhamma. Meanwhile, also gather material on Buddha, Dhamma and Sangha (such as their nobility). When you are facing undesirable symptoms, repeat the Buddha, Dhamma and Sangha material you gathered. Do it quietly or aloud. Be sure that you know why this is useful to you. If not, it will sound like some useless or crazy activity. Get well soon! 

Basically according to this professor, Nagarjuna makes the argument that "We're all in this together" and we should be helping each other reach enlightenment and not strive for it by ourselves. He also stated that Emptiness is a flashy re-packaging of the teaching of dependent origination. In my opinion, the concept of Emptiness makes sense, but I don't really see how it's useful above and beyond the teachings in Early Buddhism. If anything, an enlightened person is more able to help others, so there shouldn't be a problem in striving towards enlightenment. 

The ultimate goal of this practice is to bring about the insight into the nature of reality. This means understanding—not by thought, but by having seen the truth for oneself—that all experiences are: 

It can take a long time for practice to improve. But I can confidently say that my mind wanders much less than it did one year ago. In my 3 years of practice (one 6-day retreat, about 15 minutes per day on most days) I have found there are long stretches—perhaps days, weeks, even months—where no progress is made, followed by flashes of what seem to be insight, followed by the realization that they are just unusual experiences, and so on. Lastly, as for maintaining mindfulness throughout the day: I find this one quite difficult. It improves with practice just like the wandering as I explained above. Personally my daily mindfulness is quite weak but at the same time much better than, for example one year ago. Another side of this is that the monastic lifestyle or a meditation course will give you the opportunity to develop these skills more quickly. Be well. 

It would be interesting to see a similar treatment with the word Philosophy, but I'm not informed on that topic. In summary, I'm in agreement with CrabBucket that Buddhism is in a gray area. Buddhism has a strong resemblance to both religion and philosophy, with elements of both, but not adhering strictly to either one. On the other hand, in modern times people use the word "religion" in the sense of world religions. In this case, the word describes practices that are similar, but which do not share essential qualities that somehow make them religions. 

There are beings who are born as Maha Brahamas in the highest realms of existence. Since their life span is extremely long and they see people are born and die, having forgotten their own prior birth (due to their long life) some of them fall into the illusion they are like the rulers, creators or supreme of the world. On a certain occasion, Buddha has spoken to such beings having noticed their thoughts. 

With practice, you can be content by reflecting on the good karma of others rather than joy or happiness. It is very close, if not the same, to praise. For example, if someone you're showing compassion to is now able to feel happy, then you can think "Now this person has the opportunity to practice dhamma since his problems are lesser. This is good". Maybe you can go further and help the person practice dhamma even for a second. This way, you don't cultivate thoughts that nurture attachment, nor do you appreciate any wrong joy or happiness in the other person you helped (such as thanha). 

To answer this section: False. If a person can cut the karmic chain for a moment as such and dies, he'll attain Nirvana. There is no moment a lay person is void of Karmic chain (sankhara). This is what binds us to bhava (world, so to speak). I suggest your practice Satipattana Meditating which includes Anapana Sathi and extends a more insightful consciousness to day to day activity. Buddha has asked us (citation needed) to travel in the Noble Eightfold Path even if it means crying along the way. Why Buddha says so is because he knows, and intelligent people understand that if someone missed the opportunity to understand the Four Noble Truths, the resultant suffering can be extremely large. Buddha has said 

Before looking for your next teacher read Käläma sutta, the original translation, from the beginning to the end. In it Buddha takes a practical approach of explaining how one can pick a proper religion / approach to follow. Especially note how Buddha shows, before certainty, the five ways one uses to chose a practice / religion (Faith, Liking, Schools of Though, Contemplating, Views) 

In my experience, group meditation gives one encouragement and adds a new dimension to one's practice. The sense of community is also helpful. A disadvantage of group meditation is that groups vary in their qualities and it might take a while to find the right group. I've tried 3 in my city, and only one have I been able to take seriously. They consider themselves Buddhist, and they apply it to their lives in an honest and genuine fashion. The meditation session is uncomplicated, consisting of beginning and ending chanting, a 50-minute sit with a break, and a short reading passage from some Buddhist literature. This group is affiliated with one of Ajahn Chah's monks. Of the other two, one was in it for the money, and didn't give me a feeling of community. The last one is sort of a secular mixed bag of traditions that doesn't seem to settle on any one practice. I have a slight preference to meditating alone, but I try to make it to my group's weekly meet when I can, as it provides me some consistency that I wouldn't otherwise have. 

Like Bakmoon said, this help your back muscles to strengthen over time. During the sitting posture you are breaking down the muscles the same way an athlete strengthens his or her whole body; and when you sleep the muscles rebuild and come back stronger than before. And like Bakmoon says, it will probably take a month or even several months. Your mind will learn to stop making it worse. By seeing the back pain just as it is (nothing more, nothing less), your aversion and thus your desire to avoid the pain will decrease. When your mind is not making the problem worse, the body will have more resources it can devote to healing and general upkeep. And then, if your back really needs something, you will probably see that more clearly too. 

So from a meditative point of view, the most objective things you have are the thoughts and the senses. Don't worry too much whether thoughts are objective or subjective. Rather consider objectively that a thought is a thought, and seeing it as anything else is subjective. 

Sathi means consciousness. Pattänaya means wedge (something that we keep to prevent an object rolling down an inclined plane). Sathi Pattänaya can be used to wedge the consciousness in order to understand the Four Noble Truths (wedge here, is mentioned as an example). Sathi Pattänaya is Four Fold - Käyänupassanä, Cittänupassanä, Védanänupassanä, Dhammänupassanä. Käyänupassanä is the observation of body of oneself and others with Sammä Ditti explained in the Noble Eightfold Path. Cittänupassanä is the observation of mind of oneself and others with Sammä Ditti explained in the Noble Eightfold Path. Védanänupassanä is the observation of experiences of oneself and others with Sammä Ditti explained in the Noble Eightfold Path. Dhammänupassanä is the observation of phenomina of oneself and others with Sammä Ditti explained in the Noble Eightfold Path. While these can be practiced separately, a skillful apprentice will practice all four of these observations from the time he or she wakes to the time he or she sleeps. It is also important to note that anäpänä sathi meditation is practiced under Käyänupassanä with a clear understanding of Samma Ditti. It is important to note that throughout this meditation Buddha repeats that one should affirm these observants are not me, not mine, not my soul. Added as a separate answer due to a requisition by the initial poster of the question. This can be moved into a separate question "What is sathipattäna meditation?" 

Unlikely. You need a slightly longer commitment. Start with a three month plan with an excellent diet, good sleep, ample exercise. Visit a doctor about this if you haven't. Use vipassana meditation for the purpose it was intended for, not depression. Read the book "Spark" by Ratey, if you feel you can do something additional to what a doctor asks you, to get over depression. 

It is insight, but need to be polished with Sammä Ditti. That is, always maintain that what you observe as such is, anicca (impermanent), dukkha (sorrowful, suffering) and anatta (cannot thus be considered "me", "mine" or "my soul"). Then extend that wisdom to contemplating thus, that they are all reflect The Four Noble Truths (first three) and can be overcome using the fourth noble truth. 

I was wondering whether at the funeral (around 28th of August 2004) of Ajaan Paññavaddho we are witnessing the emanations of a rainbow body (food for thought). 

I have done some research online and read articles about zen sickness. There are a couple of problems when doing research, online, on an ailment which, can be "bearing" on enlightenment, because there are lots of "me too is having this ailment", in other words "I too, am close to being enlightened"; And suddenly, zen sickness symptoms multiplied: psychological depersonalisation, etc.. are linked to zen sickness and the definition of zen sickness becomes vague and fuzzy. Even when I confine my readings to only very few recorded accomplished zen/chan masters, who actually do intensive meditations, their descriptions of zen sickness differ, and that is perhaps due to incorrect attribution ( the "me too" phenomena) of an experience to zen sickness. (I decided, eventually, not to provide links because it would create more confusion/debate on it, so don't take my word on it). The zen sickness of Master Han Shan, IMHO, seems to be a genuine description, but I don't agree to some of the discussion, especially the last but one paragraph which begins with: 

Although known with different names they are slightly different according to their practices. There are many ways in which Vajrayana can be divided or classified and one way is to differentiate according to schools 

The proof of the pudding is in the eating, no matter how many books are written about the pudding. Once eaten there can be no mistake about it. As a samatha meditator, both the signs exist for both types of meditation and which still appear when the eyes are open if they are vivid. Having said that I've quiet a few fellow meditators who do not see the signs but continue to develop Jhanas using feeling. 

IMHO, - Upaya (skilful means) - the purpose of the Buddha's teaching is liken to a raft to take us across the ocean of samsara to the island of exquisite bliss. Hence 32 parts of the body is adequate enough to accommodate various human tendencies to the attachment of the body. Whereas the classification of the the aggregates to only 5 is sufficient to lead one to see dukkha, anicca, anatta. There are some who think the Buddha taught realities, physical & mental. When ask what does your teacher teach? ",,there is suffering (or stress), the cause of suffering (or stress), that there is an end to suffering (or stress), and the path to the end of suffering (or stress).