This is not a philosophical question, this is a cognitive science question. Cognitive science says: "yes, of course". This may be interesting for you: $URL$ $URL$ $URL$ $URL$ 

I'm not talking about solipsism, or the evil demon/genius of Descartes. I'm talking about the McNamara fallacy, which is obviously a fallacy. Can we say that everything that exists is measurable, even if we cannot measure it a some point in time given some state of the art? That would explain the McNamara fallacy. It is also often said that what doesn't get measured cannot be managed. But what is measured, is cheated/played with. Are managers hopeless? Philosophy is said to be very good for critical thinking, knowledge, etc. How could we know if we could not measure the effect of learning philosophy? If we cannot measure and objectively compare, how can we know that some perception is not the placebo effect, confirmation bias, or just a delusion of any sort? That's what control groups are for. Finally, metrics could be wrong, as they often are, but how could we know without different and better metrics? In the McNamara example, body count may be a bad metric, but we may only be able to reliably tell so after comparing with other metrics, e.g. area under control, economic cost, etc. 

In (1), f1 is the index of that fictional domain that includes Wolverine in it, say the x-men world. (1) then says that there is a unique entitiy in that world that is Wolverine and has Adamantium skeleton. In (2), the index might be a reference to a fictional domain called 'history of western philosophy', some of which might not overlap with reality. (2) simply makes the assertion that there is a unique entity in the history of western philosophy, who is Socrates and has a beard. No claim is being made about this entity (viz. Socrates) belonging to the domain of real entities, but that might be the case, who knows. This is just a first thought and I'm willing to change my answer if you convince me in the comments. 

Those unfamiliar with the strange notation shouldn't get uncomfortable, because once I present the interpretation of 'a', 'o' (and there are also 'e' and 'i' relations), Bocardo will obtain an intuitive meaning: 

This just follows from the fact that the base modal logic is classical and thus accepts the law of non-contradiction. Of course, this wouldn't generally be true for paraconsistent temporal logics and would never be true for dialetheist temporal logics. Hope this helps. For corrections/suggestions, please leave a comment or just edit this post. 

By the quality of life, where quality is subjective and people judge their own life quality. With this I mean the value that people assign to being alive. This is not in the encyclopedia that @ChristopherE links (very interesting, BTW) but probably we could classify it as a pragmatic (and possibly utilitarian) approach, there are probably authors that have elaborated on this better and more extensively that I would be able in a dozen of lifetimes, but if you are interested I could elaborate more. Before you ask, no matter if you measure the global quality as the average or the absolute values, in both cases basically we are going to see that people think there has been some progress. This could be an illusion, so this doesn't really answer the question, but it helps, as we will see. 

I. García-Honrado and E. Trillas, “On an Attempt to Formalize Guessing,” in Soft Computing in Humanities and Social Sciences, R. Seising and V. S. González, Eds. Springer Berlin Heidelberg, 2012, pp. 237–255. E. Trillas, S. Cubillo, and E. Castiñeira, “On conjectures in orthocomplemented lattices,” Artificial Intelligence, vol. 117, no. 2, pp. 255–275, Mar. 2000. 

In the context of dynamic epistemic logic, the binary operator 'M | φ' takes a model M and a formula φ and 'updates' M, by removing from M all the worlds where φ is false ([Holliday], Lecture 13, Slide 7; [van Benthem], Chapter 15, Definition 15.2.1): 

In the sections leading up to that claim Carnap discusses a first class of what he calls 'pseudo-statements', which are all sentences characterized by having in them some 'meaningless' word. The sentence "kjdfho is great" is a pseudo-statement of that first class, because it includes the presumably meaningless expression 'kjdfho'. Then, in §4 Carnap turns his attention to a second class of 'pseudo-statements', which includes sentences that while grammatically meaningful, are still not acceptable. As examples he considers the following ungrammatical sentence (1) and the grammatical sentence (2): 

Those are just some possibilities among many others. Ideally, the set of axioms would meet certain conditions of independence, completeness (with respect to some semantics), and so on. A theory of fatherhood is just such a system of axioms for F closed under the rules of inference. Needless to say, everything is relative to a language. If we had started with a language that had function symbols (f, s) and '&in;' but no explicit predicate symbols (F, S), we could either define predicates by putting restrictions on functions, or we could capture the truths about fatherhood using function symbols as follows: 

How could we study gravity before? Because it's not constant. For instance it is weaker in the mountains. Therefore we don't really need the opposite, but variability is definitively interesting and important. With a differential in gravity we can study it's causes, define gravity as dependent on those causes, etc. If gravity was constant, like the speed of light, we could still know it and have some information about it, but the greater the entropy (contingency, variability, etc.) the more we can know about something. 

It's not a choice, it's the suspension of any choice until a good decision can be made. The train is not going to wait that long, but that is just bad luck (or a causal chain). Any action has a set of causes and a course. If you change the course of some action, you are part of the causes of whatever comes after that. The only possible responsible options are not to interfere or change the course of action only when it is meant to be for the better and there are good reasons to think so. That's why it's not right to make those decisions, unless you are specifically assigned to do that. E.g. you are responsible for the train. We, in society, don't like people making decisions on the live of other people unless they are specifically assigned to that. E.g. judges or medics. And when some person has to do that there is usually a well established praxis, rules or protocol. If someone makes such a decision, that person is not only making that decision, that decision would also mean establishing a precedent about how some people (or anyone) can make decisions on other people's lives with (unavoidably) partial information. Ethics is basically about that kind of rules, so that would be completely unethical. Not by doing something that is bad per se (killing people), but by doing something that is destroying the rules followed in the society (moral). PD: a similar dilemma could be whether it's right to judge to experiment on some people for the advance of science and saving innumerable lives. How many people could we sacrifice to find a cure for cancer? How many people is going to die due to cancer in the next century? Consider you are a politician. If you sign and support a law, experiments will be conducted on 10K people, and it is certain this will save the life of 100M people in the next century, if you don't sign then that will not happen and 100M people will die due to cancer in the next century. Is it right to make that decision? 

Let ρ be a bijection from a language L to a language ρ(L) that preserves the number of places of all symbols, and for each model M for L let ρ(M) be the model for ρ(L). 

Since sets are distinguished by their contents, any two empty sets will be indistinguishable because neither can contain anything that the other doesn't. In the baskets example, since the two empty baskets have different locations we want to say that they are two distinct empty baskets. But since sets are not located in space-time, to the set theorist, the two baskets are identical because she cannot, in the language of set theory, say something true about one that's false about the other. Extensionality, in ZFC, trims the universe by identifying any two things that have the same members, allowing us to unambiguously name such things as the empty set (with "∅"), the intersection of two sets (with "A ∩ B"), the ordered pair of two sets (with "(A,B)"), and so on. In a universe with many empty sets, the definition of '∅' would get more complicated because we would have to identify it with the class of all empty sets, and that complication would crawl all the way up the definitional hierarchy. 

As @DavidH points, if there are no consequences there are no actions. There are no reasons to perform those actions either, and there are no reasons to behave in one way or another if people are not encouraged to do so. While the answer is technically correct, I don't consider it a good answer because I think it fits a question that is misleading due to its wording. Therefore I'm going to propose a different wording, that leads to a more interesting question and more interesting answers: Should people be moral if there is no explicit incentive for morality? Now that's a different thing. Should people try to do well to others or the planet (ecology) even if there is no God, government or any Big Brother there to reward them for their good actions? The answer is yes, for many reasons, but all of them boil down to game theory, at least all the reasons I can speak of. Basically altruism is an indirect reward that is expected to pay back when properly done, and from which we are benefiting since the moment we are born. So there is a culture of altruism, a tacit agreement that we are interested in preserving, because we get more from it than what we have to pay. The morals that are to some extent encoded in most of us (possibly in our DNA, except psychopaths) are a way to get through local maximums. An example of a local maximum can be found in the tragedy of the commons, in the prisoner's dilemma, and in most games that are interesting from a game theory perspective. These tacit agreements provide more utility in their results than the lack thereof, or they should do so to endure. They can also be traditions that should be forgotten because they were once useful and now harmful. E.g. We have now cheap and good contraceptive methods, so maybe some traditions about sex could be broken. That's why it is important to know the roots for the morals, if they are currently beneficial, and judge critically. To summarize, to the question, "why should I respect other people if I don't get a cookie for it?" The answer is: because you will promote a culture of respect in which you will live. Also, you never know when you are going to find a psychopath that may be violent, it's usually wise to avoid useless trouble. I'm also going to add two examples. 

It's certainly valid. Your derivation doesn't seem exactly right, but it can be modified to become correct. 

I hope this is a bad joke, because it's not a good puzzle. I'll offer my initial thoughts anyway. A(ckermann) has written down some number x &in; {1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9} in an envelope. Only he knows the referent of x, so B(eatrice) doesn't know in the beginning; neither does C(arl). Now let's look at the sentences and how they update the information we have: 

Example. Let's see whether the formula (p ∨ ¬p) is metaphysically necessary. It is iff □(p ∨ ¬p) is valid with respect to Carnapian models. Recall that valuations are simply extensions of truth-assignments to the propositional letters occurring in formulas. In this case, we have only one propositional letter, viz. 'p'. There are therefore two possible valuations: v1 = {(p, &top;)} and v2 = {(p, &bot;)}, so let's check whether (p ∨ ¬p) holds in both. Clearly it does: v1 satisfies p, so the whole disjunction is also satisfied; and v2 satisfies ¬p, so again the whole disjunction is also satisfied. Therefore, we know that (p ∨ ¬p) is metaphysically necessary. Metaphysical possibility is defined in an analogous manner: 

1 is wrong, IMHO. Consider a serial killer that wishes to live to continue killing and who cannot be stopped by any means but killing him. Consider this is completely clear and beyond any doubt. I'd say killing him is the right thing to do. 2 may be right, I cannot really quantify how much do those animals suffer/enjoy in their lives. But maybe you should consider that if nobody was eating them then they might not exist at all. We could also consider how much do these animals suffer, if they experience pain, discomfort, existential angst... 3 is irrelevant. If I am asleep I don't show much conscience or sentience, but that doesn't mean I'm impaired, or that if you try to kill me I'll wake up and suffer. The point is, we cannot really ascertain the level of sentience of animals or people just by how they look, it takes a deeper analysis. Therefore, the sentience that animals and people show, on a shallow analysis, is irrelevant, as it is far from reality. The main argument in favor for vegetarianism is sustainability, IMHO. Also, if we are to worry about animal lives so much (as to prevent them from being born in the first place, as in genocide) then I'd suggest to worry a little bit more about human lives before. More precisely I'd consider giving a higher priority to transhumanism, and research on life extension and immortality technologies, such like reversing the ageing process or enabling mind-uploading to the cloud.