The entire point of a wizard is to gain power through others' beliefs. That means that the effective wizards will be anyone who understands the actual factors that go into belief. A wizard can (and should) leverage moment fear to jar the immediate audience into believing, or use loyal followers strewn about that audience to instill groupthink. 

I hope this doesn't apply to animals. You can imagine a magical super-powered grizzly bear, or even a rhino. Its been said by @Lohoris and @TobiasWärre already that emotion is not enough of a limit as anyone at any given moment is just too powerful, however, IMO that seems like more of a technical flaw, easily fixable by adding a limit, or several. The first limit is in power. No one wants city-wide destruction when someone gets fired, so lets add some math. 

These wizards are going to be coated with symbols on every surface they can manage. A wizard who wishes to lob fire around will have hundreds of flame patterns stitched all over his robes. The subconscious effect may not help much, but will at least get the idea "fire" into peoples' minds. 

Four dimensions are easily represented with a "weighted" 3D map. At given intervals, space is mapped by dots whose size represents a normalized vector of space-time. A five dimensional space can be represented as a "timeline" of 4D weighted maps. An FTL drive may only be able to traverse to adjacent spaces at a time. With grouping, six dimensions are marked by a 2D space with each point in that space representing a 4D space time. Each point is brighter based on the level of spacial compression in the position of the ship in that dimension. 

Anatomy of a Wizard It seems that the wizards really have their work cut out for them, however, if I read the question right, there was no mention about magic not changing people. With each inkling of fame a wizard (or any member of a profession) collects, their work becomes that little bit easier. It is possible that rather than simply improving the chances of each spell working, the wizards themselves are changed to match the public image, creating an aptitude in magic. 

A planet with changing gravity On earth gravity stays constant (besides negligible fluctuations), but it may be possible to change that. What kind of geology, natural satellite, or other anomaly could cause periodic changes in gravity? (And what magnitude of difference would they have). The ideal goal is to map the change to a kind of sine wave, so that the bounds of the changes stay constant. The periodicity of the planet's gravity can range from days to years. 

Taxes! "Guild fees" All governments require a source of income to fund projects, even fundamental ones. Each member of the guild must pay a yearly, weekly or daily fee to be recognized as a member. However, large projects may be out of the scope of a single guild. Mutual benefit and time/gain Why exactly do they need the bridge. Is it merely for convenience sake? If so, the bridge won't likely be funded in a realistic amount of time, however, if the bridge happens to create a several hundred mile shortcut to a major trading site, then all the guilds interested in improving trade as well as the trading site will throw cash (and bricks) at it like crazy. Unfortunately, the length of time each project requires can hinder their fulfillment. Bridges, roads and other structures can take a while to build and roads also have to be maintained albeit not as much as in modern times. In other words, the larger the project, the more resources and higher return needed. Magical paving All is not lost! Surely magic, enabling fireballs, explosions and other assorted deadliness, will have some method of improving build times. Earth wizards just became the most boring. Instead of laying countless bricks by hand and using heavy equipment to bring up bridges, 10-20 powerful wizards, via spells, rituals or other, simply and literally raise a bridge from the ground or flatten the roads while hardening them. Definitely look for additional reading related to government project funding. 

As stated before, we would like the candidate to contribute as much as possible to the scientific community, however, we should consider the fact that they are human and may not just go along with the world committee's decision. Definitely avoid picking anyone who was suicidal no matter how effective they may be. 

Eventually we will hit a trend. No matter what level of dimensions are given, we will skip through the display of all in-between dimensions until the top 3 are shown with the plotted course throughout them. Unfortunately I couldn't find any images suited to illustrate but we are talking about theoretical physics. 

If a layman doesn't often have an understanding of the mechanics of magic, give it to them. Given that wizards normally require a rich environment to steadily progress, some of their wealth could be used to fabricate a public view of magic. All it takes is a somewhat convincing "magic system" and a method of distributing the idea (propaganda posters, town criers). Also, people are very likely to believe something that (they think) they came up with, so give them A (magic is heritable) and B (intelligent people can use magic), which naturally leads to C, but let them figure out C (this rich robe guy might be able to do magic!). Flaws In general a world changing on belief is a rather unstable one. From any kind of perspective, it seems that one thing is for sure. Everyone is spending ridiculous cash on improving PR. 

The obvious choices The individuals most would default to are those who have made important contributions to science. There are many candidates. 

Assuming the above is true (regardless if it is), poor infrastructure will be the highest priority obstacle. No matter how intelligent the AI is, until it can manufacture autonomous drones, the AI is limited by its workforce. While an AI can manipulate corrupted officials and develop better power generation, an infrastructure will be the AI's primary source of progress. The AI will need to stave off its long term goal with improving quality of life, but only within Ethiopia. The last part is important as, with the improvement of life inside Ethiopia, there will be a positive effect to net migration, thus increasing the potential workforce, leading to more power... Repeat. Long term goal Unfortunately, the long term goal of VR paradise conflicts with the short term goal as VR does not quantify as maximum happiness, however, assuming this overrides the short term goal... TL:DR The AI should set up shop in an underground bunker, and improve the economy, technology, and quality of life using its advanced computing until VR reaches a sufficient development level. More people arrive, more workers, more tech. 

Good King Bob the 27th is the best leader the domain has ever witnessed in many lifetimes. Unfortunately, the last 26 kings have a horrible reputation for greed, neglect of the kingdom, and jaywalking. The skeptical populous, rightfully sick of horrible leadership, often spreads rumors that a curse of the throne prevents the great line of Bobs from ever becoming fulfilling kings. Pretty soon the idea has so much gravity that it becomes true. Even if King Bob's intentions are perfect, somewhere down the line his actions are twisted into the expectations of the public. In other words, pessimism will spread like wildfire (more than usual). Extensions Personally, i would begin by clearly defining a limit to magic. 

Mental Health One thing worth noting is that the emotional state of a precognitive will show itself as a time-shifted copy of a 'normal' version of the individual. Given that a disaster happens next week, the precognitive's mood will shift based on their character. Likewise, mental health will depend greatly on their outlook just as it does normally. Precognitive people would generally be similar in mental health to others, though they will react and recover from disasters sooner due to knowledge ahead of time. A misconception Actually, a precognitive won't experience more disasters than average human being, meaning that they will have the same mental strain as others suffering the loss as well. The only difference is that they won't have peer support until the event actually takes place meaning highly sociable precognitives must contain the loss until then. Social More loss of sanity will spring from others taking a toll on a precog. Assuming knowledge of the ability is commonplace, (how are you going to keep 1.4 million a secret) friends and manipulators will cause expectations to flock around beholders. The misunderstanding of precognition could make others very easily turn bitter towards their precog friend while looking for an outlet. After all, how would you feel if your (insert something here) was stolen, and Alice didn't even warn you. Even if you understand perfectly well that it would be pointless, the potential lack of rationality could very trivially direct the anger towards them. 

First hour In the first few minutes, thousands of people are weeping at their close relative's gold remains, having jokingly punched them while off-guard. Thousands more are turned to gold by practical joke punches and reassuring slugs. Basically, lots of people die. First day Word gets around, making all the news channels, all the papers, all the radio channels and word of mouth. Lots of seclusion and mistrust spreads as an extremely efficient and stealthy assassination method was just created with no evidence. The less scrupulous take advantage and kill their boss, annoying neighbor, and anyone else they hate. Oh, and there's panic, lots of panic. Second day I would bet martial law might go into effect, with accidental murder committed and plenty more intentional ones coming. School is definitely out while hospital and military quarantines take effect and most (hopefully) don't show up for work. Expect less pedestrians, but more automotive migration traffic. First week IMO the chaos would not necessarily bring about the apocalypse, depending directly on the level of government control, magnitude of riots and loss of population, but lets go the fun route. Riots. Riots and murder and looting and in general collapse of trust (and thus collapse of infrastructure) takes place. People are making plans to stay at the most secure location they know of while the government attempts to place laws and direct the masses in general. First month Now were at the apocalypse stage. Most destruction comes directly from vandalism, (i.e. Probably no nukes launched from this) but expect terrorist groups to have a field day year. Mass migration continues and mass murder as well, not only from gold-punches (because why would we stop using guns?). From then on, progress is made in the fashion well explored by media. Groups form, groups die, drama and all that. Oh and as @Burki said, gold is worthless now. 

And that is how you automatically implement spell difficulty. A fireball is a trivial spell that nearly all respected wizards can throw around, but telekinesis or wind manipulation require a bit more creativity. A wizard may be able to fake the spells at first, outside of combat of course, to trick onlookers that they can use magic. Once the idea is properly rooted, the wizard begins to see results in the form of actual magic. Telekinesis, ha. Its just a thin silk wire.