I have a friend who is now 57. He joined a company when he graduated from university and never worked anywhere else. Now the company is shutting down. He's been there over 30 years. Some people are holding that against him, a little, because he doesn't know how things are done in other companies, doesn't have a wide range of experiences. So I'm not going to say that nobody will ever think less of you for staying with one company for a long time. But 3-5 years is not that length of time. What's really more important than optics is reality. If staying with this company is easy and comfortable and doesn't challenge you, that's fine. You just need to understand that easy, comfortable, and nonchallenging is a choice. Leaving to go to a different company where you have to learn new things, prove yourself all over again, and start fresh with new people is another option. It may be very rewarding: you may rise faster throughout your career by being the person who's never satisfied, always learning, always pushing yourself to do more and be more. Or, it may be a treadmill of competition and offbalance "adjustment periods" where you're always telling yourself that things will settle down soon but they never do. It could go either way. And over a 10 or 20 or 30 year period, you can choose to be, or realize you are being: 

Different companies will value those people differently, and for different reasons. For example, in many companies the work items you pick up are not completely specced, and if you just do the work on your own you may make some choices the boss doesn't like. By asking the boss first you ensure the results you produce align well with the boss' expectations. In others, the boss doesn't regularly check the status of the work items or the project plan and literally doesn't know what you're getting done unless you personally report it. So to solve your problem you need, for at least a moment, to assume your boss is a mature and sensible adult, not a spoiled little child who randomly promotes people "for making me feel good and smart." Take a moment to categorize the questions people ask the boss. Is it "I need more details on what you want?" or is it the sort of thing you should ask on StackOverflow (or the equivalent for your work.) If it's the former, you should start doing it. Get the details you need before you do the work. As a side effect, the boss will always know what you're up to. If it's the second one, then don't start doing it, but think about this: how does your boss know what you have finished? You could develop a habit of letting the boss know what you're starting and finishing. There could possibly be other sensible, mature, decent explanations for why the people who bother the boss with questions are rewarded. If you can be objective and observe what they ask and what happens, you may come to realize that this asking is not meaningless ego-boosting for the boss, but is in fact a workaround for flaws in the process of your team. I want you to really look for that explanation, and look hard. It will be good for you to understand what your boss does with your work and what your boss needs to know about your work. But it may be that in fact there is no good reason. Your boss is just lazy and selfish and would rather do the old work (such as solving programming problems) than the new work (managing people and projects, probably) and feels happy with the people who make that possible by coming with questions all the time. Ask yourself if there is something you can do that will give the boss the same good feeling, or if what you really need is a different boss. But don't start considering those things until you truly understand the phenomenon you have started to observe. In my experience many people misunderstand the things they see in the office and assume things are motivated by childishness and selfishness, not by the flawed workings of a process you don't fully understand. 

Their reaction may have been over the top and hot-headed, but the important thing is that it was out of context. You have to pick one issue to respond to. I would probably go with something like: 

Whenever I want something (anything! even to have my overdue invoice paid!) from someone, I first check whether there is anything that I owe them. If there is, I make sure I give that to them first. If I was asked to look into something, to write something up, to fix a bug, to take care of anything at all, I take care of it and then report that it's taken care of, and then make my requests. This would be how you would ask for training, or time off, or a meeting to discuss your career, or anything else that matters more to you than to your boss. Now, some things are not requests, because they're not optional. You have to ask for them, but if you don't get them, something else will suffer. For those, I make sure to tie them to whatever makes them not optional, and ask what I should do even when the problem isn't me. 

Your boss is offering you something very cool. Think twice before turning it down just because Sharepoint is awful (which it certainly is, I've done it too.) If you come out of the project never wanting to do Sharepoint again (I know EXACTLY how that feels) you can list it as "web development" and emphasize the parts of it that are transferrable. It is a very important skill for everyone to be able to see commonality in seemingly disparate kinds of work. 

No matter how negative the question you are asked, it's possible to answer in a positive way. Focus on what you value in a company, not what your old employer doesn't offer. Focus on how you want to work, not how your old employer worked. Focus on the future, and use anecdotes from your past to demonstrate how glowing your future is going to be. And when you're really backed into a corner by someone who keeps poking, keeps prodding, won't let go, and really really wants you to tell a long story about [bad practices], give your biggest smile and say 

I think this is one of those things where you are just out of luck. He said "empty array" and you heard MTRI and you just couldn't get your brain to let go of that. After all, when it was finally settled, what he really said to you was "Is that how Americans call empty array, huh ?" but even in reporting it here you can't seem to realize that he said empty array. From his point of view it would be as if he had said dahtabase (as most Australians do) and you had no idea what he meant and it took 5 minutes and then you said "oh, daytabase!" and then wrote the code he wanted. He probably thinks you were hostile to his accent and were making fun of him. I doubt there is a way to recover, but a nice email (since written language will probably work better for you two) might go some way to getting you a second chance. 

Some employers are cool with this. They will arrange to have a way to cover if you're suddenly out of commission for a few days on no notice. It's worth it to have you on the team. Some are not. I don't think a company will change their position on this organically - if you current employer is getting annoyed every time you're out sick, they aren't going to just stop getting annoyed, and if your current employer is ok with it, they will probably continue to be ok with it. But it can't hurt to have an open conversation about it and do all you can to minimize the disruption for them. Something like, on returning from a no-notice multi-day absence and first saying how reassuring it was to know they were ok with you taking the time off: "I was concerned about how xyz would get taken care of with me away. Was it postponed, or who dealt with it?" Then, on getting an answer, "Is there something I could be doing regularly that would make things easier when I get called away like this?" After having as long a conversation as need be about how to make things best for the company, you could then wrap up with again expressing your appreciation for their support around your working conditions. A good percentage of the people I know who work for themselves do so because their lives won't fit into 9-5 and other people's timelines. You might be one such person. You can hire staff who will always be there, and do your part when and as you can. This requires being very good, of course, but chances are if you're good enough to be accepted in a 9-5 world while struggling with chronic pain, you're very good. So if an employer isn't willing to set this situation up for you, you might be able to set it up for yourself. 

To answer the written question, no. Negotiation is not about proving that the other person doesn't deserve what they are demanding, or accepting that they do deserve it. Negotiation -- done right -- is about finding something that works for both people and leaves both people confident they have done the right thing. For example, if you need to earn 100 somethings in the new job, and you would rather not work there than earn 99 somethings, and that is the absolute truth for you, then no matter what salary they offer you will be happy, because either it will be more than 100 and you'll take the job, or it will be less than 99 and you will not. If they need to hire a great whatever-you-are and spend no more than 110 somethings, they will be delighted to hire you at 100 somethings. If they must spend no more than 80 somethings, they will be sad not to hire you, but they will have met their constraints. The best negotiations find out what matters and what doesn't matter. You want to wear casual clothing? That's worth more to you than 10 somethings? Well maybe I don't care, so I just saved money. You want an extra week's paid vacation a year (representing 2% of your annual salary) and you'll come down 5% to get it? Everybody wins! You're willing to put in your own time to get certified on something if I give you a 10 something raise? I'd be happy to have a certified person, even if I suspect you would have done it without the raise, I'm still happy. Here's the trick. They don't care why you want 100 somethings. The fact you're making 60 somethings now and are sure you're about to get a raise to 80, and "deserve" a raise for changing jobs - that means nothing to your interviewer. What matters to the interviewer is this: 

None of that. It takes people out of the role of hearing the thing you're going to talk about and puts them in the role of observing you present. Train yourself to stop doing that. In addition, meta talk that is negative about you (I don't have great presentation skills, I'm nervous, I've never done this before and I'm not sure it will work, I'm not good at that) is especially a bad idea in an interview. The understanding on both sides is that you will say good things about yourself. The interviewer was probably trying to be pleasant and helpful. Indeed, you likely don't know how your presentation skills rate against a large group of your peers. They may not be good enough for you; that doesn't mean they aren't good enough for this employer. (More than once on cooking competition shows I've seen people convinced a particular dish will send them home and then they win the challenge with the dish. Occasionally they apologize for the dish to the utter confusion and consternation of the judges.) Why do that when nobody even asked? Next time, just give your answer (Presentation first, please.) without the explanation (because I'm horrible at it and want to get it over with.) If someone flat out asks you "how are your presentation skills?" then you can give an honest answer, though "I'd really like to improve them" is better than "not very good." 

The thing is, we all know a joke. At least one. But when pressed, can we find one quickly? Will we find something actionably offensive, and say it out loud even though we should know better? Will we choose the 10 minute joke in a 30 minute interview? It's a stress test. In an interview to be a trainer, I was once asked "tell me how to get here from your house, or from a landmark along the way if you don't want to talk about where you live." It wasn't a question I could have prepared for, or was expecting. But it was a great question - how much detail do you provide, what's your speaking tone like for a number of sentences in a row, do you get up and go to the whiteboard to draw a map, and so on. I watched many people answer that question over the years and saw people lose the job (become no-hire) as they answered it. Typically the interview continued and they showed the same poor behaviours in other answers that I first saw in that one. If you're being hired for confidence, quick thinking, and social skills, it's a pretty good question to ask. If they just blurt it at you - tell me a joke - they are partly testing what you do when people break the rules of a script. One possible response is to tell a joke, to do what the "customer" wants even when there's no good explanation for it and it's not what you expected. But there's also the response of