It depends what the answer turns out to be. But consider the last time we thought we were 'nearly there' - 

Capitalism is poorly defined, and problematically vague. It's one of those words like 'soul' which you should never take at 'face value' bg assuminv some shared definition, and for the sake of clear argument avoid with a clearer substitute wherever possible, imho. Like globalisation, capitalism gets given a character, as a savior or bogeyman depending on politics. Don't accept casual and vague use of these words, and mistrust arguments from those who do. The bigger part of what you are saying, suggests it's possible for there to be no collective responsibility at all. Was the holocaust just on Hitler? Clearly a political organisation was responsible, also an ideology, but also ordinary Germans who allowed themselves to be manipulated by their prejudices. It is crucial to be sceptical of populist racist demagogues (a hot topic around the world again now), so to put safeguards in place like holding freedom of the press and freedom of association and protest sacred. Also to prevent authoritarianism & centralising power to one group through mechanisms like the division of powers. And last but not least, to defend in our own lives and conversations and actions, the values we consider important. You personally, have some responsibility to prevent another Hitler and another holocaust. Capitalism isn't an ideology like fascism, it is a culture practiced in different ways in different places. Cultural patterns can be identified, and questioned or criticised, if they are properly evidenced. You can use tools like the sorites paradox and thd ship of Theseus, to question conventional notions of identity, and try to observe overlapping and conflicting identities in action. But the same phenomenology that grants you identity, must allow some measure of group identity, even though in some sense both are imaginary. We make them real, by acting as if they are real, like money and human rights. Define terms. Ask for evidence. Question whether that gives causation, or only correlation, or fits a confirmation bias. Use that to bring clarity and intelligence to your own conversation, and that helps shape your community for the better, and your world. 

What structure are you assuming to determine 'lie'? If it's subjective, a sense of rightness or importance to a set of principles, how can those feelings be falsified? The principles could be contradictory, or could be aimed at goals they rarely do or cannot achieve. Or they might be murderous, horrific and evil. But probably not lies. 

"What's wrong with meritocracy?" Who is saying there is anything wrong with it? Those with racial and authoritarian views, often tend to say they are born out by what race, and type of person suceeds under certain circumstances. This is in-group bias. But socialist systems like the UK at it's most left wing, with very high i heritence taxes and free university, are clearly more actually meritocratic. Meritocracy is a matter of degree, along with the level-ness of the 'playing field'. What suits one won't suit another. Merit in one generation may no longer be merit in the changed society of another. I would argue it is generally a fantasy, as even in the 'fairest' societies like Scandinavian countries, outcomes are overwhelmingly determined by family wealth, even factoring in possible genetic factors. Meritocracy is a useful fantasy for engaging a larger majority into investing energy into social goods, not for instance fomenting rebellion - this is described in Rousseau's Social Contract, a definingly post-feudal idea. The Chinese imperial civil service exams gave a sufficient patina of meritocracy for people to be far more accepting of inequality, and a safety-valve against promotion of incompetence that would increase it. The dynamic of lying about meritocracy is exemplified by the state of inheritence taxes. If we really wanted meritocracy, we would end inheritence. But that is actually very unpopular. Almost every succesful business person started out with more than average capital. We wish to unfairly benefit our offspring, and that is such a powerful motivator and enhancer of social order, that we completely compromise the semblence of meritocracy because of it. Communist systems can be argued to at least aim for greater meritocracy, but in practice have always propagated non-financial means of advantage in a way that works out to be very similar. 

An 'atomic clone' would be an 'upload'. Capturing the state of every atom, and setting such an assembly into that same motion though, is unlikely to ever be possible. It is a far bigger challenge than neccessary, when we have nano-scale micro-assembly structures already, called cells. We can recreate from a biological template, grow a body, rather than atom by atom. There are many questions about consciousness. We broadly assume that the new consciousness, given the old persons memories, would have continuity. Given cloned biology developed down the same pathway into an adult, limbic system & so on, we would expect at least very similar behaviour. There would be no technological reason against running several copies in addition to the original, for comparison. Extropianism is a philosophical framework for viewing this. 

Have any philosophers taken up human hive-like behaviour and it's implications? EO Wilson and others have outlined eusociality, a mode of group selection acting in addition to selection at the individual level $URL$ though this is not without critics $URL$ This seems to suggest that aspects of being human, like tool use, clothing and cooking, may have reinforced the benefits of social behaviour supporting group fitness, over individual success. This can be extended all the way to the success in science of the Allies over Axis powers (nuclear weapons), and later Soviet's (profound misconceptions about agronomy). In philosophy (from the Wikipedia page on the Private Language Argument): 

What does it take for a baby to perceive these things? It starts off not even able to focus eyes. Then a process of development and learning, understanding solid shapes often by putting them in it's mouth, by play, and watching others, then discussion, abstraction, analysis through school. Implicit to your framing 

The shortness of your question makes it impossible to see how you see these things as linked, a machine that can generate hedonistic sensations, and Awakening. The human body, operated correctly and with sufficient resources, is an Experience Machine. Viewing it like this targets utilitarians, and materialists like Sam Harris, who see morality and the ordering of our lives as derivable with reference to pleasure and pain only. There is a lot of confusiin about Nirvana, moksha, and other synonyms. Unsurprisingly, because it is generally only defined negatively in the sutras, as what it is not. The deep question the Buddha took up, was "What is the cause of old age, sickness and death?", what are the causes of suffering? After he experienced Awakening, or Unshakeable Liberation from Suffering, he unfolded the answer to this through the four noble truths, the fourth of which is the Eightfold Path which is the practice of Buddhists. The goal of this is not eternal pleasure, which is just the other side of the coin of pain. It is clearly directed at the domain of meaning, which Nozick's machine cannot operate in. The Buddhist path describes suffering, anguish, as a dream which distracts us. By understanding the character of what it is to be 'more awake', we can navigate suddenly or gradually, to not just a state of mind but a way of being, free from suffering and the causing suffering. In the Kalama Sutra and other places, Buddha describes the essential role for faith in this goal, for a person to be able to go beyond the initial benefits of the practice. It is easy to be a skeptic of Nirvana, because it is an invitation to direct experience, not a concept, or a sensation, or a state of mind. But a completely different way to be. 

Feelings are just the interplay of chemicals and neurons. Anguish, the subjective analogue of physical pain, is probably as inevitable as feeling some physical pain - it is how we learn, it helps categorise and order memories to avoid the stimulus or situation in the future, and absence of it is found to form serious disorders. Stephen Batchelor in his writings on atheist Buddhism, chooses the word anguish rather than the word suffering, in translating the Buddhas diagnosis of not just the human condition, but that of all beings. Buddhism identifies being an arising thing with seeking what isn't so, and inevitably some of what is sought will lead to frustration, and that is suffering or anguish; these are laid out in the first three Noble Truths. Then in the fourth Noble Truth a process -the eightfold path- is laid out to reach a way of being reconciled with how things are, and so towards not suffering or being in anguish. There is therapy, catharsis, in setting ourselves in the correct scale with our surroundings: $URL$ Terrifying, or sublime. You decide. Einstein said 

I would argue that a good familiar grasp of the mathematics, exactly allows such visualisation. Children do not look at triangles and know pythagoras' theorem by a kind of subitism. Even our supposedly intuitive grasp of 3D objects took a huge amount of learning and interaction to aquire, and is limited to the domains of our experience. Say fluid dynamics, we have some experience from swimming or whatever, but grasping methane seas or cloud dynamics takes educated contemplation. We just take tge educated contemplation we did as babies and toddlers for granted. Consider mathematical savantism. People describe associating complex textures and synaesthetic characters to numbers, which allows the recall of mathematical connections like factorials quickly. This is reusing visual processing and identity recognition for mathematical purposes. Old brain region for new jobs, just like when people lose sight or a limb, areas can be repurposed. I suggest that if by educated contemplation, we can interact meaningfully with higher dimensions, then yes we can visualise them. Like say the many 2D surfaces used to explain special and general relativity, which allow the build up of a mental picture of lorentz transforms, time dilation and so on. We can learn about topolgy, properties of klein bottles and 3spheres. And we can go on to imagine a holographic universe, where we are a 4D surface in a 5D space - a major cosmological model and potential way to explain black holes and the information paradox. 11 dimensions of string theory, trickier. But we can look at the half integer spin of an electron and note a moebius strip has that same symmetry (turn it twice to get back where you started). We try to find heuristics, feed our intuitions, and of course do the math. Now, can we visualise higher dimendions easily, or with the facility we apply to our 'native' experiences? Different question, and of course, the answer is no. But we shouldn't just throw our hands up either. 

Harari seems a bit carried away by the impacts of rapid change, which is to project the current historical context on to all times, just like say Malthus or many others saw a contemporary situation as key to the future. Foucault identifies the development of knowledge with power structures. These may be largely invisible during times of peace, but absolutely limit the pace of real change, and of it's 'self awareness'. Study of history affects government policies very little, compared to political tribalism. Knowledge with power remains, when there is a conflict with knowledge with less power - or that is less integrated with structures previously succesful in the conflict of ideas and organisations. Many ideas, like what human nature is, change generationally, are renewed by stories and events, but only really manifest deep change in moments of crisis. It just seems misguided to think we can know which knowledge will change history, even which knowledge of history. Stories that sway us have power, and if they are forgetten or there is not time for us to absorb them, they lose it. Conscious change happens when we create stories out of knowledge of audience, to create change that is percieved as needed. Only time will reveal which win, leaving us try and u derstand audience, needs, and shape how our own spirit partakes in this zeitgeist. 

Hobbes and others like Ayn Rand saw humanity as essentially selfish & greedy. Your question is vague. Altruism is a 19th C. word, so philosophers before then were using other words. So what about altruism are you pointing at? Self-sacrifice? Focusing endeavor on community benefit? Not, just being selfish greedy and impulsive? EO Wilson and others have developed the concept of eusociality. It is the mechanism of benefit behind evolution of hive behaviour in insects, and community arranged breeding in meerkats, wolves and others. And primates, especially those that like humans raise their young in creches - lemurs though less intelligent than chimpanzees are found to learn more quickly from each other, and have more mirror neurons. Basically eusociality describes the point where advancing the genepool of relatives becomes worth sacrificing individuals breeding chances for. The macro-organism point which micro-organisms like slime moulds crossed, on the way to forming multicellular organisms. We rely for the key benefits of being human, not just on parental care, but wider community. Cooking, sewing & weaving, farming, metalwork, all require knowledge and resources to be developed and shared communally. Evolving biological and social mechanisms to curb our tendencies towards laziness ignorance and violence, has been essential to this. We are still just animals though, with much more to do Edit to add: Utilitarian philosopher Peter Singer talks about, especially in 'The Expanding Circle: Ethics, Evolution and Moral Progress', how interest and concern about the well-being of others can arise evolutionarily in kin-selectiin, but still rationally demand our conscious commitment to expanding that circle, and in challenging our tendency to only help those we know, in our country, or in a condition or situation we have experience of - a legacy of kin-selection we allow to colour our thinking too much. You can get a flavour of this from his TED talk on the subject: $URL$ 

You might be interested to read through this, on the 50 most influential living philosophers $URL$ I certainly found it interesting for finding recent thinkers on the topics that interest me 

Entropy. Where did it all come from? In just over 7000 times the current age of the universe, the last star will extinguish, ending the stelliferous era and dramatically decreasing the universes habitability, in one more step in an apparently endless decline. Statistically, based on current physics, we might expect infinitely more times of a decayed state, a 'heat-dead' universe, than an active stelliferous one. The anthropic principle requires, that for us to be here now discussing this, there has to be a mechanism to start things off, and it had to be in such a 'fine tuned' way, in this timeline/universe, that sufficiently complicated states could occur for biological evolution and minds to occur, observers. Given the 22 constants that needed to be exactly at or 9+ decimal places close to their measured values for this to happen, it is speculated many universes may have happened with different laws, but there was no possibility for an observer to ask questions, so it is like they don't exist, are beyond a kind of mental event horizon. Of course, that would make the current something even less likely than the average nothing, even though it places us by necessity in this bit. The question becomes, why is there this kind of complex something, rather than simpler more chaotic and stabler states which from our perspective is equivalent to nothing. 

Interesting question. Antonio Damasio is a neuroscientist who explicitly mentioned strange loops in his TED talk on the search for the origins of consciousness. Having a look on his Wikipedia page it seems like various of his papers touch on strange loop ideas, but indirectly. I found this paper on the tax implications of corporate cross-ownership, which means indirect self-ownership, with a formal treatment referencing strange loops $URL$ This article does a great job of highlighting strange loops as being key to the work of Wittgenstein, Nietzsche & Rorty, and is all round just a great read $URL$ Though I guess it doesn't strictly meet the OPQ Autopoeisis, or self-replication and maintenance, in biology and especially abiogenesis. As a simpler 'special case' of a strange loop, and by making definite predictions about relational complexity, and entropy, it is a more testable and evidence-able concept. Not sure how much it has been though. There are at least a few papers on strange loops in abiogenesis though, which surely count as formal treatment $URL$ And an interesting article on the contributions of fractals to biology, which widens the biological loopiness $URL$