I had this same situation and what I did was rather than look for payment perks, I attempted to get other benefits as part of my package. Some of these for me included: 

I don't think programmers need peace and quiet any more than anyone else. I believe that like people need like environments not matter what their area. It just so happens that programmers tend to need to concentrate on tasks and so quiet helps best facilitate that. Sales people might need to talk and receive immediate feedback so this tends to lead to a more vibrant environment. In saying that though. A development team in an agile environment might have a number of different professionals all in the same room and so interaction between the various parties would be constant and encouraged. Pair programming could also add to noise etc In your case, I think it sounds like two different environment requirements trying to share the one environment. An exam situation has totally different requirements to trying to get work done when interaction is a must. 

The ultimate person responsible in my opinion for morale building is the top honcho. YOU! However you can delegate this down the chain to ensure it is being addressed to those you think might fit the bill and have a more on the ground feel for how things are going in the team. However you set the standard (expectations) and those assigned specific tasks then try to implement and see them through. For other tasks it can depend on your relationship with your employees and their job allocations. Sometimes I've seen the person responsible for dealing with the bills, office tasks etc take on the role of employee welfare. For bonus setting it might be a senior manager/person who leads the gathering of this information and all the donkey work but gets any final sign-off by yourself Although these roles can be done by one person I would think your company size is big enough (but not so big for a full time HR) that it may be split between individuals concerned with you still having the ultimate say if and as required. 

Try getting a job with an multinational company that has an office in France, and prove to them you can do good work, before requesting a transfer to the office there. Then you'll be seen as much less of a risk because the company already knows how you do working for them, AND you may have teams/projects in other offices you continue collaborating with remotely, still adding value to the company there. 

Yes, by submitting a strong application. If A told B that A was going to apply and B misheard that or misestimated the time delay for when he should shift temporal tenses, that's an understandable mistake B made. If C notices an inconsistency, it could be attributed to B rather than A, but would still be a minor matter compared to the actual contents of the application. If it is a big deal to C, C could ask about it at an interview, but probably they won't care, once they get your application. 

In short, it depends on your contract and the laws governing your jurisdiction (which is not specified as of when this answer is posted). However, it is possible that they are not required to pay you for the two weeks, especially if they have the right to immediately terminate your employment at any time. It's common for employers to require employees to give them two weeks' notice so the employer isn't suddenly and surprisingly short-staffed when they have time-sensitive obligations to fulfill. The employer doesn't have to use this 'benefit' if they don't want to; here it appears they don't. You, apparently, had the option of continuing to work at the first firm indefinitely but gave that up voluntarily because you apparently don't want that benefit of continuing the employment. Call the second firm and ask about moving up your start date; you might be able to get started earning at the higher salary sooner. 

Generally I think referring or recommending someone for a position is a risky business. Essentially you are putting your reputation on the line in that how they perform may reflect on you. I would suggest never recommending or backing someone unless you were confident in their abilities and had a complete grasp of their work ethic. If you believe you have this then by all means put in a word in the right ear. I think in this day and age I would consider recommendations from existing employees (especially if I value their contributions) go a long way to selecting a condidate for a position. I think you have done well to say send in your CV, but perhaps make it clear that you are not reponsible for the actual hiring process etc Perhaps say the HR have some fairly strict processes everyone needs to follow but you could have a talk with the brother and give him some pointers. It might also give you a chance to sound him out! If he is a slacker and you have referred him then yes, I would imagine it will reflect badly on you in some context. FYI. I once recommended and got a good friend a position. I knew he was a hard worker and he ended up being an excellent worker. He in turn got another friend a job but that guy ended up being a bit of a slacker. He said to me that he regretted recommending him as he felt it reflected badly on him and other co-workers talked about him all the time how bad he was. It put him in an awkward situation both in the workplace and in the social scene with this friend. Although your situation is a brother of a friend it too might put your friendship in a potentially strained situation if things don't turn out. Just be prepared for that and try and maintain a work / friendship seperation if you can with your friend. 

Here is the most charitable explanation: If the interview goes well, they may be hoping that you'll be signed on as a new employee by the end of the visit. I would not find this especially surprising for a job in retail, for example. If it's for a role where quick sign-on would not be a reasonably expected outcome of even a very positive interview, the most charitable explanation is that they are trying to verify legal permission to work early on, to avoid later delays and/or avoid going through the work of making an offer to someone who can't actually start work and do the job. As other answers indicate, this is probably illegal, but starting out with an adversarial tone citing legal specifics is unfortunately unlikely to enhance (and more likely to hurt) your odds of actually getting the job. You might be able to ask the recruiter directly, what the documents are needed for and if they're really needed at the interview specifically. Would they really deny an interview if you showed up without those documents (especially if you'd asked in advance, instead of just appearing forgetful or unprepared)? Probably not, but it can be useful to ask for the reason. They might also understand if you don't have those paper documents handy and would have to get them out of storage etc., assuming you indicate you'd be able and happy to do so before starting work there. Is the interview at a controlled facility, for example a part of the US government? I've been to controlled facilities where visitors must prove citizenship just to get into the building and into an office/conference room (for an interview or any other purpose), and visitors or groups which included non-citizens meant having to change the meeting venue and convincing the hosts to leave their own space for that alternate venue. 

It's not a flaw. It's just the environment you need to function at optimum. However, others need other ways so unfortunately you will need to learn to bloke out noise as and when required in many situations. Headphones is the typical method of choice I believe. 

Asking them to check in their code as I am waiting on a piece of functionality that I know they have completed. I just ask to be notified when this has happened so I don't have to constantly check. They tell me they are checking in their code right now but nothing happens for a while. When I quiz them after a period of time they say they are doing it just now and suddenly it's done. I ask if they could send me some information on their task as it's related to what I am doing and would help me in my work at the time. 

Of course it's acceptable to decline, but be prepared to accept the consequences of your actions that this may occur. Such as 

Be explicit in your CV, and honest in your answers about any queries they might have during the interview or over email/phone. If you are what they are looking for then you will know when you get the job there will be no issues with anything in your past. Otherwise you may potentially have this lurking over your head and you may always wonder "what if they find out I took two years off". If they reject you because of this then accept that and move on. You can't change your past but you can project the new type of person you are (or wanting to be) going into your future. Concentrate on portraying that while accepting your decisions and actions of your past. Good luck.