In my experience, as a mountain biker of 20-years, you want to seek weight minimization and distribution. A heavy pack (assuming a non-trivial ride length) is going to cause your lower back to hurt, make you hotter (back can't breathe), and put additional stress on the palms of your hands - all of which become more problematic the longer you ride. A heavy load on the back of your bike (rack or carrier) will interfere with your front-tires ability to remain in contact with the ground - making climbing and steering more difficult. A heavy load on the center of your bike and lower down will cause your bike to feel more sluggish - harder to turn and make for a less enjoyable ride. First and foremost, ask yourself what you can get rid of. Consider carrying patches + 1 - tube instead of 2 tubes. If you know you will have streams in the area, get a good filtration bottle to lighten the H20 load. Can you learn anything about the vegetation that will allow you to eat local plant-life to reduce the food you carry? Do you have high-end clothing that is both light and protective? You weren't really specific so these may be off base. The point is to be really creative on how you can carry less. No matter where you store it, less weight will always feel better as the ride gets longer. Also, you might consider a bike trailer. There are some really nice ones (example) that minimally interfere with your ride and will do a much better of carrying your gear comfortably than trying to put it all on you or your bike. SteveJ 

Consider the question in the terms of basic physics. Essentially, the magnetic pull of the earth and needle's magnet creates a torque on the compass (wheel / disk / needle etc. ) causing it to rotate. In an ideal compass, the torque meets only dampening resistance - you don't want the needle to move too quickly or you will get an oscillation while hunting for steady state. Thus, the needle will move until it has zero torque placed on it (pointing north) In a non-ideal compass (a real one), there is some amount of force that counters the rotation of the compass (generally friction). The greater that force, the more potential error that a compass may have. This is true because the force of the earths magnetic pull produced the greatest torque when the needle is at 90 degrees to it. As the needle gets close to pointing north, the exerted torque from the earth reduces. Eventually, the torque exerted by the earth is not enough to overcome the frictional force (s) and the needle no longer moves (even though it is not pointing north). Thus, your reading will be in error. Cheaper compasses will have a greater frictional component. Often, this component is a function of the angle at which it is held - making the inaccuracies harder to predict. A good compass will be manufactured with emphasis on reducing frictional forces and will often have a level to help you keep the compass flat while performing readings. I can't speak to what the price point difference is between good and bad. I can say, though, that a compass has a very specific purpose - to help keep you from getting lost. Do you really want your survival to depend on the lowest bidder? 

This might be a tricky question because it probably depends so much on the river/water source. In this particular case, the stream I'm considering is one that flows well and pretty cold year-round, located in the Adirondack Park of New York. It's not in total wilderness but in a pretty remote area anyway. I and others don't consider it potable without treatment, but I wouldn't expect to die from drinking it and wouldn't be surprised if I was perfectly unharmed by drinking from it for a weekend...though for that matter, I wouldn't be surprised if I was pretty harmed by doing so - yet to do any water quality test on it. 

A major challenge in both of these cases is limited visibility due to forest thickness. In that case local topography can be hard to gauge and you really need some familiarity with overall topography trends beforehand. Otherwise you are much worse off, but still trying to use the guides already mentioned is better than wandering aimlessly in search. And of course, an ounce of preparation is worth a pound of cure. Bringing a topography map can make this process way easier, and bringing enough water can make this process unnecessary. And even if you find water, you'll sure want to have at least sufficient containers (or ability to make them) if not also purification methods available. 

As Ben noted in an answer, "the body doesn't spend the whole night coming into thermal equilibrium with its surroundings." Where the body needs to focus its energy is important because if your body is busy heating your core to avoid death, then your fingers and toes can't get as much warming attention and will be more likely to go numb and eventually become frostbitten. Thus, keeping a comfortable core temperature without expending extra internal energy to do so will help keep your fingers and toes a little warmer. (Consider how a proper jacket can help your overall comfort in cold weather, especially if you get blood flowing in your hands and feet. That warming blood flow lasts longer in my extremities if my core is well insulated than if my core is rapidly losing warmth. Related to that, I always think of the need to relieve yourself before bed at camp as related to muscles and energy expenditure with them. If you need to pee and are holding it in whether consciously or not, muscles are working to do that. The blood and energy going to the muscles that are keeping you from wetting your sleeping bag, could be going to your fingers and toes. That said, the real scientific answer is in biology, and is beyond the outdoor experiences I've had and been advised by. 

This really depends on what part of the world you are in. There are leeches in Australia that live in wet undergrowth (fronds, plants, etc) next to trails. When anything edible walks past they grab hold and start feeding. You don't even notice them until they drop off and the bleeding starts (since they inject anti-coagulant and numbing agent). I've experienced this myself, it was common when we went hiking in the rainforest to have multiple leeches on us by the time we finished the hike and you would have no idea they were there until you rolled up your trousers. In my experience they don't drop down onto you though, they wait in bushes beside the trail and grab on as you walk past. This is why you generally get them on your legs, and not anywhere else. 

When I was a child (probably about 10) I had a small herd of cows all run down the hill towards me as I was crossing the field. They didn't look aggressive and there was no bull so I just stood still and waited since I was in the middle of the field so unlikely to be able to outrun them. They stopped and milled around me for a bit, while I spoke in a calm voice and then without moving quickly stroked one of them. Then they all moved on. Maybe they thought I might be carrying food but they seemed curious more than anything else. I wouldn't recommend it in all cases but it certainly worked in this one. 

The outside of a tent is designed to get wet, the key trick is to keep everything else dry. You will want to pitch the outer first and only then add the inner. The other answer has covered that well. Some more general tips though is to have a look at the base of your inner tent and see how waterproof it is. A lot of ground sheets are not waterproof at all. If you pitch the tent onto very wet ground then the water will come up through the ground sheet. There is nothing you can do about that once it has happened, however if you take a sheet of plastic with you (just any old plastic will do) and put that down under your inner tent it will add another layer of protection between the water and your sleeping bag. Make sure you have sleeping mats of some kind between you and the ground as well, again that helps to keep you dry. You will also want to put in a rule about no wet stuff coming into the inner tent. Wet boots, muddy trousers, etc should all get removed in the porch or they will end up covering everything inside the tent. 

This list not only applies to what to prepare with beforehand, but also with what you need to put into practice to address the situation. Refer to this checklist in times of peace and challenges, and if you do both you'll probably get out of a disaster painlessly. 

For example, I'll make steady progress up to a point I've pre-determined on the map since the last time I stopped to check the map (and maybe even planned before I embarked on the trip). I'll get to the point I expected to arrive at, usually a mile marker or some natural landmark, and I'll check my time and how I'm progressing through my day's planned checkpoints. All the while, I'm returning to a very comfortable breathing rate, I'm making sure I'm hydrated and ready to go to the next checkpoint. In some cases, taking breaks as orienteering checkpoints also helps me recognize when I'm not on track, either because I'm not comfortable estimating my location to a spot on the map, or because I'm going too slow (or too fast) and should adjust my goals accordingly. Better to calmly realize and note these course adjustments needs ahead of time in calm conditions than later on with more pressure and potentially worsened conditions. 

An option to separate yourself from the ground: you could use vines, or some other means of cordage, along with some tree poles (lengths of wood ~2in diameter) to setup a bed-frame and a cordage-mattress. This will probably take a lot of time and cordage. I've never tried it, but have seen examples of it. Bushcraft-hammock-esque. 

Ultimately I think we can make an educated guess that all summer camps end with a ceremony. The ritual or wrapping things up, providing closure with some reflection on past and a look to the future, is common for these sorts of things. It defines an ending point which is logistically and emotionally important. Are these ceremonies all award ceremonies? To answer that question - definitely not. Award ceremonies can facilitate a closure ceremony, and add a fun dynamic to the reflection. Awards also give something for campers incentive to strive toward during their time at camp if they know it is coming. There are other ceremonies camps use to wrap things up however, and those as well as award ceremonies all differ from place to place (each camp developing its own unique style and subculture).