The optimal skin track angle is a subject of much debate in the backcountry skiing world. There are generally two schools of thought on skin tracks. The steeper the better 

A lot depends on where you live and where you ski, but unless you've got solid enough skiing skills to manage ungroomed terrain at a resort, you'll struggle a lot backcountry skiing in a typical situation where AT or telemark gear would be used. There is an entire range of gear from relatively light XC touring gear to full on Alpine setups that can be used for touring in the backcountry. The trick is to pick the gear that most closely matches your current skills and the terrain you plan to ski. Without knowing more about your situation, I'd suggest spending a season focusing on improving your alpine skills and then maybe look into getting an appropriate AT setup. Learning on AT gear is not really a great idea. The release mechanisms aren't anywhere as near as reliable as regular alpine bindings and the gear is built around the idea that it's for relatively expert skiers who don't fall often. While it may seen cheaper to just get one AT setup, alpine gear is often much cheaper. New AT bindings often twice the cost of basic alpine bindings. It's also much easier to get used alpine gear that is still in good shape. If you decide to stick with it, you can later have AT bindings put on your alpine skis. Or even get a plate that will allow you to switch bindings easily. This question is almost impossible to answer without a lot more details about where and when you are skiing. It's also very important to get some appropriate Avalanche education if you are venturing into the backcountry. 

I'm trying to figure out how many cannisters of isobutane to bring on a 5 day family backpacking trip. I figure we'll boil about 1.5 gallons of water per day (use this as a unit of measurement: gallon of water to boil). So, to simplify: Let's assume 8 oz of isobutane (or whatever unite you want to use) 

How can detect, in the outdoors with minimal equipment, if I am dehydrated or need electrolytes? Update Some background: I get overheated very easily, possibly because I don't sweat as much as most people around me (in the same conditions). When I get overheated I get migraines. I found that Hammer Strength Enduralytes (electrolytes*) really help with the Migraines. It'll basically keep a headache from turning into a migraine. I may just be overheating but I thought that perhaps I was low on electrolytes. 

I'm planning to use a butane "canister stove". The only canisters I can find locally are Butane/Propane mixes. My understanding is that Propane canisters are extra heavy b/c Propane is under higher pressure. Are Butane /Propane canisters heavier then other Butane mixes? 

use the backstep I don't know if that is the official name. It's what we called it. It's intuitive but it's incredibly effective to give you more reach. For supporting yourself on left foot and right hand: 

I am a side sleeper. I use a v2 Klymite pad but my hip still hurts during the night because there isn't enough vertical room. I'm considering: 

If you are starting facing the wall. Rotate your hips to the right so that your left hip is against the wall. Step up with your left foot. Put nearly all of your weight on that left foot. Keep your right arm straight so you weight is on you skeleton (pulling on right arm) Use your right foot to push against the wall to help your hips stay pivoted against the wall. All of you weight is now on left foot and right arm. You can use your right foot and waist to rotate your shoulders to the right which pivots your left (free) arm really high. See the photo. His weight is mostly on his left foot. 

The best solution I found was spectra webbing for the tree wrap and dyneema cord. You don't want to wrap trees with a thin cord as you can easily cut into the tree and damage it. The Amsteel cord found in sailing shops is an easy way to get dyneema cord. 

Breaking Strength The rule of thumb for rigging is that the breaking strength of the rope should be roughly 15x the static load. That's something in the 1300 kg breaking strength range. Probably overkill for a hammock over a soft surface, but if you plan on pitching over rocks or in more precarious locations is worth investigating. Also, the tighter you rig your hammock the more the load on the endpoints is magnified. Stretch The standard nylon cords available stretch signficantly under load and even more when they get wet. Even "static" cords like paracord can stretch. For a hammock, even a little stretch can be a problem. 

6 of one, half dozen of another. A lot comes down to how easy it is to hike in the ski boots you are using. The problem with hiking is that it only takes a short stretch of unpacked trail to lose any gain in time and you can't take advantage of any brief downhill stretches. Even with skins you can get a bit of glide. On the other hand, if the trail has been boot packed, skinning can be difficult and in hard crusty conditions, boots and crampons are generally faster. I'm not sure I buy the 1lb on the feet vs 6 on the back argument. If you're moving your skis up and down that much, you need to work on your skinning technique. Also half the time, half the weight of skis is just resting on the ground vs you having to support it. 

If you're really above the treeline you don't have a lot of options. However the best thing is to make yourself as small as possible. This means you should squat down. (The same way you use a squatting toilet). To even improve this, you should only place a small piece of your foot to the ground. The reason for that is, that you should try to minimize the contact area between yourself and the ground. So, if possible stand on your toes. If you have a backpack you should throw it away. At least some dozen meters should be enough. Also throw away all metal things you were on your body. Especially if you're a mountain engineer it is a very good idea to throw away your pickle and don't forget to dismount your climbing irons. The things above you can do if the lightning storm is directly above you. (You can check this by counting the seconds between the lightning itself and the thunder you here. If you can't recognize any time difference between the visual lightning and the sound of the thunder, the thunderstorm is directly above you). If the lightning is a little bit further away (the rule of thumb is: 3 seconds between the lightning and the thunder is 1 kilometer distance from you), I would try to 1) go down as fast as possible 2) or go to an area where you're not the single thing on a relatively flat surface. So a forest would be a good choice, but no single tree! 

Every time I go camping and it starts to rain, I can't sleep anymore because the raindrops that fall on the tent causes a really loud and annoying sound. Is there any technique or tool to avoid or at least decrease that sound?