A proper reductio ad absurdum argument relies upon the fact that if a premise is true, an absurd conclusion would unavoidably follow. The word "unavoidably" is key; if any step is not logically forced by the previous step, the entire argument falls apart. In the scenario at hand, the premise (that there is an illegitimate bias against "rich" defendants) could be true without the "absurd" statement (that no factors other than a defendant's wealth are even considered) being true. Consequently, the absurd statement does not follow from the premise, and the premise is in no way invalidated by the absurd statement. Indeed, the argument is so poor as to suggest the person making it might not be debating in good faith. 

When an issue is debated in good faith, it is possible for both participants in the debate to come away with a better understanding of the issues than they entered with. When one or both participants debates in bad faith, the other participant is far less likely to benefit. Note that there is a difference between playing devil's advocate versus arguing in bad faith. The former hopes that by arguing a position contrary to his belief, he will cause the other person to better articulate his beliefs (and those of the devil's advocate) than either person would be able to do in the absence of the contrary argument. By contrast, one who argue in bad faith hope to make his victim believe things the bad-faith arguer knows to be false, in the hopes that the victim will engage in some action which is detrimental to the victim but beneficial to the bad-faith arguer. That fact that a person engages in hypocrisy does not prove that the person's arguments are not valid, however it a sign that the person may be arguing in bad faith. If someone has no interest in good-faith debate, arguing with them will be a waste of time. Although the validity of a good-faith argument will not be affected by the character of the person making it, the extent to which an argument is worth considering is fundamentally dependent upon whether it is made in good faith, and that will often correlate strongly with the character of the person arguing. 

Mathematics as a concept may not be value-laden (it's debatable whether concepts or objects of any sort can or cannot have intrinsic value), but mathematics in practice certainly is. Ask any professional mathematician which of two proofs or axiomatic frameworks is more beautiful and the question will make perfect sense to them. Since beauty implies a value judgement, mathematicians must have values in regards to axioms and proofs. But axioms and proofs are all that mathematics is! Put simply: if art is value-laden, so is mathematics. 

There are already quite a lot of good math-based answers here, but this is the SE for philosophy, so I'd like to offer a more philosophical one. I think the most interesting part of your question is: 

Let's look at an example you may be familiar with: say there's a train car with a dozen passengers headed off a cliff. You can redirect the car to a safe rail, but there's a person tied to the tracks. The question is, should you switch the car to the other tracks, or let it be? An outcome-focused agent would decide what to do based on the consequences of their decision (how many lives will be saved?) A rights-focused agent would decide what to do based on a set of personal moral guidelines ("thou shalt not kill," the Golden Rule). A virtue-focused agent would base their decision on the kind of person they hold as an ideal (what would Jesus do?) Note that which perspective you take can influence your decision, depending on the circumstances, but doesn't necessarily determine it. It should also be apparent that these three approaches are complimentary, not competing: since you can't have an ethical problem without an agent, actions, and consequences, all three perspectives play a role. Certain perspectives can be more useful in some situations than in others, but in general which perspective you choose to base your decisions on is largely a matter of preference. 

It's 3AM, so I'm unsure how much sense this makes. Probably not much. But I hope this helps. Possibility vs practicality In light of your comments, I'd like emphasis a point that so far may have been implicit. I believe your line of reasoning is this: If we'd have to regress ad infinitum, we'd get nowhere. This is absolutely right. To make it as bold as I can, knowledge depends on stop-conditions. Euclid's proof of the infinitude of primes is a proof alright, but only for being based on some mathematical axioms, which are its stop condition. We must stop somewhere on our way in, in order to get results back out. But this doesn't make infinite regress impossible, it is simply impractical. Alice By way of analogy, consider you walk in the woods and suddenly see a door. You open it and see stairs. A white rabbit pops from the bushes and says: 

One of my favorite answers to the brain-in-a-vat hypothesis is not a direct refutation, but rather the argument that even if we are brains in vats, it doesn't mean that all our beliefs are false, or that the reality we know is "a lie." Specifically, it frames the hypothesis as a metaphysical one, on par with (and, in fact, related to) the questions of mind-body dualism, creationism, and empiricism. See the full argument here: $URL$ 

Consider two points on the surface described by . Is there a line on that surface that connects them? Imagine two airplanes flying in the same direction 500 miles apart. If they both go straight, will their flight paths be parallel? If I have a drop of water, and I add a drop of water to it, how many drops of water do I have? Our "natural intuitive interpretation" of mathematical concepts is highly context-dependent. If you're talking about apples, then 1+1=2, but if you're talking about drops of water 1+1=2 doesn't make any sense. If you're talking about flat surfaces, Euclidean geometry follows naturally, but not all surfaces are flat--and I don't just mean that we live in three dimensions instead of two. 3D space itself can be curved! Euclidean geometry, like Newtonian physics, seems intuitive and natural to us because it's simple, and it's a good approximation of how the world actually behaves most of the time. However, that behavior is not a necessary fact. In a universe where physics worked quite differently, I doubt the inhabitants would find such things as obvious as we do. 

If someone is suggesting that some action is being done so badly that doing nothing at all would be an improvement, that person is suggesting an alternative solution: doing nothing. If someone is suggesting that some action is being done so badly that it would be worthwhile to seek out improvements, that person is suggesting what might be an alternative solution (it may be that solutions were sought out and the current action is the best that was found, in which case the suggestion might be equivalent to what's already being done). If someone suggests that an action doesn't seem to work as well as people apparently think it does, the person's initial interest may be in finding out whether that perception is correct. If everyone thought the problem worked better than it actually does, and as a consequence there had been no efforts made to solve it, that would suggest that research toward a solution might be helpful. It the problems were well-known but efforts at solution had failed, that would suggest that earlier research should be examined as a first step before setting out on a new course. Merely knowing that something seems bad isn't very meaningful unless one can show that it's worse than it needs to be. The fact that something seems bad may be sufficient to justify having others look briefly at the issue, and in some cases that may be very useful, but should have little meaning beyond that unless one can show that it's needlessly bad. 

Your question rests on an unexamined assumption that leads to a false dichotomy. You seem to be arguing that, assuming we could derive a complete deterministic model of the universe,* we should be able to use that model to predict and subsequently contradict our own actions, thereby proving the model false. The assumption in this case is that deriving the model is the difficult part, and using it is the easy part. What if the reverse is true? There doesn't seem to be any evidence to indicate that even a perfect deterministic model of the universe would be usable for any practical purposes, even if it were 100% complete and valid. For instance, it might be the case that the model could perfectly predict your own actions ten seconds from now, but that it would take a minimum of thirty seconds to make the calculation. Or it could be the case that the model works perfectly as long as the initial state is known, but it's impossible to fully know the initial state.** Either way, there's no longer a paradox. So, while your example does suggest that a deterministic model of the universe could never be used to predict someone's behavior, it does not necessarily follow that a deterministic model does not exist or cannot be described. *As others here have pointed out, our current understanding of quantum mechanics suggests that this is not the case, though not necessarily for the reason you propose. **In fact, this is the case. 

Takeaway: for an argument to be reasonable, the premises have to be reasonable, and the argument valid. Infinite regression Let me give you an argument to tinker of: 

OK. Seems like a reasonable argument, but note that this in itself depends on an axiom - that there are only 3 ways an argument can go. But lets assume the 3 way axiom is reasonable. Now you argue: 

This is an infinite regression alright, but it's nonsense as well - humans don't create other humans. Biological processes 'do'. We are merely hosts for a biological phenomena. You have to be careful when using the word create. Does a carpenter create chairs? Language is fuzzy and abstract - a carpenter merely converts one form to another. The end result can be seen as having been 'created', but really, its just about cutting wood and assembling it in a particular way. Now you'd be a famous person had you managed to prove that infinite regress is impossible. For all we know, perhaps the most empirically tested paradigm we have is cause and effect - break it once and science will be reduced to a pile of nonsense. All these talks about initial singularity are based on general relativity, which is by many seen as fit to explain the early universe as Newtonian physics was explaining the orbit of mercury (both are phenomenal theories of unprecedented utility, but neither is all-encompassing). Notwithstanding, lets play along - lets just assume that infinite regress is nonsense. Stop condition A stop condition can be many things. An axiom or justified belief, for example. Now stop conditions are not evil. In fact, they are highly practical. Consider this: 

As described in this excellent essay, every ethical situation has three elements: an agent making a decision, the actions taken (or not) by that agent, and the outcome of those actions (or inactions). Thus, there are actually three different possible perspectives on ethics: 

because the answer is a surprising "yes!" It just isn't the coin that's doing the remembering. Suppose I flip a fair coin ten times and get the result 'TTHHHTHTTT'. Now suppose I flip the coin another ten times and get 'TTTTHHTHTH' instead. Nothing unusual so far. But wait! Each of those two sequences is actually very unusual--in fact, the chances of either one are exactly the same as the chances of getting heads ten times in a row! An outcome like 'TTHHHTHTTT' only seems more "random" than ten heads in a row because your brain unconsciously throws out information about sequence. To our brains, the two outcomes 'TTHHHTHTTT' and 'TTTTHHTHTH' both just look like "messy jumbles of 'T's and 'H's," even though objectively speaking they are completely different. So the reason you have an equal chance of flipping heads or tails even after flipping nine heads in a row, is simply that the two sequences 'HHHHHHHHT' and 'HHHHHHHHHH' are just as likely to occur as any other sequence of ten flips--that's the "fair coins have no memory" part. But what about the other part? Where does the law of large numbers come from, if all sequences of flips are equally likely? I mentioned earlier that your brain unconsciously throws out information about sequence when looking at outcomes like 'TTHHHTHTTT' or 'TTTTHHTHTH', and this is why those two results look so similar. Well, the law of large numbers works because it does exactly the same thing! The law doesn't predict the exact sequence you'll get if you flip a coin a large number of times--rather, the law takes the total number of heads flipped, compares it to the total number of tails, then extrapolates that ratio for longer and longer sequences of flips. As far as the law of large numbers is concerned, the sequence 'TTHHHTHTTT' is exactly the same as the sequence 'TTTTHHTHTH'--or, for that matter, 'HHHHTTTTTT'--because they each have six 'T's and four 'H's, and that's all there is to it. So in fact, the law of large numbers does imply "something that remembers"--otherwise there would be no way to keep track of the totals. The trick is that the "thing that remembers" is you! The law of large numbers relies on your memory for you to derive and make use of it. So in answer to the final part of your question, you might say that the "causality of probability" is just your expectations acting on past results: instead of saying the coin's fairness "causes" it to come up tails 50% of the time, you would say that your previous experience with fair coins causes you to expect the coin to come up heads or tails equally with each flip. (This is the general view taken by Bayseian probability, a fascinating branch of mathematics and one of many possible interpretations of probability.) 

Impossibility If it is impossibility we debate, then cause and effect couldn't serve as a better example - we have all the evidence in the world such principle is in effect. We haven't got a single evidence that there is an effect without a cause. In other words, infinite regress seems much more reasonable (possible) than any 'natural' stop condition. The same principle is in effect elsewhere (forgive a few leaps): 

It's a bit unfair to take a word like god, the semantic of which is fairly understood, and demote it to something that only constitutes a first cause. What's the point doing this? The concept already has a title - first cause. Imagine I walk in the street and this girl walks to me and say: 

Hume has argued the paradox of miracles in his famous Of miracles. The short version goes like this: 

What is a thought? I propose that thought is perception without sensation--that is, a subjective experience of a sensory event, minus the actual stimulation of that sense. By that definition, then, the only thoughts that require voices are thoughts of voices. Granted, those types of thoughts are quite common (for me, at least), but there are other kinds, too. If you think of a song, the thought is of music--not a voice. If you think of an elephant, the thought is (probably) of an image--not a voice. If you think of pain, the thought is of feeling--not a voice. Even words can be pictured rather than voiced if we imagine writing them out (though mentally "voicing" written language is often so reflexive it may be difficult to avoid!) Unless you equate thought with mental voices as a tautology, I see no reason why thoughts should necessarily be dependent on voices. 

On the nature of science As a closing remark, I hope we have a shared understanding that science is not concerned with deriving at absolute and independent truths - science is about adopting the most rigorous tools at our disposal to approximate patterns. 

(The skeptics will surely have their say on this, but this is manageable alright.) The commutative low for addition is another axiom that serves us right. Anyhow, with circular reasoning being nonsense, and infinite regress out of the question, all you have shown is that arguments must stop at some stop condition. Let's put this to the test: 

Now. Would going down the stairs be impossible or impractical? If the stairs are indeed infinite, would it be impossible for a thrown ball to fall down infinitely? 

OK, we have a stop condition, it's even god itself. But is the argument valid? Is it reasonable? Now consider this argument: