Everything is about Money. So you need to show that the machines will pay for themselves better then what you currently have. One way to do this is to determine the average spent per employee on their machine compiling code, AND other functions which take time. Do it for a week or two (or a month), get a report from each engineer of the amount of time involved. Then work that amount of time out for the year and equate it to lost productivity. Example: Let's say each engineer compiles their code 10 times a day. So you have lost 20-30 minutes per engineer a day. Let's pick the average and say 25 minutes per engineer. That works out to 4.5 days a year per engineer is lost productivity. For 6 engineers that is 27 days of productivity lost. 

You should be aware that there are companies and people who study how office desks are placed as a science. Your blocking is a good demonstration of why it is a non-trivial thing to do. Before anything had been done, every employee should have been taken into account. Some questions you need to ask. 

The one that has the most visibility is going to give you the biggest bang for your buck. If the recruiters can't see it, they can't see if they can employ you. Also most online CV systems give an option to save to a document. LinkedIn for example will allow you to export to PDF from the "Edit" profile button (dropdown menu). The structure generated matches a CV. What you are going to see in the future is more data mining of the shadow you leave on the internet. For example, questions answered/asked in StackOverflow. So systems that allow you to focus the recruiter to this information easier is good to have. That said, if you are explicitly targeting a particular role in a company, then a personalised CV is the best way to go. HR/Recruiters may still scan your data shadow. 

You also run the risk of crippling yourself with a salary which does not reflect the cost of living where the job is. For example the average SWE salary in Massachusetts is $104K while in Ohio it is $85K. (reference) 

Each of you add a random value to your current salary. A writes down their total and hands the paper to B. B adds their total and gives the new total to C. C adds their total and gives the new total to A. A removes the random amount they originally added and passes the new total to B. B does the same and hands to C. C removes their random amount, then divides the value by 3. 

You will find that after a while people will only come to you once they have anticipated all your possible questions. Also the GROW model can help find a solution for someone, even if you don't know the answer. 

As mentioned already change all your passwords. There should be no expectation of privacy on company resources. Although that may vary depending on what country/state you are in. So the next thing to check is if this is authorised behaviour. So I would go to a senior manager (or security department if you have one) and explain the situation. If it is authorised monitoring then you need to live with it. I doubt very much it is based on what you described, as they would just give him an admin account to your machine to monitor/review. The main point is, if someone is liable to circumvent the security process to access resources under another users details, they are liable to do it to others as well (ie. your CEO/senior management). That should be the point you are getting across, not that you have an issue with the team lead directly. 

Everything you mentioned you are doing is undermining your Bosses position. It can also be seen in a negative light which can later impact your career (eg. Going over your bosses head). Your role is to action what your manager needs done. That said, it is not to follow blindly. If there are issues in the direction the manager is going, bring them to the manager in private. Ask for clarification on actions. Don't just say "This is wrong" if you feel something is going in the wrong direction. Managers prefer if you have explain the solution and how they can help you achieve it. If they disagree with you, roll with it and follow the required actions. Again, do this in private. If you want reading material on this I recommend "Lead your Boss: The Subtle Art of Managing Up" by John Baldoni. 

Another aspect for this is "Mirroring". This is where he will copy your body language. As you don't smile back, he may be mirroring back the same response. It's not easy to see if this is the case. Normally you have to be aware of your body language as you watch his, and be aware of the conversation/surroundings. 

So your issue can be detailed into the area of "Managing upwards". It's one of those things that people rarely get training on. First and main point is. This person is now your boss. Not the CEO. As such there are rules when dealing with a manager (to get what you want). Breaking these will almost guarantee damaging your relationship. 

In some countries this can lead to litigation by the employee. Actually in some countries the companies can't even comment on the employee beyond "They worked here from X to Y". If you are looking for material to read up on. I recommend "Lead your Boss: The Subtle Art of Managing Up" by John Baldoni. 

You need to expand on how you got the SkyPE chats. If it is a case you used their machine without their permission, you are liable to get fired. On the other side of the coin, depending on what country you are in. In harassment cases it is the company that gets sued, not the person who made the racist statement. So HR take this stuff seriously. So here is what I recommend. Go to HR. Tell them that you do not want to pursue what you are about to mention, only to bring it to their attention. Mention that you been told by others that various racist comments were directed about you (no exact details were given). Be adamant that you do not want to mention who told you, as they were embarrassed about it. Also as it is hearsay, you don't want to come out and accuse the people mentioned. Rather that you would feel the department would benefit from non-harassment training to prevent this from possibly escalating. 

Have you actually done this yet? This is how your manager can see what is and isn't realistic. When creating it you need to stick to the following. 

You are both hired to complete a role, you are not hired to like each other but you are required to act professional to each other. First never assume malice. The majority of the time the person in question can be oblivious to the damage they are causing. In such an instance, talk to the person in private first. Explain that you didn't like the comments. That it is undermining you in front of your peers and you want it to stop. If they have an issue with your work, they should take it up with you in private or discuss with your manager and CC you. Explain that if they continue to do this, then the next discussion will be with a manager/HR present. This will stop 99.9% of such instances. If a comment is made after that point, rather then attacking the point you can say "Didn't we discuss this in private?". If he continues still, then at this point you are dealing with harassment. Document all instances with date/time and 1-2 lines explaining what happened, what was the outcome. After a week or so, send the list to your manager and explain you want this to stop. If your manager does nothing to resolve the situation, then send it to HR (with updated history). Depending on your country, it is the company that gets sued not the employee doing the harassment. So HR will take such instances seriously (and firing you is generally not an option). At this point though I would check your local laws as well.