Vultures however are rather big, bigger than eagles are. One eagle would be rather intimidated by a large gathering of vultures, it was looking for a safe opening for it to swoop in and get a bite to eat. 

I'd cut my brush shorter long before I'd take the time to try drilling it. But If I was serious about going ultra light, I wouldn't pack a normal/modified toothbrush at all, I'd take a finger brush, either a reusable one: 

The equalette is the evolution and combination of the cordalette and sliding-x. It makes up for the short comings of each system, while incorporating their strengths to produce a more SRENE anchor. One of the criticisms of the cordalette is after you've tied the master knot, you have potentially poor equalization if you deviate from your set direction of pull. The sliding-x anchor offers auto-equalization, but at the expense of adding friction and elongation to your anchor system. Equalette: The below image shows an example of an equalette, it looks complicated at fist glance, but the strength of an equalette is that you can tie it with any combination of clove hitches and other knots to meet your needs given the availability of anchors on the rock, it's not necessarily meant to be tied the exact same way every time. For example, if you have four or more placements, then you can tie into them all using clove hitches vs using a figure eight on a bight on the third anchor in the image below. You adapt how you tie your equalette to your given situation. 

Young rattlesnakes are more deadly than large rattlesnakes, the reason being because when they are young they are more likely to strike, but more importantly because they can't yet control their venom. As a result, when they bite, they inject all their venom instead of just a controlled amount. At what point is a snake mature enough to control its venom? I know that rattlesnakes can't rattle until they've shed their skin a couple times, so does that mean if it can rattle then the snake is less deadly? 

Breath through your teeth, that's what we'd do when cycling in NW Ontario, the bugs are horrible there year round. I've inhaled more than one mosquito in my life time, now I just grit my teeth and put on a psycho smile if I'm breathing hard while moving fast through bugs. Of course this method doesn't prevent bugs from getting in your teeth, so you have to "clean the filter" every now and then (lick the bugs off your teeth and spit them out... or swallow them), and you look somewhat ridiculous, but it works well, and it's something you can do on the fly vs having to wear something over your face. Another option that looks equally as ridiculous is to suck in your chin and cover your lower row of teeth with your lower lip, then stick your upper lip out and down as if you're trying to kiss your own chin. This prevents bugs from flying straight into you mouth, and if you have a bit of a beard or even just a little scruff, you can use that as a filter so you can't even suck the bugs in. You tend to slobber a bit with the beard filter method... 

First of all, trekking poles will change the way you hike forever. They are a luxury that saves your legs a lot of exertion, sparing you a lot of energy, allowing you to enjoy yourself that much more. Trekking Poles have a lot of features that XC pole lack. 

Oh there are lots of fish in there. I grew up only 70km from the glacier that feeds the Elk River, and I've spent a lot of time up at the lakes just below the glacier. In the winter, the water is crystal clear, the clearest I've ever seen in my life. After spring run off however the water turns grey with all the limestone rock flour from the mountains, and it stays that way almost all the way through the summer, then it goes green. Fishing in those lakes at those times is almost pointless if you're fishing with a cast and lure. The fish just can't see the lure through the murk. Ive been fishing with fish jumping all around me in those lakes and not so much as had a bite. Fly fishers have more success because their fly leaves a shadow on the water, which can be seen from below as a dark spot in the light on the surface, and the fish recognize as food. Most all lakes in the mountains are stocked with fish, that much is true for the Canadian Rockies at least. The flour actually does more to help the fish in those lakes than it does to hinder them. In mountain lakes fish are primarily preyed upon by raptors, bears, otters, and other critters. In the turbid waters the fish are safely concealed so they can't be spotted by predators. People out here will actually dye their private ponds so the fish can't be seen to protect them from birds of prey. If they don't then the eagles and hawks will snatch all the fish out of their ponds in no time. 

Every year, we did absolutely nothing to help them out, and they always did just fine. I did think that I could have helped a bit by giving them a couple worms when I poked my head in to take a look. Every time they'd hear something near by the nest, they'd pop they're heads up with their mouths open, which appeared to take a lot of exertion when they were small. I tried finding caterpillars and soft bugs for them to eat a couple of times, but while I was looking, Mom would always show up with a mouth full of grubs and sit on the fence waiting for me to leave so she could fly in and feed her chicks, so I just let them be after that. 

I made a hiking "wheelbarrow" out of an old external frame backpack by bolting a pair of swoop handle bars to the top, and a Monty BMX wheel to the bottom. It was pretty awesome, I made it for an older gentleman who wanted to come backpacking with us but had a bad back, so couldn't carry a pack. He hardly had to push his bag either, because all the scouts we were taking on the trip wanted to take turns driving it. I don't like the two-wheel design of that thing linked above, because it'll bounce around too much side to side. My one wheel bag could steer through the roughest terrain and even go over large rocks and logs with ease with that fat Monty tire. Unfortunately though, the AL frame of the backpack wasn't sturdy enough to take a serious beating with a full load, we had to reinforce it on the trail by lashing a couple of steel spikes to support the fort of the wheel where it attached to the frame of the bag, and we discovered that the push bag wasn't ideal for keeping your sleeping bag dry when it came to creek crossings. It's a good alternative to carrying a bag if your back can't support a bag, but you'll have other challenges along the way, like crossing plank bridges through marshes, or scaling over obstacles like fallen logs, big rocks etc. 

My brother and I were out backcountry sled-skiing yesterday, and my brother froze his feet in his new ski-boots. We were sitting at just above 2000m, my brother had his boots off and was trying to warm them up with hot packs, sticking them inside his mitts, and even resorting to putting his foot right on the can of his sled while it was running. After failing to get his feet to warm up, we tried going for a run up the mountain with our alpine touring skis on to get his circulation going, but didn't get far before deciding it would probably be wise to get back to civilization before things got worse. View from Grizzly basin near Elkford, British Columbia. When we got indoors and warmed his feet back up, they were white, hard, and swollen; some research determined he had second stage frostbite. What are the different stages of frostbite, and what is the best way to treat each stage when you're on top of a mountain? 

The Russian army wore portyanki (footcloths) up until the ministry of defence abolished them in 2008. There's an interesting article about them here, the author of which apparently wore portyanki for 695 days in the army.1 How to put on footcloths: 

The thing with Via Ferrata routes is how long you take often depends on the size of your group, their fitness, and how comfortable everyone is with heights and using their gear. I've seen people at a crawl on some simple via ferrata lines that provide some assistance on high exposure parts of popular hikes. They have both hands on the cable, bodies as low as they can get them and close to the rock, terrified of the drop to their side, while others would comfortably walk past them without even touching the line. Not everyone is going to do the route in the same amount of time, you need to take the average and apply that to your level of speed and fitness, but you also need to factor in the possibility of traffic jams, you could get stuck behind a slow group. If I were you, I'd give myself a lot of extra time, get an early start, plan on somewhere around 4 hours and see how you do.