In the Advaita Vedanta, which was already a fully developed philosophy at the time of Plotinus, all is One, all is Brahman (the word Brahman does not refer to a particular ‘being’, it refers simply to something very large). But there are two aspects to the One. There is Nirguna Brahman and Saguna Brahman; the first be the inactive principle – Brahman without attributes, the second the active principle- Brahman with attributes. But they are one and the same. The great Hindu saint Sri Ramakrishna (Gospel of Sri Ramakrishna, p 343) said 

The closest description of Brahman is Satchidananda which literally translates as Existence Knowledge Bliss Absolute. But even that is only describing the outer layer of Brahman so to speak as Brahman is beyond all words. All you can say of Brahman is "neti, neti" - not this, not this (meaning whatever you can put into words or experience cannot be Brahman) Sat is translated as Existence, not 'Being'. Sri Krishna says "It is the Supreme Brahman, which is without beginning and is said to be neither being nor non-being." (Bhagavad Gita, Chapter XIII, verse 12, Swami Nikhilananda translator). All you can say of Brahman is - Brahman IS. After 40 years of study and numerous readings and studies, the most widely accepted translation of Sat is Existence. It can be translated as being, but the use of the word being in English can lead to more mis-interpretations than the word existence. As far as a sanskrit term that might approximate letheia, it may be 'maya'. Maya is ignornace obscuring the vision of God (Brahman); the Cosmic Illusion on account of which the One appears as many, the Absolute as the Relative. Maya is that which covers Brahman and makes us forget our true nature as Brahman. 

The earliest instance known is from the Rig Veda (verse 1.164.46) several thousand years B.C. It says "Ekam Sat Vipra Bahudha Vadanti" - "Truth [meaning Supreme Being or God] is One, men call It by various names". There are several other references in the Rig Veda to both monotheism and monism. 

You are assuming that by becoming a hermit that the hermit has become separated from society and separated from having an effect on society. All effects and interactions with society are not on a physical level. There are many examples - Christian, Hindu, and Buddhist, of hermits that have profound effects on their societies. From a Christian perspective read The Imitation of Christ by Thomas A Kempis, The Interior Castle by St. Teresa of Avila, Dark Night of the Soul, or The Philokalia for hermits that have profound effects on society. There are Eastern references as well. 

Brahman is by it's nature consciousness, it permeates everything. Krishna says in the Gita - "That by which all this is pervaded know to be imperishable.." (Gita 2.17) and "And whatever things there be...know they are from me alone. I am not, however, in them; they are all in me." (Gita 7.12) In other words, Brahman, ultimate consciousness, permeates everything and everything exists in Brahman, but from a relative standpoint, all things do not have a relative consciousness and all beings are not aware of their ultimate consciousness. 

Your Subjective Reality is called Brahman, or the Self, in Vedanta. Sankaracharya says in his short treatise on the Advaita Vedanta - Atmabodha (Self-Knowledge) [Self-Knowledge by Swami Nikhilananda] verse 6 - "The world filled with attachments and aversions, and the rest, is like a dream: it appears to be real as long as one is ignorant, but becomes unreal when one is awake." and verse 7 - "The world appears to be real as long as the non-dual Brahman, which is the basis of all, is not known. It is like the illusion of silver in an oyster shell." and verse 8 - "All the various forms exist in the imagination of the perceiver, the substratum being the eternal and all-pervading Consciousness, whose nature is Existence and Intelligence. Names and forms are like bangles and bracelets, and the all-pervading Consciousness is like gold." To answer your question - Are there some rational arguments to disprove this as explanation to everything? - The Advaita Vedanta gives rational arguments to prove your Subjective Reality as the explanation of everything. In Sankaracharya's various writings he gives rational arguments to various arguments trying to disprove the Subjective Reality. Another good source is Jnana Yoga by Swami Vivekananda 

To argue that the ethics and morality of Taoism are similar to the Christian is a rather simplistic argument. All the great religions teach similar ethics and morality. Taoism is a non-dual tradition, very different from the monotheistic tradition of Christianity. David Loy writes in Nonduality: A Study of Comparative Philosophy: "The first section [of Chapter 3] argues that the Taoist paradox of wei-wu-wei (the action of non-action) is a description of such nondual action. It is highly significant that the same paradox is found in the other two nondualist traditions, clearly enunciated in the Bhagavad-gita and more fully developed in the Buddhist account of the Bodhisattva's path." Western academics consistently try to show non-Christian religions as either 'pre-Christian' in their ethics and morality, derived from Christian influences, or not up to snuff with Christian ethics and morality. There is a good book on the distortions that are done by Western academics. The book is called Invading the Sacred: An Analysis of Hinduism Studies in America. THe book is available as a free download here - $URL$ 

Many Western religions practiced in general are faith based. Eastern religions are not faith based. They say - find out for yourself. Eastern religions say that you can realize the truth in this lifetime, you do not need to wait until you die to find out of there is a God or not. You can realize the truth in this very lifetime. Question everything. If something cannot be proven, reject it as superstition. If someone saw God many years ago, how does that help you? If something is true and has been experienced by one person than other people should be able to experience it also. See God and then you can ask Him what is true and not true. There are mystical traditions in both the East and the West that teach you how to see God. In the 8 Beatitudes Christ said 'Blessed are the pure in heart for they shall see God'. He didn't say when you die. Make your heart pure, and then you will find out. This purity of heart is taught in both Eastern and Western mystical traditions. There is no superstition or belief involved in making your heart pure. 

It has been many decades since I read deChardin's book The Phenomena of Man. What struck me most at the time was how much his whole theory seemed to be a rewrite of the early 20th century Indian mystic Sri Aurobindo, yet he gave no credit to him but presented his theory as his own. A few decades later when I read Gould's book and the sections on deChardin's involvement in the Piltdown scandal, I wasn't surprised. 

Societal mammals, which you can include us in, have some sort of societal structure (elephants, chimpanzees are examples) that will take care of those members that are weak or ill. Equal opportunity programs are a way for us to help the weaker members of our society stronger, and thus society in general becomes stronger and thrive more. It's in our own selfish interests to see others thrive. 

All knowledge is circular within time, space, and causation. Knowledge is pigeonholing a new impression with old ones. When we try to pigeonhole our perception of the universe we cannot do it, as we have no prior associations to compare it (the universe) to in our minds. So with God. All that we can perceive of God is only a part (and we all perceive God differently), just as we can perceive only a part of the universe, all the rest is beyond human recognition. There is much more to this universe than can be perceived by human senses and human consciousness. That is why we see God as imperfect, and do not understand Him. The only way to understand Him is to go beyond reason, beyond consciousness. We can make as many, and perhaps more, logical reasons and arguments for atheism as for any type of theism. We can even say that atheists are even more honest than theists as they admit that they cannot see a God in this universe. Real religion lies not in belief but in being and becoming. If atheists are right and there is no God, what is the use of doing anything of any moral value in this world, or of doing anything that does not fulfill my own selfish animal desires immediately? If there is a God, what is the use of doing anything in this world but trying to experience Him (or It) now? God is beyond the sensual world; control the mind, cut off the senses. The answer lies beyond the sensual world and cannot be answered by argumentation in it. 

Mathematics can only answer limited questions. All mathematics uses deterministic equations, there is no non-deterministic mathematics. We can only solve for 1 variable while holding other variables constant. This is not how the real world operates. The classical three body problem in physics is an example of this. Other examples are flow dynamics and chaos. 

I think to classify Zarathustra's influence on the West as through the Greek philosophers is limiting. I think the real influence was his influence on Judaism and consequently the entire Abrahamic tradition. Persia had a much greater influence on early Palestine than on the Greeks. Zoroastrianism had the concept of the good and evil god and the fight between the two. Swami Vivekananda (1863-1902) in his writings refers to Zarathustra's influence on these very points and points out it also had a small influence on early Hinduism, but the concept of the good and bad gods was also rejected by Hinduism very early on. An interesting side note is some word etymologies; the English word devil and the Sanskrit devi (literal translation 'shining one', loose translation 'god') and both are derived from the same same source as did the English word paradise (heaven) and the Sanskrit paradis. I don't remember if they were both originally from the Sanskrit or from the Persian. 

In Nonduality: A Study in Comparative Philosophy, David Loy mentions the following in his Bibliography for Daoism (and also notes that there isn't a lot of literature available): 

That feeling is the feeling that there is an overall Perceiver, and it is not from the outside, it is the innermost part of every person. Swami Vivekananda says on this (Complete Works, V7, p 54-55; also here under the heading Inspired Talks, sub-heading Wednesday July 17 - $URL$ 

What then is Plotinus’ contemplation? Brahman, the Impersonal Principle (Plotinus’ Intellectual Object), is beyond time, space, and causation. There are no words to describe Brahman as all words are within time, space, and causation. The nearest description is Sat-Chid-Ananda, which literally means Absolute Existence - Absolute Knowledge – Absolute Bliss. Brahman is Pure Consciousness; but Brahman does not think, what will It think about, what is unknown to It? When we say that Brahman is Absolute Knowledge what is trying to be described is - Awareness. Plotinus in using the word Contemplation is trying to describe Pure Consciousness, Pure Awareness; consciousness and awareness of being without thought. All of nature is filled with Blissful Awareness. Since it is a timeless unwavering Awareness, it is described as Contemplation. Swami Vivekananda has described the word contemplation to mean “Continual attention to one object is contemplation.” When you see an image of Shiva/Shakti together (representing the Nirguna and Saguna aspects of Brahman) their eyes are oftentimes locked onto each other - representing the “Continual attention to one object” or Divine “Contemplation”. Plotinus' Contemplation is the Divine Awareness of Itself.