ASA Softball: Fair or Foul Ball 1 and/or 2 apply in your example. The blogger is directly referencing the rule book with this listing, but the link in the blog is outdated. 

The puck has to entirely cross the line. If it happens to be on edge, and all of the puck is across the line, how is that not entirely across the line? The disposition of whether it is a goal or not has nothing to do with it's final resting position. Many pucks entirely cross the line, strike the netting or a back post, and come back out. One that hit a part of the top frame, deep, might never touch the ice, at all, while across the goal. And yet, those goals all count. Why? There is nothing in the rule that specifies any eventual position on the ice as part of the criteria. All of the puck being physically across the line is just that. What it does after being entirely across the line is meaningless, because there is no requirement for anything else. 

If you mean - does that make them the only winning team never to lead during regulation time? While the play time stopped with the score, technically, the score happened at that time, so they were officially leading during game time (the last official second of the game), I believe. The answer is yes. Since no other Super Bowl game has ever gone to overtime before, that means all other winning teams led during regulation time. 

Say Team-A has a certain score and Team-B is batting with 4 balls remaining. Bowler gives a no-ball. It starts raining heavily and play is stopped immediately with 4 balls (including the free-hit) remaining. Now match result has to be decided based on Duckworth-Lewis Method. Let us take some hypothetical state where: Case (1) : If Team-B has 4 normal balls, it looses. Case (2) : If Team-B has 5 balls, it wins. I know that these two cases have happened. Does Duckworth-Lewis consider a case like the following ? Case (3) : If Team-B has 3 balls and 1 free-hit, it wins. Stating it another way : Is there a numerical value attached to free-hit, which can change the outcome of the final result ? Intuitively, Case (3) is better than Case (1), so Duckworth-Lewis should consider it. 

I have been watching cricket on tv for years and have occasionally seen the commentary box. Usually, the camera will be behind the commentators and the image will show the commentators watching the match from a small room, and the players will also be visible. There may be a change of commentators (somebody moving in and somebody moving out) and even then, we could see the field. More-over, commentators will be talking about events which are not visible to tv viewers, meaning it is happening outside the range of the camera. This type of video "proves" that the commentators are in the commentary box. Here are 2 views of general "proper" commentary boxes: 

Also, if you're on cold water (even if the air temp is comfortable), you may not be able to roll. There is a phenomenon of your breathing stopping suddenly when you get your head into ice-cold water. In several of these cases being able to roll is not the solution to the problem. Again, being in a group is a much better safety measure. Never paddle alone on open water. And before you go in a group ensure that everyone can reenter the kayak with help from others. For practicing, get near the beach with a group of people who all can safely and quickly reenter the kayak (as you posted for yourself). All of this group must be able to use buddy techniques to reenter the kayak in groups on calm water. (E.g. one stabilizes while the other enters). Then practice one after the other reentering with waves. First time you do this ensure it's a place with lifeguard on duty and/or boat access. In addition, learn to read the weather, and weather forecasts. By the way: If you cannot roll, wear a dry-suit! It helps you stay warm. Never risk hypothermia. Depending on the difference in water temperature and air temperature it's hard to wear clothing to survive 10 mins in cold water while avoiding a heatstroke while paddling normally. I cannot roll my sea-kayak, and usually paddle on a small river (6m width). But I still paddle until the water starts developing ice. I start wearing a drysuit in autumn, when the water gets below 10C because on a rainy day no-one would notice me drifting in the ice cold water. It does not take long to bring your body temperature down to critical levels in 4 C water. Good luck and lots of fun! 

The catcher stands where he does, for an intentional walk, to give the pitcher a big, fat, easy target so far out of the strike zone that a player could not lunge and hit it with the hope of decent contact without leaving the batter's box. This insures that the batter can't twart the intent of the intentional walk and get a hit, instead. If the pitcher is sloppy and the batter can reach it, there's nothing that prevents the batter from taking a swing at it. Likewise, there's nothing that would stop the pitcher and/or catcher from changing their minds and throwing strikes. 

If you think about the math, suspending a starting "field" player for five games prevents that player from contributing to his team for the next five games. If a pitcher was only going to be able to contribute in a meaningful way for that one start over that period, a five game rip, even though it really only affects one start, still has the same result of the player not being able to contribute for five games. Plus, you never know what might happen. If the pitcher is slated to start game 1 and they have to move to a temporarily shortened rotation (Game 3 pitcher gets food poisoning), it could cost him two starts. If they get into a marathon extra inning game, that pitcher is not available to pitch to a single left-handed batter in the 18th inning as the manager perhaps would have wanted. In any scenario, the same net effect of not being able to contribute to five games holds. If you had a non-pitching bench player who was a backup and used mostly as a substitute or pinch hitter, how would that be evaluated for suspension for involvement in a bench-clearing brawl? Would they also require a different kind of calculus? Generally, with rules, the simpler they can keep it, the less subjective it is and the less opportunity for controversy over arbitrary treatment of one player vs another. 

I have a complete solution, but the key part is that the title of this question has a wrong assumption. Core Puzzle: 

The title is not part of the original problem ; It is a wrong assumption that no runs have to be conceded. Along the lines of your partial solution: Wicket 1 is "Retired Out" Wicket 2 is "Timed Out" Wicket 3 is "Run Out (Mankading)" Now the batsmen can do 3 things which give 5 penalty runs to fielding side : Waste time (ball not even bowled), Damage the Pitch (ball not even bowled), Steal a run (may be one ball bowled) Let us select the possibility of Wasting time. After this happens, the fielding side score will be 255, the batting side will require 6 runs to win, with 6 balls remaining, with 7 wickets remaining. Bowler gives a 4 wide balls, which wicketkeeper blocks : 2 runs to win, 6 balls remaining, 7 wickets remaining. Now bowler gives another wide ball and wicketkeeper fumbles, so batsmen try to take a run. When wicketkeeper tries to throw the ball to the bowler, the batsman obstructs his way, hence Wicket 4 is "Out obstructing the field". Status : 1 run to win, 6 balls remaining, 6 wickets remaining. Wicket 5 is "Bowled" Wicket 6 is "Caught" Wicket 7 is "Leg Before Wicket" Wicket 8 is "Hit the ball twice" Wicket 9 is "Hit Wicket" Wicket 10 is "Handled the Ball" Status : Team A 255 for 9 wickets, Team B 255 all out, Team A won the match by virtue of losing fewer wickets. [[ Penalty Runs for fielding side : $URL$ ]] [[ 10 Ways to get out : $URL$ ]] 

I would say, technically, the umpire can do so, but there is usually a more formal process vs off the cuff, which seems to have been followed here. So, this brings up the larger issue of what we mean by "little league." A relatively informal kids' T-ball league? The earliest iterations of pitched baseball, meant mostly to get kids interested and having fun? More competitive leagues that are looking to qualify for the eventual World Series? It makes a difference, both in how they want rules applied for that league, and the amount of experience and formal structure there is to the umpires organizations that officiate the games. If it's the lower levels, do you really want to crush a kids' spirit because he got so excited about hitting his first-ever home run, a game-winner, that he missed third base? Do you want the other team to "earn" their win not through play on the field, but a technicality? As the kids get more experience, we expect them to understand the rules, follow them more tightly, and to understand the consequences, but if we're talking about 7 or 8 year-olds, it would be a horrible thing to be that pedantic about the rules and to look to win games on that kind of a technicality at that level. It sends all the wrong messages about sports to kids, IMO.