Its all relative when evaluating investments: A) It might be risky but pay a relatively high return. It could be the case that the local interest rates are high even taking into account a potential devaluation, or it could be the case that the investment is denominated in foreign currency, in which case the devaluation doesn't change the principal (although it does change the likelihood of default). Typically currencies appreciate after the central bank increases the rates in local currency, as foreigners are willing to tolerate more risk when the return goes up. (The "Sharpie ratio" is one way to measure the return relative to riskiness.) B) The country can be temporarily uncompetitive. That is, if investors think it will be relatively better later on (less uncompetitive ), then they will be willing to bet on the country. (In other words, $R=(Dividend +Future Price)/Current Price$, which means that even if you expect low dividends or interest payments, your expected return could be high because the expected future price is high. 

The way you describe this object (I will call it a coin) it exists in some finite quantity with no reasonable substitute and no new coins can be made. Suppose before you go on the proposed endeavor the world starts with a Pareto efficient allocation of these coins. Additionally, assume the act of destroying a coin has no impact on how much other owning these coins value their collection. This implies a few things: 

These facts imply that you can never make money in your endeavor. When you buy a coin you will pay a price equal to the lowest valuation of anyone that already has a coin. But after destroying the coin you haven’t changed the price because the marginal buyer is still the same and has the same valuation. You can repeat the process and pay a higher price for the next coin, but you still haven’t changed the valuation of the marginal buyer, so the market-clearing price will not change. This conclusion relies on two assumptions, which may not be true in the real world. If the initial allocation isn’t Pareto efficient, you could make more money simply acting as a broker, buying coins from people with low valuations and selling them to people with higher valuations (since the coins are clearly less valuable after you destroy them). This could even pay for your travel. It’s more complicated if valuations are impacted by your act of destroying the coins. In this case, you could make money, but it would be difficult to determine ahead of time. As a buyer/destroyer of coins you can observe the total number of coins, the number of people who own them, and the market-clearing price of coins. That price tells you nothing of how the preferences of people with valuations higher than the market-clearing price change with each coin you destroy. For example, if you destroy a coin and the market-clearing price goes up by $100 it may be that everyone increased their valuations or only the marginal buyers increased their valuation. Predicting how prices would change after each coin destruction given what you observe would require assuming the highest-valuation buyers behave similarly to the marginal buyers, which can be a stretch. 

Apparently, China made substancial investments in infrastructure and commodity extraction in several African countries over the last couple of decades. Is there some econometrically sound evidence of the effects on growth or other economic variables? See this, for example: CNN posting on Kenyan Railway 

Although it seems that it necessarily boils down to the idea that labor is very, very cheap for some reason or another, it is often the case in these situations that workers unions, somewhat perversely, will block the firm´s replacement of labor with capital, in order to keep the workers employed. 

More recently, the famous growth theorist Paul Romer came up with a renewed set of facts New Kaldor Facts paper. The most salient ones are that: 

I' m not sure its a law, its what has happened because manufacturing productivity has moved faster. Indeed, the robot economy might well get rid of most service jobs and we'll all be making or programming service robots for each other. It's related to this paper Buera-Kaboski, Rise of the Service Economy But here are some potential explanations: 

You seem to be concerned with two separate concepts here. Your graphs show the incidence of the tax, or the changes in producer and consumer surplus in the face of the tax. A second and distinct issue is pass-through of the tax. This is the portion of the tax, measured as the difference between price and marginal cost, that is paid by end consumers. In perfectly competitive markets (like you have drawn here) pass-through will always be 100%, the difference between the price paid by consumers and marginal cost will always equal the amount of the tax. This is not the case if, for example, suppliers have market power. Pass-through of a tax by a monopoly producer may be less than or greater than 100% depending on the shape of the demand curve. 

Indeed, a lot of the marginality conditions cannot be used directly in the presence of discrete choice levels, or fixed costs of adjustment. There are many: number of children, working or quitting, number of cars, paying the fixed cost of adjusting capital, consuming or selling durable goods, number of hours worked, workers hired, units produced, delivery trips, etc. Marginal conditions are an approximation to reality. Economists would argue that for a plant that hires 1000 workers, we can think of the decision of hiring the 1001 worker as best though of as adding a marginal until of labor. There are a wealth of studies into these topics: Scarf's K convexity and the S-s inventory replenishing policies, Caballero and Engel's Fixed Costs of Adjustment of Capital, etc. A book that tries to unify some of these ideas is "The economics of inaction". From a dynamic programming point of view, there are two useful intuitions that might help: a) In the presence of fixed costs, the firm's policy function is discontinuous and the value function is continuous and convex, but not smooth; b) the problems with fixed costs are best split into two: do I act? If I act, where do I go? Empirical studies use this last intuition to argue that if you want to study marginally optimal capital investment decisions, you should look at situations in which firms have decided to adjust their capital level. Presumably, after paying the fixed cost of acting, firms will choose a marginally optimal policy. 

There are two ways to measure inflation within an economy. The Consumer Price Index, and the GDP deflator. The Consumer price index measures the value of a basket of goods across multiple years with the base year basket of goods being valued at 100 and another year being valued at the percentage increase of the total basket of goods from the base year. So if a basket of goods cost in 2009 (The US current base year) and in 2016 the CPI for 2009 would be 100 and the CPI for 2016 would be 110. The GDP deflator is calculated by calculating (Nominal GDP / Real GDP)*100. Where nominal GDP is simply the total value of goods produced in an economy in a given year and real GDP is the value of those goods produced in an economy in a given year at the price level of a base year (also 2009 in the US). These methods give different values. CPI is a better measure for how inflation effects consumers assuming the bundle basket of goods is what is assumed the average consumer consumes and GDP deflator is a better measure of how inflation affects the overall economy and industry since it applies to all goods that are produced and not a somewhat arbitrary bundle basket of goods. Despite the differences they both are highly correlated with eachother and provide a decent measure of inflation over time as you can see by this graph: