It should be noted that from the 1920s to 1930s the girls school uniform is undergoing a transition from traditional Japanese clothing to a more European style. Some schools might still sport hakamas for girls in the 1930s. You could see the transition here: $URL$ And if interested, you may read a section from this book to read the social context: $URL$ 

The incident you asked I suppose is the Westphalia treaty, or the Peace of Westphalia (1648). In the field of international relations the treaty is widely acknowledged as a big turning point in European history, as it established each nation as a sovereign states which hold sovereignty under its own. It happened before the Enlightenment era and closely related with all the religious discontent that sparked Enlightenment. Before Westphalia, politics and religion often intertwined. People follow state leaders in the same way they follow their priest. Secular conflicts is seldom far away from religious conflicts. As such, the Pope, as the holder of highest position in religious matter, often acted as the prime authority in dispute between states. This changed with the rise of Protestanism, as @T.E.D. suggested. Pope no longer have the authority to settle dispute between states as there are several powers which did not recognize Pope's authority. Conflicts between states kept going on, until it became the war now known as The Thirty Years' War, the conflict between Catholic states vs Protestant states. The Peace of Westphalia was born directly from the war. Europeans realize they need to maintain a stable international political system without direct involvement from religion. This is supported by the Enlightenment zeitgeist that religion should be less involved in politics. There they have thinkers such as Thomas Hobbes and Montesquiue, whose ideas later developed by Thomas Jefferson (of USA). 

As always, the uniform would differ from one school to another school. But in the Showa period (1920s-1985) school uniforms is highly characterized by a strong influence from the military - especially the navy. Japan had been in rigorous military transformation since the start of Meiji period (1868), and it is reflected in the education system it produced - on creating youth with a strong character. Gakuran is the standard uniform for boys. It has a clear militaristic influence from the design. It is still used by delinquent groups nowadays to replicate the past militaristic glory. While for the girls, the standard uniform is the nowadays popular sailor fuku (seifuku). It's a tad different from the contemporary imagery of seifuku though. It still has a clear navy influence. 

I'm not sure it was military revolution that drives industrial revolution. There are several theories which try to explain the cause of industrial revolution. Barrington Moore, for example, proposed that it was the rise of the merchant class and the fall of feudalism which leads to mass production (which will lead again to three different political systems, but that's different story). But to answer your question, I suppose Martin van Creveld's theory may fit. He wrote in Technology and War: From 2000 B.C. to the Present (1991) and several journals. His basic assumption is: military revolution will always lead to a change in civilization. It is possible because a military revolution always involves military innovations: the change in organization (the way units is arranged, leadership, etc), the change in strategy and tactics, and the most important, the change in technology. Technological innovation is often firstly used for the need of the military. Like how railroad was used in the 19th century, and internet in contemporary times. Later then it would be adapted for civilians use (which explains the link). 

Begin my imprecise answer which was correct about origin but incorrect about the exact coin. This appears to be a coin from Nepal. Searching details of text and era. You can see a similar commemorative coin here: 

You answered your own question in the very first line. That is because the US declaration of Independence was ratified/approved on 4th of July. What you say is correct, the declaration itself was voted on by Congress on 2nd of July. You are also correct that John Adams thought 2nd of July would be the most memorable day in American history as he wrote to his wife in a letter: 

So it is clear that Muslims are forbidden to swear unless they swear by God. And speaking by my own experience, I have never heard any Muslim swearing by beard of Prophet nor have I read about it in accounts of many Muslim Generals, Rulers as I have deep interest in Oriental history. Even after specifically searching for the term I could not find it being used by any historical figure at all. But I have seen Muslims swearing by Quran however even though that itself isn't permitted in Islam. I have also seen Muslims swearing by their mothers or graves of their fathers. But such behavior is frowned upon and a habit to swear is discouraged at all levels. In conclusion, no, there is no evidence supporting that any Muslim in recorded history used that swear. 

Ismail I's hatred for Sunnis was known to have no bounds. No wonder he sought to destroy them altogether in his domain when he got power. One of the main reasons why Ismail and his followers pursued such a severe conversion policy was to give Iran and the Safavid lands as distinct and unique an identity as was possible compared to its two neighboring Sunni Turkish military and political enemies, its main enemy and arch rival the Ottoman Empire and, for a time, the Central Asian Uzbeks — to the west and north-east respectively. Particularly, since the elite Qizilbash army was of a Turkic origin, fighting Turkic Ottomans would have caused a major uprising among them. Hence conversion to Shi'ism was a necessary step in deepening the enmity between Safavid and Ottomans. The Safavids were engaged in a lengthy struggle with the Ottomans — including numerous wars between the two dynasties — and this struggle continuously motivated the Safavids to create a more cohesive Iranian identity to counter the Ottoman threat and possibility of a fifth-column within Iran among its Sunni subjects. The conversion was part of the process of building a territory that would be loyal to the state and its institutions, thus enabling the state and its institutions to propagate their rule throughout the whole territory. By aligning religious interests of the general populace to that of the ruling dynasty (Especially as Iran was surrounded by Sunni states from all sides and thus was threatened), Safavids ensured continued loyalty of populace as they would have been seen as bulwark of Shiism against onslaught of Sunnis. 

How did the PMs change so quickly? Let's take a look at why did the PMs leave the first time this happened: 

I know this question seems a bit absurd, so let me preface this by saying that it stems from a 1994 history-based edutainment game titled Mario's Time Machine in which the main character travels back in time to various historical periods. While it's obviously not the most reliable source, it is supposed to be an educational game, and I've yet to see the game get something completely and utterly incorrect (though it occasionally mixes up when certain events happened for the purposes of relaying information to the player). This is an in-game image of the character who claims to be the King of England (without providing a name), as well as the relevant line of dialogue below. This is the full script between the main character and the self-purported king. To sum up the script, he is in attendance of one of Michael Faraday's Christmas lectures, and he makes special note of the fact that it's for "juveniles", indicating he is some sort of youth (at the bare minimum, I would consider that to be someone younger than 19, which is probably too generous). He also idolizes Faraday to the point where he is more interested in being a scientist than the king. As the player can only travel back in time to 1831, this year is certain. These all seem like really specific details that would easily narrow down the king's identity, but I've come up with nothing. The then-reigning king at the time was William IV of the United Kingdom, who took the throne when he was 64 in 1830. His brothers include George IV of the United Kingdom, who was the previous king until he died in 1830, and Ernest Augustus, King of Hanover, who was born in 1771 and thus far too old. The same story goes for all of the children of George III of the United Kingdom (William IV's father): either they had already passed away or they were too old to apply. Even William IV's children would be just too old to qualify. The royal family trees that I've looked at have given me no help. If I attacked this issue from the opposite direction and looked at any kings or heirs around this time period who were connected to Michael Faraday or science in general. I've thrown every combination of "king", "england", "science" and "faraday" into Google and hoping for the best, and I cannot find anything that's relevant to what I'm looking for, let alone anything that directly answers my question. Ignoring the time-traveling premise, this game is supposed to help its players learn about history. Either it somehow got this fact completely wrong or it intentionally lied, and both possibilities seem rather odd. At this point, I'm morbidly curious about this more so than anything else. Is there a kernel of truth anywhere to this? 

While there's already an answered question here about Marco Polo and fireworks, he is often credited with being the first Western record of many other innovations. One website, for example, credits him with "porcelain, coal, gunpowder, printing, paper money, and silk." I have not had the opportunity to fully go through Marco Polo's accounts, but some preliminary searching has left me feeling confused. To use coal as an example, there are accounts of coal being used in Europe before Marco Polo came back from his journey - although it only became widely used many centuries later, it was still present. In short, how many of Marco Polo's accounts are actually apocryphal?