You friend should consult a lawyer, because it seems to be dependent on your jurisdiction. Wikipedia says: 

You really are between a rock and a hard place. I suggest you take a few days off or arrange a weekend without disruptions to think about a strategy. This is nothing you can solve overnight. Authority can come from two different sources: Power and Respect. Power as a source is obvious. If you can fire them, they will obey you. This is the authority most managers have. Respect as a source means your team knows you are doing the right thing even if they may disagree at times. If you know their job so well you can do it yourself better than they could they will respect you and trust you to supervise them. It seems obvious that you have neither source. That is a big problem. It might not be your fault, but that does not change the magnitude of the problem. You should ask your manager, what your authority over your team is. Don't let him get away with phrases or management by proxy. Ask him if you have the power to remove someone from your team. A "no" is a fine answer, just get an answer. You should ask yourself if it is a reasonable goal to be on par with your team and overtaking them in knowledge of their tech stack in a few weeks or months. Think about it realistically especially concerning your health issue. Based on those conclusions, make a battle plan. What is your base of operations? Power or respect? If you have neither and can gain neither, your plan will fail. If you have one or can gain one, assume you have it and plan further. How will you use it and to what ends. Power for example is dangerous. People don't like to be forced and your plan might well include building a whole new team. Make sure this actually is a victory condition. Destroying your old team might get you sacked. Now to be honest, I don't see an easy win here. Respect is very hard to get and Power is not going to help you with this team, best case is it helps you get another. If you come to the conclusion that you cannot realistically win this fight or if winning it would be a Pyrrhic victory, you need to think about an exit strategy. You should not fight battles you cannot win. A few things you could do to exit this situation: 

Yes. You definitely need to know your job specific vocabulary. What would you think if you car mechanic talks about "that runny-runny-thingy that makes the car roll"? Personally, I think that asking for two specific patterns and nothing else is very short-sighted, I would have expected more questions. But in general, I think those were good questions to see if you can develop professional grade software as a senior. Communicating the concepts you use is a part of the job and explaining those concepts to more junior people is something that can be expected from seniors. 

Short answer: No As for the long answer: there are probably libraries full of books about this. You can read some of them. GPA (or any kind of grades) are certainly an indicator, but you cannot reliably predict anything from them. I have personally witnessed the top performing employee in a company never having been to college. Go figure. 

Please note I don't believe in diagnosing people here. I'm not a medical professional and even those would never do so remotely over the internet based on a few lines of ASCII text. My answer assumes you do what you do of your own free will. If you ever find yourself in a position were you cannot (instead of want not) act the way you want to act, please get help from a professional. Don't be afraid to ask for help when you need it. 

You provided this method of communication. You gave him your phone number. You are responsible for this method of communication. If your phone is broken, it's your fault. Nobody else can change that. That said, phone calls are not a good way to communicate asynchronous messages. You cannot send a document by phone call and calls are mostly inconvenient. The chances of actually calling when the other one has nothing better to do are slim. So preferring email is normal. But it is your responsibility to make that clear. Don't provide a broken line of communication in the first place. A personal note: I'm working in IT. When a candidate has a broken phone and does not give me a replacement number, that would be a big red flag. How is he to handle the tasks I assign, if he cannot find a way to fix his own phone? Even if it means sending it in for service. But just leaving it broken would have me thinking about his ability to do the job. So next time, state clearly that you want email communication. If you need a phone number, provide one that works. You are under no obligation to pick it up whenever someone calls, you are not a call-center. But it should be working. Preferably with a way to leave a message should you not pick up, so you can return the call. 

"Refusing" a hotel seems so negative. Just call them and tell them you could live with your brother for the time of the interview and ask how to handle that. If they insist on the hotel (maybe because handling your exception costs them more than the hotel itself) that's cool. Book the room and use it. If they don't, you just saved them money, not bad for a first impression. Make sure you mention your brother during the interview. Maybe during the mall talk when your host asks how your flight was or if you like the hotel. Having family in the town you want to move to is a big plus. Not knowing anyone in the new town is hard and the company can do very little in terms of job satisfaction if you decide you miss your friends and family. If you already have family there that's great. A brother might even mean you get new friends faster (compared to having say... your granny in town). It's a positive point, don't forget to mention it. 

You worked all alone for years. Your standard makes sense for you. You should really look around for the industry standard on this. Sooner or later you will either hire more guys, or maybe you will switch companies. Designing electrical circuits is not exactly hipster territory. People have done this before and they had the same problems you have. How to keep organized. You have this problem with 2 people, just imagine companies with teams of 10 or 100. They have standards. Find and read some and then decide together if you want to adopt one of them or build your own based on those. A standard also helps in onboarding new workers. They can read it and adapt instead of your team having to correct them every time until they are frustrated. So go find the industry standard(s). Then pick one.