Add those in and you get up to 26.3 murders per 100,000. Those statistics are inherently unreliable, but the claim is plausible, even if you count war casualties. It's definitely in the ballpark. 

Here is the full statement for the record. The 2008 EMP commission report does not give any casualty estimates. In conclusion that 90% estimate is highly speculative estimate given by Dr Henry Cooper. While he is certainly a credible individual, it appears this is just a "gut" estimate that is not backed by any serious studies. 

Not true according to Kuwait's ambassador to Pakistan. Here is an article by Pakistan Today, from the article: 

That number was mentioned in the statement of Dr William R Graham and Dr Peter Vincent Pry, chairman and chief of staff of the Commission to Assess the Threat to the United States from EMP attack. The statement quotes an article by ambassador Henry Cooper, former Director of the U.S. Strategic Defense Initiative: 

Unlikely. The term "combatant" is somewhat ambiguous and has changed meaning in recent years in the US. You can read more about it here, but essentially: 

From what I could find it appears to be part urban legend, part social media game, part a teen fad that probably got blown out of proportion by more traditional media. It appears that the game involves filming dangerous stunts that get progressively more dangerous and supposingly end with suicide. The reporting I found however cast a doubt on how many people have actually committed suicide as a result. It appears most teens join out of curiosity and do not follow through. Here is some reporting on the topic: $URL$ The expert interviewed seem to think this is more of myth, a horror story, than something real. 

While a record number of Muslim Refugees were admitted in 2016 compared to previous years, it was still about equal to the number of Christians. So in conclusion: The number of Syrian Christian refugees is lower than expected, but the number of Christian refugee overall is not. That indicates that being a Christian is not a significant negative factor when applying for asylum. The complete pew article can be found here. 

Differences between the average IQ scores of different racial groups have long been observed. The AFQT has been used to as a measurement of intelligence, notably by the controversial book "The Bell Curve: Intelligence and Class Structure in American Life". The basic fact presented in that book were later largely confirmed by other studies. While I can't substantiate the numbers given for Jews, Sub-Saharan Africans, Pygmies, and Australian Aborigines, the numbers for whites, blacks, and hispanics are about right. According to the editorial to the article "Mainstream Science on Intelligence", published in the journal Intellegence: 

Depends what you count. Brazil's murder rate is 26.74 per 100,000 people. Afghanistan's is 6.5 according to this. However, as you noted, this does not include war related casualties. According to the UN, civilian casualties were 3710 in 2014 (report) which brings the rate up to about 16 per 100,000. Now what if we add combatants? This article notes that estimated number of killed Taliban varies between 20 and 35 thousand over 13 years. 

and notes that the number of Christians comes from adding up the different denominations (catholic, protestant, baptist, etc). (I came up with 32 more Christians - it seems the WP forgot to add in people who reported they are Orthodox.) The article reports that when asked about Christian refugees, António Guterres, then U.N. High Commissioner for Refugees, indicated that he believes that most Syrian Christians have gone to Lebanon due to the relative large Christian population there and long standing ties between the two countries. Others have taken his comments to mean that the UN is not willing to let Christians leave the Middle East region.Since most refugees register with the UN before applying for asylum in the US, it's possible that some are steered away. All of this of course is highly speculative, US law allows asylum on the bases of religious persecution, but there is nothing specific that applies only to Christians and not Muslim. This is illustrated by this chart published by Pew: 

The American Psychological Association's report "Intelligence: Knowns and Unknowns" confirms the basic facts: 

This does not include terrorism or other mass murder such as organized crime / gang shootings, etc. Edit: Definitions per Wikipedia: 

If we take 26,000 as a median estimate, that's another 2000 casualties a year on average. That brings the rate to 22.5 (using 34 million population). The Afghan armed forces and international coalition have lost another 17,000 lives during the same period (same article) 

Conclusion: I've found no evidence for or against aluminum causing allergies. An allergy to aluminum however does exist. Handling aluminum products (cans/yogurt cup lids) is safe, vaccines are only a small contributor of aluminum and other medications are assumed safe 

It's all supply and demand really. If the demand is reduced, prices will fall in order for the excessive stock to be reduced. In the long term though prices can not fall lower than the cost of raising the cattle. Farms with higher cost will be priced out of the market and will stop raising cattle. This is all theoretical though. What is happening in the real world? If we look at the statistics we'll see that beef retail price per lbs has almost doubled between 2002 and 2015 while production has fallen down around 15% and so have imports. In the meantime Americans are eating more meat Around 7 million Americans are vegetarian, while that's significant, it does not see to affect the meat market that much. So I think the conclusion is that vegetarians are not a driving factor of meat consumption and thus have minimal effect on prices and production either up or down. The number of vegetarians is probably somewhat stable so the chance of swings like the one you are asking about are minimal. Hypotheticals: 1. If you become vegetarian tomorrow that won't result in less animals being slaughtered. Your personal demand is just a rounding error in a huge industry. 2. If a million people become vegetarians tomorrow that might reduce the rate of increase of animals slaughtered, but the absolute numbers will not go down, the rest of the country will still outweigh the new vegetarians. 3. What if tens of millions become vegetarians? If it happens suddenly, the beef market will crash, the prices will hit rock bottom and a lot of farms will probably go out of business if the lower demand persists. Obviously the reverse could also happen, which is the bases of the claim being made. Is any of this going to "save" any animals? If the demand is low, less animals will be bred for meat. Not sure if that qualifies. 

I believe what Al Gore is referring to is the so called "sunny day flooding", a phenomenon that has increased in frequency in recent years and has been tied to climate change. Here is a interesting graphic from the NY Times on the subject and here is the full article Politifact has reviewed similar claim by Obama and rated it half true because where the fish was seen was not in the city proper but in the surrounding areas (like Miami Beach and Ft Lauderdale). They also address another instance of this claim being made by Al Gore to NPR in November 2015: 

NPR article on the chance of winning the lottery from 2012 notes that it's more likely to be killed by a vending machine. The odds given : 1 in 112 million. 

White people are more likely to be serial killers or Are most likely to commit child abduction / or have "sex slaves" or Are more likely to commit mass shootings 

In conclusion: the Army did not come up with these numbers, researches using the AFQT and other methods did. The numbers presented are not based on 100 years of data but are largely accepted as correct for whites, blacks, and hispanics in the US. I must caution that the cause of this discrepancy is not clear. Some have suggested it's genetics ("The Bell Curve") while others are asserting it's due to cultural/environmental factors. Suggesting that this somehow shows racial superiority of one group over another is at the very least unsubstantiated at this point. 

Yes that appears to be the case. If you look at Bg Kumbi's YouTube channel, you'll see another video, about 1 month prior to the Fox interview, in which he is dressed in nearly the same clothes (bandanna, glasses and scarf of some sort) and announcing he has joined the anti-fa movement. Here is an Esquire article about it: $URL$ 

A great article on the topic was publish by 538 dot com here That article gives the number of Muslims to be 8.4% of prison population. That number is based on a 2103 FOI request to the Federal Bureau of Prisons. The 538 article also uses refers to a 2012 Pew Research Center 50-state survey of prison chaplains which seems to indicate that most of them think that the number of Muslims in prison is growing but I can't find any data to support the claim that 80% of people who "find God" in prison choose Islam. The 538 article suggest a different explanation - race. Muslims are twice more likely to be African-American, and African-Americans make up 36% of prison population and only 13% of US population at large. 

Wikipedia has a well sourced article on the subject that seem to confirm the basic facts that you described. Another Wikipedia article on corporate personhood gives a good summary of the incident: 

Yes, North Korea did fire missiles over Japan. This has been widely reported in western media: NYT, Independent, Russian media: RT, Japanese media: Japanese Times are just a few of many examples. More importantly, DPRK media has also reported on the tests. Here is an article from the Pyongyang Times which collaborates the facts: 

Yes, electric cars are much simpler. You completely eliminate the combustion cycle - so no fuel delivery system (fuel pump, secondary fuel pump, fuel lines, fuel filter, fuel rail, injectors), no air intake (filter, mass air flow sensor, etc), the cooling system (radiator & hoses, fluid tank, water pump) is eliminated and the heater core is replaced by electric heater. Electric motors are much simpler too. No crank or cam shafts, no pistons, no flywheel. Here is how AutoWeek puts it: 

A quick look at the Disaster relief law reveals that most funding was disaster relief related. Here is list of large ticket items mentioned in the bill that I compiled after taking a cursory look: 

It appears that the numbers are cherry picked to match the agenda. It's also very dubious that guns training was the cause for the drop - in the next few years the number of rapes increased steadily, if guns lead to a drop it would be logical to assume that the effect remains fairly steady in the following years. $URL$