The article mentions that Targeted fat loss is a myth and that fat is lost from overall body as i mentioned above. The magazine talks about two researches made by the University of Connecticut one in 1971 with tennis players and One in 2007 with: 

With all due respect for Doctors, researchers and professional trainers, and i do not claim to be more knowledgeable at all but...The thing with researches is that, in my humble opinion, there are too many of them and one contradicts the other. For instance, some researches say eating fat will make you fat while others say the complete opposite. Some researches say you should have a low carb diet to loose fat, other researches will say differently, etc.. I will answer you based on common logic and things we notice in our everyday lives, some facts: 

By "affect" do you mean make you look like a male bodybuilder? if yes, then the answer is "surely no". There is a misconception about women and weight lifting, a lot of women think that if they do some weight training they will grow huge muscles like male bodybuilders. While increasing weight will make you build a bit more muscles of course, but there is a big difference in the physiology of men vs women, of which : Men have more muscles, have more testosterone (which helps build muscles),etc.. My personal recommendation if you want to "tone" your body, all you need to do is "body-weight" training. It will make you build the necessary nice looking muscles, strength, endurance, and will give you a much better looking shape than machines and body building. body weight training might not be suitable for someone joining a body building competition, but it is the BEST for someone who want to tone their body and have good shape. (I assume that's what you are aiming at) 

If there aren't at least a few studies backing up contrast showers/black cumin/black magic/other things you read about online, assume it's bullshit, it almost always is. What kind of exercise are you doing? The best way and timing of recovery varies a lot depending on wether it's resistance training, marathon running or football... Either way, you'll hear about professional body builders who only workout one muscle once per week and you'll hear about one who does it many times a week. The takeaway is that it's highly individual. 95% of people don't need to care about recovery adaption at all because they never get to the point where it actually makes a difference. If you have been working out diligently for a few years, you will run into situations where you stop developing and you will have to try new things, what will work for you won't work for the next guy. 

As far as I know, they are used to get the gloves off since that's pretty hard otherwise, at least that's what I used them for when I did use gloves. As others have said, ditch the gloves, they don't help with grip strength, since they effectively increase the diameter of anything you're going to grab, larger diameter - harder to grip. They also don't really help against calluses since you don't get the same precision in where you are grabbing as you would bare handed. 

Your pull ups/chin ups goes against #1, skip one of them or move chin ups to tuesday. How many can you do in one set? Try adding some weight somehow. The sit ups and push ups go against #2. Try hanging leg raises for your abs instead. There is no reason to do more sit ups than you would other exercises. The abs are not different from other muscles in that sense. There are loads of variants of pushups you can do that will be tougher and thus lower your rep count. Google it. Since you are pretty fit, muscle ups can be something to look into. 

A week ago, followed by 4-5 months of high intensive training I decided to take a break from the gym. I felt very disappointed and discouraged as I was training very hard and there were no gains, unfortunately just the opposite. These are the following indicators I believe implied that I was overtraining, but I ignored them: 

I'm training for two years, trying to develop muscles (for astethics, being big and not for strength training). I read that in order to do that I should work more on my sarcoplasmic hypertrophy. As I'm building a workout plan built on the periodilazion method I want to understand a basic concept. Until today I believed that in order to develop muscles and being big I should train with as much as weight as possible even for 1-5 reps. Today I read that in order to develop or work on my sarcoplasmic hypertrophy I should train with low intensity and high volume that is low weights, and more reps (8-12) and more sets (3-5). Am i right ? If i understand correctly and i'm using the periodilization method then on my first month while I'm using 70%-75% of my strength for 1 rm then this is the phase in which I will bulk up ? And then on the second month as I'm using 75%-85% of my strength for 1 rm and less reps/sets (high intensity and low volume) then I will work on my strength ? I would like to understand what's the best periodilization method division I should use in order to bulk up that is work as much as I can on my sarcoplasmic hypertrophy. Thank you very much !!! 

Diet looks good quality wise, wether you should drink the protein shake as a supplement or as a meal really depends on how it fits into your intake goal for the day. If you aim to lose weight you might consider using it as replacement. People who want to bulk up usually add it as an extra calorie/protein source. A month isn't enough to tell wether you're making progress or not. Even if you lose fat, you may have days where you look bloated anyway. Weight is made up of water and food too. As a female, this will also vary along with your monthly cycle. Women tend to add water weight when menstruating (or was it before?) 

Each leg is about 10% of your body weight [2], this should mean that about 2*0.1*400*4 kcal = 320 kcal are stored in the legs. This is probably a relatively low number considering the fact that legs are dense in terms of muscle, compared to the torso which is filled with organs and other non-muscle tissue. So my conclusion is that you will deplete your leg muscles to about 50%, but you don't have to completely deplete your muscle glycogen to have lipolysis (fat release) due to the exercise. There is no definite connection between temporary lipolysis and total fat level changes though. So the "total effect on fat burning" will as always, completely depend on your diet, if you eat enough, fat storage will be higher than fat burning, and you will have a net gain. [1] $URL$ [2] $URL$ 

I'm not able to find a source right now, but I remember reading that it's only possible to oxidize a certain amount of fat per day, when going over this limit, you will start burning protein (muscle) instead. For a regular sized person, it's about 500kcal/day, fatter people can burn more of course. This means that you can burn about a kg of pure fat in two weeks. You'll then have 10.461kg of fat and a body weight of 72kg => 14.5% body fat. What exactly that you eat doesn't matter very much, just make sure it's 500 kcal less than you use, and that protein intake is rather high. 

Each workout I trained in very high intensity for 2 hours. I trained almost every day. Each workout from the beginning till last week ( 4-5 months ) I trained to failure. 

Although it is very hard for me to take a pause from the gym, I did it. I have been learning so much about bodybuilding these days. In this forum and in the internet. I bought books related to bodybuilding and strength training for the first time in my life. I decided to stop going to the gym with no preparation and 0% knowledge. Actually I'm pretty angry at myself that I never tried to study the theoretical part and just trained as hard as I can. I always believed this is enough. I spent so much time in the gym, If I do a simple calculation It would be 6 days a week * 2 hours of training = 12 hours per week. I'm 26 years old, I work as a software developer and I'm an undergraduate student which puts a lot of pressure on me, but my will to success always pushed me so strong although there were no gains. You may understand me, when you are so busy in your life and you have no time to go out with your friends, speak in the phone and etc. – you also don't find the right time to sit down and ask yourself if you can fix the issue. The only reason I decided to stop is due to Passover. I'm on vacation now(PTO) and I have time to think more deeply about my life. Luckily I didn't hurt my study, It goes well BUT I did hurt some aspects in my life – It might be the reason why I don't have a girlfriend, why I'm little depressed being occupied all the time by work/study and gym. So I shared with you as much as I can to ask you about my return. Assuming I'm expireinceing overtraining and asssuming It did hurt me mentally (as you can see above) how much time do you believe I need to rest until my CNS will regenerate? When do you believe I can come back to the gym? Two days ago I believed I can come back after a week while all I'm doing this week is studying (for school purpose) and also reading a lot of bodybuilding/strength articles all over the internet. I just found an article at bodybuilding.com which specifics that if someone has been overtraining for 3-5 days, a one week rest is enough but for someone who has been overtraining much more than that, weeks to months are required to fully recover. Is it correct, what is the best indicator to come back to the gym? Can I do other stuff until the recovery is done (swimming, running, abs) ? Thank you very much, Guy 

A very good exercise for biceps and back is the chin up. The primary cause of injuries is ego/pride. Going for a new max weight in heavy exercises like deadlifts. As long as your exercises are controlled, the risk of injury is small. Stretching has no benefit in injury prevention or soreness prevention, in fact it will make you weaker and thus more likely to injure yourself. The only reason for stretching is within a flexibility/mobility program. May I ask why you don't want to join a proper gym? 

Assuming that you are able to generate ketones from your stored fat, it's still a bad idea to under-eat fat, because each fat cell can only deliver a certain amount of energy per day, when your calorie deficit goes beyond this point, you will start breaking down muscle tissue (which is much lower in energy density than fat tissue), leading to rapid but bad weight loss. 

Your genes determine your body shape. You can't correct something that's not incorrect, but you can make yourself more aesthetic by adding mass to your lower and upper body in correct proportions. Start lifting weights and eat more. Some people are naturally thin and need to eat more than they actually want to if they are going to add weight. 

15 is a very high number of reps compared to what most gym-goers do, it's also in fact, as Alex L showed, a very endurance focused rep range. There are three main factors which affect how many reps you can do: 

All of the micronutrients you have listed are water-soluble, but that doesn't mean that it's safe to take any amount. But it's significantly less dangerous than overconsuming fat soluble micro nutrients. Had there been clear science showing that vitamin-pill-level-doses where dangerous, they wouldn't be sold, on the other hand, don't assume that every substance at every level, in combination with every other substance, has been tested on humans. There are loads of substances of which we have no clear knowledge about the effects. However, the question you should ask yourself is not if they are dangerous but if they are beneficial. The answer, in most cases, is no. Most vitamin suplementation is completely unnecessary and makes no difference what so ever to your health. But they still sell for billions of dollars, because you never know, right?