Consider the alternative framing from idealism: "How can something that is not completely imaginary exist?" If I perceive something, say a rock, I give it a reference in my head, and it becomes a thing to which I might refer. Nothing has been perceived that is not at least "whatever object that is at about 30 degrees left and 20 degrees up from the horizon." So what has or will have ever been perceived by anyone is all just a collection of references, linked to sensations -- it is an imaginary event. But you know that you don't actually see that rock. You see some pattern of colors and feel some other set of sensations that just represent it. You imagine the rock given these hints, and that representation is just sensory content, linked to a reference -- it is an imaginary event. Only your imaginary representation of the rock is ever perceived, and can ever be considered real. You have no business "deducing its existence logically" from anything. You have been tricked about this many times. In fact your deductions of existence require later correction so often that you should stop jumping to conclusions. You can really only reliably deduce that it only exists as an image. We also say, or might potentially say, all kinds of things that are verbal content but do not refer to outside stuff "My favorite unicorn is indigo with salmon spots." So the material is simply a subset of the imaginary -- and only in that sense can it be perceived, so only in that way does it actually exist. It should be obvious, if you actually have the first question, that this answer is ultimately silly. But it is parallel to your own logic -- making that equally silly. Language changes reality into something we can handle, and in the process, guarantees that we actually handle nothing else without layering it in language. There is no point in choosing only one of these domains to exist. 

I am purposely going to avoid discussing the mind, and focus directly on the notion of emergentism per se, because I think that avoids biases and allows one to be clearer. The analogies to computation and the mind should be easily made. There is no absolutely non-reductivist form of emergentism. Emergentism does not deny reducibility, it accepts the fact that the phenomenon emerging is, in fact, the product of a simpler, lower-order system. If you guessed perfectly, therefore, you could find the underlying form and then you would have reduced the phenomenon to the lower-order theory. Emergentism only denies that you can always get there from here, except by sheer luck. The most common version suggests that the emergent phenomenon will become incomprehensibly complex part of the way through the reduction. You might find the correct reduction, but the complexity would keep you from being certain that you had. And it makes any productive result of attempting the reduction unlikely. The point is not whether you can reduce or not, the point is whether there are strata where reduction is just not productive or sane to pursue, and you are better off adopting higher-level concepts and working on the unreduced problems. For instance, it is better to pursue the thermodynamics of a car engine in terms of temperature pressure and other statistical values than to model the gasoline in its various states as individual atoms. The reduction is obviously possible, but it discards the most useful information and makes the system harder to understand, rather than easier. 

Essential reality determines Accidental reality which determines Political or personal reality: obligation or inclination. 

I would refer to it more as an instance of simple hyperbole, in the form of absence of degree. I dislike your name, as it is not necessarily about time. (And it has too many vowels.) 

Socrates generally swears by Dis, officially Zeus, but really 'the God', even though he uses conventional phrases like 'by the gods'. Plato opens texts with prayers to Pan, in the same way, and it clearly means 'All' and not the conventional god of that name. It is safe to hold that both were monotheists assigning their monotheistic god to a recognizable member of the pantheon for politeness sake. This is backed up in a couple ways: There is an argument in one of the dialogues (Euthyphro?) that the will of the gods should be singular, if it is to be a real guide to human action. It is left to be assumed that Socrates does not believe in multiple gods, who would therefore have multiple opinions of what piety was. In the creation myths of the Gorgias and Timaeus, the Demiurge is singular, and this seems to be on purpose. It would be easier to include all of the things done (from brute work like making land to artistic flourishes like placing bones of given lengths in the fabric of the heavens to ensure proper harmonies resonate with human music) to a multitude of hands. 

This is kind of a slippery slope. If you slide all the way down it, you end up in discussions of human nature, or models like psychoanalysis. At root, someone like Schopenhauer would say, isn't it obvious that there is only one thing anyone wants? We may not be able to nail down exactly what that one thing is, but a wide stripe in philosophy starting from the Stoics, and running from Aristotle to Nietzsche has tried to describe it. Farther out there, people like Jung, Tavistock group behavior theorists, James Lovelock and Terrence McKenna think it is obvious that there are larger units of the world that all want just one thing, and that the human wish for just one thing is a side-effect of the wishes of these larger units. Once you back off from the real, tangible wish for something like attention of a certain kind from the real person sitting next to you, you can end up with the will of every organism to accumulate power, or for humanity as a whole to channel emotional energy across generations, or for the universe to balance novelty and entropy. Except for right at the point of connection, where we do want a specific thing, it is hard to find any other point in between that and the 'theory of everything' where the desire is 'absolutely more real' than at any other point. If we can't give a better answer with any real faith, then why reject our superficial observation? I would address this as a case of multiple realization, and say 'yes, both' -- we always do want something specific, and that simultaneously expresses other desires on multiple other levels. Someone with a structure for this who writes well is Ken Wilbur. Starting from the position that these multiple perspectives are all somewhat illusory, he gives a good overview of the layers and levels that different kinds of people have found useful for different kinds of things in No Boundary. 

This is a 'conspiracy theory' fallacy $URL$ Put short, it is the belief that being silenced is proof you are onto something, an instance of a more general fallacy of 'confirmation bias' $URL$ -- taking filtered feedback as evidence. The fact that a majority player responds to an observation by making it into an argument logically backs up the notion that the minority player is being silenced. The reaction is a knee-jerk rejection of something the speaker did not expect to have to defend, in fact presuming it as a starting point. This turns an attempt to make an observation into the need to defend the framing in which it is stated, effectively preventing the point from being made until the argument is resolved. On the other hand, when someone wants to wind out their elaboration of how the Illuminati brainwash us, it is easy to see refusal to admit the existence of the Illuminati as proof you are already brainwashed. You are resisting, so you must be complicit. The fact that the rich get richer, they claim, simply must be explained. Well, it is, just not that way... The logic here is the same. She is attempting an appeal to authority, by pulling out a theory and expecting you to let her start from there, and you are rejecting her authority. But her theory predicts you will reject her authority, even when it is valid, so she sees the argument itself as validation of the theory. In fact, it is only validation of the observed data that caused that theory to be formulated to begin with. Every time you drop a rock it is not additional support for the theory of gravitation. Theories have to predict more than they explain, in order to accrue credibility, and they need for new data to validate those predictions. More of the same data doesn't qualify. Otherwise, all those conspiracy theorists can just filter the incoming news for repetitions of the patterns that spawned the theory initially, and 'prove' themselves right on a daily basis. The 'rape culture' paradigm falls into the same hole Popper pointed out swallows up Marxism and naive versions of psychoanalysis: It makes an audacious claim and predicts no new data, relying upon the degree to which it fits the known data and the elasticity of its explanatory mechanism, which allows other data that is encountered at random to be rolled up into the theory, while a bulk of specific predictions fail and are ignored. So while it continues to be an explanation, it fails to gain credibility as a theory. 

Groups can easily do things that no individual can or would do. The diffusion of responsibility means that groups unified by some common trait can be responsible for things in a way that does not reduce to a collection of separate responsibilities. A collection of soccer hooligans might trample someone to death without any given one of them doing anything that would kill him, were the group not assembled. We can't just isolate the last person who made the last impact at a point when he was still living, and accuse that individual of murder. And we cannot somehow parcel out the punishment for murder and apply part of it to each individual. No one of them could predict that their small contribution would add to that of others and result in fatal damage. The collection has a decision process that goes beyond the decisions of the individuals collected. So no, this is not a naive or irrational way of speaking. At the same time, we should not blame the notion of soccer for the death. We know that those individuals would not be there if not for the concept of soccer, but there is no logical connection between the reason for the group, and its effects. So there is still a logical gap in this accusation. Capitalism may have motivated individual actions that limited innovation, but even if it did, those actions also have other motivations, and the same motivations, even the exact same actions, may well have had different outcomes under other circumstances. 

You vastly overstate what is lost by letting go of a foundation. All that is left is not the surface. By definition that is the surface of something, and that thing is deep and has a lot of ballast that keeps it from shifting around too much. We can note deficiencies not by looking at some ultimate source of truth, but by looking at how things are sometimes easier and sometimes harder, and making moves toward getting rid of the hard parts. If any individual or collective will got to choose the definition of 'harder', we would indeed have a foundation. But we don't. There is not a collective will, or we would not witness constant contests of will. And since we are all involved in the movement, no one of us is in charge. As Whitehead points out, you can personify the amalgamation of will and define it as God, if you really want to, in which case, yes, God is in charge and He determines everything. But this is not a very useful God, and he remains wholly optional. 

There is no objective measure of 'good', or even 'pleasure' and therefore no proper objective utility measure that is not really constructed to serve some other end. Summing measures is meant to be an oversimplified stereotype, but as a matter of course, you can shape utility functions any way you want, and happiness can be measured any way you want. So you can always adapt the utility function itself so that summation is the appropriate operation. For instance, the equivalent of your min-max convention can be accomplished with summation, if you add a highly weighted factor for equality to the definition of happiness, assuming liberal guilt is real and inequality reduces the returns on one's good fortune instead of increasing it. Or you can use a very regressive curve that allows for huge increases in happiness near the low end with returns diminishing quickly, because this is probably realistic for many causes of happiness: a tiny bit more food when you are starving is immensely satisfying. This kind of messing with the machinery kind of makes Utilitarianism and classical economics into formless metaphorical principles instead of prescriptive systems. But there is no objective way to say they are wrong, or that they are even departures from the 'real' Utilitarianism. 

Question 1. Why is science better than religion... It isn't. It serves a different purpose, and although an unreasonable number of practitioners on either side do not realize this, it is made obvious by what changes them. Science changes to better predict reality, and religion changes to better protect identity. Science cannot provide us an identity and context in the world unless we treat it as a religion -- in which case it becomes a religion, and can't be better than itself. Science becomes impatient with religion because religion often overstates its relevance. Identity is often threatened by the overall complexity of experience, and part of that complexity is the product of science. But getting abused to cosset the change-intolerant by the power-hungry does not change religion's basic nature or purpose. 

Whitehead suggests a slight variant of the last reason. The reason monotheism is a step toward science is not that it does away with competing mythologies that complicate explanations. It is because it first introduces the possibility of a stable natural law, in a way that allows us to see nature as predictable, but ourselves as still morally accountable. In the West, the Stoics had tried to assert atheistic natural law, but it makes morality seem optional, and it robs one of motivation. The Platonic god of everything (the basis of the demiurge, the source of the Forms, and perhaps the 'Pan' of the Phaedrus (wholly unrelated to the goat-footed fellow)) lets us put aside the conflict with no attempt to really work it through. We personify the ruleset itself and afford moral value to acts agreeing with that person's dictates. This is not winnowing down a set of gods to one. It is taking the notion of god and simply slapping it onto another concept entirely. That is the step. The Egyptian 'Amon Ra' version of monotheism, where one of the gods simply kills off all of the others, is not the same step. And it did not accomplish the same transformation in their society. Conflating this new Platonic God with the Judaic one allows us to declare the dilemma of determinacy vs moral agency mystical, and leave it unaddressed while we focus on leveraging both of them for social good. (It is also not necessary that successful monotheism be exclusive or thoroughgoing, to have its effect. Hinduism managed to solidify a personification of natural law in a moral context with Brahmanism, and retained their polytheism within the same system. Doing so still created a more coherent philosophical context and spurred cultural advances. China appears to have first had a similar relative and non-exclusive monotheism involving the primacy of Shang-Di and the "Reign of Heaven" in their foundational period.) 

To apply quantitative math to a situation, you need a mathematical model. Once you have a mathematical model, you are doing science. Science is not metaphysics. 

The study of what exists is implicitly the study of what doesn't. To the same degree that ethics is also the study of potential violations, ontology is also the study of impossibilities and mere potentialities. There is a sub-field of modal logic that at root mostly about ontology. Names such as Meinong, Kripke and David Lewis figure in this area, (along with Aristotle, Quine and other ordinary logicians who try to cover it as a sideline) They have been mentioned in this forum several times each, so maybe finding those posts will net you more interesting names. The point of departure for thinking about these thins come the fact that there seem to be layers of tenuousness to the existence of things, from the actual to the fictional to the merely potential to the potentially desirable yet not possible... Since we discuss impossibilities, negation is a factor. Various strains of non-duality also figure in here, and raise questions of how these areas might have boundaries and why they probably can't. It remains interesting then, if they don't actually have boundaries, why we can discuss them rather distinctly. Psychologically, the kinds of impossible things that occur in thought is interesting, particularly to psychoanalytic types, Freud and Klein, Jung, and Lacan all have theories about stories, falsification and other forms of modality.