An asteroid impact that could kill all inhabitants will not let the planet inhabitable within one year : climate will be change for a while due to the dust and ashes, for example. An option could be to use one of the most energetic event in the universe : a Gamma Ray Burst. GRB are extremely energetic rays caused (supposedly) by the collapse of stars to black holes : their energy during a few seconds is equivalent to the sun's energy during its whole lifetime. GBR are very narrow, as they are likely emitted along the rotational axis of a collapsing object. Only out-of-our-galaxy GBR were observed until now, but the Ordovician–Silurian extinction is sometimes attributed to a Milky-Way GBR. In your case, a very nearby star could show signs of collapse, and end up emitting a GBR. The atmosphere may somewhat protect, but you may decide that it is powerful enough to sterilize your planet (at least on the exposed side). 

From my personal experience in storytelling, I found that FTL reduced the possibilities of scenarios : when FTL was involved, stories focused on differences in space dimensions : other location, culture, etc. The absence of FTL adds an interesting possibility to travel in time (one-direction only : the future). For example, should you have a life-suspension feature for travelers which is at least not totally impossible, space travels means that you will never come back in the place you leave before generations : this allows plots when you can play very long-term politics or investments. You could create local clans, empower them, etc. The "space travelers" could become a distinct social class ruling worlds, setting up rendez-vous between themselves thousands of years in advance. We probably use FTL because our brains are just not capable of considering alternatives without effort, but non-FTL is not-only hard-science, it has the power to be an outstanding source for stories. 

Any other remarks on this "pseudo-FTL" scenario are welcome. For clarification : this is a 2D visual representation of the resulting space-time : 

Distract If monitoring is done remotely through drones, would it be possible to manipulate the information so that the experimental planet looks normal ? Either by sending incorrect date by taking control of the drones, either by having a survey team part of the conspiracy ? Even better, wait for a new inhabited planet to be detected, but make if fall in the "non-inhabited planet" section, so that nobody will bother monitoring it. Simulate The civilization you describe can probably simulate complete words. These could be an alternative to a real world for experiment. If not fun enough, at least the simulation could be used to provide credible information for the precedent scenarios. Hide 

If you have a 50% male/50% female population, birth rate must be slightly above 2/women to have a stable population if there is no immigration or other significant factor to take into account (major disasters killing lots of people, for example). Dystopian options hereunder As discussed, enforcing this policy can be a challenge. If you want a dystopian touch, imagine adding substances preventing becoming pregnant in water supply. Or have strong law enforcement (à la Judge Dredd) so that executions compensate population growth. Or simply let people reproduce like they want and release some diseases to go back to the good figures. This can allow you to target part of the population as well. 

The climate and seasons will depend on: Dual-Star A stable orbit implies no significant perturbation when getting closer from one star. It implies that the planets are far enough from both stars, which will appear very close from each other in their sky. As a consequence, the climate will not be impacted by the dual-star configuration: it will behave like a one-star system. Eccentricity The earth solar irradiance fluctuates by about 6.9% yearly for an eccentricity of about 0.0167 (nearly circular). The orbit you describe is completely different, with a distance to star(s) likely to double. In this case, minimal irradiance will be 25% of the maximal irradiance. Axial tilt Considering your orbit description, the effects of the tilt may fall short compared to the eccentricity impact : the tilt does not affect the total energy received, only it's local (planetary) distribution. Conclusion The orbit you describe1 will lead to huge irradiance amplitude due to orbital eccentricity. This will lead to extreme seasons, unless the planet can store energy and amortize the cycle somehow (like oceans storing energy on earth, but you'll need that on another scale ; or a full greenhouse venus-like system). 1 which is probably unstable : two planets orbiting on each other's L3 point is not a stable configuration. 

On the overall, this is achievable if you have good engineers and a stable flow of liquid lava. However the resulting place will be hot and hard to enter, even if friend. Depending of the land size, it could end up in a tropical paradise (if you do it around a mountain, for example), or a balrog™'s lair... In practice, the area close of the lava may look like hell (which can obviously be cool!), with red-glowing borders reaching high-temperature from the surrounding lava. Expect air to be filled with some toxic and stinking smokes due to sulfur, and nearby waters to become acid, not drinkable, but eventually colorful like the Kelitumu lakes. Most animals will leave, and nearly all plants die. Your visitors may be reluctant to come by... One last thing : should your lava supply vary, or its fluidity not be top-quality, the lava will solidify in your structure and it will be another nightmarish hell to repair it and make it work again. 

There is no gain for any of the two species involved in such a mutually destructive relationship, so it wouldn't be a sustainable behaviour. On a side note : people sometimes engage in destructive relationships. Again, there is no gain for the involved parts, but we are sometimes not very fast to realize this. 

Let's start with the math: consider that couples settle at 20 years and have 10 children between their 20 and 30's. So you roughly multiply by 5 your breeding population every 25 years. If you start with 200, you reach the 625000 after 5 generation (125y) and more than 3 million after 6 generations (150y). With optimization, you can do it within one century. However, you need diversity to avoid genetic issues. 200 people are unlikely to avoid them without medical aid and/or genetic engineering. The concept of Minimum viable population applies here... (update) Here is a simulation showing only the breeding population (age 20 to 40).The initial glitch at year 21 is because at year 20, the first children breed and their parents are still breeding too. Year 21 is when the 100 children born 20 years before breed alone, quickly followed by all this generation. Year 41 you see the same phenomena. Year 115 is when you reach the million. 

Such setting can evolve in several directions depending of factors like: Culture: pacific nations may simply negotiate and exchange the moving islands based on some agreed rules, like the closer main island has ownership. In non-pacific settings, you likely will see permanent war considering the speed of some islands. This will either lead to permanent exhausting wars that will drive most resources from nations, either to one nation controlling everything after some time. Resources: what kind of advantage do such small island provide ? If the setting creates high uncertainty on islands' future ownership, long-term investment is unlikely: temporary settlements rather than big cities, fast resources extraction rather than mining, no agriculture. You could even question the interest of owning such piece of land that can cost you more than it provides. Nation definition: our conception of nation is strongly driven by our real world stable geography. Will this concept also emerge in the same way in such setting ? Big islands may simply impose taxes on the drifting islands without even considering a geographical expansion. Maybe a cultural expansion would be closer of their idea of "nation". Technology will indirectly modify how to extract resources from islands and modify the war capacity. However if usually also increases the costs, so the return of investment of faster extraction or war may still be negative.