[Note: This is a gift of Dhamma and not meant for commercial purpose or other low wordily gains by means of trade and exchange.] 

There is no distinction of the elements but simply in the distinction of "in training" or "on the path". Just if the magga (path) is reached one is on the lane of transcentent toward phala (fruit), the next, and so on... till finally destruction of effluents. It's a great missunderstanding that the first right view and the secound are different. At first it is "just" imitated trained, to strengthen the other factors as well, then it might become a matter of discerment rather then Saddha. If understanding that it might be understood why even an Arahat does not abound to teach "simply" the first kind since the secound is a "product". Imitating the second, an attainment, does not lead to much of benefit. It's like being a donkey running after behind cows. (Note that monk here should be understood as one not an outsider, e.g. an Noble One) And what is then heightened virture? (To continue toward {next} fruit, next path, with possible fast success?) 

And what should be killed? Kill possible all notions to associated, assist, approve, nurish, accept and entertain (upadana) toward actions and signs of them inwardly and before outwardly to success. This is the kind of aversion and disgust the wise approve, like to be extrem "greedy" after liberation, after right view and not getting lost in a thicket of wrong views and improper attention. 

Many details and how to adjust metta proper, incl. the story behind the Metta-Sutta, you find at the link, generously, compassionated, consciously given by Ven. Nyanadasana, who's Dhammic roots are maybe not that far away the place of you personal challenge. If the heart is put right (e.g. right view), if all duties are done, even the biggest monsters will not be able to disturbe you, knowing there are no faults present in me, done all my tasks. And so you metta for them and all others will be honest, pure and for all perceivable. Prerequisite, preparation for Meditation is always Generosity fist, then and incl. firm virtue practice. See some practical advices here in this answer as well. Best wishes and the effort to train patient and metta, devotion, as a firm and unshakeable foundation. Fear (of unskill kind) falls for one having entered the stream. [Note: This is a gift of Dhamma and not meant for commercial purpose or other low wordily gains by means of trade and exchange.] 

I am cutting quotes short and pulling the minimum needed for context here. To type out the entire descriptions of each stage would require much time and effort. Also, for each stage there are different ways one can react, that can cause things to happen in different orders or certain outcomes... The general feel of the stage, in the typical order that they might occur is what we are trying to illustrate here. 

In the realms of heaven, you are "burning up" large quantities of "positive" karma quickly There is little reason to generate "positive" karma while in the heaven realms, why? Because you are in some state of bliss Once you burn all that "good" karma all that is left in your "stash" is "bad" karma. 

In the Tibetan Tradition yes, Deities have mantras, such as Tara and Chenrezig, that can be evoked for protection and other benevolent reasons. These mantras have specific benefits, and some have no associated deity, and are like "magic spells." These deities however are not devas, but enlightened beings. For example (Sometimes spelled differently in various English translations) Is supposed to have the following benefits : 

He is part of a trio with Manjushri and Avalokiteśvara. They represent power, wisdom, and compassion of the Buddhas. In the bardo the first set of deities you encounter are the peaceful ones. Later you encounter the wrathful ones. If one realizes that both are projections on ones own mind, and does not fear and embraces the energy involved it is said one can reach liberation in the in-between state in this way. The worst thing one can do is to fight or flee from them, these energies are not avoidable and are due to past karma/kamma. Just as when the "mirror" that reflects your last life might show you things that make you uncomfortable, to deny your bad deeds at this time magnifies the karma. One important thing to note about these wrathful deities is that they are not devils, they are not like Mara. They are there for practitioners benefit and protection. The peaceful and wrathful deities have a mantra as well called the 100 diety mantra. 

Truly unfortunate are many if looking with whom and where they associate, what they pay rebut to... May they work on their ways out! Because beings, not arrived at Dhamma yet, are unable to distinguish between defiled and right judgment of what is intention, of what quality the mind actually is, one does good to stick simple by "not taking life/destroy life/take existence of beings" (of what ever kind they came into being, by oneself, in order, or agree). Later it will be not different but just naturally. Such ideas of doing bad might be good are ideas of fools who are good to be avoided striktly. 

One does good to remember that aside of normal ways of thinking of gain, own merits are ones person support for ones future. So if one can inspire and move others to make deeds of generosity, moral conduct and reflextion on Dhamma, such is of real support for others, aside of the proper occations for material gift. Generaly, which might be the question underlying thought, the Buddha does not encourage in ways of social actions and material support, which if done in improper ways, leads to bonds and often not really to support, like in Chritian or western popular ways of actions, often also with the religion string for the receiver. Aside of the needed, the focus to nurish good tendencies and virtue, is much effectiver long time support, at least the gift of virtue excells material gift by far since material gift are at least not gained from nothing, might make other beings suffer and poor. Therfore, (but not to use as an excuse of not giving if one has possibilities to give!! Which is actually a popular excuse under many Buddhists, a trap of defilements, supporting stingyness. Its good to be sure to be a "perfect" giver of outwardly things, one has, fist.) > 

Great question! The short answer according to Buddhism is yes, you can be reborn in those realms. However, there is a reason Saṃsāra is refereed to as "cyclic existence"; Because the cycle through these realms is like a spin cycle where you are thrown from realm to realm, life to life, with little control over which realm you land in, at least without some understanding of karma. While shooting to be reborn in these rhealms will bring a life or two of comfert, and following the advices user5380 laid out will get the result. These realms though, like everything else in Buddhism, are impermanent In those realms you are burning through large amounts of positive karma, while creating very little if any, good karma. In Buddhism, rebirth in the human realm is considered to be a better outcome, and preferable. 

No. Consider the phrase "revenge is like a boomarang, it just keeps coming back" In fact from a karmic view point revenge is just ensuring you will experience like in the future. 

by "them" I assume you mean in that case the way to get the most out of them is maintain the paramitas of patience and mindfulness. How you react to these situations, and how aware you are to your reactions and thoughts during them is key here. If your emotions get the better of you, then it is not growth, though you can learn and grow from the experience. If you maintain your composure and are able to navigate the situation(s) without losing your cool, growth is occurring. Especially if the situation might have caused you to lose your cool in the past. 

Spiritual materialism is very modern and includes the thinking of the Nigantas, Jains, denying self yet full of grasping. Here an account of what can be understood as this "spiritual materialism" or dwelling in what the Buddha called "household-equanimity", something broadly taught and traded under the lable "Buddha-Dhamma": 

[Note: This is a gift of Dhamma and not meant for commercial purpose or other low wordily gains by means of trade and exchange.] 

[Note: This is a gift of Dhamma and not meant for commercial purpose or other low wordily gains by means of trade and exchange.] 

There are NO valid justifications of any wrong deed. MN 97: Dhanañjani Sutta — To Dhanañjani gives good and clear answers. It's a valid justification to bear hardships, leave, starve and go beyond for holding on precepts. [Note: This is a gift of Dhamma and not meant for commercial purpose or other low wordily gains by means of trade and exchange.] 

[Note: This is a gift of Dhamma and not meant for commercial purpose or other low wordily gains by means of trade and exchange.] 

While it's not the most bad idea to turn away from Dhamma-dealers and "pyramid-trade" systems, is not smart to turn away from the most needed refuge to stay and have contact with the others, the Sangha. As maybe observed, there is no such as a formal and regulated disciple-student relation between the members and the Sangha given, as such would neither work, or as we might have faced, leads to very problematic situations. So the relation, aside of natural laws, between lay people and Monks is a total voluntery one, purely based on goodness and generosity, without any formal personal duties. As it is thought, this field of merits, can possible stay an independent source of teachers of the good Dhamma, others then later developments, copies and thieves for livelyhoods. On the other hand, by person has not that much doubt that the Juwels, beginning with the Savaka Sangha, will fast disappear in the modern world and not even imagenable for the modern people. That's nature of modern (followed after by many). Try to be wise and uproot the cause of incapacity of devotion and being capable to be tamed, you ego-tripps. There would be just immense suffering able to teach you but possible no more refuge avaliable. Good advices how to find oes good tracher are found in the essay: The Power of Judgment. More on the topic student teacher relation might be found by one here: [Q&A] Proper way to ask a teacher to become their student [Note: This is a gift of Dhamma and not meant for commercial purpose or other low wordily gains by means of trade and exchange.] 

These descriptions, as noted in the article, are designed to give the reader a general feel of the process. To use your metaphor 

You take the cause of the karma you are working with, remember all the times you did it, realize that it is going to cause you suffering. Regret that you commited the deeds in question. The 3rd step is called "Restraint force" Here you take the cause of the karma you are working with, and you restrain yourself from doing it again. The longer you can restrain yourself the better. 

If so it is better to withdraw, perhaps discuss with the person later when you have leveled your emotions. If they disrobe and give up on their quest it is a huge downfall, is this a patterned behavior? Is this perhaps a lesson tailored to a specific individual? Be certain before going on the route of accusation. And finally, say you are certain beyond a doubt they are in the wrong, say for this example they claimed that "The Buddha says kill all third born children" an obvious wrong view and greatly harmful. Then you would be obligated by the vow, to do something... If you have taken the vows. As stated before it is highly situational. 

Nine times out of ten the action or event is inconsequential and effects us only in a minor fashion if we can find the comedy in the situation to focus on our drives will be much more relaxed. 

It is worth noting, in conjunction with the other answers provided, that the fetus in question is going through karma from it's past lives in a scenario like this.