Is there a reason they call diaper nappys? or elevators lifts? It's the queen's English. It differs from us american folk. 

Cut two squares out of an old tube about 1" in size, place them on the inside and outside and use a rivet gun to insert a new rivet. If the tears seems large enough to have the new rivet pull right though you could also use bolts and washers in its place if you don't mind how it looks. But you should be able to get a very near if not water proof seal with the use of tubes. I wouldn't submerge it completely but you get the idea. You may also opt for 2 squares of tube on each side for a better seal as well. 

When it's in the wrong spot ( on the outside ) you are also pushing the frame against the surface of the hub which when tightened enough will prevent it from being able to turn. Washers prevent this by adding both space and reducing friction between a moving object and a static one. Essentially a bearing turns fine on an axle but if you sandwich something up against the entire surface of the bearing it wont move due to the friction present on the entire surface area rather than just the axle sleeve. 

I would imagine the 3R is just more refined. We don't do product recommendations so to speak but comparing the two on the Bell website should suffice in helping you determine if it is worth the extra money for what you will be using it for. The website lists the major difference as: 

It's a Mongoose Manuever... late 90's early 2000's if i had to guess. Basically a Walmart or department store bicycle shaped object. There should be a serial number, probably beneath the crank. Pacific Cycles is who bought that division of mongoose which is sold in big box stores. If you want to know more you could contact Pacific Cycles with the model number and serial number to find out the year, or look them up on google. There are resource sites that help identify the numbers and letters meaning in the model and date codes. Complete guess but i would say a 2002 based on the 02 in the date code. You have all the information you need to identify it, seems pretty cut and dry. Bottom line it is not an expensive bicycle, but if it works for you that's what matters. 

Depends on your definition of rubbish! If I were to guess it is probably all entry level components, unless they have been upgraded. That would be the first indicator. You can cross reference them by typing model numbers into Google. However, before throwing it away I would recommend putting it up for sale, or even better if there is someone in need, why not dust it off, polish it up and donate it to the less fortunate! 

Old steel hybrids work pretty well for converting to a touring application. Like others have said the ideal build depends on how much your going to carry and the distances you plan on going. Obviously comfort is a big factor as well. Fenders are necessary if you plan on doing any distance at all really. With that said yes, I would lean toward a road style over MTB but I would stick more with an "urban" geometry rather than a full out road bike. I have a fondness for old steel frames for these conversions as they take a beating and come with a bit of nostalgia. As for components, like others have said fenders, good tires with puncture protection, a comfy saddle, rear rack or panniers.. it all depends on how deep you want to dive into it. I would recommend starting small, do a day trek or an out and back weekend and see what's sore afterwards, that will gauge your bike as well as your commitment to it and let you know where you stand before you go emptying your wallet. 

Can you? Yes. It is not optimal for use on chains though. It washes away rather easily leaving your chain unprotected and un-lubricated. It would work in a pinch but a light oil or something specifically made for the application will work much better and last a lot longer. Wet or Dry lubes depend on the riding conditions and where you live. WD40 makes a good bicycle chain lube, their bike line, not the generic stuff in a can. Don't use that. RocknRoll, Triflow, ProGold all also makes good lubes. 

You could also buy a pizza delivery bag and bungee strap it to a front or rear rack. Or modify the bag yourself to attach to a pannier by stitching some hooks or loops of Velcro to the sides. Most pizza bags are 18" x 18" and about 5" deep so plently of room for records and maybe a snack for later ;) You can buy them online for rather cheap. 

Sometimes the term "rust was the only thing holding it together" has truth to it. Judging by the wheel and having done them before i assume you have A LOT of miles on the hubs. If the pawls look visually worn they are probably not fully engaging the ratchet mechanism and under pressure with the help of their new lubricant, which has reduced the friction, they are slipping off the edge of the also worn ratchet. I assume they have the "springy-ness" that they should? Their not sticking when depressed? That's my guess, the dirt and micro grit may have been what was allowing them to still catch enough to engage. For a pawl to be visually worn means it's probably pretty bad as the tolerances for those internal parts is pretty tight. 

Rockshox recommends using 5wt in the upper and 15wt in the lower legs of the Reba, and differing the PSI to tailor for rider weight. 140-160lbs = 90 - 105psi 160-180lbs = 105 - 120psi 180-200lbs = 120 - 135psi 200-220llbs = 135+ MAX PSI = 200 Although changing to heavier weights for heavier riders is not uncommon, i would stick with the recommended weight, especially if its working fine for you with tuning the rebound. Sourced from the Sram 2014 Suspension fork air/oil charts 

Wheel size will remain the same, which is 700c, The different sizes of frames will only effect the overall geometry. So yes, you'll be fine getting a replacement of the same stock size. 

There are several options, you could make your own if you are the handy type. Or there are many ready to purchase from a local shop or online. Most of the ones that I see have a 120lb limit. So you would be close but probably fine as the max weight is generally higher than that listed for liabilities sake. As for store bought option there are a lot of different companies that make trailers for bicycles both for hauling cargo, and touring applications as well as child carriers of course. Here is one design just to give you an idea. The last time I saw a similar one in a shop I think it was about 200 bucks. $URL$ The type shown above attaches to the rear axle by way of that long arm at the front. Building one could be tricky if you don't have the proper tools and I imagine you would need to buy an axle intended for it. If you want to go the DIY route, I found this write up that looked interesting and could be helpful. $URL$ 

This may be closed due to asking for opinion, but CST makes a tire called the Super HP in a wide variety of colors. I live in the states but am 99% sure you could find them across the waters as well. Another option from them would be the Czar: $URL$ From my experience they are a decent affordable tire. 

One possibility is brinelling of the bearing race, a good impact in just the right orientation could cause brinelling. From Wiki: 

From my experience the cheap Chinese lights are hit or miss. I have not tried the solarstorm but i do own one of the "BrightEyes" "brand" and was pleasantly surprised. The main thing is there is no real quality control from what i can tell. Other issues i have run into on other lights is the power cable coming out from the light head, solders breaking or being bad on the circuit, stuff like that. Also the light i bought said it was rated at 1200 lumens, i would guess its maybe 700, its equally bright as my Cygolite Metro but the beam pattern is kind of strange. Its neither a flood or a high beam its kind of both, a very bright middle and washed out sides. All of this factors into the pricing if i had to guess. Name brands test all their stuff pretty extensively. Cheap Chinese companies.... not so much. I personally have had good experience with the cheapo depot Chinese lights, but have heard a lot of complaints as well, most being fixable with patience and a soldering iron. 

Or if you are more concerned with smooth rolling on concrete but want a little bite on the random occasion go for something more like this with a smoother center. 

In addition to the other excellent answer, this stuff works miracles. Available in most bike shops, its a paste that you rub in and buff out and it works really when on surface rust and cleaning up old chrome. 

I'm only posting this as an answer because it seemed long to comment. But i would run some drills maybe once a week or whenever your free time allows. Go to a sports store and get some little multi sport cones, or use beer cans or toilet paper rolls or what ever else you have that won't hurt you or the bike if you run it over or fall on it. Two drills that may help is a large slalom where you need to tightly weave back and forth. The other being a large circle. Start with ample room where it is almost too easy, then as your confidence and speed increases, decrease the size of the shape or row, there by increasing the angle and lean that you need to use. You could even go as far to set up a small sprint course either in grass or a parking lot depending on how you feel, and start tracking you time. That way your not racing anyone but yourself and your own head. It may take awhile to build confidence but repetition is key, after a while that fear should slowly start to shrink. Likely you have some degree of PTSD from the event, some may think it's silly but its very real. I was in a head on 60mph collision (in a car not a bike) about 6 months ago, and unfortunately have to drive on that same 2 lane strip everyday to work, and still i get anxiety going through there, it's a 2 lane underpass, old road so it's narrow, with guard rails on either side so there is no where to go. Guy came into our lane and there was nothing we could do but wait to get hit. Point is, it gets better it just takes time and repetition. I have also found it helped my cornering a lot to concentrate on my position relative to the bottom bracket, sounds goofy but consciously being aware of my bad form and working on it with similar drills helped me gain a lot of confidence, i had similar issues when i switch from a 2.35" mountain bike to a road bike, just didn't feel right.