I do agree that the lanes are sometimes narrow, and maintaining momentum behind a slower cyclist going uphill may be difficult. I don't ride on them during rush hour, but they don't seem crowded enough to cause cyclists to overtake dangerously or otherwise ride irresponsibly. 

The seperated bike lanes in Vancouver seem to work well over here. In my limited riding on these lanes, here are the some advantages that I have observed: 

I just bought a used 2009 Kona Dew and it comes with regular rim brakes. I'm perfectly happy with them so far, but have been wondering if disc brakes would come handy when it rains. What is involved in converting a bike from rim brakes to disc brakes (mechanical or hydraulic)? Is this something that is feasible, or am I better off buying another bike that already has disc brakes? 

Are there chains where it matters which side is out and which is in? I don't mean which end of the chain leads as the chain travels forward during pedaling. I mean which side is out toward the seat and ground, versus inside toward the cogs and chainrings. 

Here's a picture taken when using Gorilla Clear Repair Tape (on seat tube above the FD) and packing tape (below the FD). For anyone horrified by the condition of the frame, keep in mind this is my beater bike, meant to look not worth stealing. If it hadn't come this way I'd have had to distress it on purpose. 

If you were a little older I'd say work up to it over a month or so, doing progressively longer rides to give your body time to adjust and tell you how it's doing, but at 17 you can recover from almost anything. Have a great time. I can't tell how much you've ridden already, but maybe (if you're not tubeless) practice changing a flat in the field to make sure you have everything with you that you need. Ride a mile from the house then pretend you have a flat, then change or patch the tube right there by the side of the road. 

This is pretty unconventional and not necessarily available to you, but here's some food for thought. Friends of mine had had a custom 'rack' built for their Kona Ute by a local rack & frame-builder to transport their two daughters (although they are much older). It came out exceptionally well (plus the girls love it): 

The best method for handling exterior frame rust depends on how much time you'd like to invest. The difference comes down to what you use to complete the two basic steps: 

Before you take any more forceful measures, it may be a good idea to think a little about chemistry: 

This seems like an example of 'if it's broke, don't fix it'... I understand how it might be bothersome or annoying, but modern shifters such as these are relatively complex and can be easily 'messed-up'. That said, the best solution I could find is the manufacturer's maintenance manuals, which is somewhat lacking. Unfortunately I don't think there are many people who've worked on this specific shifter that can answer your question. 

The approach I've seen is to use hose clamps to hold a bottle cage to the frame. Hose clamps are what (used to?) attach a car's radiator hose to the radiator, if you've seen that. If you have an old inner tube, you can slice that into strips to pad between the clamps and the frame so the paint doesn't get scratched. 

That's a spoke wrench, for turning spoke nipples. The benefit of this design is that, as opposed to the kind with an arm coming out each side of a central body, the force from your fingers is spread over the faces of the disk, meaning you can apply more force and it hurts less. I'm not certain, because I haven't used it, but it also seems like it would be easier to keep your grip on the wrench; the other kind is prone to being fumbled and dropped as you turn it (at least when I'm the one turning it, it is). Here's an example: $URL$ 

In the past, when I commuted to a job without showers (I've managed to luck out recently) I made sure to: 

When riding long distances, either solo or with groups of people, it is obviously necessary to carry a first-aid kit in case of a crash or other injury. What are the most important items to pack, while still considering weight or space? What items can be included in 'travel-size', and which items should be 'full-size'? What items should definitely be left at home? 

They are formed into a different shape from a cold, pre-formed piece of metal (Stamped, Bulge, Machined/CNC'd), thereby reducing strength, or They have some weak spot (Rolled, Welding/Brazing), thereby reducing strength. 

Chain noise is not completely avoidable on fixed-gears, due to the stress from chain tension, etc. However, there are many types of chain which would be inappropriate to use and would cause extra noise. Be sure to purchase a 'track' chain (some are produced by Miche, Izumi, and KMC) and expect to pay $20+ for a quality chain. Also, be sure to keep your chain clean and well lubricated! Even on regular bikes, the majority of chain noise comes from a dry chain. 

My used bike came with different front and rear tires. It appears to have some kind of Kenda commuter tire in the front, and Continental Country Ride in the rear. They are both the same size (700x28). Is this perfectly acceptable or should a bike always have matching models (and/or size)? My main concerns from mismatching tires: 

I have been using a MEC Tace running jacket in conjunction with a Sugoi Midzero Zip in Vancouver at temperatures down to about +3C without major issues. It does get a bit colder as you get closer to freezing though, so it may not completely fit your needs. The thing I like about the Tace is that it's very lightweight and vents very well while being water resistant. I have the bright red one and find it quite visible. 

What are the advantages of upgrading the crankset on a bicycle? For example, my bike (2009 Kona Dew) comes with a FSA Dyna Drive crankset. I'm assuming this is a pretty basic crankset since it lies at the bottom of their product list. Would there be a substantial improvement by upgrading to something nicer? My (uneducated) guesses are that a higher end crankset would be lighter (e.g made from carbon) and possibly have less flex under power application. 

The easiest way to see why investment casting is preferable is to compare it to the alternative ways the same items can be made: (modified from here) 

This means that the former is 8mm shorter in diameter than the latter, and when you mount a 700c wheel to a bicycle with brakes set for a 27" wheel, they will be mis-aligned by 4mm (a significant amount). Depending on what type and variety brakes you have, you may or may not be able to reposition the brake pads correctly. In the case that you can't, you will be able to replace them with brakes designed to have a longer 'reach'. 

Dérailleurs exist not only to change gears, but to add tension to the chain as well. If you are noticing chain slack, and nothing else has changed or been replaced, the reason for chain slack is that the dérailleur has lost this ability. This could be for a few reasons: 

I have a 2009 Kona Dew that comes with handlebars that have a rise in them. I've noticed that I feel pretty upright while biking so I'm looking to get into a more aerodynamic position. Looking at the 2009 Dr. Dew, it looks like the geometry is more aggressive due to a flat bar and a different stem. How is the fit/posture affected by the difference in bars? Is it more taxing on the rider to maintain such a posture without increasing the weight on the hands? Given that the basic frame geometry of the Dr. Dew is identical to my bike, can I replicate the setup simply by switching to a flat bar like this FSA XC-180? Should I replace the stem and/or headset at the same time? 

As the title states, what are the benefits of a carbon seatpost like this one from MEC? My research indicates there may be the following pros and cons: Pros 

What are the qualities of bicycle bearing grease that make it suitable for that use? (The reason I ask is that I need to get some and I'd rather get the non-bike equivalent grease at the auto parts store a mile down the road than at the bike store 15 miles away.) (I'm assuming the same grease can be used for bottom bracket and hub bearings -- true?) 

(The reason I'm asking is that I want to punch some holes in the end of two bands so I can connect them, probably with zip ties, into one longer band. The first time I rode with them their urge to curl was so strong that the ends were rolled up and and it was halfway off my ankle when I got back. I think a longer band will stay on better. I want to know if I can punch holes without damaging the bands.) 

The most important point to note, though, is to remove as much of the rust as possible before painting. Simply painting over the rust will just seal it in, and allow it to continue rusting away beneath the layer of paint. 

You're absolutely right--children's bicycles with training wheels are good for exercise and entertainment, but they do little to nothing for balance. In my experience, the best way to teach anyone--children included--to ride a bicycle is to take the pedals off, lower the seat, and let them scoot & coast around until they develop the proper balance. Then, add the pedals, and let them coast, pedal, etc. For children, there are several popular brand that makes 'run bikes', which are usually made out of wood, and have neither training wheels nor pedals. They are low enough that the child can sit in the saddle and place both feet on the ground, but high enough that they can still propel themselves & lift their feet to coast. These bikes allow the child to quickly and safely develop good bicycle balance. (See $URL$ $URL$ and $URL$