So... you don't actually have to have a degree in CS to pursue a career in IT. In fact, if you already have a degree in an engineering-related field and get yourself up to speed in software development, that will very likely open doors for you that regular CS majors won't get (and your job experience, however slight, will help even more). If you want to learn the trade, I'd recommend going to a bootcamp or taking courses at a local community college. If you really, really want to go back to school to get a second degree, you certainly can, but I'd go so far as to say that the things that you learn in a CS degree are not always anywhere near as directly applicable to the real world as those first two options I mentioned (and plus, a degree, especially a post-bac one, is probably far more expensive as well). 

The issue with putting it on your resume is that it becomes possible for an HR department to exclude you for your religion without creating a paper trail that they're doing so. A person looking over your resume can review it and just say "nope, this person is not qualified' and place it into the circular file no matter what; if you stick your religion or race or creed or anything else like that on there, they could plausibly state that there are 50 other reasons why you never got to the interview stage, even if they are actually discriminating against your religion. In fact, they could even say that they felt that the fact that you included in belies an unprofessional resume, regardless of what the religion is. The converse is not something that necessarily benefits you either. A lot of larger companies just don't care what religion you are above and beyond the fact that they'd rather avoid lawsuits (although I will say that the other advice that you shouldn't include it directly because of the threat of a lawsuit are blowing things a bit out of proportion). Even a place that you know is run by religious people might prefer not to see that. And if the other party doesn't share your religion, people of different faiths will often not see your religious activism as a positive reason to hire you. On the other hand, if you're applying to be a church organist, of course you're going to want to list all the churches you've played at (although in that specific case I have an atheist friend who played the organ at a couple of local churches for several years - work experience does not necessarily mean religious experience). If you've done a lot of volunteer work that's pertinent to the job, there's probably not a lot of point to hiding the fact that the volunteering was for a religious organization. What you're describing, though, are just normal aspects of attending church. If you feel that this hobby uniquely qualifies you for the position you're submitting your resume for, I guess you could list it as a "job"; just adding it in because it's a thing that you do, however, is kind of pointless. 

You don't tell them. It's as simple as that. As much ground as you think you may cover by getting the truth out about this, and as much as you may actually be a completely innocent party in all of this, all that's going to be far outweighed by two things: 

This is a tough one because the standard line of "we liked you but we decided to go with someone else" is now code for "we just went with someone else". I guess the only thing I can really say to that is to personalize the rejection as much as possible. If you can maybe speak specifically to positions that may open in the future, perhaps you could do that? "Hi, we decided to go with another candidate for Job X but we think we're going to have a position opening up for Job Y in a couple of months and I think you'd be a really excellent candidate for that", that kind of thing. Or compliment a particular aspect of what the potential employee brought to the table: "Even though we have decided to go another direction, I was really impressed by your knowledge of Thing A and I'd like to keep you in mind for future openings if that sounds good to you." Whatever you can do to get out of the cliche, the better. 

I'm not generally a fan of people collectively taking credit for one person's work, but the thing I'm even less of a fan of is breaking outside of one's management chain to address this issue. If you really think that this is the only way you can fix this kind of thing, I guess go ahead and do it, but you also have to take into account the fact that you are probably going to seriously ruffle some feathers by doing this. And the thing is, it's my experience that this kind of thing kind of comes out on its own anyway. My experience has been more with underperforming people rather than entire teams, but even at that the fact that people are going directly to you with issues means that there is already some scuttlebutt in the building that you are the person who makes things happen in your department. There is a very good possibility that your going around management is just going to be to tell them that the sky is blue and water is wet. Otherwise I think you have to just consider how this is impacting you. Are you being denied promotions because of this situation? That is one great reason why you might want to move up the chain (in fact, the proviso there is that by accepting a promotion you wouldn't actually be in the department that you'd be cheesing people off in any longer). Are you being unduly harassed? Or is this just a situation where you kind of disagree with the office politics? As the old saying goes, cream generally rises to the top. I mean, it doesn't always and that's why you should make sure you're keeping a lookout that you aren't being kept down, but otherwise I think you are in a situation where you can damage your standing a lot more than you can increase it by speaking out. 

I guess it depends on how low-level this guy is micromanaging you, but yes it isn't out of the ordinary for a lead developer to dictate exactly how a particular process should be made to work. Sometimes - granted, generally when a person is working with very junior developers - you'll see someone go as far as naming the classes and defining function signatures. There's also very often a great deal of leeway on the other side in terms of being able to dictate how you solve a particular problem, but I will say that most places have a BA or an architect who does step in and define at least some of the design (ideally by conferencing with stakeholders, which, if you're a programmer you probably don't want to do anyway, so be thankful for these people), specifications, and requirements before leaving you to come up with the rest. 

I'm sympathetic to this because, sadly, there are places who only realize your value when you're with someone else, and then forget all over again once you're back. The thing is, not all companies think this way and I would generally advise to try and migrate towards the ones who appreciate your service while, you know, you're actually there. That being said, there are lots of other factors that might make you want to return and so I think that being relatively straightforward is fine. To that end... 

To be honest, all of those other things are workable issues. I've had to deal with slow and laggy workstations, bureaucracy, acting as my own BA, figuring out what I'm supposed to do as I go along... in fact, all of these things are, I feel, part of the software development experience. Working without version control is not, or at least should not be (and I am sure that other industries have similar "no go" things). 

When someone pops an email over to you and you aren't doing anything, sure, go ahead and answer their question and then when you're done refer them to the wiki you set up on the subject. That's just being polite and at least some people will prefer to use that medium instead of having to wait for you. On the other hand, if this isn't actually part of your job description and you're in the middle of something that is, don't even think twice about waiting to answer that person until you're done / free. If it's going to be a while, sure, send off that quick "sorry, I can't reply; I'm in the middle of something" email before going back to your job. The same goes if you get an email on a break or a lunch; that is your time, not your company's and not your co-workers'. If someone gets bothered by the fact that you are putting your own work in front of theirs, I'd just politely explain to them that you set up the wiki on your own precisely so that you wouldn't be interrupted like that. If that person persists or gets snotty, talk to your supervisor (or theirs, if the chain of command works that way; I will add, though, that even in the most informal of working environments you should always try to go up through your own chain of command). I think what you want to avoid - and I think you were clear in agreeing with this ahead of time - is making yourself so available that your own work suffers. That doesn't help anybody. I think you also want to avoid getting into a position where doing this plus your own job means you're basically doing 1.5 times as much work as everyone else; aside from the notion that you aren't getting paid enough for that (which I feel is almost besides the point) you'll risk getting burnt out. So if you get pushback from your higher-ups when you take a while to answer some questions, I think you have to make them make a decision as to whether or not mentoring is part of your job description, and if it is, make them give you a lighter load in your "regular" job to make up for it. On the flip side, though, I do feel like if your position has a bit of downtime at the moment you ought to consider filling it by being extra helpful and social with your other co-workers, especially when they ask you questions like this. There are a whole bunch of ways you can become indispensable to your company, bad ones (like writing code that only you can decipher) and good ones (like being the "go to" for a particular piece of technology). The wiki is a great idea in that it allows you to demonstrate that you are trying to raise the bus factor, but the fact that people seek you out to get help makes you an asset to your company if you play it right. 

As with just about every other issue, how you relate to this person is more about you than about them. There will always be people who don't pull their own weight in a given work environment for a variety of reasons. First and foremost, you really need to make sure that your gripes are because you are being regularly blocked by them, for example, or if you're just peeved that you seem to do a lot more work than they do. If it's the latter, I would propose not doing anything about the situation and instead learn how to deal with this issue internally. If it is the former, you can try going to them but it's often hard to have a face to face discussion with a peer about stuff like this. If you do, it is imperative that you use "I" statements ("I was unable do complete a task yesterday because Document XYZ was not filled out" instead of "you need to fill out Document XYZ") and, really, not be straight up accusatory. The "this guy is lazy" thing especially is at its root an accusation. Even if you know in your heart that the root cause is this guy's laziness, you ought to be prepared for the chance that you're seeing things incorrectly. I also wouldn't go the route of asking about their personal business unless you are really and truly interested in their well-being. That kind of thing is hard to fake and if you go up asking how someone is doing in an insincere way, chances are they will notice it straight away. Instead, keep things on the business end and if they proffer an excuse that is personal, try to address it in business terms ("Okay, so you're going through a messy divorce and have to be out of the office by 4? Can you make sure that Document XYZ is completed by 3, then? If you can do that, I can know that I have to get all of my stuff done before that time"). On the flip side, that also means you shouldn't include personal stuff in your criticism of him. "My work is being affected by your not hitting deadlines" is professional; "I feel frustrated that you are not working as hard as I am" is personal and likely to be taken as an insult. Otherwise, if you'd prefer to go to your supervisor, and I would not blame you if you did, you need to make sure it's not just a gossip/gripe session. Continue to present things as "I" statements (if you feel like that is overly clingy, well, don't worry about that - others will attribute bad statements to you whether you say them as "I" statements or as "they" statements) so as to make your boss understand the personal impact this person's laziness is having on the workplace. Be open to alternatives, and as mentioned in the first paragraph being peeved that a colleague isn't pulling their weight isn't really reason enough in and of itself for your boss to intercede on your behalf. 

Yeah, this is a really bad idea waiting to happen. In addition to all the stuff that goes with you managing people you had no say in hiring and didn't even know had positions for (figuring out who will do what work, knowing what skillsets the different people have so that you can place them on the right projects, having no idea whether they'll fit into the culture of your existing group), I will bet a dollar that your boss will also expect these people to contribute right away and do so as full-fledged members of your team. Like, if you have 4 devs right now, he'll expect you to produce 50% more output immediately. Needless to say, this isn't how things work (see: the Mythical Man-Month). And I don't think you're going to be able to explain this to your boss, because if your boss was the kind of person who listened to their subordinates he would have looped you in on the interview process or, you know, the fact that an interview process existed. So... good luck, I guess? More seriously, this seems like the same advice folks give every time there's a problem, but this is one of these "polish up the resume and look for a better gig" situations. Get out before your reputation is tarnished by this guy. 

I don't really know that there is such a thing as a "bad" project per se... but sure, I can understand where it would be challenging to talk to potential new hires about a project that you don't find all that fun to do. There are maybe a couple of ways I'd approach it: 

The thing to remember - and sorry if I sound like a broken record here because I say this whenever I respond to a question about interviews - is that the interview process is as much about them auditioning for you as the other way around. If you do not deal well with bosses that yell a lot, maybe bring that up. If they decline to hire you because they would have put you underneath a yelly boss, then you dodged a bullet. So long as you present yourself humbly and don't give them something that says that they can't hire you ("My weakness is that I am an alcoholic"), bear in mind that you want to find a place that will accommodate you as much as they want you to accommodate them.