In higher civilizations low class people had to fulfill physical work often in the outside, thus being in the sun all day tanning their skin. On the contrary high class people often stayed inside their houses doing more management work and a lot of delegating physical work to their subjects, hence the brighter skin due to a lack of exposure to the sun. That's also where the term blue-blooded originates from, the blue veins shimmer through the untanned skin. Personally I thought this philosophy originated in medieval europe but the concept could be easily transferred to earlier civilizations. As far as I know this has been the idea inside europe's civilization as well, which weakens the argument of caucasians conquering and colonizing the world as the main reason. No doubt, though, colonization did play a role in many non-european cultures but as said, later on in history. 

The shortest documented adult ever became only 54.6cm (21.5"). Even though this is quite small, I'd say it is definitely way too large to be able to fly with (butter)fly wings. I could rather imagine bird or bat wings. I also assume you cannot simply gain a human in a form as tiny as one wants to imagine as many of our organs probably have a limited minimum size to function properly. You'd have to change the internal body massively and throw out anything not absolutely necessary. Also they'd probably not as slim but rather have a stocky body and a quite oversized head. Retaining human intelligence with a brain a fraction of the size of ours is hardly possible. They may have a slightly improved efficiency but barely anywhere close to human intelligence. Also a more efficient brain would raise the demand of energy so they'd have to eat and sleep very much. In addition to the high energy demand for their flying ability I'd say that's a very limiting factor. As for your last question, that's a matter of supply and demand. Since human teeth are like ivory to them they create jewelry from, less people believing in fairies mean less teeth and thus higher value per tooth. The much more important question is: why would such a creature develop? Did they develop out of a hominid or an insect, and why would it shrink and develop full wings but not change anything else (or vice versa, why would it change its body into the human form)? The human body has specialized to living on the ground and it's obviously totally ineffective and useless if it was able to fly. 

Actually, who cares about defending anything? Nothing in the question says that the library can't have "regenerative" properties. It's already somewhat alive, so it can probably completely "heal" itself, replacing missing scrolls with copies and repairing any shelves, walls, ceilings, etc. Since triggered by damage, the "healing" can be done by "spells used as a trap", so it's involuntary (like in humans) and doesn't need any conscious act from anyone sentient. The library could be built with a healing factor so great that it could regenerate itself from a single sliver of its shelves (no mana is needed, helpers can be temporarily summoned, so really, are there any limits?) In this case, it probably will welcome raiders, not stop them, so any garbage from breaking things will stick to their clothes, and then will get carried away by the raiders. And then new clones of the library will grow in other places all over the world, spreading the knowledge. Thus fullfilling the purpose of the library better. 

On Earth, snakes evolved from lizards mostly via simplifications. The most famous of those is the loss of legs. But the ears were also affected: when lizards actually hear sound in the range 500-4000 Hz (some up to 10000 Hz), snakes typically only respond to vibrations that they feel through they bellies in the 50-1000 Hz range (see here). There's Dollo's law: evolutionary losses are unlikely to reemerge. So I see 3 options for your snakes: 

It only causes harm to the human body if the body is part of a closed circuit, otherwise electricity won't even move through the body. The effects on your body depend on whether it's AC or DC traversing through. The former causes the heart to try to adapt to the oscillation and a frequency of 50Hz may already cause ventricular fibrillation or even cardiac arrest with an increasing chance on higher frequencies. Also it can cause paralyzation on your muscles if the electricity is high enough. The latter may cause electrolysis in your body, which results in a sepsis that causes your death few days later. The mentioned effects both depend on the amount of electricity as well as the impact duration with both values rising the chance on increase. 50V AC and 120V DC are said to be perilous to the human body. Both types of electricity cause burns on your skin and your flesh. The shorter the distance the electricity covers through the body the smaller the resistance and thus the smaller the voltage. As your legs are usually the exit point to the ground hits on your legs are less violative than hits on your arms. It gets worse when your heart or brain are within the path. The resistance is composed of the resistance of your body and the transition resistances of the entry and exit point. Dry skin has a higher resistance so seemingly unintuitive being wet and sweaty reduces the voltage and thus the damage to the body. Defending a river might be a much more desirable point of defence. Just shoot in the water when the enemy tries to cross it. Bullets lose acceleration very quickly in water so they become quite harmless. Electricity does have a very high drop-off ratio in water (which is why a lightning hitting a lake doesn't kill all its fish) but on close distance it would be devastating. 

Yeah... A mundane medieval army is at huge disadvantage against this Army X. It's just not possible to do any lasting harm to them or deprive them of any significant amount of important resources. And there's no magical way to stop them, like summoning a bigger fish or holding the whole world hostage. Which leaves few paths to the victory open, one of them being to Surrender to the Army X And after that, use non-military means to make holding you and your resources bad for them. If those sword and shields can't bring you a victory, just don't use them at all, and don't waste your people in the process. Use them in another way, applying social and economical pressure against the Army X that the winner of the war wouldn't be able to avoid. Like: 

In quantum mechanics, no true omniscience is possible, and all "practical approaches" to omniscience are inherently limited. Wavefunctions are fundamentally separated from observables, and only observables can be known by any observer, even by a god. There's an inherent behavior within the wavefunction that adds non-removable randomness to most observables. It cannot be suppressed or removed in any way without breaking the fundamentals of existence. So the whole situation could be like the Schrödinger's cat to Chronos. He could literally not know the outcome until he observed the actual result. All his godly knowledge would be powerless to penetrate into the wavefunction, as it was not possible at all. He only could know probabilities of various outcomes, and had to take a bet, hoping for the best. Him being god of time would not help him in the slightest, as the passage of time can't remove indeterminism from quantum observations. Forcing a deterministic outcome would destroy all balance in the world, at the very least.