I am a newbie at biking, and I've been wanting to get into BMX for a few years, and I can now since I actually have some money. Primarily I've been wanting a 20" BMX bike with front and rear brakes and a detangler, but looking around on danscomp and a few other places there aren't too many in my price range. Anyways, that's not really what my question was. Since I'm new to this, I've been reading a bit about frames, sprockets, brakes, etc., and found out there is a frame that is specifically for flatland riding, here: 

But, when I look at a lot of tricks online (I've just been using Google Images) and look up 'flatland tricks / bikes' or 'bmx tricks', most of the pictures are just using the typical frame with the straight bottom tube. So finally, is it really necessary to buy a 'flatland' frame, which would just cost more and be harder to find, or just use a typical BMX-style frame? 

I started a while back (maybe 2 years ago =p) restoring a custom-built tandem bicycle, and I sanded it down to bare metal and just used spray paint (Rustoleum I think, took the bike completely apart to just paint the frame) to give it 5 or so coats, then a clear coat... but the paint still comes off pretty easy. To paint it up I just hung it up by the back forks and did light coats. Anyways, it looked good in the end, but the paint still comes off pretty easily. What are the steps that someone should take to fully paint a bicycle that already has a coat of paint on it, that is tough and good looking? 

Not a complete answer to working out proper compatibility, but, wiggle customer support inform me that the swissstop green cartridges are compatible with my callipers. From this I draw the (semi) logical conclusion that if the block is design to work with a calliper brake, then it's compatible. The issue then is one of weight/aerodynamics as to whether or not you want it on your bike. Reading, people seem to find that the Shimano ultegra cartridges paired with the swissstop pads makes an excellent combination. Supposedly the ultegra cartridge is lighter and more aero and applies the block more smoothly. And the swissstop pads are supposed to be great pads. 

The chain compatibility will depend on your cassette. I have two road bikes, one is a 9-speed Shimano, the other a 10 speed shimano. I also have an MTB. The MTB chain is considerably thicker and the cassette on the MTB considerably more spaced out allowing room for it. My MTB chain would not fit either of my road bikes for that reason, it could not sit on a single cog on the cassette. I would not buy a chain unless it was specifically compatible with my cassette. 

I have Tektro R320 Calliper brakes on my bike: $URL$ It's time for some new pads. However, the ones on this appear to be all in one, bolt straight into the pad on the calliper. If I look on wiggle, my usual online component supplier, there are lots of blocks for cartridges, or blocks like this: $URL$ But not so many options that look like what is in the Tektro OEM. How do I know what I can fit? what's compatible? 

I've been looking at expedition bikes and I've noticed on some bikes I've seen that they have a lot of headset spacers such as $URL$ and thorn cycles in particular. Why is that? 

I wouldn't imagine it is normal for them to be over-tightened - what would be the point? However, its generally advised after buying a machine built bike / wheels to check that spokes / hubs haven't loosening after a breaking in period. This in in comparison with a hand built bike. 

Check the axle has not drifted over. You need some cone spanners and you can check. There should be the same amount on both sides where the axel fits into the dropout. Another point is the dishing of the wheel. Rear wheels are usually dished slightly over . If you have done some wheel truing lately or someone else has, make sure its not dished too far over. Check there isn't a small buckle in the wheel hitting at that point only. Another idea is to change down the size of your tyres as previously mentioned, or go for a slicker tyre. Short term solution to protect the frame is put some gaffer on it but to be honest your tyre shouldn't be rubbing, especially not on carbon. 

I've got a 1x10 set up. Sometimes I have a problem with the chain falling off at the front. I've been reading that a clutch mech will help to prevent this. My mech is Deore long cage without clutch. What is the dis/advantages of a clutch mech vs a chain tensioner / chain guide? Bike is 2006 Specialized Rockhopper Pro. Chain is correct for chainring. Its not worn, nor the chainring etc. Chain line looks fine, but maybe this could be tweaked slightly. 

Given the same day and the same rider and otherwise equal conditions, riding on a tarmac road vs riding on a gravel cycle path, the road will be faster. Why? It's about the rolling resistance of the surface. This page gives a good breakdown of the physics involved in working out how much power you need based on various inputs. But basically, a rougher surface offers more rolling resistance to your bike tyres, so you need to put more power in to sustain the same speed. Given you're likely to put out a constant power (since we're assuming identical rider and conditions) on both track and road, since there is less resistance, you'll go faster on the road, the 'spare' power will come out as speed. Given identical surface, then you have to look at what else is different in the route. There's a 0.2 mile difference in distance, but, what's the ascent and average gradient of both routes? Plot them on bikehike.co.uk (or the mapping tool of your choice) and see what the difference is. A local route to me on the Trans-Penine Trail turns out to be a 2% gradient, though it looks flat, on gravel. The road route near by has some sharp hills, but has downhill segments and a much smoother surface, so is faster on my MTB and far faster on my road bike. Also, on the road are could be benefiting from the drafting effect of cars possibly, whereas on the cycle trail you might be cutting the air yourself, that can account for a 20% energy saving. And finally, for now, there's always the right of way, if you're having to slow on the cycle trail to negotiate slower cyclists or other route users, whereas on the road you're the slow thing people are moving round. 

I've got a XC mtb which 1. I'm trying to cut the weight off , 2. I want a bit extra reach. I've got a longer road bike stem made by 'Deda' (I think Planet X)? and I was wondering if it will be strong enough for XC mountain biking use? 

I need a tyre that is really durable, puncture resistance, folding, lightweight and good for rocky (sometimes loose) and dry terrain. I work as a guide in Georgia (Caucasus) and my tyres wear out too quickly. 

I've got some Sun Rhynolyte rims and one of the features is being welded and machined. What does it mean when said in relation to a rim? 

I am planning a cycle tour that will pass through some areas where I know there will be plenty of access to food and some areas that will be away from food for a day or two. I am going to Turkey, Georgia, cycling down through Azerbaijan, Armenia and Iran. I envisage that food will be easily available in Turkey, Georgia especially in towns but less so in remoter parts of Iran as my route will go through some of the lesser populated areas. Any advice appreciated. 

There are so many different kinds of shorts available for mountain biking. I would like to get a pair that is: durable, can have padding shorts (either insert or worn under), stretchy and flexible material, doesn't make a huge amount of noise when I pedal, lightweight, quick drying. Usually I would wear just lycra but having done that last season and taken a couple of falls with no protection I'm looking for something a little more protective. There are so many kinds of shorts out there though how do I know what is purely fashion and what is function? and is it worth wearing anything but lycra for xc?