This list is obviously not exhaustive, and several of these questions and topics are interrelated. For example questions of metaphysics and philosophy or religion tend to go hand in hand, as do questions of ethics and political philosophy. As I mentioned earlier, I have found it much easier to approach philosophy via these fundamental questions then by start with philosopher X and ending with philosopher Y. 

Modern philosophy of religion seems to be "Abrahamic-centric" with all of the discussion centered around problems specific to Christianity, Islam and Judaism. In particular most arguments for the existence of God, and attempts to place faith and religious doctrine on a modern rational footing seem to be concerned only with Western monotheism and its various accompanying beliefs. 

Is Buddhism a philosophy (love of wisdom), a systematic approach to analysing experience (subjective science), an ethical and logical framework, a theory and conclusion that can be tested? Yes it is. Does Buddhism challenge fragile beliefs held without empirical evidence such as notions of a vengeful creator god, a sense of self or soul? Yes it does. Is Buddhism a religion as undefined by Wikipedia, "an organized collection of belief systems, cultural systems, and world views that relate humanity to spirituality" Probably. respect for what is sacred, Yes. reverence for the gods, Not particularly. obligation, the bond between man and the gods Absolutely not. Latin religiÅ, ... *le-ligarean ... lego "read", "choose", "go over again" or "consider carefully" Yes. ligare "bind, connect", ... prefixed re-ligare, ... "to reconnect," Yes as far as a community. No as far as the ultimate goal is nibbana (nirvana) which means 'unbinding', release, detachment, blowing out. Are you likely to find Buddhists argue with you even if you do not engage them in debates of theological speculation? No, I do not think so. 

Clearly the person in (6) is moving because of their own motivation, while the person (1) is not. But the cases in the middle show that the boundary between what constitutes one's own motivations and what doesn't is arbitrary. There are real world cases were the boundary is fuzzy as well: At what age are children considered to start acting according to their own motivations? Are people in excrutiating pain acting according to their own motivations? Are people under the influence of drugs acting according to their own motivations? What about people with psychiatric conditions? And what about people who are targeted by subliminal marketing and advertising techniques? Followers of a charismatic cult leader? The legal and social definitions seem to me very arbitrary (18 or 21? - above x grams of blood/alcohol - courtroom definitions of competent and incompetent). It seems to me for a compatibilist definition of freewill to hold, there has to be a clear boundary between acting according to one's own motivation and acting under coercion, otherwise the compatibilist approach fails. My questions: 

I have yet to make up my mind about attributing property P to objects whose parts do not all share the property P or not in the same way. However I disagree that saying Craig is green or Craig's eyes are green is wrong. Here is my reasoning behind it: There is a difference between saying Craig's eyes are green to saying Craig's eyes are ALL green. By saying Craig's eyes are green the only thing you can actually claim is that somewhere in Craig's eyes the color green presents itself. From the premise "Craig's eyes are green" you cannot make the claims presented below, unless you add additional restrictions to your original premise: 

Among the enlightened, there is a semantic distinction between buddhas, arahants, with residue and without. A buddha is self-realised while an arahant followed the path of a buddha. An enlightened one with residue is still supported by the khandas (he has a body and is alive) while after death (paranibbana) an enlightened one is not supported by the khandas, not supported by a body, is dead and will not return to any womb. Perhaps a more useful question, if I may: "How does one choose a worthy teacher?" 

Wikipedia does a good job of summarizing the four stages of enlightenment, which are stream-enterer, once-returner, non-returner, and arahant. They are distinguished by their remaining attachments such as clinging to rituals, self-view and doubt to an arahant who is fully released. There are no objective standards for determining the stage of another individual but there are certainly clues. For example, any expression of self-view is undeniable falsification: Insult their mother and see how they react. However, the stages along the path are subjectively but entirely testable and in minute granularity. All schools of Buddhism recognise the authority of the nikayas/agamas, in which the Buddha describes the dhamma and practice in detail. While many factors are enumerated, in whole the path and attainments are not linear. For example the four material jhanas are sequential but the eight-fold path is better described as cyclical such that the development of each characteristic reinforces the other characteristics of the path. Wisdom, virtue, and concentration are developed in parallel. Some traditions emphasise an instantaneous enlightenment (chan, zen), some hold a view of a prior enlightened Bodhi nature that must be revealed, while traditionally it was presented as a methodical process. But I don't think it would correct to say that different traditions have different notions of enlightenment. I hesitate here on certain teachers, particularly in Tibetan/bon traditions, who assert the rebirth of arahants. The rebirth of enlightened worthy ones contradicts the Buddha's own definition of nibbana/nirvana, which literally means unbinding, fading out, the end of rebirth, not entering any womb. But rebirth is difficult to objectively test without some fancy super-mundane instruments. 

Now if you were to have originally said Craig is ALL green or Craig's eyes are ALL green, then you would be absolutely correct that this statement is wrong, unless Craig is one freaky looking dude. I think there is one further point to be driven out of this discussion. Saying something is green or red or any color is colloquial. Lets examine this linguistically for a second. Green and red and colors in general are by definition a property possessed by an object of producing different sensations on the eye as a result of the way the object reflects or emits light. Simply put colors are properties possessed by objects (what a shocker, right?) Strictly speaking it is incorrect to say that object X is a property possessed by objects. So what is a better way of saying this? Craig contains green or Craig's eyes contain green It might sound a bit odd at first but its kind of like the difference between "Im good" and "Im well". The first is colloquially used by many many people and accepted as correct; whereas, the latter is strictly by definition correct but most people don't use it in everyday language. You can also say Craig displays green or Craig's eyes display green. Ultimately using weak verbs like "is" and "are" causes a bit of ambiguity. Strong verbs like "display" or "feel" or "contain" alleviate some of this ambiguity. Thus as long as you are not restricting the statement by adding quantifiers, saying Craig is green is not wrong. Yes it would be better to say something like "Craig contains green" but due to the colloquial use of the word "is" and its ambiguity as a verb I think it is acceptable. 

(Everything) that is (own-created and thus conditioned) (is painful). (Everything) that is (own-created and thus conditioned) (can be changed, or broken down into smaller parts). (Everything) that is (everything is not self). That is what the Buddha taught. 

According to the Mahayanna tradition 'emptiness' refers to the conditioned inherently not-self nature of things. The Buddha himself never used the term 'emptiness' in this context but the underlying idea (anicca, anatta, [dukkha]) is consistent across all Buddhist traditions. It may be useful to realise that when the Buddha refers to 'the all' (sabba) he is referring to only what you can perceive. When he refers to 'being' and 'existence', he is not just describing conditioned but also an identified/personified/unified/own-created delusion (sankhara) that supports our consciousness (vinnana) and maintains our false sense of self (an/atta). So there may be a car in front of you. You may perceive it as red. Your neighbour may say it is red. But what do you really know? You perceive the colour through your eyes and you hear your neighbour through your ears and you interpret the meaning with your mind. Let's say the car exists (the Buddha discouraged and was himself careful not to engage in speculative discussion of whether there 'really' is a car or not, he stuck with what you can know, test, and what is conducive to liberation). You experience a red car and you experience a neighbour confirming its redness. That is really it, the all, sabba, the whole shabang. 

Your problem is that you are asking a question in terms of propositional logic (which is binary), then demanding an answer that is outside of the domain of propositional logic values. You are only allowed to work with True or False values. There is no maybe in propositional logic. So yes you are correct that outside of propositional logic, if A and B are false and A -> B, then the statement would be ambiguous. Outside of propositional logic you can say "oh maybe the worms will come out". Binary logic will not allow you such luxury. In this case if it's not true, then its false. If its not false, then its true. You can also look at it from the view point of negations. In PL "not false" = true. You are saying ~F. ~F=T and ~T=F