Since you are writing a sci-fi the only technology I can think of is : the bubble maker. Each citizen in your city lives inside a personal bubble, they can eat, work, sleep and do everything normally without breaking it. Each bubble has a 24 hours supply of oxygen after that, every citizen must go to this huge medieval machine to change his personal bubble. 

Practicing Sports with your fancy shoes : One way to demonstrate that you are wealthy is to practice sports while wearing your fancy shoes instead of regular sports shoes. In that case you will prove that you are too rich to not care about your fancy shoes getting worn by playing sports. Avoid walking on pedestrian passages and walk on rough unattended roads : Yes you are rich enough to torture yourself by walking on rocky roads just to prove that you are much superior than the others. That doesn't make sens but it will definitely get your shoes worn. 

Well the 14th century is full of crisis : The Black Death that wiped half of the population. $URL$ The Great Famine of 1315-17 $URL$ So if he brings medications and antibiotiques, he will be idolized by them. 

They are using advanced high-tech tools in order to get their job done, however under the new regime of the US government, scientists and engineers are being treated like slaves and forced to work for a cheap payement since it's their duty towards their ruling government. Advantages : The main good thing that could work in benefit of his conspiracy that the miners are poor and underpaid by the government so they are angry with their condition, also they are not traveling in cryostat (they are not sleeping) because they have to refine those materials before delivering to earth. Important : He needs to get rid of all the soldiers (kill them and burn them or send them to the nearest rock in escape pods) before reaching Saturn and also get rid of the ship after taking all of the cargo, because the person in charge of the Chinese space colony can't protect our infamous hero from the Chinese government in case he brings back anything representing the US government (a proof of the mutiny). Question : According to Wikipedia : 

If he is smart enough he will kill the dragon when he is flying over the sea. Water will reduce the impact. EDIT : OK don't kill the dragon, instead incapacitate him with a fatal blow until it reaches the ground very wounded, and then finish it. Other method : If he's falling near a high tower, he could stick his dagger/sword and reduces his fall by friction while looking cool !!! 

There is something in the water : There is some chemical substances in the main water source of the city that has the effect of making everyone who drinks enough water to sleep during the day rather than the night, the minority who doesn't sleep during the day are the ones who drink much less water, maybe because they live far away from the city's main water source, or maybe they suffer from dehydration. 

Canyons Virtually any canyon out there is accessible from only a few points (within the area you specified, obviously more in total). You could easily stop them by surrounding canyons. It doesn't have to be small either, the Grand Canyon is an example of that. Mountain Ranges Although they're usually bigger than your proposed area, this might not be the best solution, but it would certainly look nice and not suffocating like a canyon could. Japan has many mountains that you could look at, for inspiration. Let's put a picture in there (open in new tab to see it bigger): 

It's the year 2068, humanity has managed to get a space elevator working about twenty years ago. Now, they need more metals and rare materials which are found in asteroids. Ships with specialized equipment bring asteroids towards Earth and set them in a very specific orbit, which passes close by the space elevator but does not collide with any other asteroids. Miners work on these asteroids and they get to work and deliver materials using the space elevator. A gigantic construction is underway to complete a self sustaining refinery so that asteroids can be mined and processed in place instead of having them brought to Earth. 

Humanity has discovered the cure. The cure to what, you say? Why, the cure to everything known of course. Death is no longer part of a human life and there is no "life cycle" anymore. The keepers see that humans have advance far too much and they know that they will be an uncontrollable pest upon the universe or worse, wipe themselves and all life on Earth. So they decide to take action. They make a genetically engineered virus (if they can) or do it in a fantastical / magical way and release it into the air. All of humanity becomes sick in a matter of days and they die off. This way, you can also keep people alive that matter to the story by giving them immunity to the virus. You could also say that, since humans are no longer dying, the gatekeepers went mad with nothing to be done around them. Maybe the gatekeepers were dependent on "the last breath of a human" to keep living, so they had to do something to restart humanity but not necessarily wipe them off. Alternatively, any modification you make on these reasons or methods, or a combination of them, is also applicable. 

Well, from your description, you want the people who are not in the villages or out in the open to be protected. You just need to place strategic shelters and give everyone who needs to go outside a device that can ping the nearest shelter and show a direction to it (or the device could just come pre-installed with the locations). Of course, since you're talking about suits or dome like structures that can shield from extreme heats, I'm assuming this is a high-tech era. Since people will have a few hours advance notice of the danger, you don't even need that many shelters around. It would be easy to even walk to the nearest shelter (in an hour or so). A maximum of two hours of walking between shelters would ensure that you can get to the nearest one in one hour or less. 

Effects in medicine : It will be a controversial healing method, something like suicide assessment in hospitals where you need to sign an agreement or a paper that you accept this healing method and that you are fully aware of its drawbacks on your health in the future. It's something the doctor can't decide, only the patient will choose whether to accept it or not. Effects in warfare : Soldiers are expendables when it comes to winning a battle, so when a soldier falls in a fight he will be healed immediately using this method whether he liked it or not, of course this will enhance the chances of winning the war, but after many years the number of recruits will diminish because people will become afraid, not from death, but from painful death by cancer. Effects in society : People will mostly riot against this healing method, since many religions forbid suiciding, and this healing method is literally a suicide, so it will not be welcomed by everyone, and society will incriminate every mage who practices this sort of healing (talking about burning mages at the stake). 

Imagine a society that knows for sure, the expiration date for the planet on which they live. Let's say for example that scientists have predected that this planet will be destroyed due to a huge natural disaster in about 150 years from now, this will eventually lead them into becoming more interested in space travel and the possibility of finding a new habitable planet out there, in order to ensure the survivor of their kind. So the fear of extinction is a motive for a society to become spacefaring. 

How long does it take to completely deplete the resources of a planet ? Nomads change places only if they exhaust the resources (food, water, ...) existing in the previous location. In your case we are talking about planets, so to completely consume the resources of a planet during let's say 3 years, it has to be one of these propositions : 1 - Small and tiny planets : The galaxy in which your nomads live contain only small planets with few resources, so they need to change places many times during their life cycle. 2 - Swarms of nomads (overpopulation) : The traveling civilisation is actually a big one, hundreds of billions of people can easily exhaust the resources of a planet in no time, then move to the other in an endless cycle. 3 - Lazy and passive civilisation : What's wrong with working in farms to grow vegetables and fruits and breed animals, doing so will assure a more stable future for the whole civilisation. 

Watchtowers : Put watchtowers in every city, they provide a military advantage especially inside the city's walls : 

In Greek mythology, Zeus is capable of striking the enemies with giant meteorites, inflicting a devastating damage. 

Artifacts are not just things to be owned by anyone. Artifacts are filled with magic and certain artifacts, the ones that are really powerful, have their own will and they have conditions for ownership. Some might just prefer their owner to be murdered before they allow themselves to be taken, some might not want their owner's murderer to own them and some might just even disappear along with their owner. The merchant has to be willing to part with the artifact. This particular artifact won't interact with anyone who means harm to their owner and will only change ownership if its owner wants to give it up. This might be interpreted as "I could just coerce him to give it up." but that won't work, because the artifact will know that you meant its owner harm and it won't cooperate with you and will even go so far as to destroy itself if you ever try to use it. It might even want revenge and call the second strongest mage in the world, in a manner similar to The One Ring in Lord of the Rings, and that might just mean it becomes the tipping point between you and the second strongest. You wouldn't want those possibilities to become reality, even if they're really improbable, so you decide not to harm him in any way but to either convince him or pay him some way. 

This is by no means the best method to write, but it's the best one they figured out since they had no access to papyrus and any technology to make actual paper. Then, as time went on, they might get the technology to make paper, but they might just be, somehow (for cultural reasons one would assume), stuck in this way of writing and making circular papers instead of square ones. 

The shelters will not be as strong as the village enclosures of course, but the same goes for a suit. Though, these could even be holes in the ground, not really needing actual dome like structures as in the case of villages or expensive materials as in the case of a suit. 

Let's go about it this way: The increased muscle mass comes from the orcs having increased testosterone. The inherent ability to fight better at close combat comes from having more adrenaline in their system. This means they have much more of the most aggressive hormones present in their bodies compared to humans. All of this aggression leads to a desire for fighting and killing, it could certainly be called bloodlust. This bloodlust can only be satiated when the orcs have had a good fight. When they don't, they start arguing for any simple thing and they start infighting. This is why the leaders can't just raise an army for a while and then go to war, they just have to go to war or watch the army they raised tear each other apart. I think your orcs would best be defined by the orcs in Warhammer universe. I also suggest reading through the WAAAGH! section in WH40K wiki, although that's in space, it's the same basic principle as the Warhammer fantasy universe.