On a recent Sunday ride on a country road, I was slowly overtaken by a group of (5) guys on road bikes. They were "proper" road cyclists, if you know what I mean. When they passed me, I just slipped in behind them and drafted for about 5 miles until we parted ways. I tried to keep a low profile. I didn't have trouble keeping up with them, but I didn't "take a turn at the front" because I wasn't sure I was welcome. They didn't seem to acknowledge my presence at all (which was fine with me), except for one guy who cast a glance at my bike (a mtb). Is this acceptable behavior? I sure wouldn't mind, but I'm not a religious roadie :D 

A few months ago I switched from a heavily padded saddle to a Velominati-approved one: $URL$ It was very uncomfortable at first (even with padded shorts), but I quickly grew accustomed to it. My shorts are of the cheaper type, and most of my weight is concentrated on a very specific spot on each of my sit bones. A little more padding would be better, but it's tolerable the way it is. Three weeks ago I did a particularly long ride (7 hours), and it left a small saddle sore on each of my sit bones. Since then I haven't done any long rides. Just my usual 20 minute commute to work (which I do in normal pants, no padding). The sores haven't gone away. But even on my commute, without padded shorts, there's only a very mild (often unnoticeable) discomfort, and I'd rather sit and spin than ride standing. By continuing to do what I'm doing, am I preventing the sores from healing? Am I risking an infection? 

If your time isn't worth much and you like to tinker (like me), at least take your current fork apart and see if there's anything you could do to improve it's situation. That said, based on your description of it's problems, I think you should buy a new one. And I actually mean new, in this case. Normally it's better to buy a used bike than a new one, but with something that's as age-sensitive as a suspension fork, I'd buy a new one (and take care of it, maybe get a stanchion boot). As to what fork you should get... take note of the specs of your current fork (brake options, wheel size, stanchion size, travel) and get something similar. $150 will get you something decent. If you decide to get something new, Amazon, Ebay, and your LBS are good places to look. 

I have rim brakes on my mountain bike that's outfitted for urban duty. Two weeks ago, I noticed that my rear brakes were weaker and louder than normal. I found that, although my pads still indicated 1/16" of wear left, the metal "internal" part of the brake had become exposed. I immediately replaced the pads. Since I installed the new pads, about every 40-50 miles I'll notice my brakes suddenly get noisy and weak. I'll get off my bike, and find a little metal chunk in one of my brake pads. After I dig it out, my brakes behave normally again. I'm pretty sure that it's not from junk on the road. This never happens when I'm riding my other BSOs. My rim looks and feels (to my finger) fine. It seems like my rim is shedding metal bits. Is this the case? And, if so, what can I do to stop it? I've tried wiping my rim with a rag, but it hasn't made a difference. Edit: I forgot to add that this is happening with both rims, not just the rear one that had the worn pad incident. 

Most racers ride on the hoods most of the time, and only use the drops for sprinting. When they do use the drops in non-sprint situations, it's never for long. Some bikes (like CX or commuter bikes) have shallower drop bars, because in those applications there's no point in sacrificing comfort and handling for maximum aero efficiency. It sounds like you would do fine with "deeper" drop bars. But before changing them, think about lowering your stem instead, to give yourself a more aero position overall. 

At 1.5k it has to be a hardtail. Rear suspensions need to be done right to be worth having in the first place. If I was a long-travel guy (I'm not) I would start looking at FS bikes once my budget passed 2k. As to the frame, 1.5k would get you a cheap/heavy carbon frame or a top quality aluminum frame. I'd go aluminum. The above assumes that you are buying new... I would consider buying used. If I were you, I would get a used aluminum FS. I wouldn't mess with a used carbon bike, that can be risky. Brand and model really doesn't matter if you know your components. If you have no clue how to identify good components, you should stick with big, well-known brands like Trek, Cannondale, Giant, Specialized, etc. Good luck! 

You have a loose bottom bracket. It needs to be replaced. You need to buy a new bottom bracket, along with two special tools: A crank puller and a bottom-bracket tool. If your current bottom-bracket is cup-and-cone style (I'm betting it is), it can be removed with basic tools and elbow grease. If it's cartridge style, it can be removed with the BB tool. Here are links to all three at Amazon: BB BB tool crank puller Or, you could take the bike to your LBS and have them handle it. This is a common operation and probably wouldn't cost much. 

All of the bearings take the same thing (except for freewheel/cassette, which doesn't need grease). You can use generic (for metal) grease. Just make sure it's thick. Bicycle-specific stuff is likely to be no better and more expensive. Obviously, if you have ceramic bearings or other fancy stuff, you should get bicycle-specific grease. 

Especially considering the theft issue raised by Willeke, I'd say hands down the bike for you is a rigid mtb. That's what I ride. I live in a high-crime city, and ride it on fairly technical trails. I would buy used. You could probably get a decent used one for less than a hundred bucks. I would probably put some skinnier 26x1.5 tires on it, depending on how rough the unpaved stuff is. 

It's not normal. Road bikes are designed for the hoods to be as comfortable/sustainable as possible. If your rear is more comfortable when you're in the drops, you should probably try tilting your saddle back a bit. However... consider the possibility that when you are in the drops: 

I would recommend doing two things: Reassemble the hub with the thickest grease you can find (within reason). It might slow you down a little, but it will help the bearings last as long as possible. Make a mark on the back side of the cone that corresponds to where the damage is. When you're putting the wheel on, rotate the axle so that the damaged side of the cone is facing up. Then (assuming you adjusted the hub perfectly), there will be no pressure at all on the damaged side of the cone, and all the pressure on the good side. 

I have very few complaints with my BSO, but this is one of them. My rear derailleur seems to hold the same 'up and down' tension across all the cogs. So when I'm on the first couple of cogs (32 and 26 teeth), the shifting is precise and efficient. But when I move out towards the end of the freewheel, I have to push the lever a long way to make the jump to the next cog, and then pull it back to keep it from making noise. Basically, the top jockey wheel stays at the same height all the way across the freewheel, which means that when it's on the small cogs, it's hanging well below them, and has to move a long way to get the chain to hop to the next cog. Is there a way to adjust this, or is it simply a consequence of having BSO-level components? 

I have a limited budget, and I've never bought a new bicycle before. However, I just bought a 24" Giant XTC from a very bicycle-inept person who's kid had only used it a couple of months. Anyway, I checked the hubs (which were essentially new), and they were both significantly overtightened, with heavy though "uniform" indexing. Having my cone wrenches with me, I adjusted them, and they spun very nicely. I figured there wasn't damage, so I bought the bike. Point is, it seems like the hubs were originally tuned in that over-tight fashion. Is this normal? UPDATE: I took the hubs apart. It all looked great inside except for the embarrassing fact that one side of the rear hub had only six balls instead of nine. Ouch, Giant. 

While higher pressure is generally better for road riding, very much depends on the quality of tire. I had a cheap set of Kendas on my BSO. They were rated for 35-65 psi. For my city riding I would pump them to 35, maybe 40. The ride was too harsh beyond that. I recently got a bike with a sweet set of tires: Maxxis Crossmark and Larsen. They are rated for the same pressure as my Kendas, but the ride quality is vastly superior. At 50 psi they are as comfy as my cheap tires are at 25-30. I think the difference is that the higher quality tires have thinner walls, which allows them to deflect more easily when under pressure. I pump my tires to whatever feels right with respect to the terrain I'm riding. I only look at my sidewalls to make sure that the pressure I'm running isn't dangerous. 

I haven't found it useful to tighten the ratchet before sprinting/attacking. I would rather have the ratchet over my toes, as that's where most of the movement is. So... is this normal for cycling (mountain) shoes? If not, is it because mine are cheap or do I just have a bad fit? 

As far as I'm aware, remote lockout is only compatible with a hydraulic lockout system. A mechanical lockout requires the fork to be completely extended in order to lock it, which is generally not the case when you're on the bike.