Two way Intel E5504 @ 2GHz, 24GB RAM, 12x32GB Intel X25-E SSDs in RAID10. Intel Core2 6400 @ 2.12GHz, 3GB RAM, simple 80GB SATA drive. 

I have a Strongswan IKEv2 server and I can connect to it from Windows 10 using built in VPN client but I cannot ping the subnet behind the vpn server. It only works when I manually add a route to the subnet with route add 192.168.12.0 mask 255.255.255.0 10.100.0.1. Basically the same issue that strongSwan server with Windows 7 clients doesn't route traffic. Is it possible to automate it from the server side (i.e. I don't have to create a bat file on every client desktop to add the route)? 

When you close VMware Player, you have two options: 1. Shutting down. 2. Suspending. Shutting down the virtual machine is like powering off your computer. Suspending actually creates a snapshot of your VM’s state at that point, which you can restart from it later on. VMware Player only supports one snapshot per VM. However, if you need multiple snapshots, you can consider buying VMware workstation version. Source: $URL$ But you could make a copy of the virtual machine folder while it's suspended and name the folder MyVM_Snapshot1 etc. 

This will mount the CD disc, make it the only package repository and install a kernel that has support for more than just a handful of vmware/xen/etc virtual devices. After you get it working, restore /etc/apt/sources.list file from the backup and update aptitude again. 

The "Why?" part: According to $URL$ the maximum LUN size for VMFS is 2TB. According to $URL$ what ESX will do if the LUN size is bigger is it makes a 740GB partition and the rest is inaccessible. The "How to fix it" part: Present a smaller than 2TB LUN to ESX. That can be done by creating partitions on the disk (/dev/sdb1 /dev/sdb2) and exporting those partitions as separate LUNs to ESX. 

Both machines run Windows Server 2008 R2 now and have 10Gbit Supermicro AOC-STGN-i2S (actually they are Intel 82599 bearing Supermicro logo) in PCIe x4 slots- with a SFP+ direct attached twin axial cable between them. The second server is for testing only. First I installed ESXi on the 2nd and used the 1st as a datastore. I noticed that according to CrystalDiskMark, a VM on ESX only got 325 MB/s seq transfer rate (tried with both NFS and ISCSI). I ran the same test on the first server locally and got ~1000 MB/s. I wondered if the network link really kills 2/3 of speed, so I replaced 2nd's hard drive and installed Windows Server 2008 R2 and tried Jperf and NTTtcp. Jperf showed 400 MB/s and NTttcp showed 4300-4600Mbit/s. Windows Task Manager showed some 600 000 000 bytes per interval which translates to 4.47 Gigabits. I verified that both ends had full duplex and tried toggling jumbo frames on and off both ends but the difference was only 580 000 000 vs 600 000 000 bytes per interval. Why the throughput I'm seeing is only about half the theoretical maximum of 10 gigabits? ADDENDUM NTTtcp command lines: 

I have googled high and low but there doesn't seem to be any example doing raid10 with megaraid (only the syntax). Can anyone explain what is wrong? 

I need to configure Postfix to send for a specific domain. I have tried to google for returning custom error codes for a domain with no luck so far. 

But the last step never completes (Executing is displayed forever). When Management Studio is forcibly closed and restarted the new linked server is there but only contains Catalogues subitem. If we try to expand it, Management Studio goes into loop yet again. 

We're trying to access Foxpro file-based database files via MSSQL Server's linked server feature, using Foxpro ODBC driver. For this, we've 

I have an Openbravo POS workstation with a customer display pole. The pole is VFD-860. When I click on the products on the Sales page of Openbravo, the display responds but displays garbage: 

So it is not exactly broken. Com port is correct because otherwise it would not respond at all. There is a configuration utility with the pole but it is either the wrong version (it says it's for VFD660_460 but the documentation at $URL$ says that VFD860 uses software which installs itself to Start menu > Programs > VFD-660_460) or there is some other problem because whatever choice I make there, after clicking Accept I always get Device Time Out error (even though I see another garbage character appearing onto the display the second I click Accept). How to fix that? 

I suppose applying that patch to your kernel should fix the problem. Also you may try to increase default rcv buffer size in both OS and application ( ) And your second question about - Linux increments that stat inside [3]. That function is usually called when socket goes over it's rcv limits. So yet again you can either increase your / and/or tune your application to make read() calls more frequently (I assume your drops are closely correlated with Java's Stop-The-World GC pauses. So, tune your GC). [0] $URL$ [1] $URL$ [2] $URL$ [3] $URL$ 

I think the best solution is to drop all IPv6 traffic via firewall. There is manual how to use ip6tables in Linux: ip6tables: IPv6 Firewall For Linux 

in your case you should have with and . Also note that I set MAC of same as my wifi card. As another solution you can set up an IGP between host and guest OS (e.g., OSPF). 

May be driver/firmware for you controller is not in initramfs for 10.04. If that is the case - only way for you to get LTS release is to use backported kernel. Try installing ubuntu 10.04.3 via from newer images (e.g., Oneiric) or hack original DVD and place newer kernel/initramfs there. Also as workaround you can install system on disks plugged in onboard SATA controller. 

Do you have direcive in site-enabed configs? PS. You can also listen on another IP/PORt for server status. 

And even lower level hardware tunings accessible via . PS. Read kernel the docs, especially Documentation/networking/scaling.txt PPS. While tuning TCP performance you may want to consult with RFC6349 PPPS. D-Link is not the best network hardware. Try Intel hardware with pci-x or pci-64 

Judging by your output raising and lowering both and may slightly help. I assumed you are using somewhat recent kernel e.g. . You can see 's source code here: $URL$ 

Each connection we make requires an ephemeral port, and thus a file descriptor, and by default this is limited to 1024. To avoid the Too many open files problem you’ll need to modify the ulimit for your shell. This can be changed in , but requires a logout/login. For now you can just sudo and modify the current shell (su back to your non-priv’ed user after calling ulimit if you don’t want to run as root): 

I think for load-balancing you should use specialized tools like HAProxy / nginx that have small footprint and very good performance. 

If I understood correctly one is for input drops other for output drops (i.e ). PS. For additional information refer to Section 3.3 " structure" of the TCP/IP Illustrated Volume 2, Stevens & Wright. Or source code of you OS. 

What you think is good notebook for sysadmin? May be you can list specific models; What hardware extensions(i.e. USB devices) you think should be added to "sysadmin must-have" list; 

and much more. You can access SEL (if it's available on your hardware) via or commands, see: ipmiutil sel - show firmware System Event Log records 

By default kernel does not output anything to serial ports. You should explictly mention it. To solve this add following to 

Do you need varnish at all? 1. nginx can cache results on disk or in memcached 2. nginx has SSI 3. nginx has fair load balancer or ey-balancer 4. Best practice says that HAProxy before nginx is good move. Don't forget about KISS - more components your system has - less stable it becomes. 

It's stable, easy to expand, has a lot of documentation and integration features, so I recommend it. 

Just remember - don't touch if it works. So, unless system hasn't got any vulnerabilities, let it be. If it has - update it to the latest release/patchlevel or update port with recursive rebuilding of dependencies. Of course careful reading of and is a MUST. PS. Tools you'll use are doesn't really matter i think. I prefer: 

PS. Do you really need all-in-one? May be separating router and switch is acceptable? PPS. added to favorites in case you will find cheap 'n cool hardware.