I believe that people who are angry or otherwise dissatisfied with their employment experience are much more likely to put a review on a site like Glassdoor than those who are quite happy with their employment. So, I would take this information with a grain of salt and only let it dissuade you if there is a proliferation of it. For example, if there were only one negative review, I'd likely not care. But, if there are more than that, especially if they're discussing similar issues, I'd proceed more cautiously. You should not explicitly state, in an interview, "I saw someone on Glassdoor complain about this, please respond." Rather, you should approach it a little more delicately by more generically bringing up the scenario that gives you pause. For example, if the complaint is "This place sucks because I have to clock in and out to go to the bathroom." You can get your concerns addressed by asking about the day to day comings and goings for the average employee or how they track hours in the office, etc... 

We've had some good luck here (Austin, Texas, USA) by going to college job fairs where we can meet the candidates directly and conduct an initial screening with the interesting ones. We also hire a lot of interns, some of whom wind up as full timers and all of whom have friends that they can introduce us to. 

I screen a lot of resumes, and am in the 'two pages or less please' camp. I do appreciate links to more information at the bottom of your resume. Linked In is a good place to include the information that would be contained in a full CV. If you have a blog or other web presence related to the job you're interested in, I'm interested, by all means include those links. On a side note, I have a pet peeve about 'References available upon request'. My reaction is always 'Duh! - Thanks for clearing that up, Captain Obvious'. References are pretty much a given in every job I've ever applied for, and I've never noticed any reluctance on anyone's part to request or provide references. Why waste precious bits typing that? Edited to add: If you are handing in a paper resume at a job fair, provide a link to an electronic copy of that resume! Trust me, this is VERY helpful to your screener! 

It's not clear what your relationship is to the team, but here's what I would do. 1- Sit down with each person individually and have a frank and open conversation with them. 2- Explain to them the behavior that they are engaging in, why it is an issue and what other negative impacts it has on projects or teamwork or whatever. -- Your goal here is to get them to understand and acknowledge that there actually is a problem. 3- Specifically ask what it is about you or your meetings that lead them to ignore them. --Your goal here is to identify concrete items that you can address directly. Assuming you are successful with step 2, you are probably going to get a whole range of answers to number 3, so you should probably be prepared with some ideas on how to combat them. Anything from "I have better things to do" to "I forget to open my email" to "I have too much work on my plate and meetings are the first thing I jettison if I have a deadline..." All of these are solvable problems. If you are not able to convince your team that there is actually a problem, then I fear your only option is to escalate up the ladder and have some in a greater position of authority convince your team that there is a problem. 

Before I was a software developer I worked in aviation. 5s type rules are golden for any aviation production or maintenance organization. Keeping every tool and part in exactly the right place is not just for looks, it's a manner of life and death. I almost lost a friend when a wrench left in an airplane caused a crash on takeoff. That's why every tool must be controlled and accounted for at all times. Aircraft maintenance is typically done in shifts. It is a matter of life and death that each incoming shift has no doubt as to the state of the work left by the prior shift. If shortcuts are taken between shifts then it is very possible that people could die. Creativity is needed in the design process, but not in maintenance or line production. The one thing you don't want in production and maintenance shops is creativity. Everything must standardized, carefully designed procedures must be followed be, rules must be strictly enforced. Authority must be respected. Or people die. Software development isn't like that. Rules that are very appropriate in manufacturing or maintenance organizations are not appropriate in a software development organizations in which individual creativity, out-of-the-box thinking, and experimentation are keys to success. Nobody dies if my monitor and desktop are different than that of another developer. If the other dev and I are forced to use some kind of authority dictated 'standard' then both of us lose productivity. Attempts to enforce the factory floor regime suggested by this question will drive away all the best software developers and result in only mediocre software products. This 5S system is a recipe for disaster if imposed on a software development team. 

If you're establishing a relationship with a recruiter, then the questions you want to ask should initially cover their representation of you: 

It is difficult, in my mind, to explicitly quantify "Motivation." It's probably the easiest of the desirable "soft skills" to BS in a technical interview. Rather than motivation, I look for passion. A passionate person can be a motivated person, you just have to be able to get them passionate about the right things. HLGEM is on the right track with her answer. One of my favorite interview questions is "Tell me about your most favorite project ever - Dev / Non-Dev, Professional/Personal." If the candidate answers passionately then you can infer that they can be motivated. Conversely, if they answer flatly, I expect to be disappointed. This question also provides a nice vector into conversationally gauging additional problem-solving skills and potentially technical skills as you dive into a deeper discussion about their most favorite project. 

He is possibility violating the federal minimum wage laws, the Federal Department of Labor can help you determine if this is the case. 

My company participates in a number of job fairs during the year, and I often draw the short straw and have to review the big stack of resumes that come back from these. Until recently I would have answered 'just use copy paper, nobody in the technical world cares'. And that's probably true most of the time. I was recently given a resume stack from a job fair, and I notice right in the middle of the stack there was a resume printed on thick, ultra-white paper. It really stood out, so I pulled that one out first. It was the resume of a graphics designer. She had some colorful, fun, and interesting graphics and the whole presentation was just beautiful. I took that resume straight to our UX guy, who now uses this person as a contract artist. In this case anyway, the paper she used got my attention. Would it have mattered as much if she was applying to be a Java programer? Probably not, but it wouldn't have hurt her either. If I ever go looking for a gig at a job fair I'm going to use a better-than-copier-grade paper for my resumes. I'm not capable of colorful or fun graphics, so I won't have that. Once you are in the door for a physical interview it's less important, but couldn't hurt to use nice paper. 

This is to understand the full scope of your current compensation package. Most people, when asked "how much do you currently make," don't factor in much, if anything, beyond salary/commissions. HR does this for a couple of reasons: 1- How much or little can we offer this person for a position? 1a- Can we reduce salary in lieu of a bigger bonus, etc... 2- How competitive are our current packages to the current market for this type of position? You don't need to worry about this information being confirmed or denied by former employers as these questions cannot legally be answered by your former employers. 

Basically, what it comes down to is to be a little 'sales-y' by not saying no, never lie and defer to your boss as quickly as possible. 

I would agree with others and say no as well, with one caveat. If you are presenting your cover letter and resume with some personality, as is relatively common in Design fields, then this is something you could include. However, I advise against trying to present a letter/resume in that way as it is very difficult to get it right and very easy to get it very wrong. 

In the United States we have two basic systems for Unionized workers. Twenty three states have 'right to work' laws which in general prohibit collective bargaining agreements that force all employees to join the union and outlaw forced collection of union dues from non-members. The other states all allow some form of compulsory union membership contracts. In general the states with forced union membership have slightly higher average wages, but they also have significantly higher unemployment. If you are considering forming a Union in a right to work state you'll have a steeper hill to climb. Keep in mind that union membership has been steadily declining in the U.S. private sector, dropping from 20% in 1983 to 12% in 2010. If you are interested in forming a union then the first step is to talk to an existing union, such as the AFL-CIO, Teamsters, or Service Employees International Union. They will be glad to help you take the first steps if you decide to try and unionize your employer. While union membership by technical professionals is unusual in the U.S., it's not unheard of. Boeing engineers in Washington state unionized a few years ago. 

If your manager is asking you to convince him/her that the report is right, then it is your job to convince your manager that the report is right. The way you do this is to say the following: 

The chairs that you should be looking at have a crazy amount of options when it comes to adjustment. I have personal experience with Aerons and Steelcase chairs, generally considered the cream of the crop for office chairs, and both of them are outrageously adjustable and configurable. If you're looking at chairs in this price range, the personal preference for employees will probably just come down to the mesh vs non-mesh as everything else can likely be moved into appropriate positions. However, recognize that many people won't familiarize themselves with the chair that they're using and it may be beneficial to bring in an ergonomic expert to help educate people on how to appropriately adjust their chairs for long term comfort. 

I've got a stack of resumes in front of me right now. Here's a fellow with an 'additional' section that list "Team Captain, Podunk Marathon" and "Secretary, Irish Music Society". Here's another guy with a 'Community Support and Interests" section. He does Yoga and rides a bike 50+ miles a week. He's a Deacon in his church. Here's a candidate with an 'Additional' section that lists 'Team Captain, Podunk United Rugby Club'. I see 'additional' sections all the time, and I like them. It gives me a little more of a picture of the whole person. As a resume reviewer it's all well and good to screen resumes looking for that candidate who has 15 years of Ruby on Rails and five years of iOS 5 experience. But it's still interesting to see just a glimpse of who the person really is. Just a bit of 'additional' gives your resume a hook. 'Let's see, I remember, there was an F# guy who was President of his chess club". In your case, your religious activities are a very important part of who you are. You don't want to be hired at a place who would find this part of you distracting (and yes, it's not legal in most places for the employer to consider your religion, and we hope everyone follows this principle.) So add your title and part time position as 'Community Service' at the bottom of your resume. Don't make a big deal about it, but it will be best for both you and your potential employers for this activity to be disclosed.