Finally, most specifically of all, here's a quote from chapter 10 of The Trial itself (using the David Wyllie translation freely available here): 

Afterwards, it was too late. By the time they realised what was happening, Artax was already too far gone to be saved. The above quote is from when only the horse's head is protruding from the black water. When they stop, he's already sunk in up to his belly. Most importantly, he doesn't care. Part of the effect of the Swamps of Sadness is depression and apathy, and someone in that state is unlikely to be able to make the effort required to pull themselves all the way out of the bog and back to safety. 

He doesn't care about his enemies' suffering; he has no compassion for them; but this is the attitude of a ruthless man, not a sadistic one. He doesn't want to kill them just for the sake of killing them; the capture of the Nut is strategically vital in the war, and that's the objective he's trying to achieve. And about the traps he and Beetee were developing: 

I'm not sure whether you'd call it a poem, but Niemöller definitely delivered a version of "First They Came ..." as a speech in German, as early as January 1946, before its translation into English. 

In Robert Jordan's Wheel of Time series, the Aes Sedai are divided into seven Ajahs: the Blue, the Brown, the Green, the Grey, the Red, the White, and the Yellow (plus the Black Ajah, which is secret and threaded insidiously through all of the others). 

This is saying that the family of Walderhurst, formerly Hyrst (perhaps Hurst in between), has been counted as nobility since the reign of Henry I - namely, the early 1100s - and that due to their long pedigree, they have always been married to women from other wealthy families, not a single one from "bed-sitting rooms in obscure streets". 

Stephenie Meyer's four-book Twilight series has an unofficial and lesser-known companion novel, Midnight Sun, which retells the story of the first novel Twilight from Edward's point of view instead of Bella's. Meyer never completed this book, but a draft version was leaked on the internet and has since been made freely available on Meyer's website. According to Wikipedia, the reason Meyer never finished this project was due to her own change of heart about the story: 

The Thought Police know everyone intimately. This is strongly hinted at all the way back in the very beginning of the novel: 

In the original, it's B and K, not B and C. You can see this in the German Wikipedia page (emphasis mine): 

It's unclear from this quote exactly how and why Meyer's attitude changed, but clear that it did. Authorial intent aside, however, I'm curious about how, if at all, this change in attitude comes across in the actual text - whether it could be guessed or deduced at all from a close reading. Are there differences in tone between Twilight and (the published part of) Midnight Sun which correspond to the author's change of heart about the story? In other words, does the text of Midnight Sun differ in its portrayal of the Cullens, or any other characters, from the text of Twilight? 

Opposite/complementary titles Some poems in Innocence and Experience can also be paired off because their titles are somehow 'opposite' to each other, as indeed are the collection titles "Innocence" and "Experience" themselves. 

The symmetry of their dialogue, coupled with Julia's description of what happened to her, strongly suggests that they both passed through Room 101, and it had the same effect on both of them. They don't need to go into detail explaining it to each other - they both know what happened. It's a dreadful kind of shared experience: the sharing of mutual betrayal, just like in the song. "Under the spreading chestnut tree, I sold you and you sold me ..." What was in Julia's Room 101? As to this, we have no idea. She's no more inclined to talk to him about the details of her experience than he is to tell her about the rats, and he's not inclined to ask either. The story is Winston's story; it's his head we see into, and his experiences that we share. Julia is as much a secondary character as O'Brien, and we never really find out her deepest secrets. 

Admittedly this is from long before he quit writing Calvin & Hobbes, but when asked whether he'd stick with that strip exclusively, his answer was yes. This may be part of the reason why he hasn't continued writing since: he preferred to have his name associated with one successful product than risk going downhill in the future for the sake of cashing in. I also found a much more recent interview (2013) where Watterson talks about what he's done since finishing Calvin & Hobbes. This is perhaps the most relevant in answering your question. 

It's virtually 100% certain that the town being portrayed by Gentle's "Surcombe" is Hastings. A fitting place, perhaps, for an invasion from the sea to take place! 

When we examine all of these characters and the stories in which they appear, we see a model which looks, if anything, like popular folk tales, with perhaps a touch of influence from the tales of ancient Greek heroes. This fits well with the way Adams tells the story of Watership Down: it's very pastoral and folksy, a tale of the English countryside. Stories akin to Robin Hood and Brer Rabbit suit this model much better than those of Jesus or Moses. It's worth noting that Watership Down started off as stories told by Adams to his young daughters to entertain them during the school run. They didn't have a deep philosophical or religious meaning, and those who try to find such a meaning in his writing are falling prey to the common trap of overanalysing. 

Now I know about diminutive forms of Russian names, and that different diminutive forms of the same name can be used in different ways (e.g. a man named Ivan might be called Vanya, Vanka, or Vanechka by different people or under different circumstances). But my knowledge of Russian diminutives isn't good enough to understand the nuances of when each different form would be used. What does it say about Anka's character that she refuses to answer to Anetchka? (Note to non-Slavic speakers: as I understand it, this is not the same as, say, an Englishman called James who refuses to answer to Jim. Russian diminutive forms are much more prevalent, even being widely used for common nouns as well as personal names, and different diminutives of the same name have specific meanings. I suspect that a fluent Russian speaker could look at this quote and immediately deduce something about Anka's personality - my question is what.) 

An audio version of this story also appeared on the BBC in 1986, read by Tony Robinson himself. I guess by the 2000s it had made its way to public libraries as an audiobook. 

In later interpretations of the story by authors other than Barrie - for example, Geraldine McCaughrean's excellent 'sequel' Peter Pan in Scarlet - Hook is portrayed as specifically an old Etonian: that is, an alumnus of perhaps the most famous public school of them all. I'm curious whether this specifically is supported by the original text, or if it was first made up by someone other than Barrie. In Barrie's original Peter Pan, is there evidence that Hook was an Etonian? 

Towards the end of Madouc, book 3 of Jack Vance's Lyonesse series, Shimrod is studying a strange device with multiple (seven?) balls or discs moving around like planets. They move apparently asynchronously, but occasionally two and rarely three move together in unison. As he watches it, four, five, six, and finally all seven of the balls start moving in unison, until they appear to be all a single object. He goes to tell Murgen, but Murgen doesn't respond to his calls, and it is then that Shimrod discovers the plot to free Joald. What is this device, and what does it signify? 

The point of the passage you quote is to contrast "the original church", with its quaintness so typical of the English countryside, with the new "modern Gothic" building, described in much less romantic terms and "unfamiliar to English eyes". It's a gentle putdown to the spread of modern ways and architecture in the rural regions that Hardy loved so much. Similarly, the person who orchestrated the replacement of the ancient historical building is described in disdainful terms as an "obliterator of historic records". A person we don't care for, whose exact identity is far less important than their symbolic status as a representative of the spread of unseemly speed and modernity in rural England. As for "certain", I think this word is used in the OED's sense A.II.7, probably a with perhaps a hint of e: