Foxfire is produced by a fungus feeding on decaying wood. A similar process could be elicited by some symbiosis between the fruit and fungus, with a coating which feeds the fungus. It produces an eerie pale green light (which I found unsettling when I first unexpected saw it in the middle of a dark night while on a camping trip in the deep woods of West Virgina.) 

Guards - The well-paid guards rotate randomly, so they never know which part of the warehouse they will guard when they will be working, or with whom they will work. This prevents a potential thief from working with or bribing a guard. Four guards patrol the exterior walls, while four patrols the interior walls. They have whistles which they use to sound the alarm. Two guards patrol the roof. Their patrols are worked out so that see each other every few seconds, and are trained to sound the alarm if their coworker is not where they need to be. The Guards have daggers, swords, and a single-shot pistol. Lines of Sight - Around each wall is a walkway, 1 meter in width so that a guard has an unimpeded view of the entire length of the wall at once. Dogs - Trained dogs live in the warehouse. They will sound the alarm by barking at anyone entering the warehouse they don't know. Walls - The walls are thick brick, with windows at the very top (it's dark in a building and natural light is how you light such thing.) Lighting - At night, torches illuminate the exterior walls, so there is no slinking up in darkness. Door- The door is a thick iron, with a window in it so the guard can identify the person who is requesting entry. The door is opened by a geared system since it's too heavy for a man to open by himself. Note: In the 1500's, guards would not hesitate to kill a thief. Additional Note There needs to be some response if the alarm is sounded. An easy solution is to have guards work in three shifts of 8 hours. One shift is sleeping, one shift is in ready-status (meaning they are ready to react but otherwise unoccupied. They could be preparing food, doing maintenance, practicing, etc.) This allows us to have ten men ready at a moment's notice to react, and ten more in reserve. Thought will need to be given to normal access. If breaking in is too hard, thieves will use social engineering to fool their way in. All additions and removals must be authenticated using a passphrase encrypted by a cipher disk. The list of passphrases changes every week. This makes sure the owner actually authorized the addition or removal without having to be present. 

One single method would not be sufficient. After all, 2,000 people a day is quite a number of people to hide. Since there are 196 countries in this world, 2000 people per day averages to about 10.2 people per country per day (2000/196 = 10.2.) The number of people from each nation would be proportional to their population. For example, assuming 7.3 billion people, China would contribute 375 people, India 345, USA 89, and Indonesia 70. North Korea, at 25 million, would contribute 7 people. Servant class The first few decades of their exile, the aliens would be consuming the feedstocks that their people left them, as they developed their food sources while they researched humanity. Rather quickly, they realized that they needed a corp of trusted intermediaries to carry out their plans. So they covertly kidnap a few hundred young children. They are raised to worship and serve the aliens. After these children grow up, they can interact with 'wild' humans. While Captive-bred humans would not typically be used as food. Third-World Prisons There is plenty of people in prisons worldwide. In developing nations, political and economic forces conspire to cause high mortality rates and lax oversight. Servant class members could negotiate off-the-book 'transfers' for a few dozen from each prison every month without notice. Industrial Accidents Working in developing nations can be dangerous. In China, for example, 66,000 people died in 2016 in workplace accidents. If a worker now-and-then were to 'die' and require a closed coffin, who would notice? Ethnic Cleansing/war zones If a regional conflict involves ethnic cleansing, genocide, and barbarism, any missing towns or villages would be attirubted to the general violence rather than carniverouis aliens. Drug addicts/drunks/Homeless There are classes of people in every country whose disappearance would not be notice (or actually welcomed.) There are also criminal enterprises (read gangs) who would willingly harvest said people for a price. Feedlots Since a lot of their stock will be coming from areas with poor nutrition or unhealthy conditions, I would assume that the people would be transported to a feedlot, where they are cleaned up (gotten off drugs, treated for diseases, etc) and fattened up before slaughter. 

If the world is warming because of an increase of CO2 in the atmosphere, then removal of CO2 would tend to undo that effect. One could remove CO2 from the atmosphere, or prevent additional CO2 from being added to the atmosphere. A society can build vast CO2 scrubbers which removes CO2 by chemical reaction or by reversibly binding CO2 to a substance, then sequestering the CO2. Nature has a wonderful CO2 scrubbing system called Photosynthesis which converts CO2 and water to Oxygen and sugar. 

Assuming 100% protection for any small arms (Which is not a given for any realistic technologies we have today), there will still be areas which are left unprotected. Shoot somebody in the head, and it doesn't matter if they have a bullet proof vest on. Shoot them in the arms, and they can't fight. Shoot them in the legs and feet, and they won't advance on your position. Not to mention, ramping up the velocity or weight of the bullet would render the protection moot. A 50 caliber round will penetrate 1/2 inch of steel. Even if the cloth stops the bullet, that much energy is going to hurt. 

Humans routinely breath 100% O2 without issue. Divers, astronauts and patients routinely breath 100% Oxygen. There are some dangers of High Oxygen concentration such as absorption atelectasis(collapse of the small air sacks in the lungs) and the suppression the Hypoxic respiratory drive in some COPD patients whose chronic CO2 retention has burnt out their normal CO2-realted drive, causing them to stop breathing. Most dangers, though are related to the high partial pressure of Oxygen. Science uses the measure of partial pressure of O2 to talk about the Oxygen concentration and pressure. Quickly stated, each gas in a mixture exerts a pressure equal to their percentage in the mixture. So at sea level, atmospheric pressure is 14.70 PSI. O2, being about 21% of the atmosphere, exerts a pressure equal to .21*14.7 =3.08 PSI. According to Wikipedia, The minimum and maximum Partial Pressures of O2 for human life are 2.3 PSI and 14.5 PSI. 

Cost - this is the most significant reason. Right now, it costs about $10,000 a year in the USA to raise a child (note: this is spending per child which is more than the basic cost to raise. These numbers are intertwined.) Self-focus - Many couples elect not to have children because children would prevent them from having the lifestyle they want to live. When you have kids, they constrain you. You may not be able to take exotic vacations, sleep in on the weekends, or stay out all night at a night club. Many couples elect to have fewer children so the burden of childrearing is lighter. It's easier to raise two kids than 22. Social Pressure - In developed countries, larger families elicit a degree of disapproval. Much of this is simply typical social ostracism of those outside of the mainstream, but some it is politically motivated (e.g. large families have large carbon footprints or those who subscribe to [Malthusianism])3 

First, the word tithe means "a tenth." From your example, if the tithe holds, it would indicate that the average income is $500 a year, and your world is in extreme poverty. You may have meant a more general offering, which would not be tied to a percentage of income. Remember, the cost of any good is based upon its scarcity. If the holy water is too abundant, the price will fall. Therefore, it is wise to keep the supply limited to encourage a higher price. Build a temple next to the sea. Scared fires burn below a brass container, filled with seawater. The heat evaporates the water. The temple complex funnels the water vapor such that condensates 'rains' down upon the sacred pools. The government can offer pilgrims access, for a price, can have services in the temple and allow faithful to throw lists of their sins in the scared fire. 

Not everybody will use robots because they will be expensive. It's not just the initial outlay of capital to buy them, but the additional ongoing expenses for maintenance contracts, programming fees, and patching. For some mom-and-pop operations, it still will make sense to bring on part-time help. As the supply of labor increases, the price will decrease. You'll see a surge in under-the-table, black market employment. There will be a surge of jobs supporting robots. There will be new sectors emerge to recondition and repair cast-offs, non-sanctioned repairs, and training that will absorb some of the excess labor supply as well. Governments and private industry will offer training programs. Crime will increase, as will the need for police (which affects the labor pool.) The disruption will last for a generation or so until society reaches a new equilibrium. Maybe compulsory higher education would emerge, or mandatory military service to train skills. 

How long until they started building cities? According to Wikipedia, a city has a population fo 1,500 or more persons. Assuming modern-day infant mortality rates, modern medicine and technology, and a heartfelt desire to "be fruitful and multiply" to continue the human race, I would be surprised if the population wouldn't double every 25 years. If fertility medication was used, we could imagine at least a 250% increase every 25 years (with multiple births being more common.) By every estimate, a city would form within 25 years. Within 400 years, barring cataclysms, plagues, wars, or other negative events, a world population of 157 million to 25 billion would be sufficient to take over. As a reference, during the Babylonian Empire, the world population was around 150 million and when the United States was founded, the world population was around 750 million. 

Scouts walk slowly, deliberately, picking their foot placement carefully, avoiding any noise making substances. We are talking about a step a minute. All gear has to be secured so there is no clicking, tapping, or such. Shoes must have soft soles. Here is your problem. How are you going to exfiltrate the scraps without making any noise? I would consider employing an active noise cancellation device on your cart. 

Yes. While many reproduction strategies exist, they boil down to two basic methods. Asexual reproduction, where a single organism reproduces using its genetic material in the offspring, and sexual reproduction which involves two organisms who exchange genetic material after it was shuffled by meiosis. There are over 65,000 species of Hermaphroditic animals (not including plants), so there is no reason that I see why an organism could have a reproduction technique such that both partners give and receive gametes during mating. 

If salt were rarer than on Earth, and if there were some mechanism to remove dissolved salt, then it would be possible. The Great Lakes are actually freshwater inland seas, so you could use that as a model. If salt were rare, there would be a food-chain to recover it since salt is needed for life. Salt-consuming microbes would consume the dissolved salt, and then be eaten by larger animals. Upon death, salt would be released back into the cycle as a part of decomposition. 

International superstar, Alice Dunderhead, gets widespread attention when she shows up at the 67th annual Inane Awards with her pet llama instead of a dog or cat(it had become fashionable to attend with one's pet.) In the dozens of subsequent celebrity interviews, Alice swears that her llama is the source of all joy, reduces stress, improves her love life, and slows the signs of aging. Immediately, every A-list celebrity is sporting their llamas. Soon, llama-keeping is next big thing in all upper-income homes. Television shows popularize it further. Pop music celebrates the purity of llama's love for their keepers. Llama-keeping creeps lower and lower in the class brackets. Since llama-keeping isn't cheap, a disparity emerges between the haves and have-nots. After much debate about fiscal responsibility, equality and pax-llama (i.e. the inner peace generated by being around llamas for a least a year) the government acts. The age of 43 is picked because 42 was too much like Hitchhiker's Guide. The law is made to be universal to prevent the have-nots from feeling singled out, and as a bone to the lama industry, who are trying to increase market share.