What does the plight of seabirds have to do with roadsite litter? Not much, if you are in the middle of, say, the Mojave Desert. But heavy rainfall in my area can carry litter into Difficult Run, which flows into the Potomac, which flows into Chesapeake Bay. 

It's not clear what kind of terrain you are planning to ski. However, you say that you are an intermediate alpine skier, so you are not a rank beginner. Start by visiting a ski center that has groomed cross country trails and rental equipment. And then just go! See how you do. Watch more experienced skiers on the trail and see what they do. Read a few articles on technique and equipment. After a few such sessions, you will learn what you don't know and will learn enough to formulate specific questions. You should get good at skiing on hilly groomed trails and hilly snowed-over, ungroomed roads before you tackle any but the most modest off-trail skiing. This should not take long. Lessons: If you can afford them, take a few private lessons. Private lessons are more efficient than classes. In a class, you are frequently being told less than you already know, or less than you need to know. And very few instructors are good at picking out what each individual in a class is doing wrong and what each individual is doing right. Depending on the terrain you want to ski off-trail, you may need avalanche training. 

The rest of you have to be united in this approach. After a few days, maybe step up the pace of the trip. If they get hungry enough, they will eat. Do not, repeat, do not worry about their starving. It is usually impractical to split up, because the party usually has only one stove and one of some other essentials. Lastly, never travel with them again. 

Note that these trips are day trips; if clients want to stay overnight, they sleep offshore on a chartered vessel. In a recent example, near Sitka on a hike along a salmon stream, bear spray might or might not have been "enough". The case near Sitka, which does not involve the source quoted above, is reported here. There were about 20 tourists in a group, with a guide at the front and at the back. The guide at the front was attacked, and either did not have bear spray or did not have time to deploy her spray. (Accounts differ.) The guide at the rear rushed to her rescue and drove off the bear with his spray. The guide at the front was seriously but not fatally injured. 

I recently talked with a young geologist, some of whose field work is in the Arctic. We mostly talked about the science, but the geologist mentioned being certified (not sure of this word) to act as a polar bear guard. This involves killing the bear, if necessary. My question: Does anyone know what training this certification (?) might require? Is any sort of simulation of actual conditions involved, and if so, what? (Sorry, I am not going to get specific about where in the arctic because that might identify who I talked to.) 

In 2014, Bay Nature reported increasing crow populations in Berkeley, CA, possibly attributable to the birds' intelligence and adaptability. (There was not a dieback of crows in Berkeley.) According to the Cornell Lab of Ornithology, WNV became less lethal as it moved west and was less lethal to crows in diverse habitats. Going beyond crows to some other species of birds, the picture is not so happy, but this is beyond the scope of the question. 

The only way to help a rabid fox, or any rabid animal, is to kill it. If you have a gun -- and know how to use it -- kill the rabid fox. It is the humane thing to do for the fox, and protects other people whom the fox might harm if you just got yourself away or drove it away. But be sure the fox is rabid. Just because you see it in the daylight does not mean it is rabid. According to the Humane Society of the United States 

You might try an umbrella. See this article from The Guardian, Rogue owl caught after year-long reign of terror in Dutch town. 

Others have covered the questions of comfort well, and I have nothing to add to what has been said about comfort. (I still need only an ensolite pad.) But I can say something about warmth and the need for leisure occupation. Layers become more important as one gets older, because not only is the cold felt more, but the ability to regulate becomes less. Take more varied layers than before, including a light fleece jacket that can either go under a down jacket or substitute for it. As one gets older, one loses stamina and endurance. Whatever your parents could do 10 years ago in terms of hiking, they probably can do less now. So there will be more time in that comfy chair that was pictured above. Maybe they need only the hypnotic sound and sight of a burbling stream to be content, but take along a Kindle (or variant) or enough books, if they are readers, or Scrabble or whatever games they like. Finally -- and it should have been first -- ask your mother. She probably knows exactly what she and your Dad need. 

I thought about asking this question on English Language and Usage, but decided not to because I want answers from people who are familiar with cascades and waterfalls in reality, not just in the abstract. Moreover, the definitions aren't very helpful. From The Oxford English Dictionary, a cascade is: 

In the remaining steps, you will be guided by your sponsor, although you will have to do a lot of work yourself. One of the steps is acquiring equipment, which will probably mean earning and saving money and convincing people who give you gifts to give you what they think are rather odd things, such as Alymeri jesses (?!). This article appears to be an excellent resource, but I don't have the knowledge to make an informed judgment as to whether it tells you everything you need to know to get started. The major omission I see in this article is that it does not tell you how to learn how to train your hawk. I assume -- but assumptions are dangerous -- that your sponsor helps you in this, and that the California Hawking Club may also. I just noticed the comment of @Rastafarian referencing this article. Addendum: See also North American Falconers Association 

I hope the bear experts on the site can shed light on several aspects of a black bear encounter my husband and I had some years ago in the Sierra. It was mid-May, about 9500 feet, well above timber line, and the ground was almost completely covered with snow, except for a few bare patches. I concluded: "No bear in his right mind would be here." So we did not bury our food in a snowbank. Mistake. Big Mistake. Shortly after we fell asleep, we were wakened by banging pots. A bear walked across the campsite, grabbed my pack, which contained all our freeze-dried food, in her teeth and disappeared into the darkness. My husband tracked her by flashlight and moonlight -- the dragging pack left a clear path. Soon I heard snarls and growls, and went off to rescue my husband. I came upon my husband, a bear and her yearling cub. Here is where I would like your input. It seemed to us both, and I can't tell you why, body language, I suppose, plus something in the snarling, that the cub was saying "Let me at him!" and the mother was saying "Be quiet! I'll handle this!" We froze. After what seemed like a long time, the mother and cub turned and went off. Q1: Is this interpretation plausible, or are we just anthropomorphizing? The two bears had ripped open my pack, pulled out stuff, zeroed in on the freeze-dried food, eviscerated five packages of freeze-dried food and had eaten it all. Q2: When the food reconstituted in their stomachs, did they get stomach aches, or are their stomachs large enough so the expanding food was no problem? The bears stopped at a layer of very dirty clothes near the bottom of my pack, and so missed the last package of freeze-dried food, which was a reserve. Q3: Is it plausible that dirty, smelly clothes repelled the bears? It could have been that my husband interrupted them, but I'd like to think the smelly clothes stopped them. We hiked out for two days on one pkg of FD food and tea. The sugar and all the fresh food were gone. A great experience! Clarification: There were no established bear boxes -- we were far off trail. This was before the era of portable bear canisters -- or at least before it was common to use them; in any case, they aren't practical for a 14 day trip, which this was. We should have buried our food in a snow-bank; it was a big mistake not to. We have used the snow bank strategy successfully many times; once we saw bear paw-prints going right over our snow-covered cache. For Sierra black bears, the snow bank trick works. We have no experience with brown bears. 

Two parts to this answer: First, I am playing around with some statistics on assaults and murders in the US National Parks, and I am coming to the conclusion that the most dangerous animal in the outdoors is homo sapiens, who will be attracted by your fire. Second, maybe 20 years ago I read a speculation by a respected anthropologist, the gist of which was that fire was a necessary precursor to whatever the precursor of speech was. (Fire appeared maybe 700,000 years ago, and speech in the modern sense maybe 50,000 years ago, with large error bars on both.) His point -- it may have been Leakey, but I can't remember -- was that if you are sitting in the dark, you are quiet, because you are listening -- listening for the approach of something that will eat you, literally. Fire kept these animals away and enabled communal jabber. On this second point, remember the scene in 2001, A Space Odyssey, where the anthropoids are sitting huddled together at night, scared, and listening, with their eyes darting in all directions. That scene would have been very different if they had had a fire. The two parts of this answer may seem contradictory. If animals are plentiful and enemy homo scarce, then the fire is a deterrent. If animals are scarce and enemy homo plentiful, then the fire is not wise. 

You don't say whether you will be backpacking or sleeping in a campground or motel. I strongly advise against a backpacking trip as your first experience hiking alone. I'd advise against anyone making a backpacking trip his/her first experience hiking alone even if it were summer and not nearly winter and up north. Too many things can go wrong and you are accustomed to being in a group. Even if you know in theory the answer to each problem posed by @Wigwam, you don't yet know how you will react, alone, in a sticky situation, far from the trailhead. If you plan on taking day hikes from a campground or motel, then: Check the weather forecast each morning No matter what the forecast says, be prepared for a sudden, unexpected change for the worse Make a plan for each day hike, let a reliable person know what that plan is and stick to it. Don't go off trail, however tempted you are Turn around well before you are tired, and in plenty of time to get back before dark Consider investing in a Personal Locator Beacon.