Absolutely it will work. Remember for about half the cycle, your chain is upside down anyway. Some people prefer to use these machines to clean the chain on the bottom (low tension) part and others prefer to be above the chainstay on the high tension part. Personally I think low tension makes more sense, because it allows the cleaning fluid to get in and clean out the small crevices. My cheap one says the chain should go in one end and out the other, but it seemed to make little difference. A better cleaner might require only one way. Finally, what cleaning fluid do you intend to use? I used plain old kerosene, which has left the chain dropping black tar on the chainstay for weeks afterwards. Plus the fluid went everywhere. You may prefer to use biodegradable dishwash and warm water. 

Hold the rim firmly while doing up the left nut. You should have enough leverage. Lastly, remove brake clamp, and lift the wheel from the ground. Give it a test spin. There should be no rub on seat or chain stays or brakes or mudguards, and the brakes should close properly. Then inflate the tyre if required. 

In your case it might have worked better to lift the front wheel clear of the ground and clear of the motorbike's hot exhaust. If the bike was rideable, you could have used a short tow rope, tied to the scooted while the bicycle rider holds it in one hand for ease of release (ie, not tied to anything.) An inner tube works well for this. But the real solution is to go prepared with tools and spares, as per the accepted answers. 

Click the gear icon in the bottom right corner and choose "Export this day to KML" save the file called history-2017-01-28.kml We need to massage the KML fle to GPX format. First time I did this was manually with lots of copy and paste which was horrible. But since then someone's created $URL$ which does a fair job. So upload the gpx file to strava, and then use the crop tool to trim it down. Since google only takes a location point once a minute, compared to strava's 0.1-10 points/sec the track is a lot chunkier. Use the SNAP tool as mentioned earlier to get it back on track. 

Or get the LBS to do the job, and to give the whole bike a once-over for safeties sake too. I see in the Amazon link comments like "returned, pedal wouldn't thread in the hole." 

Update - have replaced the pads with new ones. The caliper arms were quite bent too, forcing uneven wear in the original pads. Once brakes have bedded in, will compare braking. If no better, will source some replacement 16" rims, probably two front wheels from kid's bikes will do 

Sometimes simply flooding the freehub's body with solvent is enough to get it moving properly again. 

If the nut is safe and working okay in its task, there's nothing functionally wrong with leaving it as-is. One bonus is that it helps uglify the bike (cos a rusty bike is less worth stealing) 

Simplest answer is best - don't do that If you can't trust the environment, don't leave it unattended at all. This is much easier when you're not alone and half of the group can watch bikes while the other half go buy coffees. If you're alone, plan ahead and take your lock or do without the coffee. 

The toolbag forms a figure 8 almost shape, and is held on with three velcro straps. The tube is surrounded only by cloth so no abrasion. The pump is against the metal top tube. I ride a road bike and a MTB so swap out the spare tube when changing bikes. For a road trip, I carry a second new spare tube in its box, in the jersey pocket. For some reason road tubes seem to puncture more often than MTB tubes. 

I'm going to suggest you try a cheaper used bike before committing to anything expensive. Your only real requirement is to make sure it takes larger-sized tyres. Off road benefits from wider tyres than on-road. The top thing you need is a bike on which you feel comfortable. In a year or so you can take your learnings, and decide what kind of bike will suit you best. Your riding conditions may change as you grow fitter. Many keen cyclists own more than one bike. There's a running joke that all cyclists own N bikes each and they always want just one more ( ie N+1 ) 

Separate matter - if you have doubts about your LBS and their advice, just ask another one. Nothing wrong with a second opinion. Some people just want their bikes to work (top efficiency is not that important) and other people want best efficiency at all times even if it costs more. 

You can use whatever cranksets you like and have available. But tandems need either an eccentric bottom bracket on the front, OR a chain tensioner in order to set the tension on the link/timimg chain. 

Trying to answer generally - bikes bought online are typically bought sight-unseen and that is the biggest problem. There's no way I'd buy a new bike if I couldn't ride it first - same goes for shoes or houses or hats. They may be significantly cheaper than the posted RRP / MSRP, with some searching you should find almost-as-good pricing in a shop. Also, online buying makes warranty claims harder, even more so if you're buying from another country. 

Yes - chains can be broken and will also wear quicker when under stress from low gearing. I have snapped a almost new KMC chain while on a 15% climb. I would have been in 26/42 on a 26" MTB. Fortunately I was going very slow. The pedals spun, so I clamped on brakes while unclipping. The slope meant I couldn't reach the ground straight below the seat, and so the whole bike and I fell over to the left (our footpath side) and tried to slide away down the hill. Was quite embarrassing, but fortunately not painful or damaging. One of the chain's side plates had come off the pin, so it was only a matter of time before it wrenched the other side out completely. Never buying another KMC chain! Removing the freewheel can be hard, so remember to apply copperslip or anti-seize or even plain old marine grade grease to the threads before assembly. The leverage of the rim means you can exert a lot of force when undoing the freewheel, provided the nut is held firmly in a bench vise (and said bench vise is fastened to a bench!) Freewheels tend to seize their threads, but sufficient power can undo them. Cassettes can "erode" their way onto a freehub body, and be unrecoverable completely. Finally never underestimate the torque advantage of a handy piece of pipe. 

The only thing missing is a flap on the rear guard - this is more for the benefit of someone riding behind you though. A second downside, this style only works on rigid bikes. If you have suspension then your guards can't be too close. 

Focusing on the strava bit - its a screwed up strava track. The track shows they flew, and strava's point-grabbing routines have gone wonky. Short answer they did not do it in 11 seconds. They are bike rides though - just a fortuitous error on the GPS signal makes it look like they were faster, and much more direct. I suspect there's some obstructions in the way (like a big `merkin freeway bridge thing) that are capable of interrupting and limiting GPS positional signals. So when they get around the corner and get a better fix, it looks like they've gone really fast. Its happened to me elsewhere. There are no easy fixes. 

The tyre is not new but its not old either - plenty of tread left. I've seen very old / weathered tyres where the rubber has deteriorated and the bead has separated but the cords remain. However this has torn about 20mm worth of cords. I've wondered if it was too-high pressure, but the tyre sidewall says 40-65 PSI and I run them at 50-60. The tyre may be too wide for the rim - but its the original tyre which came on this bike from new. There is no noticeable roughness on the rim at any point, so abrasion seems unlikely. The bike is a 20" folder and has done 1,300 km since I bought it used. Previous owner did minimal riding, so its done maybe 1,500 km total (1000 miles) Lastly, I do occasionally use this bike as a tractor to tow a trailer. Its done 50km towing some amount of weight on a rear-axle mounted trailer, and despite moving some decent loads the nose-weight of the trailer has never been more than 10-12 kg (20-25 libs) Question What was the cause of this tear in my tyre? Edits 

How's the axle? If its toast anyway, stick the other side in a bench vice and rotate the whole bike around. You can also use the grinder to cut through the axle and nut. 

This shows that 28/16 is about exactly the same ratio as 48/28. You might choose to be on the big chainring if you're about to go down hill or flat and smooth, but if the next section is an uphill you would want to be in the little chainring ready for the grade. So the middle chainring is useless? No - without that the front mech would have to lift the chain from the small to the big chainring, and that's a gap of 20 teeth. Most derailleurs can cope with 13 teeth gap, not 20 teeth. 

I managed to extend my rear carrier rack. The purpose was to line it with plastic to make a pseudo mudguard rather than add more pannier length. Mine had a plastic part across the rear which popped off, so I used two convenient lengths of brass pipe to extend the side rails, and simply inference-fitted the whole lot back together. Worked for my need, but did not move the carrier clamp backward at all. Your other option is to extend the "arms" that fasten to the seat stays. If they were longer, the whole rack would be moved backward. Being more extended it will be wobblier though, with more leverage on the mountings. 

Hard to know - its not a great photo. But we can see its got QRs and rim brakes, no suspension and what look like rotary or grip shifters. There's a threadless steerer though, so its not a quill stem which would be a BSO grade (ie super cheap) So you're looking at a low-end model from the late 90s I think. Possibly early 2000s. Your best bet is to dig through a google image search of specialised hybrid/commuter bike frames and look for a match. Its quite tedious. Or $URL$ 

First up - I know nothing about your specific bike model. However 3 years is a pretty good run for batteries especially if used for hill climbing, and it could be they're just past it and need replacing. 600 euros sounds a lot, but its one of the consumables. Do you know how far you're ridden? 10,000 km would be 0.06 euros per km, which is a lot cheaper than a car. Its highly unlikely the battery shorted the motor and the motor shorted the battery killing both. If you're handy, try and find two working 12V batteries (car ones would do) and hook them up in series to the leads, with your powered wheel off the ground. Do mind the polarity and watch for shorting. The bike should run like normal on 24V. For this test, battery type doesn't matter but current will need to be at least 10 amps so small batteries are unsuitable. If this works, the motor is fine. You might be able to use a mains PSU adapter, provided it supplies 24V DC at 10-15 Amps. If this doesn't work, the motor or controller may be damaged and you need some more skilled local help. Google about for an ebike retailer or specialist in your region. Best to google about for a replacement battery pack or find a battery specialist who can repack your existing battery. A bike is not a cellphone to be replaced every couple of years, with normal maintenance it should last for decades. 

Generally Yes you have to change your chain. The only time you might get away without changing chain is if its JUST been replaced. That is, under a hundred km of riding or in the last ~week. Running an elongated chain on a new cassette dramatically increases wear on the cassette. It really depends on how long/far since "it was jut replaced" 

We've tried at the local bike coop, and nothing really works. A shim or boot on the inside helps but putting anything on the outside won't last. Even using rubber cement and a puncture plug (like a car tyre) doesn't stick very well because bike tyres are not very thick, so there is insufficient "meat" for the plug to bond to. If you make the plug longer, it becomes a spike aimed at your tube and pressing in every rotation. Prevention is the only option, and that's not always a viable answer. Narrower tyres could help too, you're sweeping a thinner ribbon of roadway with your rubber. Someone else might like to comment on tyre sweeper wires, but I've never used them and to my mind the damage is already done once your wheel has ridden over the sharp thing once. 

I'm going to guess that the bike's fork is lacking in follow (ie it has straight forks, or forks without enough bend) so that without the spring, the bike will not self-center. It will likely feel that it wanders over the road and the rider has to actively keep it centered. You probably can't ride hands-free without the spring. The spring provides some pull back towards the center position. If its your bike, try disconnecting the spring and going for a short ride. Does it feel different in steering and front-wheel braking? Personally I've never seen a bike with such a spring. If they're not uncommon in your area then there may be a regional influence on them. Is it mostly step-through frames that have this? Is it budget/BSO bikes? EDIT: Thanks Moz - Trail is the word I meant. Here's my idea. Your bike looks like a sit-up bike rather than a racer, so its an older shape/design. As per this image, older bikes had little trail, so to get them going straight you had to hold the bars all the time, which is tiring. Riding this hands-free would be a challenge. 

Heatshrink I've successfully used modern heatshrink tube for a lot of things. You would get an appropriate size tube, and slip it over the open lock. Then apply heated air from a hairdryer or a hot-air gun tool and the tube shrinks, taking the shape of the object below. 

There are two parts to this - the cage length is the distance between the two jockey gears in the rear derailleur, and this limits how many links of chain it can take up while maintaining tension. Longer cages (like MTB ones) could do 11-42 so a difference of 31 half-links. Road bikes tend to be narrower, so a short cage might only take up 11-2x. There are many in-between lengths. So change to the bottom gear, and look to see if your lower jockey wheel could move further forward. Then consider if the chain was a couple links longer and you're in a small/small combo, would the chain touch itself?