Original MTB brake lever designs did not include a rotating barrel inside the lever to account for the change in angle as you apply the brake, so the wire end needed to be round to accommodate this. Road bike brakes have had the interior rotating barrel for a very long time. If the wire end does not rotate, the brake wire will be flexed in a "coat hanger" way and break in a relatively short time. They are two different solutions to the same engineering problem. 

2cm seems like a lot to attempt to fix this way. I would not trust this repair to just any old bike shop, but find one that specializes in working on older steel bikes. I'd expect to pay for about an hour of labor at whatever is the going rate for the shop. I have attempted to do this kind of repair on a fork myself following Sheldon's directions and it's not that easy. Even a relatively minor alignment tweak is difficult to get correct. The other alternative is to contact a local frame builder and see if the fork can be rebrazed with the correct alignment, or manipulated in some other fashion. Every hand built bike requires this kind of tweaking, so the builder will at least have a lot of practice. I would only go this route if the bike is especially unique in some way. It will require repainting the fork and likely cost a lot more than just finding another similar fork on Ebay. 

I have seen various tow rope devices based on bungie cords used in multi-event team races[1], but I'd suggest those are even harder to learn than drafting. Having someone pull on the bike unexpectedly can cause all kinds of control problems. It's not something I'd recommend using with a novice. It's generally only used on long uphill slogs. A tow rope just gets too complicated at any significant speed. Drafting isn't all that hard and you don't need to be right on someone's wheel to get a significant benefit. Even one bike length behind gives you a significant benefit and you get some advantage at anything less than 3 bike lengths behind. Of course you have to be riding fast enough to for drafting to matter. Probably the best way to help a novice rider enjoy a longer ride is attitude and patience. Dragging someone along may be the best way to win a race, but I don't think it's very enjoyable. If you want someone to enjoy a ride, pick a route and pace that they can manage. [1]- (i.e. Adventure Racing $URL$ ) 

I have used similar products in the past with mixed results. The primary benefit is that is both pump and patch so to speak. But it really doesn't replace a spare tube and portable inflator. It's mostly good for slow leaks. I used to keep a can in my office and used it for those situations where I came out to the bike rack and found a flat tire. If it works, it works for a reasonably long time. But for most flats it simply doesn't work since the cause of the flat ( nail, glass, wire, etc ) is still in the tire or the size of the hole is simply too large. It also is relatively low pressure, so it's best for fatish commuting tires. My recollection is that it only works with schrader values. I'm pretty sure I ended up replacing any tube I used it on fairly quickly. 

It should not take 2-3 revolutions to shift modern chainrings. There are possibly a few things going on. 

I've had similar problems with other Velocity rims. This tool can help a lot when you have a really tight fit. $URL$ 

While using a Sora with a 36t cog may not be "approved" by Shimano, it's at least worth trying. The real problem is getting clearance on the large cog, not the capacity of the derailleur. This clearance is generally adjusted using the B screw derailleur adjustment. $URL$ If you are not able to use current derailleur with it's maximum B screw setting, what you can try is getting a longer version of that B screw and putting the derailluer even farther out. As a temporary hack to see if this is worthwhile, you can put a small spacer in between the end of the B screw and the spot where it rests on the derailluer hanger cage. This will at least let you know if it is possible. I am reasonably sure that if the derailleur can work with a 32t cog, you can probably tweak it enough to work with a 36t cog. If you absolutely can't make this work, then get a "short cage" Deore MTB 9 speed derailleur. It has a long enough parallelogram and sufficent B screw adjustment to work with a 36t cog. You don't need the long cage version of a derailleur. You just need one with a sufficiently long parallelogram. 

An XC MTB should certainly be workable for what you want. Depending on the trails and your skill level a cyclo-cross bike would also be a reasonable choice as well. There are lot's of bikes like this on the market now. $URL$ If the trails are mostly packed dirt with few rocks, then a CX bike works pretty well off road and will generally be a much nicer commute bike. The rougher the trail, the more suspension helps. In terms of getting an XC MTB, the key things to look at are the components and quality of the fork. At that price range I would look for a good quality Fox or Rock Shox fork that used an air chamber. Shimano SLX or XT components or the equivalent SRAM ( Nice chart here $URL$ ) The important thing to remember is that you won't get it exactly right the first time around. Until you're out there and riding you really can't know exactly what the right bike for you is, and the right bike will change over time as you gain fitness and skills. Components from the major manufacturers, even at the entry level are all of very high quality these days. As long as you get a bike that fits you, it's pretty hard to get the wrong bike these days. Take your budget and reserve 30% for getting upgrades and tweaks as you learn more about exactly the kind of riding you like. The one caveat is extremely cheap bikes sold at large retailers. Basically, you get what you pay for. 

What you want to avoid is having to "double shift" (i.e. shift both back and front) for the speeds that you typically ride at. IMHO, cross chaining is not an issue for modern gear. It does absolutely no harm. However, double shifting gets to be very awkward. As a rough guide if your typical speed is 25 kph, having a couple gears higher and lower on the same chainring at the rpms you find comfortable would be a good setup. A lot depends on what range of rpm you find comfortable to ride. A poor setup is one which you have to double shift to get the next gear either higher or lower. Having done a bunch of graphs and played with both triples and compact doubles over the years. I think if you are going compact double, you need to be able to do most of your flat/slightly rolling climbing in the big gear. And for somewhat average cyclists I agree with your reasoning. A 46/30 and something like 12-27 in the back would be a good replacement for the typical road triple. 46/30s are made, just very hard to find. 

You will spend far more $$ on welding supplies than the cost of a new crank arm. The crank arm is an aluminum alloy and the pedal shaft is a tool grade steel alloy. You can replace both for the cost of just the gas to attempt brazing the two metals. You'll also have to be really good at brazing not to completely destroy the aluminum crank arm in the process. Aluminum has a relatively low melting point. If it was a really old cast steel crank, you might have a chance. But it still would cost more than replacing the crank outright. 

Most 120mm forks have a similar axle to crown height and it's more or less 40mm higher than the axle to crown height of typical 80mm fork. There are of course differences between models, but not really enough to matter. Typically hard tail frames are designed around a range of fork sizes. 120mm would be long for an XC frame that came with an 80mm fork. I doubt the manufacturer would recommend this, however lot's of people do those kinds of swaps without significant issues. It is pushing the design limits of the frame, and if you're pushing the limits of what the bike can do, you may run into problems. That big a change will affect the geometry and handling of the bike significantly. It will slacken the head angle, raise the front handlebars and also rotate the seat tube backwards. These are all great if you want to go downhill fast, they are all bad if you want to climb uphill fast. It will also lengthen the wheelbase and make the bike a bit more difficult to handle in tight corners at slow speeds. Setting the longer fork at a lower sag value ( i.e. 25% vs the more typical 20% recommended for XC use ) will help limit some of the geometry changes. 

You may not be able to see it, but it's pretty likely the races are damaged at this point. One trick I've had luck with over the years is to replace the caged bearings with loose bearings. If that doesn't work, you can try using the next size up bearing. Both these tricks move the bearing contacts to different spots and can help a lot with indexing. See Sheldon's page for more headset maintenance tricks $URL$ Loose bearings are pretty cheap and a whole lot easier than replacing the headset. You can get a bag of 25 bearings for $5. Worth trying IMHO. 

Vintage Trek Tripleizer Page On a bike that old, there's a reasonable chance that you won't need a new bottom bracket to allow the inner ring to clear the chainstays. Also, there's a pretty good chance the existing derailler cage will be low enough to allow use of the small chainring. Back then there was no such thing as a "triple" front derailluer. Shifting will require a bit of practice compared to modern triples; you will drop the chain, so get a Dog Fang or other chain catcher. If you want components that are modern but look old and don't cost the insane price of used campagnolo on Ebay; Check out Velo Orange Components This should bring back some memories. 

A technological solution is a Dropper Seat Post. But you should really learn to switch legs to match the turn. You generally want the outside leg down and weighted. $URL$ 

Replacing your chain at regular intervals is by far the best maintenance money you can spend on a bike. Generally what goes wrong with a chain is a "stuck link" and the chain tool you have can fix that. Either by slightly tweaking the pin to loosen the link or by taking the link out altogether. If you do need to take a link or two out, avoid attempting to use the big/big gears. Generally there is no reason to carry a complete spare chain, only enough stuff to remove a link or two and put the chain back together. Some chains require special replacement pins. Check with the manufacturer. Exactly what's required varies between 9,10,and 11 speed chains. For chains that have quick links, the quick links can break. Carry a spare quick link. You can use this to make repairs quick and simple. You can have more than one quick link in a chain w/o problems. For the new narrower chains, I am not confident about reseting existing pins using any chain tool that you can carry on a bike. This is why I only use chains that have a reusable quicklink. I'd think about switching to a chain like this in your case. Makes any on road repairs much simpler. However, I don't know of any 11 spd chain links that are reusable. I've done a bit more reading on 11 spd chains and I would definitely add a few spare used master links to your kit. KMC makes them and from what I read the old school method of pushing the pin back in just not safe with the very thin plates used to get chains narrow enough for 11 spd. KMC claims their quick links will work with any 11 speed chain. 

The thing you have to figure out is the "brake reach" or distance from the hole in the fork to the rim of the tire. As with most bike things Sheldon has answered it better than we ever can. $URL$ My guess is that you'll need a brake with a very long reach for a cruiser bike. Oddly enough these are generally dirt cheap. $URL$ The other gotcha is that they don't brake all that well due to the flex in the long arms, but they are certainly better than no brake at all. With the relatively fat tires and slow speed typical of cruiser bikes, they work well enough. 

As someone who learned to shift before indexing, I have some habits that I only recently learned modern beginners often never learn. Even with indexed shifting, on the front you need to push the lever beyond the click until you hear the chain catch. This is something I was doing unconsciously since that's what friction shifting requires, a slight overshift and trim. Recently in helping a beginner learn to shift, I took a closer look at what I was doing and they weren't and realized that they let go of the lever as soon as it clicked, not as soon as the chain engaged the big ring. This makes a big difference in how fast the chain shifts. They also needed to learn the subtleties of soft pedaling during the shift. Modern chains and rings have gotten so good that in normal situations ( 39/52 on the road), you can often go a long time before these tricks become unconscious. Cross racing is tweaking the boundaries of what the shifting system can do for you and requires learning these old school techniques. 

The great thing about bikes is that almost anything is possible for the home mechanic. But only you can answer the question of whether it's worth it. Deraillers almost never "wear out", at most they need new jockey wheels. They can get damaged or bent, often is is the hanger that is bent not the derailluer. So likely all you need is a new shifter, fortunately 7spd is a lot less complicated than bikes with more speeds. $17 for a new shifter $URL$ Or you could put friction shifters on for a little more cash. What does get worn out is the rear cogs or cassette. You might need a cassette and chain. That's about $50 more or less. You can put new canti's on there without changing the levers, if you go to V-brakes you'll need new levers. Generally getting good performance out of canti's has more to do with how well you set them up rather than the exact model you use. So for roughly $100-$200 in parts, you can have a functional bike again. However, if you can't do the work yourself, paying someone else to do it is a long ways towards the price of a new bike. This also assumes you already have the tools ( although these repairs don't require much in the way of specialized tools. ) For roughly 3x what you'd spend in parts, you can get a lightly used MTB hardtail that will be a much nicer bike. If however, you enjoy tinkering around with bikes, then you really aren't concerned about the cost of parts. I've fixed up a fair number of older bikes and if you don't enjoy the process and satisfaction of making something old work again, it's almost never worth the effort.