As others have noted, tanks of liquid air are impractically bulky. We can, however, solve this bulk problem. Just compress harder. The density of neutronium is about 10^18 kg per m^3, so we could store the entire Earth's atmosphere in a mere 5 cubic meters of pure neutronium. You'd have to maintain high pressure, and have a confinement system that generates sufficient radiation and other effects to regenerate the neutronium as it decays. While the pressure required to contain the neutronium is higher than one can practically achieve, it is the radiation pressure that going to be more difficult to deal with. Neutronium has a half life of 10 minutes. In a neutron star, this decay is effectively prevented by the radiation and physical pressure. We'll estimate that the amount of radiation you'd have to bathe the neutronium in is roughly equivalent to its decay. In the case of neutrons, 0.08% decays into energy every 10 minutes. At 5E18 kg, 0.08% every 10 minutes is 4E15 kg of energy every 10 minutes, or 7E12 kg every second, or 6E29 Watts. The sun puts out 4E26 Watts. So the scientist will have to first develop a K-Type 2.3 civilization and devote it entirely to this experiment. On the down side, if the scientist where to release containment, the gravitational binding energy of Earth is E32, which is roughly the energy released as the neutronium decays. So the promise to release the atmosphere if paid may not be as strong an incentive as the scientist hoped. Now, if only a fraction of the Earth's atmosphere where converted to neutronium, the above equations would be off by a few orders of magnitude. So the Earth would no longer be disassembled into debris by releasing it; instead something a bit less extreme, like something the size of the moon might be broken off it. 

Kings and Queens are the descendants of warriors and leaders of warriors who conquered the area. In a world with magic, warriors mean mages. By the time you build up a large civilization, the combat capabilities of an individual pale before the coordinated combat capabilities of a trained military force. Technology and techniques will be developed for the use of magic in mass-warfare, and governments who arrange for effective use will dominate, and those who do not will be conquered. At colonization of the americas equivalent stage, I'd expect the equivalent of Britian's empire would be fueled by mass magical education, where they crack the technique required for anyone to become a mage, and maybe ritual mass-combat magic, where even relative apprentices can be leveraged for mass magical effects, and industrial magic. If a civilization figured that out, while others did not, it could experience something like the UK's industrial revolution (where a small island dominated the world). Others would start to copy it (but, mass education requires mass educators, and the social structure of a state where almost everyone has magic is going to be different from the typical magocracy) so this is going to take decades to catch up). Meanwhile, at the top, the monarch is likely to have some magical education. But they need not be a top-tier combat or industrial mage: their power comes from the huge mass of the state, not from their individual magic. They are likely to have combat mage bodyguards, much like the monarch is going to have elite guards. Rulers of monarchies in the age of steam where not expert engineers or top-notch warriors. They usually had some military experience and a good education, but that was to season them: their power did not flow from their personal prowess. The admirals and warriors and engineers served the crown, they did not rule it. So I'd build the world where most of the world magical education is limited to the nobility, and are secrets passed down in families. The rising power has created a mass magical education system, where even peasants are taught narrow types of magic be more productive, and every soldier (often drafted from the peasants!) is a combat mage capable of helping in mass combat ritual magic and individual skirmishes. All backed by industrial-scale mass production of enchanted goods (even if they are just "modern" strength alloys). 

They live in a multiverse, and FTL actually involves going to other sheafs of the multiverse. Targetting is a problem; most of the multiverse is chaotic noise. Nothing interesting there. To find an appropriate target, we have figured out how to use massive body location patterns (stars and planets) to produce a fingerprint, then target our FTL based on those coordinates. The multiverse isn't infinite, so if we input random patterns we'll end up nowhere and lost. So we very carefully survey nearby solar systems and target a local pattern of the planets and stars that actually exist. We do not, however, actually arrive in our universe. We arrive in a nearby one. If we want to get back to Earth, our location in the multiverse is also anchored into a hyperplane defined by Earth itself. In effect, there is one alpha centauri we can reach (or a small limited set). It isn't in our universe; if you FTL there, and fly back to Earth, there are no humans there. To keep colonies from being lost, FTL beacons are set up, and we FTL from one beacon to another. Possibly the FTL is actually planet-to-planet, and we don't go into space for our FTL travel. Conventional space travel remains expensive and mostly pointless. The other civilizations exist within our space, but possibly in other sheafs. Our beacons are incompatible, and we haven't noticed each other yet. 

If we assume magic doesn't help, then most children do not make it to adulthood. During the "high medieval clearances" of the wilderness, England over 250-odd years went from 1.5 million to 4.5 million or so. This rate of growth is 0.4% per year. With an average generation length of 20 years, each girl child that survives until adulthood has to have 1.004^20 = 1.08 girl children on average to maintain this growth rate. This is roughly 2.16 children that "survive until adulthood" to in turn have children. If they have an average of 6 children, that generates a rough childhood mortality rate of 64%. For elves, I'll assume they don't die of old age and remain fertile. They have a uniform 0.5%/year mortality rate (slightly higher than we have from accidents in the modern age), and have X children every 100 years relatively uniformly over their lives. 40% of elves die every century (60% live). To maintain replacement, each female elf has to produce .4 female elf children every century, or 0.8 elf children of either gender (assuming balance). A 1.004 annual growth rate like humans corresponds to a 1.5 growth rate per century, upping the number of elf children to roughly 1.2 per century. Adding an extended childhood period doesn't change these numbers all that much. Adding a "menopause" (cultural or not) that causes elves to stop having children could change these numbers significantly; you could roughly emulate it as an increase in mortality. Warfare will be extremely hazardous for elves under such a model, unless they can produce a large bump in their birthrate, or avoid female casualties and accept significant serial or parallel polyandry. A completely alternate approach would be to make elven biology extremely different than humans. For example, elves as a kind of plant spirit; the plant spawns an elf body, which explores the world and returns to its source tree when tired. That permits "elves" that live for millenia (which are new spawns of the same ancient plant), the "elves" death not being as important as it might otherwise be for an immortal being (as it is just an expensive discardable body; you lose some experiences, not all), and explains why elves live in forests and care a whole bunch about them (the elves are the forest). The question of growth rate now becomes limited by the territory the elves can plant new elves in. Elves become R-type reproducers. 

We do not appear to be smart enough to write an AI at this point. The closest we get to "AI" generally involves writing a learning framework that we train on huge amounts of data and it then solves problems. Now, a problem with AI is that once we know how to solve a problem, it is no longer "real AI". It is a solved problem. The exceptions tend to be in areas where we teach the AI to learn how to solve problems, like AI go programs or neural networks; because we don't have a concise description of exactly what it does at each stage, we ascribe intelligence to the complex state it developed while it "learned". To answer your question, we'll have to guess how we make the superhuman AI. One possibility is we take existing neuron simulation, scan a human brain, and run it. We then learn how to make it smarter by throwing more cycles or tweaking its neuron layout or adding more neurons to some portions. This is the "copy a human" solution. This may lead to understandings of how human morality works that are beyond what we currently know, and it is possible that this will then let us modify the resulting computers to be moral. At the same time, maybe someone sees profit in creating a sociopathic superhuman AI, and the same research could lead to someone stripping morality selectively from such a human-modelled AI. Another possible approach is that our conventional machine learning expert systems technology develops, and we end up with an "expert system" that behaves in a way that appears to be intelligent. Such systems tend to consume large amounts of data and find patterns in them; so a super expert system that consumed recordings of entire human lives might be able to emulate being those human beings and some kind of "affine combinations" of them. In this case, it might be possible to audit the recordings to contain only "sufficiently moral" humans. The lag time to create a set of immoral humans to seed an AI might be sufficient to prevent it from occurring. There is the SF AI, where someone somewhere comes up with a way to build an AI with properties they want. Maybe they do so via a trade secret, and they don't share the trade secret with anyone, and their AIs all have a common moral compass. They hold a monopoly. Others can use their AIs to do things, but they aren't able to modify them fundamentally without breaking them completely. 

Going back a bit further, for the longest time economic power was basically population and land based. Poor countries had less land or population. Rich countries had both. There where rare trading countries that where richer per capita, but they where mostly city-states. The industrial revolution changed this. Again, we got exponential growth going on -- in the case, technological. Steam engines begat better coal mining, which begat more steam. Coal begat steamers, which begat more coal. Coal begat railroads, which begat more coal. 

A Wizard did it. Really, a sufficiently advanced technology is indistinguishable from magic. So introduce a source of sufficiently advanced technology. If you don't want the cultural and societal etc changes related to that, make it a one-off event. There are some aliens. These aliens do what they want. One of the things the aliens did once was give some humans a some handguns. These handguns reloaded themselves when you pushed a button on them. They are also opaque to every sensor known to human kind. More than one of them was dismantled. Once done so, it became a completely normal handgun. The button stopped working. The button wasn't hooked up to anything. Sensor tech aimed at it while it was dismantled showed complete opacity, followed by a completely normal gun, seemingly in an instant. When they tried to use it as a spaceship engine, the button stopped working. It started working again when they brought it back to Earth. Your hero has two of these guns. They are reasonably valuable, but 100s of 1000s of them exist. We don't know why the aliens made them. We don't know how they work. A Wizard did it. 

Here is a gate designed to surive against zombies. We have an outer wall that prevents "direct charge" of any of the doors. Kill Zone 1 is an isolated area where zombies breaking in can be slaughtered from above/through holes in walls. If there are "low" places to fight from KZ1, access is via ladder into KZ1; you cannot flee from KZ1 out of it directly until zombies in KZ1 are dead. The ability to "drop down" into KZ1 from the 30 meter (or however tall) walls above is possible, but this should never be deployed, and any drop-down should be from KZ2. KZ2 and KZ3 works similarly, but it is behind the door of , and are isolated from the safe inside by another door of . One-way entry to the "killing locations" in KZ2 can be reached from KZ3, and KZ3 has "one way entry" to the killing locations from the inside. The "killing locations" are things like raised platforms or iron-bar fortified ground locations that you can use pikes to fight from. These are used to clear the killing zones if besieged. These killing locations are not presumed safe from being overrun. Doors should be things like thick metal bars with thin gaps lowered from above. Simply too massive to be dislodged by mere meat, and mere meat cannot stop them from lowering. Wooden doors that can be closed to block line of sight can be added, but are not a requirement for the barrier to work. Killing zombies through these doors should be possible. Someone getting a truck and smashing the outer gate while the second gate is open is the "worst case" this is designed to defend from. Cinematic failure would consist of the people in killing zone 3 "killing location" fleeing, convincing people outside of it to lower rope ladders or somesuch, then being overrun and zombies getting inside. So the next stage is dealing with exactly that; KS3's "one way" entrance needs to be "airlocked" in a way that doesn't permit local zombie infection from getting out. 

The soldiers lose. First, because while there are 1/10th the number of wizards, they have mind magic. So they can easily have 100s of people dedicated to the cause of helping the wizard per wizard. Mind magic is easy; they all feel a total and complete selfless love for their wizard. Depending on resources, these servents can be equipped with magical equipment that rivals a modern battle tank, except they can teleport. You'd require a panopitcon beyond anything we have ever imagined to prevent infiltration of transmuted mind controlling and controlled teleporting spies who take control over your country. Lacking the ability to detect magic, any member of the military who is out of contact with the chain of command must be presumed suborned; disrupt communications and they cannot trust anyone who isn't in eye sight. Ambush and turn a squad. Mind control them, transmute your operatives into looking exactly like them, use them to sneak into the base, mass control more of the base, etc. With the ability to teleport, you can bring overwealming magical force to bear on a single location, convert it, and now they are on your side. The only response that stands much of a chance is using overwealming power in response. Create bait bases that the wizards are lured to try to take over, and use nuclear or equivalent weaponry to wipe out both the wizards attacking and the base itself. Even that might not work; the wizards could easily be wearing armor proof against nuclear blasts. So to stand a chance, you have to create constant surveilance of your own people (both military and civilian) to detect being suborned, sterilize areas that are suborned, use overwealming force against the wizard population centers, fight using drones, snipers, missiles and other "long range remote" attack tools, hide the very location of your military bases long enough. Really, you should sue for peace. One miracle worker can match or exceed 10 soldiers in effectiveness. You are outnumbered, outgunned. You are fighting the guerilla war, not them, and they can capture and convert your most dedicated agents with ease. 

Scale up. Get smarter. In a matter-free universe, the universe loses track of scale. There is nothing to measure time, except frequency of photons, and nothing to measure the frequency of photons except other photons. The same physics works if we pretend our clock is really slow, or really fast. In effect, we end up with a free parameter on our physics models -- the scale of the model is no longer bound. If you move the scale parameter of the model one way, you get a cold empty universe. If you move it the other way, the same model describes a hot, dense universe. With nothing but photons around, there isn't anything to provide an absolute scale. Which means that an empty universe with cold photons flying around is indistinguishable (under certain models) from a really dense hot universe dominated by high energy photons, just at a very different time and space scale. A dense hot universe is a big bang. Scale ourselves up so that we are so big, we can encode ourselves onto this "larger scale" big bang. Get really smart, so that this encoding is sufficient to cause our consciousness to form in this bigger bang resulting universe. As an example, engineer the physical constants of the bigger bang universe so that they are going to produce intelligent life that will spread throughout it and will examine the background radiation of the big bang. In that background radiation, encode yourself (or your "civilization"), and get them to build a machine containing yourself in that new universe (as a matter of curiosity). And now you have just passed from one cold, dead universe into a new, ridiculously larger scale universe. Repeat. Now, this doesn't solve every problem. Your state space becomes limited by your horizon (as too many states in too small a space means a black hole -- entropy (aka information) is limited by surface area). So you need some way to become infinitely "large" so you can actually remember your infinite life, and such large beings have to think infinitely slowly. In addition, the above procedure requires you do do it "right" each time; doing it wrong results in your self being destroyed forever. A method to create more than 1 such child universe may be required, so that the number of copies of your consciousness-history diverge instead of converge. I'm not sure how you'd do it, given this model.