The wikipedia article as well as scientific papers like Janusek 2002 and Ortloff and Kolata 1993 treat the historical existence of the Tiwanaku empire as a fact without offering any evidence corroborating it. The papers are not open access (sorry for that!) but the perspective becomes clear from the abstracts. The papers go on to discuss archaeological evidence for settlement patterns, technology, artifacts etc etc. I understand that archaeological studies may offer solid evidence of a culturally and technologically advanced civilization, but how can it be established that this civilization constituted a state or empire? Pre-Columbian cultures in South America had (almost certainly) no writing system, so contemporary historical accounts do not exist. Is there perhaps evidence from later historical sources? I had a brief look at (an English translation of) Guaman Poma's "The First New Chronicle and Good Government" written by a member of the provincial Peruvian Native American nobility. He gives the probably earliest comprehensive account of Incan and pre-Incan history of the region. However, what he produces in his chapter on pre-Incan history ("Chapter of the Ages of the Indians") is a rather bizarre mix of biblical narrative, contemporary Spanish Christian philosophy and native American mythology. Other historical sources are probably similar. In any case, I fail to see any historical value in this particular chapter of Guaman Poma's work - but maybe historians disagree and manage to squeeze something useful out of it? Or maybe, there are other more informative sources? 

What exactly is being outlawed (homosexual behavior, not homosexuality) Who would be expected to outlaw homosexual behavior Who was the first to outlaw homosexual behavior anywhere on the Indian subcontinent Who was the first to outlaw homosexual behavior in all of the Indian subcontinent 

As others have pointed out in various comments, a connection between the two sites is extremely unlikely. In particular, Stonehenge became a cultural center only around 3100 BCE, 5000 years after Göpekli Tepe was abandoned (unless you count the Mesolithic layer which was very different from the later monument). What is more, the locations are some 3000 km apart; if all this was a homogeneous cultural area, you would expect to see some evidence in the areas in between. The similarities between the remnants of the sites also seem somewhat superficial: While Göpekli Tepe is build of relatively small blocks with delicate artwork and with extensive stone masonry in between, Stonehenge is composed of huge blocks that were quarried far away but have not otherwise been worked. In particular there are no reliefs or sculptures as in Göpekli Tepe. Both sites are very old, only the most durable materials are preserved. Most likely, both sites would have had extensive infrastructure and architecture around the sites that was not made of stone and has therefore deteriorated. The culture responsible tor constructing and maintaining Stonehenge in particular typically used wood as building material for houses, fences, etc as evidenced by other sites. Only looking at the impressive stone structures that remain may create the illusion of a similarity that would not have been there when the sites were still occupied. Please also note the traditional archaeological categorizations: Göpekli Tepe belongs to the early Middle Eastern Pre-pottery Neolithic A, a culture on the brink of becoming sedentary and domesticating the first plant species (animals except for dogs came a bit later). Stonehenge belongs to the relatively late Western European Bell-Beaker culture, that was fully sedentary and on the brink of progressing from Stone age to Bronze age. From today's point of view, the difference may not seem like a big deal: But one is a cultural center in an area widely roamed by nomadic tribes and trying to make a sedentary living off archaic grains with a relatively poor yield. I am not sure if Göpekli Tepe could have survived on its own or if it, being a site of religious significance, lived partly off the contributions of (presumably mainly nomadic) visitors. The other one, Stonehenge, existed as a local center in an agricultural society; agricultural societies are much more territorial than nomadic cultures. The most impressive thing about Stonehenge is how they managed to bring the stone blocks there from 100km away; it is not so much the technological aspect that is stunning, but mainly how they convinced the locals to grant them safe passage and possibly even contribute to their effort. This is not something that is commonly done in archaic agricultural societies: If you lived on one end of a valley, you would not dream of hiking to the other as this would recklessly endanger your life. In all, this suggests some sort of wider political unification in this region of England at the time. (To get the feeling how both nomadic and sedentary archaic societies worked, I would recommend looking into anthropology, or, more as a accessible read, possibly Jared Diamond's "The World until Yesterday"). 

During the work and debate around the Constitution of the United States; where there much background-material like surveys, notes and minutes (from debates)? How much of such material have survived? I guess especially minutes from committee-meetings and the actual debate is of special interest. I'm particular interested in the Bill of Rights, especially the 2nd amendment - how a strong militia is unnecessary for the security of the individual state, and how this depended on the citizen's right to own arms. Are there any background material left that could clear-up what was most important for the founders; a militia to secure the state, or that the citizen could own arms (regardless of the state's security)? I believe there are at least some information that have survived, in particular regarding how one representative was against the whole enumeration of rights, as he feared a future government would read it as "citizens have no rights except these", instead of "citizen have many/all rights, but we'll mention these in particular because they're so important" - which is the reason for the 9th amendment. 

For one thing, the countries on the other continents, are largly the result of European colonization -- and only some countries (England, Spain, Portugal, France, Holland and Germany) participated. Take North-America... There were many "nations" of Native-Americans, but after the Europeans were through, some were extinct, some decimated, some assimilated (their culture and language destroyed, and sometimes mixed with colonists and/or slaves) -- and all either part of the USA, Canada or Mexico. In South and Latin America there had been empires before, so there were some "unification" already. In India all the local kings (maharajas) became just "local-kings" under the English throne, and even after the British withdrew, these local kings didn't get back their autonom self-govern. In Africa, there were tribes -- often hostile to eachother. But European countries didn't care about this when they partitioned Africa among themselves, which greatly reduced the number of "nations", since the post-colonial countries followed the division made by the colonists rather than older tribal divisions... which of course have caused problems (e.g. Rawanda). +++ As for Europe itself, you can trace the different groups, their wars against eachother, and how the winner "created" the new country -- with it's own culture, history and language, that through history diverged from that in the countries around. (Not that there really were national states yet). There were lots of local kings and noblemen, that through war, marriage and political manouvering ended-up as larger countries -- a process that was repeated several time. Often with the "tribe" or familiy who won, ending-up naming the country -- e.g. Sweden and Denmark. So it's really a wonder there isn't more countries in Europe. For example there where 4-5 kingdoms in Ireland, there were several kingdoms in Wales, and there were several tribes/ethnitical groups in England. Then there were lots of minor prinipalities etc. that would be united to France... and others that later would become Germany... and still others which became Italy. Of course they shared some history, culture, religion and language; but several of the ones who later united, had been in war against eachother too. So short answer, european imperialism and colonization greatly -- and "unnaturaly" -- reduced the the number of tribes/groups which else may have become independent nation elsewhere on the globe. 

Implications for later historical periods According to Fravia, Europe switched to parchment after the Muslim kalifat's conquest of Egypt as papyrus had become unavailable. Writing on parchment is apparently easier to erase than on papyrus (because parchment is sturdier). This is, according to Fravia, one of the reasons why we know so little about the early European middle ages: Whatever they wrote was later erased and the parchment reused for silly stuff in the late middle age or early modern age. (The identity of Fravia is afaik not entirely clear, but he appears to have been trained in medieval history among other subjects like computer science and linguistics.) 

Maya society was organized in city states and clans and possibly other entities. Each of these naturally provides its own narratives and mythology from which names would often be chosen. It is therefore common that multiple individuals from similar contexts, e.g. multiple rulers of the same polity, would have similar or identical names. For instance, several of Palenque's (Baak, Lakamha) rulers were named K'inich Janaab' Pakal, while several others bore the name Ahkal Mo' Nahb and still others K'inich Kan Bahlam. The clan name (e.g. Mat, a clan from Palenque) occasionally formed part of the name. For instance, another one of Palenque's rulers is named Ajen Yohl Mat. However, this is not a general rule, and it appears that occasionally individuals not belonging to clan Mat would also bear that element Mat as part of their name, e.g. in the case of individuals that had ancestry from clan Mat though not belonging to this clan themselves. The details of this are not currently well-understood. For a discussion of this particular example, see pages 56-60 in this paper about the rulers of Palenque. Titles like Ajaw (Lord), K'uhul Ajaw (Divine Lord, King), etc. would often be added to the names. Such titles would, as I understand it, typically include a description of what the individual was Lord or King and would follow the name. Title and description would be combined into a single logogram. The same is true for the name. For a description with examples, see e.g. page 8 in the paper referenced above. Note that Mayan writing did not prescribe a particular orthography but allowed any number of ways to phonetically and symbolically combine elements to convey what you want to say. Names may include otherwise unfamiliar characters, as is the case for the names apparently referring to foreign invaders from the Mexican highlands, such as "Owl that will strike" (the Mayan reading of which is unknown) or "Fire is born!" (read Siyaj K'ak'). Edit: I forgot to add, that even though the question refers to names of common people, I am talking about names of the nobility. Very little is known about the classic-period Maya in general, even about the nobility. What little we know is from inscriptions, which are exclusively from the perspective of the upper classes and mainly about the lives of the upper classes. We do not have any texts about naming customs, so everything we have is inferred from names. If naming customs for commoners were markedly different is impossible to know. What we know about the nobility is simply the best approximation of naming customs in general that we have.