You can fully collapse the poles inside your bag and lock them with no problem. There are dozens of different locking mechanisms, but most operate the principle of friction*: either twisting an internal screw forces wedges apart, or flicking shut an external lever squeezes the outside tube down on the inside one. The manufacturer is worried that using this friction unecessarily will cause it to wear out sooner. Two thoughts: 

Say you have a cooler of frozen food and ice to last for several days or weeks of river-trip / car camping. To keep things as a cold as possible for as long as possible, is it better to leave the cold melted ice-water in, or to drain it out on a regular basis? 

Tongue Finger Water + Finger (drink it -- truly "Leave No Trace" (its not as bad as you think)) Snow (when available) Pine Needles / plant leaves / grass stalks / other "soft" natural scrubber Sand Small gravel Large Rock 

Although the threads may be similar (and even look the same) I've found that often the gaskets are not the same between bottles: flat gaskets, round, beveled and there is a corresponding difference in the rims of bottles: flat, round, beveled. Threads also tend to start in different places, and can have more or less bite/edge to them that can shred or deform the plastic threads on the pumps. Having suffered enough leaks (and fires) by mix-mashing bottles and pumps (often without being able to identify why - gaskets were good etc.), I've adopted a policy of only using original bottles with pumps. This also is fairly standard among the professional outdoor guiding companies I'm familiar with. Good practice: Use the original bottle to attach to the stove, and carry your extra fuel in another bottle with its own original cap, and refill the stove bottle as needed. 

US Fisheries and Wildlife (with black and grizzly bears) suggests that bear spray is statistically more effective. A 2008 study by Smith et al included two polar bear encounters where the bears were successfully deterred with bear spray. However, in polar bear country you have other considerations, as the Nunavut visitor information says 

So in summary, I find that (regardless of walking-stick usefulness) the best shaft length is the one between too long that it can impale my thighs, and too short that it can impale my abdomen. I generally measure this length as the diagonal from one shoulder to the hip bone on the opposite side, but you might find that this measurement varies for you. 

piling -- I pile everything I'm going to take on the floor in logical groups, next to my pack. This allows me to assess whether it's too much, what size pack I need to use, and make sure that I have everything I need. clothing -- knowing exactly what I'm taking and where it is helps reduce the time. I generally have a separate wardrobe for technical hiking gear, which allows me to keep it separate from the rest of my clothes. food and cooking gear -- again, it helps to have in one location, know exactly what you're taking, and have it all pre-filled (stove fuel, food, spices, etc.) I try to pack any cooking ingredients for the trip the night before or earlier. Simpler recipes are easier to pack (e.g. rice, a bit of oil, nuts, and spices take all of one minute to pack, premixed in a reusable ziplock (except for the oil, of course)). overnight gear -- again, one storage location, one packing pile on the floor. This includes the sleeping bag, sleeping pad, compression sack, and possibly a tent. kits -- this includes various kits, like first aid kit, backcountry ski binding repair kit, stove maintenance kit, backpack maintenance kit, emergency shelter kit, etc. I keep these as "kit-in-a-bag" systems, so they're always ready, tabulated, and packed. Some of these stay in the backapck between trips. 

Perhaps the most obvious and commercially available is solar, which has options ranging from small pocket-sized chargers to roll-out military grade flexible panels. I believe Brunton makes a consumer grade version of the latter (not as bullet-proof), and iGo has some nice versions of the former. I have used both with some success, the panel is probably over-kill if you are just looking to charge a few AAs (we were charging GPS dataloggers and hand-held computers). However, the small ones are not something I would depend upon, tending to charge slowly. Both require (of course) sunlight. The second option is to carry more batteries -- either another set or two of fully charged batteries in the size you need, or if you have a variety of other electronics to charge, an old-school camcorder battery can be used to re-charge smaller batteries. Some companies make recharge-able power-packs geared toward cell-phones which function the same way. However, for anything critical (emergency devices) I would highly recommend ALWAYS packing a set of fresh, regular batteries that you can slip in when your re-charge options fail. Digression 1: I've often thought a little hydro-generator would be slick if you are camping near a creek - plop it in the current and charge overnight... but have yet to find one (or hear of a do-it-yourself) that is practical. Digression 2: While poking around for the hydro-power, I found this wind turbine which looks like a fun project... and possible could (should) be modified for water-born deployment. Water always flows. BONUS PRO-TIP: On cold mornings, gently warming a dying battery (ie in your arm-pit, or in a hot cup of coffee) can sometimes get the reaction going just enough to generate a last gasp of energy. Highly NOT recommended as standard practice due to explosion concerns, but in a life-or-death emergency, it might give you enough juice to make that critical radio call. 

I picked up a memory foam travel pillow for around $5 at Canadian Tire a few years back. It actually packs small enough (about the size of a 1L Nalgene) that I also use it on easier multiday mountaineering trips where I'm not already trying to shave as much weight off of my pack as possible (otherwise the down jacket wrapped in a fleece works beautifully.) The only downside with memory foam is that if it's really cold outside, it can get rock hard, and you either have to sit it on it for a while to warm it up, or find some other means of unfreezing it. I can't find the one I have online, but this much more expensive one looks identical. 

you are also exposed to mechanical and thermal danger such as shrapnel debris due to explosive impacts and fires. 

I am by no means an authority on lightning in any way. With that said, however, I have had my share of getting caught climbing in a thunderstorm, and have since tried to do some reading on the subject. The biggest hurdle to surmount here is that most lightning safety advice revolves around seeking shelter, which is often not a viable option midway up a multipitch route. Here are some points worth considering: 

the magnitude of both voltage and current in a lightning strike is absolutely massive, and at those levels anything can conduct electricity (albeit only to a certain distance). you are exposed to three main mechanisms of electricity-based injury by lightning: 

You have several options for keeping your toes warm, but ultimately, toes are going to get cold on really cold days... it is just part of the fun. Try the following: 

Other than that, just slim down your kit the bare minimum (small tubes of paint rather than big ones, etc.) And if you run out of a color - improvise. Wild art ain't studio art. 

Pack stoves come in a variety of flavors, consuming white gas, denatured alcohol, propane, wood, gels, unleaded, kerosene... etc. Given the assumption that I will be carrying all the fuel I need (no wood collecting), and that all stoves weigh the same (big assumption, but for the sake of the discussion, lets try it...) which one provides the highest heat-output per gram of fuel? If we consider the weight of non-reusable containers, does that significantly change things? Is any one significantly bulkier? 

Fortunately, both of these cases can be repaired to nearly good as new if you have the tools/knowhow -- but only before de-lamination begins, so act quickly. Beyond that, minor scrapes, dings, etc. that don't make it to the core -- even super-long and gnarly looking ones -- are fine up to your personal preference. They will effect your glide, and can affect performance, and might cause excessive snow build-up in adverse conditions, but your skis will be structurally fine. 

Recently a friend and I have began experimenting with the use of our beards as moisture traps while skiing and hiking in snow storms. The general idea is that the skin temperature is warm enough to melt the deepest layer of ice/snow/frost, and one should be able to sip that melted moisture through their beard, given adequate vacuum conditions created by the external snow/ice layer on the beard. It didn't work, but we were still very excited to pioneer the snow-Fremen culture. 

Looks like you'll need Newmatic crampons. The Charmoz GTX has a heel bail but no toe bail, which means you will need a strap over the toe. Many crampons today come with a choice of configuration between a step-in or toe-strap, and most step-ins can be refitted with a toe-strap after the fact as well. The actual type and model of crampon recommended varies with the intended activity (and budget), however. So all else being equal, anything with a toe strap will work. 

Generally, a more controlled and precise technique should reduce undesired knee scraping and banging... But I find that the ability to achieve this precision is, at least to some degree, dependent on your strength reserves, and decreases during a session. Often, several hours into a climbing session I find myself making bigger and less precise moves, and often these end up with scraping or banging of a limb on the wall or some hold. That's usually my cue to pack it up and call it a day. As far as knee protection goes, any soft, full-sleeve, fabric style knee padding should work well for most impacts you would normally experience while climbing. But only you know how hard you're hitting the wall and the holds, so really, the best advice I can give you is to go and try out a bunch in the store, and see how much protection they provide. I think the soft (and therefore flexible) pads would be the best place to start. Perhaps volleyball style knee pads would work well? 

In simplest terms, as you climb, the air pressure around you decreases and your watch subsequently registers an increase in elevation. However, thunderstorms are often associated with a low-pressure weather system moving in, which will also register on your barometer. This can erroneously be interpreted as an increase in elevation. Similarly, high pressure (clear weather) systems moving in can make your watch register a decrease in elevation. Some modern watches have accelerometers in them that can sense when you are moving. Algorithms then determine whether a change in pressure is likely due to your climbing (moving, and in an upward trending motion) or due to weather (no movement). These calculations can increase accuracy significantly, but you'll still need to calibrate on a regular basis. Some GPS watches like Garmin's Fenix 3 (which has an acceleromter) also can auto-calibrate elevation based on GPS information -- though GPS elevation is notoriously bad. More accurately, the Fenix 3 can also use your smartphone connection to look up your elevation based on USGS survey data of your current location (given by the GPS). This is not automated, but can allow you to more precisely calibrate the watch as often as you feel necessary. Without super-sensitive tech to register these pressure changes, you'll be hard-pressed to track this on your own in any meaningful way. Finally, temperature does have some (albeit slight) effect on mercury-based barometers as the the density of the liquid changes causing variation in the readings (low pressure = more volume). Modern non-mercury barometers are not influenced by this to any significant amount. 

It takes me about 40 minutes to pack for an overnight or longer trip, and this includes making and packing sandwiches for breakfast and lunch. The biggest advantage is that I know exactly what I need, where it is, and how to place it in the pack. This is mainly the result of going on hikes nearly every weekend year-round, and learning what I use and don't use, and what I find that I'm missing in certain situations. A lot of gear never leaves the pack unless it needs replenishing or for routine maintenance (I check and refill all of my different kits about once a month, unless I use them. This also allows me to adjust them for a more localized climate window.) Biggest factors in my packing time: 

And finally, to emphasize the point: the biggest time saver is knowing what you don't need. The less you have to pack, the better it fits, and the faster it is to collect and review it. The second biggest time saver is knowing how to pack what you're taking in the pack you're going to use, so maybe spend some time packing it with different sets of things so that when you're packing for a trip you already know exactly how to pack the stuff you're taking, as well as that it fits and that it's not too heavy. Occasionally I will actually try different packing orders in my packs on a dead evening, just because it helps me later. 

Collins, M. A. “Effect of pH and Acidulant Type on the Survival of Some Food Poisoning Bacteria in Mayonnaise.” Microbiologie - Aliments - Nutrition 3, no. 3 (n.d.): 215–221. 

**Sidebar: Several sources suggest that sports beverages can actually increase risk of hyponatremia since their deliciously tasty tangy sweetness can cause one to drink more fluid than they would otherwise. Advice from the doctor at the Grand Canyon clinic as reported in the Wilderness Medicine Institute regarding the issue: 

Even for "multi-week" trips, brushing with water alone is not going to compromise your tooth health. The abrasive action of the brush does most of the work, and missing the flouride hit for a few days won't affect your teeth in the least. Plus, it saves weight. So, the best LNT option: don't use it. If you MUST use toothpaste (or an alternative), try a few of these options: 

Burying too deep can be a problematic from a health and safety standpoint, since pathogens have been known to survive for a looong time in a cat-hole time capsule of inorganic soil. This is why in arid desert regions (with no organic soil), you want to bury it very shallow (if at all -- depends on who you ask) where the UV and heat from the sun will break down the waste more rapidly. Organic soil (the brown, loamy, rotten stuff with worms and roots and critters, as opposed lifeless to mineral soil) will break down the waste fairly rapidly if the bacteria in the soil can get to it. For more info, see the Leave no Trace website.