As the first comment mentions, there are MANY ways to approach history. You may not notice it if you are not in a college history department, but history has many branches (and sub branches, and sub sub branches, etc.). For example, some historians would identify themselves as 

Building off of Denis's answer, there was a lot of imagery of detached phalloi (plural for phallus, or penis) in ancient Greece. Here is a vase image of a woman watering a phallus garden. Some processions (like the Pompe before the Festival of Dionysus) even included pushing carts with giant penises on them that people would decorate with flowers. As noted above, the culture was very fine with images of male nudity, so this wasn't particularly unusual. Also, I don't know the date of that monument, but in classical Athens, women weren't out in public much. 

From my knowledge as a theatre historian and speech coach, I would say, it is probably a combination of: 

On a similar note, is the author a professional historian? Look for the author's bio. Are they a professional historian in the sense that they work at a school or institution where their main job puts them in the field of historical research or education? I've known plenty of crackpot academics, but, again, it's a fairly good indicator. I have read very compelling historical works by non-academics, but they tend to have pretty clear flaws that would rule them out as being convincing arguments. Is the evidence clearly presented? Since history (as has been noted above) is the business of using evidence to make an argument, how clearly is the evidence displayed? Are there footnotes or endnotes? Is there a bibliography or works cited? Take an important detail or assumption that they make: is there a source that you can look up to verify it? Not all claims are sourced by an author, but good history tends to source most of them. When in Doubt Historians never promise any grand theory. They have boring titles to their work! 

The thing that we often miss about Greek mythology today is that it never was a stable body of stories. While Judaeo-Christian religions have singular sources of authority (the word of God), the Greeks had a multiplicity of authorities. There were several different types of myth and LOTS of local variations. So, for example, a story about Theseus might be completely different in Athens than in Thebes. In fact, the word "myth" comes from "muthos," which just means "story." The stories we have today are highly selective versions of these compiled from sources across hundreds of years (i.e. A lot of the myths we commonly reference, come from Ovid, who was a Roman). In one sense, Zeus was just "sky," but in another he could also be an oracle and a figure with a biography, and those were not mutually exclusive. To get a good sense of the variations of standard myths and mythic figures, with an eye to sources, I recommend theio.com and, if you want to get deeper into it, Early Greek Myth (2 vols.) by Timothy Gantz is excellent and accessible. 

There are many historical accounts of "trials" in the Soviet Union. However, they tend to center around trials which are political trials. For example, a government agent accused of treason. How did a criminal trial in the Soviet Union work? Specifically I am interested in the time immediately after World War 2. 

Obviously, the Whiskey class submarine was not acquired to serve in a combat role alongside the Romeo class submarines. What is meany by "battery charging hulk"? Is there a need for additional charging capacity in some circumstances? Is the vessel able to move under its own power? Are the electrical systems of the two classes compatible? Are they any vessels produced explicitly as battery charging vessels? 

According to Wikipedia, the Semi-Automatic Ground Environment system could automatically update the autopilot of the F-106 and the guidance system of the CIM-10 Bomarc. Presumably this would send either a destination or a vector to the asset in flight, allowing it to intercept a target that had changed course after the asset had taken off. How was this upload of data to the in flight asset performed? Were there any provisions to prevent a malicious enemy from sending messages that steered the asset off course? It was most likely a radio frequency system, so I am specifically asking for details of the radio unit and the nature of the communications. For example, the designation of the ground based transmitter and the airborne receiver. Wikipedia link: $URL$ 

From The Encyclopedia of the Arab-Israeli Conflict [4 volumes]: A Political, Social, and Military History 1st Edition by Spencer C. Tucker. ISBN 978-1851098415 From page 961: 

The B-17 was used for a significant portion of the Allied campaign during WWII. My understanding is the earliest bombs in aviation consisted of just throwing stuff out of the open cockpit of planes. Later this progressed to some doors in the fuselage through which bombs simply fell out when opened. The B-17 appears to have a more complex bomb bay system, with doors and with the bombs mechanically retained somehow. Did Allied crews ever experience difficulty getting the bombs to release? How did they deal with this (landing with bombs seems dangerous)? Does any data exist for what percentage of missions encountered problems with the bomb release mechanisms? 

The reunification of Germany in 1990 was effected by a treaty between the governments of East and West Germany (the German Democratic Republic and the Federal Republic of Germany, respectively). The treaty was voted on separately by the respective legislatures, and passed with large majorities of 299–80 in the GDR and 440–47 in the FRG. I'm interested in learning more about who voted against the reunification treaty and why. The German Wikipedia mentions that the "no" votes came from members of the Party of Democratic Socialism (the successor to the Socialist Unity Party that had ruled the GDR since 1949) and Alliance 90/The Greens in the GDR, and members of The Greens and the Union parties (the CDU and CSU) in the FRG. From what I can tell, the PDS had largely renounced Leninism and expelled most of its Leninist-era leaders. On what basis, then, did they campaign for keeping East Germany as a separate state? (Or were they in fact in favour of reunification, but not on the specific terms given in the treaty? If so, what terms in particular did they find objectionable?) The reunification treaty was also voted against by The Greens in both East and West Germany. Was this an official policy of both Green parties, or was it only a faction who voted this way? Regardless, what was their stated motivation? Finally, in the FRG, the CDU/CSU alliance held 255 seats at the time of the treaty vote, so it seems only a small minority of them voted "no". Who were these members? Did they act in concert, as a faction? What reasons did they give for voting against reunification? 

After World War II, tens of millions of ethnic Germans from Central and Eastern Europe were forcibly expelled into Allied-occupied Germany and Austria. What happened to all the homes they left behind? That is, to whom was ownership transferred—were the expelees given the opportunity to sell their real estate on the private market, or were they obliged to transfer ownership to the newly installed or restored governments, or was the property simply abandoned with no legal formalities? If the properties were typically nationalized or abandoned, then how were homes reallocated? Did the governments systematically survey the evacuated properties and try to match them up with locally displaced citizens, or was the process more haphazard? Were there any less war-torn countries that ended up with a housing surplus? 

My understanding is that the USS Nautilus, the first nuclear submarine is now a museum. This boat was a real nuclear vessel, so it should have all the hazards associated with a decommissioned nuclear propulsion system. Why was this allowed, whenever ships like the USS Enterprise (CVN-65) are not permitted to become museums? The ostensible reason for the Enterprise is that it is too dangerous due to the ships nuclear reactors. I would think the same would apply to the Nautilus. 

After World War II, plenty of radar aimed guns were developed for the purpose of targeting the guns of anti-aircraft vehicles. Why hasn't this same technology been applied to tanks? A 900 MHz radar unit would operate on a wavelength of 33.3 cm. This seems like it would be more than accurate enough to aim the main tank of a gun. I would also think that a tank would be an excellent target with lots of strong radar returns. Some tanks have rounded turrets, but there is usually something flat with hard edges that should show up on radar. The output would need to be fed into a gun computer to calculate an aiming solution, but those have been around for quite some time. 

What was the first army that had a radio operator in combat units? By radio operator I mean someone who carried radio frequency communication equipment into combat and used it for communications purposes. 

The concept is known as abdication. In some cases of history, leaders of a monarchy have been "allowed", or in reality coerced to give up the throne to a family member. Since you specifically brought up Tsar Nicolas II, we can definitely say no. He attempted first to abdicate to his son, then quickly to another family member Grand Duke Michael Aleksandrovich. The new government at the time was known as the Provisional government and did not accept this. But more importantly, this was essentially the beginning of the Russian Civil War. No party ever endorsed the Grand Duke and it was not until the end of the Russian Civil War that one party established power in Russia. Reference material: $URL$ $URL$ $URL$ 

I suppose we have to exclude the Confederate Navy entirely, otherwise this question would be far too easy to answer. At least in recent times, such an act would be in violation of the US Code Title 10, Subtitle C, Part IV, Chapter 633, 7309. The President can apparently waive this however. Reference: $URL$ All of the boats acquired during the Spanish-American war that were from overseas were just purchased. None that I can find were actually built for the United States Navy. This point in US Navy history is probably the point at which the largest percentage of United States Navy boats were of foreign construction. About 125,000 tons were purchased. Reference: $URL$ The National Defense Reserve Fleet contains numerous foreign built vessels, but again none were ordered by the US Navy at any point in time. Since there is no clear answer here, I'll submit the SBX-1. SBX-1 was at one point a boat of the Missile Defense Agency, part of the Department of Defense. As of 2018 the MDA presently has an Air Force General as its head, but SBX-1 is an oceangoing vessel with a clear combat purpose. SBX-1 hull started life as a CS-50 oceangoing platform. It was purchased from the Norwegian firm Moss Maritime. To make it more interesting that hull actually comes from Sevmash, a Russian company who made it in Severodvinsk. Final fitment was done in US ports located in Texas and Hawaii. So it isn't a US Navy boat, but it was at one point part of the US military structure. It has no offensive capabilities either. 

At the first Nuremberg trial, twenty-one defendants were tried in person: Karl Dönitz, Hans Frank, Wilhelm Frick, Hans Fritzsche, Walther Funk, Hermann Göring, Rudolf Hess, Alfred Jodl, Ernst Kaltenbrunner, Wilhelm Keitel, Konstantin von Neurath, Franz von Papen, Erich Raeder, Joachim von Ribbentrop, Alfred Rosenberg, Fritz Sauckel, Hjalmar Schacht, Baldur von Schirach, Arthur Seyss-Inquart, Albert Speer, and Julius Streicher. The official trial languages were English, German, French, and Russian. The participants (including the German-speaking defendants) were provided with headphones for simultaneous translation. However, in many photographs of the proceedings, not all of the defendants are wearing headphones. While it may be the case that these defendants simply weren't paying attention, or that they had removed their headphones during a lull in the proceedings, it may also be the case that they already had a sufficient command of the foreign language(s) being spoken. Which of the Nuremberg defendants could already speak English, French, or Russian at the time of the trial? And of those who survived the trial, did any of them later learn English, French, or Russian? I know only part of the answer already: there are video recordings of Karl Dönitz speaking English, and Albert Speer speaking French and English. However, these were made long after the war, so I don't know whether they understood these languages during their trial. 

[1] Balázs Apor. The Expulsion of the German Speaking Population from Hungary. In: S. Prauser and A. Rees (eds.), The Expulsion of the 'German' Communities from Eastern Europe at the End of the Second World War. EUI Working Paper HEC No. 2004/1, European University Institute, Florence, Department of History and Civilization, 2004. [2] Central Intelligence Agency. Migration from West Germany to East Germany 1952–54. Provisional Intelligence Report CIA/RR PR-150, 1956. 

A personal union occurs when two otherwise independent states (each with their own territories, governments, etc.) come to share the same monarch. Has it ever come to pass that two member states of a personal union fought a war with each other? Note that I mean to exclude civil wars and rebellions; I am interested in those cases where the legitimate, recognized government of a country prosecutes a war against the legitimate, recognized government of another country, and both governments recognize the same monarch as head of state.