This is a really great question, that was difficult to answer. I would make the arugment that lack of action could be unethical. For example, if a child is starving and you have plenty of food. By not helping the child and allowing them to die of natural causes would be unethical. With the assumption listed above, I would support the notion of using time travel to change the future for the greater good. Now this becomes a very high risk behavior because potentially an action could have a ripple effect that could result in something as severe as nuclear warfare or mabye never leading to the scientific discovery of time travel. Also it is unclear have time travel would impact reality or if there is multiple demensions. At the end of the day, I think it would have to depend on the type of change being proposed, the known risks, and how far back in time the travel is taking place. 

I live in the United States were the prodement religion is Christianity. In my experience, most Christians do not believe in evolution. It could be argued that God created evolution which he used as a tool to create life. Same applies for multiverse. If God is all Knowing and Intelligent as often believed. Then it makes sense he could create a complex tool or any science beyond the convential understanding of people. 

First of all, you interchangeably use expressions "consciousness" and "artificial intelligence" while it is an open question wheter the latter one must come with the first or not and how they are related (check out for example Searle's Chinese Room : $URL$ Secondly, let me use another anology to the computer science: you can write some code in an advanced programming language, handling difficult computations, database queries, sending graphical output and reading input of all sorts etc... But any software you write is actually compiled to some binary code: a bunch od 0's and 1's with nothing else, which then are represented in hardware as different levels of voltage (I'm simplyfing it a bit). The way one can look at it: as a binary mess or as a great piece of code is just the case of perspective. We can tell that the computer is brilliant, because it can do such things, or we can tell that computer is just doing what a simple voltage detector had told it. However, we usually do not make assumptions such as that a computer has a soul or awareness (or do we? again - Searle's Chinese Room). It is just a machine that works well. What's more - if it didn't work well, we would have invented something better. The point you make is that the whole is greater than just the sum of parts - but it can also be applied to the computers, as an analogy to the hardware. The magical mist fades, because we know that the computer is nothing else, but the wires, transistors and some other stuff. Certainly no-one puts a soul inside a computer! Surely, we can tell that a computer is greater (understood as more valuable) than just the parts we used to build it. That is true, because there has been some research and effort put in sticking those parts together and making it work. We can underestimate the pieces and praise the whole. But in a society, especially since the World War II, I would say that such a statement is "highly deprecated". Impersonating a society is highly essentialistic, can lead to devaluating a person in general in comparison to a society, and therefore brings a threat of totalitarianism. The procedure of destroying the myths of the past and replacing them with new myths covered in a quasi-scientific vocabulary is widely discussed by the Frankfurt School, especially by T.W. Adorno and Max Horkheimer in their Dialectics of Enlightment. To sum up, a society is indeed a great and valuable human invention and surely deserves the highest appreciation - but never at a cost of underestimating the individual. 

People have tried since the dawn of mankind to answer these questions. What use is scientific evidence when they do not even began to fully answer these questions. It's all relative information that helps us navigate our relaity. 

Language is a medium that is relative to the speaker and listener. Grammatically the words are different, but can be used in the same context in a pragmatic manner. It's more important to understand the perception of a word by knowing the audience rather then what it actually means. 

Ethics and morals are often debated. Simply put, if your helping someone and not hurting other people then usually we can agree it is ethical behavior. Understanding there is a scacity of resources can add complexity to the question you proposed. However, I would make the arugment we live in a world with much abudence. Therefore, if resources are being consumed modestly and helping people it would be ethical. Most will agree, people do not choose the location of their birth or initial life circumstances are within their control. Therefore, the geographic location should not define human essential rights. Furthermore, favoring an individual based on a demographic like country of birth is not ethical. We are all human. You may also consider, that things should not be given freely. To which I would state nothing is free, everything is an investment, and even a baby needs milk from their mom at early stages in life. 

I, contrary, think that you are actually missing something, and so are the other answers except CCarter's answer. (That's a pity one needs over 50 reputation to comment, as it would be more suitable I guess....) What I consider a flaw of any discussion like Eythyphro's dilemma, is the constant change of problem level we are talking on and the lack of linguistic reflection. Let me explain: as we discuss what is good, we are on the field of ethics. Then, you are asking a meta-ethical question (about the source of good in general, its possible creation by God and the implies of that hypothesis), but use arguments and examples back from the lower level: the permission to murder anyone without any reason is certainly something that's not "good" in any ethical system and our ethical intuition treats that as a valid argument against the possibility of creation of ethical system treating it the other way. Apparently, this can not be considered as an argument: the field of meta-ethics doesn't know anything about why couldn't we name murder good, because that's not in the field of meta-ethical problems. Also, we need to checkout why the example of murder bothers us so much: the cultural and linguistic connotations about that case make an unjustified murder something bad almost by definition. When we enter the field of meta-ethical discussion, we should double-check every definition we use and whether we are even allowed to talk about something. The concept of bad God is indeed, as CCarter points out in the last paragraph, self-contradictory. I even consider a mistake making an assumption that "there is no God, but objective values do exist", and so I agree with the statement that "without God, everything is permittable". Naming anything objective and absolute without concept of God is, in my opinion, in fact just creating a new God (what's more: if we associate it with a person who knows everything, we are happy to meet a new totalitarian dictator). The fact, that God is often impersonated while values and other abstractions are not is just another example of our cultural background. Therefore, see that using this statement as an argument of God existence is absolutely wrong, as it just tries to prove that there is something that's absolute and objective, often just by our intuition that murder being bad is so obvious it should be objective. Now, to answer your question is theist's explanation of what's good just unsatisfactory as the atheist's approach. In my opinion, it is not. If we believe that something is objective and not just name it by convention, we have a strong basis and need not to develop further. We are sure. It is just like Newton's laws: as long as you stick to them, you are absolutely sure what should happen, what is possible ("good") and what is not ("bad"). But, at some point someone came up with an idea, that Newton's laws are insufficient and developed something new. The knowledge we have is never 100% right, because we can never be 100% sure: we are just working with a model of reality, not with reality itself. When we change model, we can achieve something new (like quantum physics etc), but if we change the model of ethics at will, in most cases something really bad can happen, and even if not (we should, again, not use just our intuition) we can not predict what exactly would happen, and ethics is too serious business to play with it. That's why being assured that what is good is good in reality and not just by convention is more satisfactory: it just makes everything simplier. It doesn't help in explaining goodness, because note that goodness, whether God created it or just showed it to people, is, in this approach, an axiom, just like God. I'm surprised no one has mentioned Immanuel Kant yet! Because he surely understood the theoretical problem I described above: note that Kant postulated the existence of God exactly that way and that is (in my opinion) brilliant: he did not try to prove his existence, but postulated it: he assumed we need objective values, and therefore just showed that we need God to have them. (If I simplify too much or maybe do not understand something, feel free to correct me.) Kant also proved that there can not be any proof or disproof of God's existence. I hope one day, people from both sides of the debate, theists and atheists, would finally understand that. Or just rename their discussions to something like "Do we need God?", which may be a little less pointless. 

In this opening paragraph Barthes is accounting for the method of this strange book. He is not going to produce a theoretical discourse which analyzes other discourses of the type “lover’s discourses.” He will not do what theoretical discourses do: find the commonalities and differences, categorize and dissect, pretend to view from the outside. Rather, he will write what is itself a lover’s discourse. For this reason, he refers to his writing as a “primary language” rather than a “metalanguage.” A metalanguage pretends it is not part of the discourse it interprets (I say ‘pretends’ because this is impossible) and so to reflect on it from the neutral terrain of an impartial observer. Of course, a “primary” language might be a sort of dream as well - this would be a language free of any interpretation or auto-critique. Nonetheless, Barthes claims to be writing such a discourse. For sources on metalanguage, I would recommend some of Barthes’ contemporaries, for example Jean-François Lyotard’s The Postmodern Condition: A Report on Knowledge or any of the many relevant works by Derrida. “Structure, Sign, and Play in the Discourse of the Human Sciences” (from Writing and Difference) and “Differance” (from Margins - Of Philosophy) would both be relevant introductions, while the opening piece from Dissemination whose title has been somewhat playfully translated as “HORS LIVRE: OUTWORK HORS D'OEUVRE EXTRATEXT FOREPLAY BOOKEND FACING PREFACING” would be more thorough. His reference to a “symptomal subject” is a reference to psychoanalysis. Psychoanalysis produces just such a metalanguage about the lover - his or her passion is dissected as a symptom of various neuroses, inhibitions, childhood traumas, etc. If you are interested in reading more by Freud “Inhibitions, Symptoms, and Anxiety” might be relevant, although this reference is broad enough that you could start anywhere. His use of “unreal” seems more idiosyncratic to me. He glosses it on the previous page (in my version there is one paragraph before the sentences you cited) as “exiled from all gregarity”. It seems this refers to the marginalization of the passion of a lover by the various forms of theoretical discourse, all of which Barthes is eschewing. Unreal means just this - such feeling is banished from social reality. If it is related at all, this is opposite how Lacanian psychoanalysis would use the term “Real,” so it seems to me that there are no sources to pursue here.