Rings wouldn't decrease the gravity much, but the exact amount would depend on the exact geometry of the rings. One reason is that the gravity of one side of the ring would partially cancel the attraction of the other side. In a similar fashion described by the Shell theorem demonstrated long ago by Newton and proving that if you are inside a shell of mass the gravity effects from one side cancel the other, therefore it would be no gravity inside the shell. However, in the case of a ring the forces only fully cancel at the very center. Nevertheless, partial cancellation of forces would make that the gravity of a "Earth's mass" ring would be much weaker than the one of an "Earth's mass" planet. For the rings to significantly reduce the acceleration of gravity on Earth's surface you would need super-massive rings (and note the rings with the mass of the Earth would fall in this category), something that is extremely unlikely, as such massive rings would coalesce into moons. In the case of Saturn's rings, they only have the equivalent to a 0.000005% of the mass of Saturn. If such super-massive rings coalesce into moons, those moons could be more massive than Earth's itself, so Earth would be orbiting the moons more than the other way around. More precisely you would have a chaotic multiple-body system, in which Earth would be just one of the bodies. It is worth noting that even our moon doesn't have much of an effect in the acceleration of gravity despite the mass is fairly large (1.2% of Earth's mass) and it is all concentrated in one place (instead of distributed in a ring). The mass of the moon is 7.3e22 kg, which is for comparison about 2000 times more than the mass of Saturn's rings. In the case of the moon for instance, your weight doesn't change at all in high or low tide. That's because the scale that measures your weight, and the ground under it are all suffering the same tidal effect than you, so the force your mass put on the scale is unaffected by the presence of the moon. And the same would be true for your hypothetical super-massive rings. Regarding to your second question, for all the above, I doubt it would change significantly the thickness of the atmosphere. Now, when it comes to weather it is a completely different story. The presence of the rings could strongly decrease the amount of solar radiation reaching the tropics, therefore it could change the whole global atmospheric circulation pattern, maybe the Hadley cell wouldn't form as we know it, changing the climates worldwide. 

Meaning that the correction correspond to a 0.000001% of the total variation of the orbital parameters. Unquestionably, even such small corrections have a cumulative effect over multi-million years timescales. Varadi et. at. (2003), compares the output of a model using relativistic corrections (solid line) with one not using them (dashed line), and the following figure show the results over 3 million years, where can be observed that significant differences arise after 300,000 years. 

It is because longwave (LW) correspond to a negligible part of the solar radiation and shortwave corresponds to a negligible part of solar radiation. You can make an experiment yourself using NASA's Radiance calculator. By adjusting the parameters for Earth's and the Sun you will get the following plot of energy flux at different wavelengths 

The largest reservoir of carbon is the rocks (sedimentary rocks) which reach into the order of the million gigatons (Gt). Over millions of years, part of that carbon have been released to the atmosphere by volcanoes. However, the amount of carbon in the atmosphere remains fairly stable because chemical erosion of rocks and plants capture that carbon excess and put it back in the geological reservoir. There is about 4.700 Gt of fossil fuels, and the Atmosphere contain only 760 Gt of carbon. So, if we burn all fossil fuels slowly, lets say over many millenia, there is not a problem, plants and erosion will keep the balance. However, if we burn it quickly, let's say over few centuries, the greenhouse effect can be so strong that can kill many plant ecosystems and rise sea level, therefore reducing the surface area of rocks exposed to chemical weathering. Both effects would reduce the capacity of the system to restore the equilibrium, therefore it could take many millenia before all that carbon is returned to the geological reservoir so that temperatures can return to normal. An extreme runaway case, like what happened in Venus, is unlikely to happen on Earth, but we don't really know. If temperatures ever reach to the point that oceans boil, then, there is a possibility that Earth might become like Venus forever. 

And the location of your mystery Island is were the red dot is, plus a 25 km search radius. And the coordinates are (Lat/Lon): 17.0619° N, 152.177° E. It nicely coincides with a seamount, so it might be more than an error on the map (but that seamount acoording to the data in Google Earth is more than a kilometer under the surface). What definitely seem to be an error, is including such island as part of the Northern Mariana Islands, because in all the references and maps I saw, that denomination only covers the 15 islands on the chain to the west. I did a search for something in that location first looking as MODIS images (250 m resolution) on WorldView I had to browse trough months of images to get cloud free images, but I couldn't identify any island 

The answer is Volcanos. There might be other inorganic processes capable to produce $\text{CO}_2$, but on Earth, the main inorganic source of $\text{CO}_2$ are volcanoes. In some period of Earth's history, there is evidence of large glaciations events, some of them are thought to have been triggered by the lack of $\text{CO}_2$ (like the Snowball Earth and Permo-carboniferous glaciations), and volcanoes are with no doubt the main candidate to have been responsible of restoring the warm climate by feeding large amounts of $\text{CO}_2$ into the atmosphere over millions of years. $\text{CO}_2$ is an important component of rocky planets, but it is mostly dissolved (in large quantities) in the magma that exist (or once existed) in the interior of such planets. However, when the magma rises close to the surface, the drop in pressure reduce the solubility of $\text{CO}_2$ and it form bubbles of gaseous $\text{CO}_2$, that can then be expelled into the atmosphere trough volcanic eruptions, that in addition to teprha, and rocks include large amounts of volcanic gases of which $\text{CO}_2$ is one of the main components. Probably that process of exsolution of $\text{CO}_2$ from hot molten rocks was happening even before the existence of volcanoes as we know them. The same process happened once in Mars and Venus, whose atmospheres are composed mostly by $\text{CO}_2$ (96% and 96.5% respectively), suggesting that abundant $\text{CO}_2$ was also present in the early Earth's atmosphere. Currently, it is estimated that volcanoes input to the atmosphere about 100 million tons of carbon in average per year in the form of $\text{CO}_2$, as illustrated by this NASA figure of the Carbon cycle: 

I had the same problem with surface DEM's. The best solution I found in Matlab was using the scatteredInterpolant class, it is inbuilt in Matlab. It allows Natural neighbour interpolation (that is a class of weighted distance interpolation as suggested in previous comments). The usage is like this: 

The size of the area would put it in the the upper boundary of the mesoscale meteorology. However, topography gradients can vary quite a bit within the domain. The following image show how the area looks from above, with a sat image on the left (where the ice extent is clear) and the topography on the right: 

Where the numbers in the color scale on the left have to be interpreted as average kWh/m^2/day. We can see a clear latitudinal gradient were the equatorial latitudes receive much more energy than polar ones, however there are significant longitudinal variations due to the different climates that can be found at the same latitude. In a first look, land areas doesn't seem to receive more energy. Land over the equator seem receive relatively less energy (due to cloud cover), and the deserts "hot spots" like Atacama and Sahara are quite far from the equator (~2000 km). In the other hand, there seem to be extensive equatorial waters that receive a lot of energy. The figure shows the maximum of the data set (6.98 kWh/m^2/day), giving to the Atacama desert in Chile the title of the area that receive more solar insolation on Earth. However, it is a fairly small area. The following picture show the same dataset overlaid on top of a world map to make land areas highlight a bit more, and contours on the areas receiving more than 6 kWh/m^2/day 

Reaction time scales: Neighbouring glaciers can have huge differences in mass. And that means that they don't react with the same speed environmental changes. In a very small glacier, you will see advance after a few years of high accumulation. However, in a very large glacier, a few years of high accumulation doesn't make much of a difference. And the glacier can still recede after such events, perhaps due to a few decades of low accumulation that happen a hundred years ago. Area is not volume: What you see in the images are changes in area not volume. So even if two glaciers are loosing the same amount of mass per year. If one is thinner than the other, you will see that the thicker one shrink less that the other. Hypsometry: It refers to the distribution of values of surface elevation of a glacier. For example if two of the glaciers you are observing span from 1,500 to 2,500m of elevation, but one of them have 90% of its surface above 2,000m of elevation, and the other only a 30%. You will observe that a change in temperature that push the average freezing line from 1,800m to 2,000m will affect the second glacier much more than the first, because it will suffer a larger increase in the fraction of its surface exposed to melting temperatures. Surging glaciers: Some glaciers undergo what is call a glacial surges. They show a cyclical behavior in which they advance very quick over few years and then recede slowly over decades to then start over again. I won't go in detail about this process that is very complex and still poorly understood. But in the images you observe, they might be some variability also to the presences of glacier surges. 

For a comprehensive literature review of sources of lightning fatalities data you can check the paper "Striking Back: An Assessment of Lightning related Fatality and Injury Risk in Canada", it covers US and Canadian sources. But if you want to know which one is the largest and arguably the best. That would be NOAA's Storm Database. The data you can access trough the online interface is quite limited, so I would recommend to go to the Bulk Data Download area, and get the original spreadsheets. You will see 3 files per year: Locations, Fatalities and Details, from 1950 to 2017. I would recommend to download the "Details" files, as it also have information about the location (Lat/Lon) and number of deaths and injuries, and a short narrative of the event. It is a large table, as an example, I took the following screenshot of the most important data columns for all the lightning events with casualties in 2009: 

It depends where, the continental landmasses at higher latitudes would be covered by massive ice sheets. Therefore the life in the sections of the US and Europe that are close to the Ice sheets would have conditions similar to what is life in Greenland today. The map would look like this: 

(picture taken from Knight) Inductive probes are contactless, therefore, the most stable ones. However, they are more complex to build and don't work well with very low conductivity (< 100 uS/cm). Glacier water is often in that very low conductivity range, something that, in addition to the higher complexity made me choose the potentiometric method (you can see a bit of my attempts to put together an induction sensor in this forum). For potentiometric probes, oxidation, deposition of salts or others chemicals can change the calibration parameters. This would be enhanced when direct current is used, as that will create acids in the water that will quickly corrode the probe. To reduce that problem, probes of inert materials are used, like platinum, gold or graphite (more common in DIY projects due to its lower cost). But to reduce deposition of chemical compounds in the probes you still need to avoid direct currents and use high-frequency alternating currents with zero mean, otherwise if there is a net current towards one electrode, you will accumulate acids or ions there that can degrade or coat the electrode and change its properties (i.e. change the calibration). 

Figure: Temperature curve of water as heat is added to 18g of water. Despite of that, it is still a very small amount on the overall energy budget of the Earth, let's do the math: 

(taken from AGU WATER VAPOR in the CLIMATE SYSTEM, Special Report. December 1995) Were it falls from about 3 grams per kilogram of dry air to about 0.003 grams per kilogram of dry air at 15,000 meters of elevation. A big contrast with the tropospheric variations in CO2 for example, that are in the order of ~3-6% across the glove, with a ~1-2% seasonal cycle. Horizontally, across the surface of the Earth, water it is much more abundant in the tropics than the poles, a pattern mostly controlled by temperature, because the capacity of air to hold dissolved water falls exponentially with temperature (as described by the first equation in my answer to this question). The following figure of the global mean water column derived from satellite data for 2009 will gives you a good sense of the typical distribution 

The time required to cool down the whole body of water is then proportional to depth. Shallow water bodies will freeze easier, and deep ones will require extended periods of below freezing temperatures to start generating a frozen crust. 

When pondering the hypothesis of the Iron catastrophe, that seem to be widely accepted nowadays. It surprises me that currently the crust still contain a significant amount of Iron (5.6% in weight). I wonder if that much Iron is what didn't sink in the Iron catastrophe (just because the process wasn't perfect), or it can be explained by slow reloading with iron transported from the outer core and mantle to the crust trough convection and volcanic activity. Or perhaps it cam from other sources like meteorites? 

The Quaternary is definitely a good guess. But it is difficult to answer your question because the "age of a fjord" is a rather ambiguous concept. Also, I'll asume you are interested in the bedrock topography associated to the fjords, and not only the sea inlets (as in that case they would have formed very recently, just when the glaciers receded enough to allow the ocean water to take their place). With that said let's try to answer the question: The fjords of western Patagonia are a feature created by the Pleistocene glaciations, therefore you can definitely say that the fjords as a feature of the landscape were formed during the Quaternary. However, they are in constant evolution, so you can arguably also say that the fjords as you see them today, were formed today. Glacier erosion rates in Patagonia range roughly from a few tenths of millimeters to a few centimeters per year. Faster rates probably happening at the edges of the ice sheets were glacier basal sliding velocities are higher. Long term averages (~10 ka) are probably between 0.5 mm/yr and 1 mm/yr, meaning that in the 2.6 Ma of the Quaternary you would erode just about one to two kilometers. As some fjords can be much deeper than that (when measured from the mountain tops), it is clear that the fjords as a geographical feature are not in steady state, and they are now more dramatic than ever throughout the Quaternary.