You always win!: Your speedster can play almost any skill game and either be amazing (playing FPS/ any traditional sport/martial arts) or cheat to victory (playing poker and peeking at opponents hands/move an opponents darts midair if playing darts/get the answers to test by running around a room) etc... This might contribute to confidence in many social events such as bars, carnivals, street pickup games allowing your speedster to shine in many areas while putting in a lot less effort than normal folk. Ring of Gyges: There is an argument to be made that your speedster might have to deal with a lot of moral issues. Assuming your speedster is the only one she can steal, kill, commit petty acts such as putting individuals in awkward position (trip/draw on someone's face/undress a coworker at work until they are fired) without impunity. She couldn't even be perceived. Having the speed ability is a burden or a vice. Dealing with the cost of time: Your speedster can interact with many people face to face with basically no lag time in terms of getting to an individual. Your speedster has also had a life where most of the time she can ask herself "Oh if I want X task to be done, I'll just do it really quickly and I still have my whole day ahead of me". Cleaning/traveling/maintenance/possibly her job can all be optimized by going faster. It might be frustrating that hanging out with people consumes so much of her time when she can be doing other things. Consider going out on a date to the movies. She is probably accustomed to speeding up all movies and then perceives everything normally at relative speed so she can watch an entire movie in seconds. NOW when she goes on a date to the movies it's a huge time sink. In this way the power makes her very selective of the people/places/events she interacts with and perhaps even a bit impatient. Even hanging out with someone that speaks to slow can be a huge burden of time on the speedster. Anxiety/Guilt: Just because she can think faster does not make her think better. There may be some circumstances where she sees a problem, but is helpless to solve it. Panicking while the world is in slow motion. Worse yet, a circumstance where she could have solved the problem but only thought of the way in hindsight. For instance, if in the speedster's past a helicopter fell nearby her and only after it fell to the ground exploding she realizes she could have spun her hands real fast and lowered the helicopter to the ground slowly. Or perhaps some sort of Gwen Stacy situation Food: OK so here's how she should eat. She will typically eat a cheeseburger when she is hungry 3 * a day (cheeseburger is example, substitute for meals). So that is 1 cheeseburger every 28800 seconds. Every day she goes into super speed mode, run the following calculation (keep adding while doing it per day)=> **(relative seconds spent in speed * power level (0%-100%) * 86400) ** Whenever she breaks 28800 that's another cheeseburger she needs to eat. example 60 seconds * 100% power * 86400 = 5184000 => 5184000/28800 = 180 cheeseburgers consumed that day. She may need to eat a lot depending on power usage. There could be some social pressure to not eat around others. Your speedster could be seen to pig out all the time yet never gain any weight. Might cause suspicion rumors or contempt to arise. Self taught: Literally no one can keep up with your speedster. Even if the person knows a wealth of knowledge, the best thing a teacher can do is to just throw books at your speedster. Your speedster probably knows an insane amount of information at subjects she is interested in. The rate of speed that she can acquire info will quickly allow her to become a specialist in any field she desires. 

I have read questions such as these two about aliens adapted to environments with high atmospheric pressure experiencing negative effects when exposed to Earth's comparatively low atmospheric pressure. This question is different because I want to know how to prevent negative effects from occuring with the opposite situation. Mars has ~1% of the atmospheric pressure and 38% of the surface gravity of Earth. Some Martians, who are comparable in mass and body plan to Humans, want to visit Earth for cultural exchange. But exposure to a hundred times the air pressure and nearly three times the gravity under which they've evolved will very probably kill them. Humans offer to provide them with pressure suits, but a Human spacesuit is designed to maintain high internal pressure compared to vacuum. Would a suit allowing a Martian to withstand Earth's conditions, by maintaining low internal pressure, have to be significantly different in structure and design from the spacesuits that Humans use? If she were supplied with the CO2 and H2 she breathes instead of deadly oxygen, could a Martian gear up in a standard Apollo-era NASA spacesuit with no design alterations and survive on Earth? Otherwise, what changes would be needed for the suit to maintain low internal pressure without collapsing? Also, Earth's gravity isn't really an issue addressed by spacesuits made on Earth, but even with proper (de)pressurization, would it need to provide her with additional support to stand and walk under Earthly gravity while wearing it? 

The notion of a post-scarcity society shouldn't be seen as one where everyone has everything they could want or need; a society in which nobody could want anything beyond what was attainable would be an absolutely horrible place to live. Instead, a post-scarcity society should be viewed as a literary device for hand-waving away a lot of work which in reality would be necessary for people to to satisfy their wants and needs, but which would be of little interest for writer or audience. If one assumes people can't get everything they want, unrequited desires constitute scarcity. Unless an oppressive government outlaws such commerce, people will routinely trade valuable goods or services in exchange for things they want but could not otherwise receive. As such, although new technologies for producing things like food and clothing might cause spending patterns to shift markedly, that doesn't imply that people wouldn't still want money to buy things that aren't so readily available. It's all well and good for an author to ignore economic issues that would not help the story, but that doesn't mean that an author should affirmatively pretend that such issues wouldn't exist. Even if one hasn't previously said anything about how much money a character has, that does not in any way imply they couldn't be fined. An author who didn't want to work out what size fine would be required to suitably affect the character could make it payable in a fictional currency which would be used only for that purpose, and then focus on how the fine does affect the character, without having to worry about whether 50,271 denzibars was a day's pay, a year's pay, or something in-between. 

Foreword: I'm aware of the limitations of the square-cube law involved in sizing an animal up, as these limitations have been relentlessly stressed in every discussion of realistic fantasy creatures. In this case, I'm discussing not an animal, but a slime mold with animal-like motility. Slimes Slimes in fantasy video games are all rather similar to each other in appearance and behavior. They are macroscopic and generally sphere or droplet-shaped, and capable of moving under their own power, often elastically bouncing meters into the air. They absorb solid matter directly through their gelatinous surface, and it's often implied, stated or demonstrated that this is how they eat. Though they are extremophiles found in every biome (e.g. forest, tundra, island, volcanic mountain, swamp), they are fairly weak creatures, and they can be dispatched with the first sword you get. I want to construct a more realistic slime. I've looked for the largest slime molds that exist in the real world and have identified Brefeldia maxima as a potential candidate for improvement. It's a single cell approximately a meter across, and it can weigh 20 kilograms. It's not spherical, though - it's a layer about a centimeter thick. Nevertheless, its size is interesting. The traits I am looking for are: 

Foreword: I am asking this question primarily to decide if a nocturnal race makes sense for my purposes before I develop them in too great a depth. This means I do not have much detail to provide on their biology or culture, just a basic outline. Hopefully it's enough. Permanent settlements are dependent on sustained agriculture. A sapient extraterrestrial nocturnal race are omnivorous and capable of tool use, and are already at what we would call an early Neolithic level of technology - i.e. they have blades, art and clothing (or their equivalents), but no domesticated animals. They are not cave-dwellers. They wake at dusk and go to sleep with the dawn on their world, which has a day-night cycle and an axial tilt similar to Earth's, and perhaps several small natural satellites. They are not necessarily humanoid, and likely resemble a non-primate clade. How does a population of this race come to develop agriculture on a scale that can sustain a permanent settlement and thus lead to civilization? Chiefly what I'm asking is, if you're asleep during the day, how do you manage crops, take care of them, and guard them from intruding diurnal animals, among other things, well enough to settle down? Would they have large farms of grass/grain crops like we do, or would they need to farm something more unusual? (Again, they don't dwell in caves, so I don't think they would farm cave-dwelling life like bioluminescent fungi.) Or to put it another way, are there any standard and necessary agricultural processes that are particularly difficult to accomplish at night? I would prefer that their agriculture take a form recognizable to us as agriculture (you see their farm and think "farm"), but only if it's justifiable. (There's no need to address the domestication of animal livestock for the moment, but it's welcome if you do. Assume their livestock could be either diurnal or nocturnal, probably something they would already be hunting, or it could be for non-food products.) Edit, promoted from comment: The reason I think developing agriculture at night would be a problem is that I feel that being awake during the day would give one a better chance of coming to understand what kind of nutrition and resources plant crops demand. It would take a lot of work staying up past one's bedtime to determine how to lay out fields for the best sunlight and such, which I feel would be too much fine detail for a population on the initial cusp of agriculture to accomplish or to have a sense for. 

use glass arrowhead to contain the liquid and have them shatter on contact spraying the liquid nitrogen on the enemy use a hollow metal arrowhead that contains the liquid and have a small explosion on contact that will spread the liquid nitrogen onto the enemy. 

There is a research paper about this subject although if you want more than the abstract, you'll have to pay for it. Although I am not a doctor, from my understanding, you Link to Article 

Although, Pliny the elder wrote that it may give you magic powers, but that has yet to be determined 

Magical Silk Harvest the silk from Glarnakian spiders. By placing the spiders upon your wings before battle, the spiders will weave an intricate netting of silk to block all arrows from piercing through. Due to the lightweight materials, you shouldn't have a problem maintaining flight while also blocking projectiles. 

Simply kill every adult male of the other culture, along with any adult women that aren't capable of breeding (unless you don't care about spawning new units, in which case you should have the women be killed as well). Make sure you suppress the knowledge of any killings you do in step 1, if you encounter children that are aware of step 1, they need to go as well Now that you have access to a bunch of children, it's time to play INDOCTRINATION! Over the next few years, "educate" the children with the classic cult mixture of deception (you "saved" the children from their barbaric parents you didn't slaughter the child's parents...), isolation (your children should be sparsely thrown in with the children of Midwestern Empire, because you don't want to give the impression there are many members of the primitive tribe), induced dependence (the Midwestern Empire now has to take care of/educate the children instead of the actual parents), Additionally social shaming for not conforming to Midwestern Empire values (whatever they may be) should be strictly enforced. This way the children grow up to be brainwashed that the Midwestern Empire is THEIR culture that they are a part of. There should also be a social stigma against giving these primitive children guff so to speak. The better the children of the Midwestern Empire and the primitive tribes can get along, the primitive tribe will be assimilated without much dissent. 

I do not need these slimes to have big cartoony eyes like they have in some games. Naturally, some questions follow this: 

In the mid-21st century, humanity has an interplanetary colony system principally spanning the Moon, Mars, and Titan (as per usual). The furthest established colony is on Proxima b. Humans have FTL drives that can reach 12,500 times c without time dilation effects, and which can accelerate to this speed in under a minute. However, we are still reliant on light-speed signal transmission. We send data back and forth very frequently between our colonies. Some people on Proxima b, while waiting for the previous Summer Olympics results, figure that beyond a certain distance, it's more efficient to just strap an FTL drive to a hard drive and lob it upwards into space than it is to send a signal and wait for it to arrive at c. A hard drive will need time to accelerate and decelerate to avoid damage, and it will need to be processed at its destination to access the data. This processing could take less than a minute if, say, a satellite net of some sort catches it, plugs it in, and then relays the data at c to the colony below, or several hours if the hard drive has to actually land. The FTL drive can launch from the ground. But let's say they've already got the former system set up. This is a two-part logistical problem. Firstly, what is the break-even distance for sending a light-speed signal versus sending an FTL hard drive? It's not simply a matter of the distance from the source at which an FTL hard drive overtakes a signal at c, it also involves what people would find more convenient, and it might involve signal decay by the inverse square law (I don't know). For example, I don't think an FTL hard drive would be worth it between the Earth and the Moon - 3 seconds of ping time beats the processing time, even if it gives Lunar Dota 2 players a headache. Secondly, given the colonies I've noted, do any of them have differences in their maximum and minimum distances from each other such that they would pass break-even at different times, and one method would be more convenient than the other for part of the time? In such a case, would one method of data transmission still be preferable to the other? (I'd like to credit xkcd for partial inspiration.) 

Closer the moon is to the planet -> MORE HEAT Smaller the moon, the more the gas giant will affect the moon via gravity -> MORE HEAT 

If you watch the second video, the scientists can only shoot plasma around 2 feet. To the Marksman Dragon, range is definitely a status symbol. Your dragons might have drastically smaller ranges while young thus making the Marksman Dragon a much more parental dragon over the conventional dragon that doesn't typically need to shoot far. Or maybe the gift of "LongShot", as the Marksman Dragons call it, is a genetic trait that is sexually selected for. Video Example $URL$ More in Depth Video of some science behind $URL$ 

Polycoria Not sure about how this would affect an alien, but in humans this is a medical condition with the following side effects: 

My answer may be a cheat if relative time does not count... Well, unless the aliens have vats of Handwavium (RonJohn) or containers of unobtainium(D.J. Klomp) to make the problem away, I don't think they could speed up evolution in any meaningful way without a lot of direct intervention over time. Although it seems from your question that the aliens don't want to do a lot of effort, but still see how things will happen over time. One way that your group of aliens could see a planet evolve however, is for the aliens to go really really fast. If the aliens have access to advanced enough technology (I'm assuming they are flying around in star trek like ships discovering planets and such) the aliens don't need any chemicals to see the evolution. They merely need to abuse time dilation. So we want to turn 100 relative alien years into 100000 years or in other words, speed up time by 1000 times. This would allow your aliens to speed up the relative time of evolution and be controlled. So say for instance the aliens observe the planet, try a few different experiments, expose some bacteria to different radiation etc, then leave. Fly away for a x years, see what happens, and then play more with the evolution each and every time. There isn't really one chemical that will speed evolution up (to my feeble meatbag brain), but if your aliens played with the environment or did some artificial selection every hundreds or thousands of years it could definitely make for an interesting playground that would change how things evolved. HOW FAST TO DILATE BY 1000 TIMES THOUGH? Roughly 299792.30812 kilometers a second or 99.999950005413% the speed of light There's some interest info about the topic here I used a tool located here to assist in the calculation 

A point which is often neglected is that in many cases the legitimacy of an action should depend upon the intent behind it. Without the ability to read minds (and thus determine the true intention behind an action), it's necessary to be able to have standards for how well-intentioned people should behave, and presume that people who behave according to such standards are acting with good intentions, but such a presumption should be just that--a presumption, not a determination. In many cases, maintaining the "spirit" of the law, rather than just the "letter", would require little more than recognizing that actions undertaken in bad faith are automatically illegitimate on that basis alone, no matter how well they otherwise fit the standards for how well-intentioned people should behave. An example of this principle may be found in one of the rules in the American Contract Bridge League, which specifies that deliberate violation of the rules of the game is cheating, even if one would be willing to accept normal prescribed penalty for committing the same infraction accidentally. For example, a klutz who sometimes accidentally drops cards so partner can see them will generally incur minor procedural penalties, but a player who deliberately exposes a card to partner may be disqualified and possibly even ejected from the League. While there may be some room for judgment on whether the Tournament Director should impose the normal penalty or a harsher one, there is no room for judgment regarding whether a player is allowed to show an unplayed card to partner in exchange for accepting a procedural penalty. Such behavior is absolutely, clearly, expressly, and unequivocally forbidden. Recognizing that a presumption of good faith should, like any presumption, be considered rebuttable would go a long way toward balancing the "letter" of the law with the "spirit". An honorable person shouldn't ask how far he can go beyond the letter of a law whose legitimacy and meaning are not in dispute; that a person would even ask such a question would suggest that minor infractions which might have been forgivable under a presumption of good faith should be presumed deliberate. It's possible that the only thing that would change as a result of recognizing presumptions as rebuttable would be that discussions of how to get around the law without consequence would be forced underground. On the other hand, having such discussions go underground creates many possibilities for intrigue, especially if respectable people want to avoid any association with such discussions. 

As your speedster is activating powers 0(human)-100%(86400x), just slow down time by that much. You don't need to slam your fingers as hard as you possibly can while typing. I don't see any reason why this power would be treated any differently than using a muscle. Now that is not to say that using the speed muscle exerts effort (my heart is pumping blood and that costs me no effort). With that being said, some psychological effects of such a power would be... 

Plasma Breath If you're looking for something quick, hot, and with pinpoint accuracy, look no further than good old plasma my friend. Instead of using weak dragon lungs to propel breath weapon, the illustrious Marksmen Dragon uses naturally evolved magnets (birds have magnets so why not dragons right?) to propel the burning plasma at the weaker dragons. How hot can you get? As long as the Marksman Dragon can get the energy, your dragon could breathe (is shoot more appropriate?) plasma at temperatures hotter than the sun. Even fulfills the cohesive beam requirement, here's a simple google image search for plasma jet 

blurred vision in the affected eye poor, dim, or double vision in the affected eye oblong shape of one or all additional pupils issues with glare a bridge of iris tissue between the pupils 

You want to sling spells like Glarnak and the rest of em cowboy? Well this lifestyle... it really ages you... You definitely want to drain the life force of the caster on this one. If you do heat or luck, you can run into the problem of always prolonging the cost ad infinitum(cold + luck spells). The cost to perform magic should be based on the strength of the life force of a caster. The more magic used, the more the caster is aged. Incredibly strong magic users would age slower per spell cast. You could even have it so that a spellcaster could burn through all his/her life force to increase the power of another spellcaster . Like a form of magic inheritance from parent to child. How the choice would reflect resistance as more energy or power is drawn for a spell. Energy required (whether kinetic, heat, whatever) * spell caster level (golf rules apply here the lower the value the better you are at casting ) = seconds/minutes/years/decades of your VERY LIFE. How the choice would create a measurable or predictable consequence turning people against magic. Obviously you don't want to turn to dust and turbo age yourself via spamming fireballs every 5 seconds. This system should make magic cost you and stop you from needlessly casting spells. You aren't going to use magic to pull weeds when you can literally SAVE yourself the time by not casting. How the choice would be deterministic, meaning the aforementioned consequence could be traced back to a specific action. Your magic can't rob UNWILLING life. when your magic caster is casting a spell, he/she needs to draw from there own years OR have someone use magic to transfer lifetime/magic capability. Also you can't dip into years you don't have access to. In the same way your muscles give out, if you start to lift a building of osmium, there will come a point where you age away and drop the building.