No, "the" scientific method does not really exist. Feyarabend has argued that historical case studies do not support the idea of a unique "scientific" method and, further, that such an idea is 'pernicious'. 

Zizek seems to be reiterating a criticism made against the adoption of mostly subjective attitudes. Here the historical source of the polemic seems to point back to Sartre's existentialism and an early comment made by Lacan in 1946. Sartre's elaborated views are difficult to sumarise and when he attempted to present them to a large public most often a kind a caricature replaced them. As he sought to present a Kantian self sustaining morality without external support and constraints, sincerity (as opposed to bad faith) and dedication became central for it. A popular exposition was given in his lecture L'existentialisme est un humanisme in 1945 and published the following year). In 1946 Lacan published a Propos sur la causalite psychique which pointed to an obvious weakness in Sartre's position: a madman is sincere and dedicated in his existence. Lacan's text begins with mentioning that 

It is an irony of history that Aristotle's First Philosophy came to be seen as coming last and was dubbed Meta-physics; for Descartes it is still the First and its answers determine the rest. And first of all are the questions about what exists. So in the Discourse part IV Descartes wrote: 

Thanks for structuring your answer better. I still have the feeling that you already know the answer by implying that clarity (what kind of and who can judge on which basis?) cannot be achievied by writing more complex and in a different style. Hence, I would like to highlight 3 aspects. Firstly, the clarity of a philosophical argument depends to some extent on its historical context (including social, cultural, political etc factors). Spinoza has written in a different time period than Hegel or Rawls and therefore, they used a different style of argumentation and addressed problems in their specific way. We have to take this into account when we talk about the readability of texts and I think hermeneutical approaches have stressed this point quite convincingly. Secondly, reading different approaches to philosophical thinking might expand your way of understanding the world and I enjoy this plurality. For instance, arguing with Rawls on justice is nice and can help to see the obstacles to achieve justice or a just society. However reading Foucault or Derrida and using their ideas for an argument on justice, you could engage in a discussion not so much on what is a just society, but why is justice such a dominant idea in philosophy in the first place and what are the consequences of a disciplines which is so much influenced by this term since a few decades? I think both approaches are interesting for philosophy, but come from different angles Thirdly, claiming that there is a philosophy which is clear, engages in serious problems and helps to understand the world while the other philosophy is just (as jeffreysbrother said): 

Angst is a key concept for existentialism and the foreign word has been adopted for lack of a good translation. It apperas to have the advantage of not presupposing that the unknown is some object but could be an extraordinary event or just anything unthinkable. Locus classicus and source of the name is a book by Kirkegaard translated with the title The Concept of Anxiety or The Concept of Dread. The French word 'angoisse', popular with the local existentialists, fits rather well the definition "fear of unknown". 

A set of dice is nontransitive if the binary relation – X rolls a higher number than Y more than half the time – on its elements is not transitive. Different sets of such dice are known. 'Rolling higher' is a stochastic event and 'more than half of the time' an other one. Most often probabilty is presented as a kind of measure and in trivial cases such as coins or usual dice it is obviously connected to physical/spatial objective properties. For this particular case however it appears to be a kind of (cyclic) ordering. How would a Frequentist and a Bayesian explain away this fact? 

Such an accusation is not helpful and answers not the qestion. Additionally and here I quote again from the former comment: 

I am not familiar with the natural sciences, but when you look at economics, you find highly complicated theories and approaches to understand the world and measure X or Y to find (significant) evidences. You might find their theories understandable, because they use formulas, equations, so formal theory, to understand and explain. But how many people if not to say researcher can actually follow such thoughts and reproduce it? How many people actually understand all the assumptions (behind these theories) which are, as Paul Romer for macroeconomics recently argued, quite far away from the real world (despite the fact that with such models, problems are not solved too). Interestingly, such perhaps also obscurant approaches are not often criticised. Instead, the typical bashing of Hegel, Nietzsche or Adorno starts and based on my experience, such harsh criticisms are often based on some examples, but not on actually engaging with their texts. I am not implying that this is the case here, but as I said in the beginning, to me, your question is tendentious in regard to the expected answers. 

The SEP articles mentioned in the comments outline everything that can be reasonably said on the topic. But they are rather technical, so there is perhaps room for a more intuitive presentation. The gist of the problem appears to be the coordination of two pairs of opposites, e.g.: un/real and im/possible. Traditionally the first is assumed to be the most general and known while the second is subordinated. It is contradictory to say that the real is impossible and, at least ontologically, it makes little sense to say that it is possible, so both are seen rather as species of the unreal. In this way there is graduated ontology: real, possible, impossible which is actually a genus-species mix. But this is the view most commonly associated with Leibniz who proposed that god gives reality only to the best of possible worlds. In later times, especially after the discovery of non-euclidean geometries, logic and epistemology acquired a superiority and the pair im/possible came to be accepted as the major one with un/real as species of possibility. As the older view saw the possibility of the real as a tautology, now the unreality of the impossibility is even more obvious (unless we accept miracles).