whether either party believes the premise that it is true is simply irrelevant to the argument. There are many things that are true, but which nobody believes. For instance, it's very likely a supernova has occurred which is not yet visible on Earth. A question about the existence of supernova should focus on astronomy, not psychology. Obviously, we prefer that people who make claims actually believe them, but usually, we can just trust that what they say they believe is true. If says they don't believe in God, there's nothing to be gained by claiming they are mistaken in their own beliefs. Was there more to the argument? How did it get to that point? 

And I think that's as good an answer as exists. Whatever or whoever brought us into existence did so on its own terms and who are we to argue? 

Since the argument is only useful for a monotheistic god ("than which nothing greater can be thought"), it would be surprising if a non-monotheistic thinker would propose such an argument. Since monotheism is primarily found in the West, we should expect Ontological argument to most often observed in Western philosophy. But I'm wondering why you don't cut to the chase and search for non-Western examples of an "introspective God". It's also not clear to me why the Ontological argument's absence (as opposed to other attempts to prove God's existence) in non-Western philosophy would be helpful to proving your conjecture. 

I've been reading on the holism-reductionism continuum. Reductionism strikes me as compliant with general principles of the scientific approach and method because it seeks to explain complex phenomena by breaking them down into smaller units and building theories bottom up, focusing on specificity and detail. Holism is the opposite and seems to me it could easily serve as a seemingly respectable (who doesn't want to tie it all together in a big "theory of everything"?) curtain for poor, insufficient or downright misleading and sloppy research. This is not to say we shouldn't seek to explain relations among phenomena -- only that it should be preceded by a thorough understanding of individual parts. In modern scientific circles, is holism generally regarded as a conduit for pseudoscience? 

What would be (the closest) logical fallacy when one demands that their proposition be accepted axiomatically and exempts oneself from providing reasonable argument or empirical evidence? E.g. "The simple issue is actually more complicated (so that I can attach my unrelated strings to it) but that's subject of another conversation" 

Because we live in an age in which science, which can be defined as a reason-based epistemic framework that relies on testing and evidence, is, at an unprecedented speed, closing the gap of knowledge of universal phenomena. Not all answers are here yet but we're getting there. Skepticism and doubt in the existing knowledge are some of the fundamental bedrocks of science. Faith, on the other hand is an unsubstantiated moral and belief system that relies on superstition, supernatural, and, by definition, discourages doubt. Most religions practiced today were conceived thousands of years ago in a world very unlike what it is today. Religions have made numerous attempts to explain the universe, most or all of which have been superseded, therefore not deserving any further benefit of the doubt. It could be said that, as both an epistemic and moral framework, religion has run its course and serves no purpose to humanity. 

This doesn't work (even if the hearer is female) because there are many things a person can do to avoid getting pregnant at a dance.1 A dancer might say "No" to a potential liaison or use contraception, for instance. The argument doesn't hold up if there are subsequent decisions that can be made to prevent an a person from slipping to the (presumably) undesired bottom of the slope. 

Unintentionally ironic. This is a restatement of the Gettier problem, if I understand correctly. The main thrust is that a person may have justified, true belief, but not really know something. That does not seem relevant to your question, since you don't actually seem to promote the JTB formula. I'm reminded of the BBC special in which a woman was convinced that the host (Derren Brown) had a fool-proof system for selecting horses. It turns out the woman was the victim of survivorship bias and that the "System" was a hoax. What strikes me as interesting about the show is that there are people who have the ability to successfully gamble on horse races, but it would be harder to convince skeptics of the ability since it's nowhere near perfect. Rather, the ability has more to do with expert risk management than some mystical ability to know which horses will win. 

It's nice to be reserved against hasty generalization based on (however carefully collected) statistics -- but it is laughable to argue one's pathetically minute sample of observation trumps that of, say Pew research and similar (which I think can also be considered hasty generalization but in a non discriminatory way). What is the name of that fallacy? 

I happen to believe that strong writing and speaking skills are a non-negotiable requirement for any intellectual and philosophers in particular. While I obviously disclaim that as a personal opinion, I don't see it as particularly controversial because how valuable are your ideas if you can't communicate them properly and to as wide an audience as applicable? The applicability scope does matter -- a publication on tardigrade reproductive behavior understandably has a much narrower audience than a philosophical treatise on ethics, which their language should reflect (hint: it's more okay for the former to be arcanely worded as its target audience is more controlled). So when a philosopher who is speculating on matters that affect pretty much every human walking the planet has downright awful writing skills, let's mention Hegel as one of the not so few examples, why do you cut this person slack? Why, if they are so brilliant, do they need an interpretor (e.g. Kojeve) to translate their ideas to the general audience? If they are so brilliant to dispense ethical imperatives that apply to wide audiences, shouldn't they be held in high expectations to themselves make their ideas easily digestible to those audiences? What prompted me ask this rather broad question is that I notice (even on this forum) a level of disdain for any thinker who does offer philosophical insight but is not a formal philosopher and writes in clear, understandable manner. Famously Foucault said that 

But the argument doesn't seem to fit that pattern. Is the quoted argument fallacious and, if so, what fallacy does it commit? 

In the philosophy of religion, the view you are describing is Deism. Your question is a pretty good critique of the position. But that is certainly not the God of either the Bible or of Christianity (in the mainstream). Most of the religions that believe in one God are classified as monotheism. Christianity, Judiasm and Islam fall under the category of ethical monotheism. Whether or not God does "interfere with my life" is an open question in terms of individual experience, but under these systems of belief the answer is that He does whether we recognize it or not. 

The trouble with considering Einstein (or any other intellectual genius) a philosopher (or an expert in any field in which they did not establish themselves) is that it's difficult to separate their reputation from their accomplishments. Strictly speaking, Einstein was both a lover of knowledge (the literal meaning of "philosopher") and a deep, effective abstract thinker. Naively, one might imagine that a genius in one field will be at least a standout in any other field that requires similar mental ability. Sadly, that is not so. Consider, for instance, the theology of Isaac Newton. Newton must be seen as the equivalent of Einstein when it comes to physics. Swap their places chronologically, and it's entirely possible they would have been capable of making each other's discoveries in physics and in mathematics. Like Einstein, Newton avidly thought of the "big picture". Most people would be severely tempted to accept his thought on any topic up-to and including philosophy. But Newton's theological ideas were mostly unknown in his own time (because of the threat of being tried for heresy) and as they are unearthed and examined with modern eyes, seem bizarre and unscientific. While it makes sense that a man so instrumental in calculating the past and future position of heavenly bodies would be interested in calculating the times of the start and end of the world according to arcane prophesies, almost nobody (Christian or not) would agree with any of his conclusions. In a sense, his approach to teasing out the mysteries of physics and solving the problems of calculus proved wholly inappropriate to teasing out the mysteries of the Bible and solving the problems of prophesy. I suspect that in time, Einstein will join the ranks of scientists who were considered out of their depths in philosophy and other fields. The list would include Pythagoras (philosopher, mathematician, and founder of the religious movement called Pythagoreanism), Johannes Kepler (mathematician, astronomer and astrologer), Tycho Brahe (astronomer and alchemist), and of course Isaac Newton (physicist, mathematician, astronomer, natural philosopher, alchemist, and theologian).1 That's not a slight on these great thinkers, but a warning that we ought not take all their ideas as words from on high. On a more personal and anecdotal note: scientists seem to dedicate themselves to intense study within their field and are often somewhat ordinary thinkers in unrelated fields. It may be that the technological and mathematical demands of modern science make becoming a contributor in multiple fields more difficult than in the past. For reference, I learned the Pythagorean theorem in 6th grade, much of Newton's contribution to physics and math in high school, and struggled through Einstein's work in college. Considering the equivalent progress required to be an expert philosopher (and student of philosophy), it seems less likely than ever before that we will discover true polymaths in this era. 

The land has indeed be explored by science and testable and evident theories provided by it have superseded their religious equivalents. TL;DR: (to quote the 1st comment to this answer) 

What fallacy would "pot calling the kettle black" be, or basically discharging criticism at someone who doesn't substantially differ from you, only in a nuance of the same deviation? I can see a form of special pleading for a completely arbitrary line of acceptance drawn in between the critic and the critiqued, which would be a form of hypocrisy. Is there a better fallacy to in which to classify this phrase? CLARIFICATION: I don't mean saying "pot calling the kettle" itself is a fallacy -- I mean what it is being called against 

I'm aware of the compatibilist attitude by some philosophers, such as Hegel and Daniel Dennet. I am interested in some philosophers who are firm determinists (deny free will). 

Not that I have read any of his books but I've watched the documentary and several of his magazine articles and he totally seems like a centrist. On some subjects (like Islam/immigration) maybe even slightly right of center. Why is he considered a Marxist? 

I am looking for reference recommendation on the subject of analyzing responsibility in victim situations. I am curious which philosophers have written on that subject, ranging in scope from individual crimes all the way up to war crimes and genocide. E.g., the modern prevailing narrative, at least here in the West, frequently discourages culpability analysis any deeper than blaming the carrier of the crime itself. To clarify, I am not looking for some vindication of victim blaming but that mainstream encouraged scope is shallow for my intellectual standards. For example, to which degree can the victim be, not held legally responsible, but to some degree morally accountable for not doing enough to prevent what happened to them? In a fair and balanced analysis of different concrete scenarios. So I'm not satisfied with the general sentiment that any further dissection of an incident beyond obviously blaming the final executor of the act is "victim blaming" and should be discouraged. Therefore, I would like to research philosophical treatises on how each and every one of us, and we as a collective, can do our best to prevent catastrophes by avoiding prior exposure to it. If an angry dog bites a person who foolishly tried to play with it, with him, the usual moral imperatives are to blame the dog owner, which is fair. But shouldn't we assign at least some responsibility to the bitten person for not being prudent enough not to play with a strange dog? Which philosophers have delved in this topic, especially in a dialectical format? I'm not looking to have a discussion whether my motivating premises are crazy or not -- simply for reference to philosophers and their works who worked on that subject. 

As a Christian, I would argue that God (and God alone) is worthy of my worship whether or not He does miracles, changes my life for the best, or allows me to experience eternal happiness. That He did this is an undeserved favor to humanity. The standard Christian belief conforms to what Paul of Tarsus once wrote: 

Here's a thought that occurred to me this morning: God's ability to create a stone that he cannot move is analogous to quantum superposition. Like Schrödinger's cat, which is both alive and dead, some theists believe that God is both able to create such a stone and also to move it. When we open the box, the superposition collapses and we see either a dead or a lucky cat. When God decides, he may either create such a stone or move it. (Personally, I think it unlikely God spends even as much time considering this choice as we have in this question. This stone seems to belong entirely to philosophers.) The superposition collapses if and when God actualizes such a stone. If so, God's definition is paradoxical, but so is the observed state of the universe. Notice that in both cases, the superposition state collapses because of a choice: the observer decides to open the box and God decides to make something. In many ways, all of our choices collapse superpositions. Paradoxically, we really can't do all the things that we are able to do. I am able to write this paragraph and I am able to not write it, but I can't do both. As I see it, the question is really asking about a paradox of choice in general using, in typical philosophical fashion, the most extreme example: a being not bond by any external entity when it comes to making decisions. 

Are axioms nothing but assumptions and, if yes and in accordance to Occam's Razor, should they be minimized? When postulating scientific theorems which, unlike axioms, are subject to the scrutiny of proof but do factor in axioms, are there formal systems which at least attempt to quantify the amount of axioms, or assumptions, that are antecedents to the theorem? Put simply, can we sort theorems based on how much of their input are axiomatically accepted assumptions? 

I am almost sure there is a name for the fallacy whereby its exponent tries to apply a very small sample of observation, usually anecdotal evidence, as representative of the population, of which that sample is part, at large. For example: 

A knee jerk response from a nonexpert armchair consumer of philosophy is that it's a defense mechanism from the academic ivory tower to protect their status in the community as the select few who can interpret something that in better conditions shouldn't require much interpretation. But I am hoping there is a better explanation that doesn't come off as some anti-intellectual elitism paranoia and in favor of this hierarchy. In short, my question is, what intellectual justification exists to forgive (good?) philosophers for terrible writing skills? Or in other words, convince me that writing skills do not correlate with general intellectual value. I'm very open to change my mind.