From what you've said I'm assuming the volume in your legs is largely muscle, but also with thighs the size of an olympic cyclists, presumably a somewhat significant level of fat. Achieving this size due purely to muscle is very difficult. (This is however a big assumption, so please correct me if I'm wrong.) The 10lbs gained during training is likely due in part to water retention, some muscle growth and an increase in fat from eating to compensate for the training. Fat can be reduced through diet like the previous answers have said. Begin by tracking the amount of calories you currently consume, tracking macros (fat, protein and carbs in your diet) can also be useful, then reduce your calories by ~300-500kcal and redistribute your macros. A good balance is around 50% Carbs, 30% Fat and 20% Protein, though it depends on your activities. e.g. Endurance exercise might need more carbs, strength training requires more protein for muscle growth etc. While counting calories can be useful, and many people swear by it, it is also important to eat the correct things, varied fruit and vegetables, complex carbs, fesh meat (or other natural protein sources if youre vegetarian etc.). Unforunately there are still many uncertainties regarding diet and weight loss, but its a case of trying different approaches until you find one that suits yourself. Regarding muscle size, unforunately if you wish to continue improving strength/endurance, you will gain muscle. It isn't likely to increase drastically/rapidly since you sound like youre already fairly well developed. And like heropup said, if its an aesthetic thing, begin training your upper body to improve proportionality. From what I understand though, it wont reduce the rate of muscle growth in your legs (unless of course it takes time away from training your legs.) 

An average lean body mass is pretty much a useless number for comparison due to everyone being different heights and compositions. There are many references a quick search will bring up for body fat percentages. For starters, men and women have different levels of essential fat. This is effectively a minimum level of body fat, below which health problems can arise such as issues with menstruation in women. Bodybuilders try to be as close to this as possible for competitions, but do not maintain it for their health. This is around 3-5% for men and 8-12% for women. Athletes tend to sit around 5-12% for men, and 12-20% for women. And up to ~24% for men, and ~30% for women is considered healthy. Above this is generally considered obese. When it comes to body fat tests however (glad to see you understand there can be significant errors), they are generally better used as a measure of change, especially home tests, due to various factors such as distribution of fat, types of fat etc. 

Purely from a weight perspective (previous posts have covered various things about health) its all about calories in vs calories out. For your current level of activity you will have a level of maintenance calories, the amount of calories you need to eat to maintain your current weight. By creating a deficit (generally dropping by 300-400 calories) you will steadily lose weight until this level of calories becomes a new maintenance level. You can go about this in two ways. First, by tracking all your calories using an app such as MyFitnessPal, in which you can scan barcodes, or search for foods and it will input the calories, but a lot of people don't like this for various reasons, remembering to do it if nothing else. Others just learn to cut down on certain things they eat regularly such as cake, chocolate, fizzy juice.Another option is always to start off tracking you calories to get an good understanding of what you currently eat, and what you may want to cut out, then just consciously limit what you eat. Replacing sugary snacks with fruit can be good, and is certainly healthy, but the type of fruit can play a big part in how easy it is to maintain your lifestyle change. Fruits such as apples and oranges are largely made up of fast-carbs (sugars such as fructose), which are not good at satiating you. High protein or slow-carb snacks, such as peanut butter or oats (which could both be used in some form of healthy flapjacks) can avoid this and keep you feeling fuller in between meals, a bit of googling will find you good alternatives. It is also important to maintain a good balance of carbs, fat and protein, with a basic balance of around 50% carbs, 30% fat, 20% protein. This can be mixed around if you're building muscle (higher protein) or running distance (more carbs), but that's not necessary for simply losing weight. Drink plenty of water, and try and keep your salt intake low, this will reduce any water retention which also contributes to your weight. Exercise wise, high intensity workouts (weight lifting, or sprints) can be a good way to go. They fit into a short time, and get your body burning calories for longer, but it should be thought of as a supplement to your weight loss rather than the main mechanism. It will probably be difficult in the beginning, but if you stick with it and manage to adapt a healthy diet, and fit in regular exercise, you will feel all the better for it, and it will get much easier to maintain. 

As your body tries to use as primary energy source the type of macronutrients you are consuming most. So when you are on low-carb diet, that is fat and it starts using fat (including your own) more enthusiastically. This is part of the reason you are not as hungry - your body just uses more of the fat as it now does 24/7 instead of "asking you" for more carbs. When you are on moderate/high carb diet, the primary energy source is carbs, and they are just so easy to process - who would bother breaking down fat if you have sugar around! Your blood sugar is stable. You are not as moody which further helps you control appetite. Also helps you stay on track. You have noticed yourself it's harded to staying focused and training almost every day when on higher carb diet. Your insulin sensitivity improves a lot (which is a major problem when you have excess fat). This makes you more effective on handling more calories even if you overeat. If however you overeat with carbs, combined with the low insulin sensitivity, it is a recipe for storing that whole huge meal as fat. Insulin sensitivity is one of the reasons fat people get fatter easier and eventually develop diabetes. Low carb diets make food choices quite simple. Your main problem becomes "what should I have as with my steak/sausage/burger patty/eggs". Which ideally ends up being some vegies and a bit of sauce like mustard/ketchup :) 

There is also a formula based on body fat that is more accurate. Now, there is a Harris-Benedict equation that helps you calculate the calories burned based on your activity lavel. Here is a simplified version: 

Have you tried doing them with straps? I had similar issue, given my limited flexibility - I also was doing them with crossed arms in front. Then I found out that doing them with straps drastically improved my form - and the amount of weight I can lift. This way I can comfortably do front-squats with around 25% less weight compared to back squats. Here is a video that explains the technique: $URL$ 

TL/DR: You must change your goals and mindset so that you can gain lean weight in sustainable manner - longterm. If you gain 7kg in one month, it will be either mostly water retention (bloating) or fat. Fat can not be converted to muscle. Any fat gained will make it harder to gain muscle by worsening your insulin resistance. One meal of 1600kcal is not healthy. I hope you mean it's 300gr in weight, not 300gr of protein in single meal. The protein from that meal will not be absorbed properly (in single portion depending on number of conditions you maybe can absorb something in the range of 20-50gr of protein, unless you have extraordinary genetics or have fasted for long). Such huge meal will probably make you feel sick and you will most likely not have any appetite for most of the day. After several days of trying to push that much calories in - you will feel sick from the thought of eating any more. If you however manage to consume that much calories (which again I highly doubt), you could in fact gain 7kg in a month - the problem is that most of them (5 or more) will be just fat. That will not make you look better and is not healthy at all. You will worsen your insulin resistance and will rise your cholesterol levels at the very least. Realistically, with average genetics you can gain just about 1-1.5kg of lean weight per month, with proper resistance (weight) training and nutrition. However if you gain 7kg of lean mass over the course of 6 months, you will look much bigger, it will be healthy. So focus on increasing your caloric intake by up to 30% over your burn rate as a start. Eat 3-4 times a day - balanced, protein rich meals and maybe have a protein shake here and there if it helps you boost your calories. 

When throwing a punch it's often recommended one throw ones weight into it. Does it make much of a difference with what constitutes that weight? For example, say you have a guy with 130lbs lean mass and 10lbs fat (ie. 7% body fat) and another guy with 130lbs lean mass and 50lbs body fat (ie. 38% body fat). Would the 38% body fat guy be able to throw a more powerful punch simply because he weighs more? If so than this also makes me wonder... what other "exercises" would being overweight be an asset? Like would the 38% body fat person in the above example be able to do better at standing med ball tosses than the 7% body fat person simply because he'd have more weight to leverage when tossing the ball? 

A lot of exercises, I get the impression, require a flat back. Like if you're doing a front lever or back lever in a "V" shape with your hips sagging your back isn't straight. And I think you're supposed to have a straight back for planks, dead lifts, etc. Anyway, if you don't have a mirror, what's a good way to figure out if your back is flat? 

If I ate two pounds of food and then was immediately there after subjected to a hydrostatic body fat my suspicion is that that food would not count as body fat since it wouldn't have had the chance to convert to body fat yet. Assuming that that's correct than how long would it take for it to turn into fat? A day? Two days? A few hours? 

It seems that pistol squats with are easier with your hands in front of you than they are with your hands behind you. What I don't understand is why. Like with a front lever or planche or whatever straddles are easier because they're reducing your body length and thus torque. And with situps having a weight behind your neck is harder than having it in front because it seems like if it's in front you can rely on chest muscles to push it up whereas you can't if it's behind you. But what about pistol squats and hand placement? I just don't get it. Thanks! 

Guys are supposed to have more upper body strength than girls but what about core strength? Seems like yoga, pilates, pole dancing and the like utilize the core much more so than biceps or chest or anything. 

So the other day I saw two people sorta balancing on one another. Person A was on their back with their feet and hands in the air holding up person B who was sorta moving around on person A's hands / feet. Kinda a vague description but it looked kinda neat. Anyone have any ideas as to what that's called? Seemed kinda like a yoga thing idk. Thanks! 

Correlation - two events happening together (like observing if carrying lots of muscle and living long go often together) shouldn't be confused with causation (hyphotesizing the more muscle you have, the longer you live). High protein, higher calorie diets, typical to people that carry lots of muscle, add strain to your liver and kidneys. Lifting heavy and often pushing the boundaries of your capabilities, leads to injuries and decreased mobility in the long run. Heavy lifting needed to build lots of muscle, forces high blood pressure. If lifespan is your goal, regular exercise, healthy unprocessed food, plenty of sleep, avoiding injuries and stress and being generally happy is the way to go. Many of these factors are also necessary to build and carry more muscle - you can't get big and lean without living rather healthy (although "healthy" is very relative term). For some people, being muscular improves their self-esteem, which improves their lifestyle, happiness and this could have a major impact on life. But even if there is data to suggest that there is positive correlation with lifespan and amount of muscle you carry, it still would be just a correlation. It wouldn't mean that the muscle itself is somehow making you live longer. In fact many of the most muscular people in the world - like professional bodybuilders and weightlifters die very young (30s to 50s). Needless to say there are other factors involved (like drugs) but compare that to professional swimmers or skiers or just people who are just light, live actively and not carry significant amount of muscle. It draws a different picture. 

Trickiest part of doing one-leg squats is balance and being able to push more weight is not the main goal of the exercise (you could do regular squats for that). Very few people manage to do single full one-leg squat - your gluteus almost touching the ground with one leg extended. 

You shouldn't compare yourself to other societies adapted to entirely different environment for generations. Yanomamo are in central South America. While many more people have lived near the ocean with access to plenty of salt since ancient times. Also there are many other factors in the lives of Yanomamo people I would guess that haven't been taken into account. I couldn't find any data on low sodium intake benefiting athletic performance. On the opposite - there are claims that very low sodium intake could cause different problems to athletes - like muscle cramps, heat illness, inability to rehydrate and others. Also trying to avoid any salt in current society will be extremely hard - almost all food and drinks contain some. So given that there is no evidence that this could help you - I would just focus on "healthy" intake as described in western health journals. If you stay under 2000mg of sodium intake and drink plenty of water, any difference in athletic performance will come from other factors. Your kidneys are very capable of shedding the extra salt and compensating when you don't consume enough.