Most likely, it would be highschool, but the world, at least in the beginning, the first 2 or 3 years. You would have almost tribal societies fighting for control of whatever resources there were left, with those in power struggling to maintain control over groups of forever hormonal and unstable people until everyone either came to terms with the fact that society before was gone or was dead. Communication networks and systems would be down, but because of renewable energy, vehicles would be able to continue function. Farming would grow quickly as a source of food with small groups out scavenging for canned goods and other resources. Communities would also be attacked by groups of roaming teenagers for resources or just simply for the fun of it. The population would grow quickly as well, because we all know what happens when you leave teenagers alone in a house for a few hours. Imagine after they're traumatized, extremely stressed, depressed, and there's no one to say "no." After that they would form, small factions, clans, and so and so, and they would slowly keep growing, until they built large trade networks among themselves. The trade networks would then require communication networks to function properly. This would mean digital libraries and stuff like that would basically become priceless, and become the equivalent to the legends of hidden caves filled with treasure. Basically, these now large factions would have groups of people researching what data they've found and groups of people hunting for old computers. Just because the internet is down, that doesn't mean the data can't be accessed physically. Those nomadic groups would either become huge or be killed off quickly. Leaders would also have to be elected to control these factions. As resources became more scarce, you would have wars breaking out for control of scavenging grounds, digital libraries, communication systems, and farm land. This would be about 10 to 15 years in. After that, these trade networks would slowly combine factions into become nation-states, like Ancient Greece, with a central form of government. These would become more and more powerful as time went on, with those ever-present and annoying bands of nomads raiding small cities for supplies and providing mercenary services for fighting states. Among the states that had alliances, communications networks and solar/wind farms would be restored by small groups who would reside at the top of the hierarchy, just under government officials. As communication is restored, there would be a boom in trade as safer transport routes were implemented and civilians could travel more easily between cities. At this point, it's 20 to 25 years in, and everyone from the original incident has reached their 21 year old "cap." From there, communications between nation-states would be implemented. Nomad attacks would be rare. Farming would be industrialized, with whole cities dedicated to farming and feeding people. Digital libraries would decrease in value. If you're looking for more information on how the social dynamic might look in the beginning few years, read the "Quarantine" trilogy by Lex Thomas and "The Enemy" trilogy by Charlie Higson. If you're looking for more info on how rebuilding society might work and the timeline, read "The White Flag Of The Dead" series by Joseph Talluto. And in my opinion, if you're looking to make a good action RPG, I'd set it within the 10 to 15 year range, where you could build an interesting dynamic and watch as the cities developed into nation-states. You can fit a lot of action into fighting for resources and knowledge, and a great story line into watching as nation-states grew. Hope this helps! :) 

Assuming T and S phases have similar biology, spawning huge numbers of T phase offspring is going to create pressure on food resources for the S phases and the chosen few who are going to be metamorphosed. Not a significant stumbling block, but something to think about which will effect the social relationship between S and T phase populations. Edit: Oops this is really old, and someone said this already. I like the idea though. Any progress on it? 

Chiggers kind of do this - they release an anaesthetic before they release the acid that melts your skin, so as to avoid detection - various other biting things may do too, I don't know. Overall I like your design and think that especially with the concessions you're willing to make on absolute realism due to the existence of magic, you're fine with this. One thing that occurred to me was that the creature's photosensitive skin could have evolved to produce the toxin from pores when light hits it above a certain (low) intensity. I don't know the equations you'd need in a realistic world, or whether they could be photosynthetically catalysed, but it seems borderline plausible to me - and magic would definitely do it obvs. That way you've perhaps solved the problem of how it diffuses enough of the stuff to have lots of it constantly around (in sun/moonlight). You could keep the tail gland thing perhaps for spraying more concentrated doses in a defensive situation, which despite its general terrifyingness I can imagine it could need being so slow moving. It seems like it could be an adaptation shared by a family of creatures, too. All very cool. 

Social factors (including isolation due to terrain, invasion, cultural interchange) are very influential here, and there are some laws/trends. The most well documented is that the more isolated a community the more conservative their language remains. Hence Sardinian is the most conservative daughter of Latin, East Coast American dialects of English are closer to the English spoken in 16th and 17th century England than modern British English, and 12th century Icelandic is completely intelligible to modern Icelanders (similar to reading Shakespeare for us). The pronunciation has shifted quite a bit meaning that 12th century Icelanders and modern Icelanders actually talking would have a little more difficulty - but would still be able to communicate. English is a very different kettle of fish - we've had invasions (Norman and Norse having profound affects on the language to the extent that some say English is a sprachbund - an approaching-equal descendant of different mother languages) and cultural and social changes and borrowings from languages all over the world due to being at the centre of things. There's no chance that Beowulf can be read by modern English speakers because Old English was literally destroyed and regathered itself into Middle English through the 11th and 12th centuries - Chaucer would have had nearly as much difficulty with Beowulf as we do - by the 14th century Middle English was an unintelligible separate language from Old English. The type of written record the language uses (or doesn't use) is important too. Literary Chinese is incredibly long-lived in that texts from the very distant past are slightly intelligible to modern Chinese, and with more language study this effect increases. However, the spoken language has evolved wildly in a similar time so that speakers separated by a similar time distance would have no chance of understanding each other, even if they were speaking the (ancestor/descendent of) the same dialect. As well as asking in linguistics, try the ZBB ('zompist bulletin board' - a resource for making constructed languages and constructed worlds, and a general resource for linguistics learning) - they are very knowledgeable and will point you to actual scholarship. www.incatena.org The bottom line is - think about your social factors. Isolation will slow linguistic change in a population. Conquest can combine and even destroy languages, though substrates will remain. The world is your oyster with regards to world building possibilities - you can create the conditions for your people to be able to understand writings from thousands of years ago without too much trouble - or you can separate a population from its ancestors of even 100 years by an impregnable intelligibility barrier. 

I have to disagree with the others here, yes it is right that the mass would be cubed while the power would be squared, however, strength isn't usually the reason for the speed limit of animals (humans included), instead it is the inefficiency of our limbs at these speeds. For example if you run 20 km/h your foot is pulled forward 40 km/h slowed down set on the ground while propelled backwards until it is 20 km/h slower than you and 0 km/h to ground, than again accelerated forward to 40 km/h. If you size everything up three times, you would be acceleration a 27 times bigger mass with 9 times the power, BUT you would have to do it only once per 3 times a normal creature has to do, making it actually pretty even. Even better, you have 3 times as much time and space to accelerate your feet. In the end the heart and bones would be a much bigger factor in the top speed than the up sized mass, because the biggest problem for such kind of creatures would be to keep their bones intact and circulations running. (The heart would have a hard time to keep the blood flowing). So if you just say the bones are much more durable than ours, the top speed would come down to their hearts abilities to provide oxygen for the muscles, and you would end up with something like elephants. relative fast (about three times as fast as we) walking speeds but lack of the ability to run. In that scenario every creature would be about three times faster while trotting and walking, but just barely, if even, faster than we are when at max speed. If you also presume the heart can provide the oxygen and the muscles can catch the impact when landing, the limit would be a good amount higher, not three times because wind resistance would become a problem at speeds over 60 km/h but they would be about two times faster. 

Airborne HIV won't wipe out humanity. It would definitely reduce earth's population and bring an unimaginable suffering but no wipe out. Here is how it probably would go down: 1.The mutated HIV is starting to infect people. 2.A view days or one or two weeks later, the massive increase in HIV cases, especially the ones where people would claim not to have had sex or any kind of needle injections, would lead to massive investigation by scientists, and global alarm systems would kick in. 3.Within one or two days after science joined our scenario, the news that HIV is now able to infect over normal every day contact, are available over the world. In the same time thanks to the snowball effect everyone that doesn't live isolated is infected. 4.Huge medication programs would start, we can't heal HIV but we can keep infected alive for many many years. In the same time the search for uninfected people would start, so we can isolate them and keep them clean. 5.Within the next decades HIV medication would improve and probably even a way to heal it would be found, if not the worlds population would slowly die away, till only the previously isolated would remain. 6.These survivors would start over and humanity would start to repopulate the world again. Note: Point 5 and 6 could change due some evolution leading to a group of people that would be immune to HIV, even though this is relative unlikely, since HIV is changing much faster than humans could.,