The Rise of Christianity, Chapter I: Conversion and Christian Growth' Rodney Stark, p. 13 The 40% per decade trend ended around 350 CE, because there simply weren't enough people for the trend to continue - if it had, there would have been nearly 190 million Christians in the Empire by the year 400 CE, which would be more than three times the total population of the Empire. Suffice to say that by 400, or 450 at the latest, virtually everyone in the Empire was Christian. Today, there are well over a billion Christians in the world, and no religion has ever been so influential in shaping the course of human events, for better or worse. From Wikipedia: 

It began near the nexus of 3 continents: Europe, Asia, and Africa. It began during the Roman Empire, while the Empire was still relatively strong and robust, and controlled much of Europe and the Mediterranean, including North Africa. It had access to an extensive network of roads, and it had never been so easy to travel great distances. In Paul's letter to the Romans, he says he is planning a trip to Spain. He traveled throughout Asia Minor, Palestine, Greece, Macedonia, etc. By our modern standards, this wouldn't be very impressive, but this was happening 2,000 years ago, when the closest thing to an airplane was a horse, After the message was altered to make it less Jewish in nature, it became fairly inclusive. It was relatively unique in that it was a religion of belief rather than mere observance. It was also relatively unique in that it made promises of eternal rewards for the people who had been denied rewards in life. It was evangelical, and some of the apostles were brilliant PR men. Shortly after Jesus died, the new movement began to alter his message. This process has continued to this day, although at a much less drastic rate after the first couple of centuries. This is a huge benefit because it allowed the early church to become whatever its congregants needed it to be. 

I am curious as to where a compiled list of participants in The Crusades exist and how would one access this, particularly of European Crusaders but would find it interesting of any records of both sides of The Crusades as well. I have always been under the assumption that due to the time period, the chaos, lack of literacy, record keeping, printing press, and decay and destruction of records that not much would exist. Then I came across this article "Who Went on the Albigensian Crusade?" in the English Historical Review (Powers, English Historical Review, 2013) and it stating "Many deeds recorded grants, pledges or leases of property that were directly related to the crusade" and it got me wondering what other records would exist for each of the crusades. I would expect there would at minimum be some records or organizers of groups and perhaps something like "John Smith and 3 swordsmen joined the campaign of so and so.." in addition to the records above as well. So what I am looking for is a ** research resource(s) of an electronic compiled list of 'known' participants** (not expecting a list of every participant) of The Crusades and any other individual participant information. As from the article above it implies such as list is definitely possible and there are already sites like Medieval Soldiers and Medieval Genealogy though the Crusades basically predate the sites but they do have some information from them. Does anyone know where such compiled list is available? 

Almost all documents in book have the same "L.S" stamp and signature "b. Rulmann ass. qua secret. regime." I have used Google Translate and Dict.cc to do the very rough translation of but not able to translate the entire thing: Berichte translate to "Report, Proceedings, or Transactions" according to Dict.cc. 

This account comes to us in what is at least the third hand; the servant, presumably John Pernier, related the story to Captain Gilbert Russell, the commanding officer of Fort Pickering, at Chickasaw Bluffs, Tennessee, who later wrote a series of letters to William Clark. When Lewis had arrived at Fort Pickering, he was "in a state of mental derangement", and apparently drinking quite heavily; after he attempted to commit suicide, Russell "detained" Lewis in his personal quarters for about two weeks for his own safety. I have also heard that in his last hours, among other ravings, Lewis claimed that Clark was on his way to find Lewis and help him, but I haven't been able to find the source of this claim. Did Lewis have any reason to believe that Clark was coming to see him, and/or render some sort of assistance to him? 

The scholarly consensus is almost unanimous on this point: Luke is simply wrong. There are a number of reasons why the account provided by Luke cannot be taken seriously; these reasons include contradictions between Luke and the external historical evidence, Luke's obvious misunderstanding of how censuses were conducted, Luke's misunderstanding of geographical and political issues, and simple logic. Contradictions Between Luke and the Historical Record: 

The Ebionites were a sect of Jewish Christians in the early centuries of Christianity. Little is known about them, and it appears that most or all of their texts were destroyed or lost, possibly as a result of efforts by the proto-Orthodox faction to marginalize and eliminate their movement. The vast majority of what we do know about them is based on the extremely biased accounts of proto-Orthodox Christians, who labeled the Ebionites as heretics and were inclined to paint a very bleak picture of the sect. These sources are dubious at best, and can only tell us what outsiders thought about the Ebionites; they are of little or no use in trying to discover what the Ebionites themselves believed, how they worshipped, and what their religion stood for. Do we have any accounts of the Ebionites from sources less biased than the church fathers? 

In the 1961 French film Lola (set in the Atlantic French harbour Nantes), American soldiers wear the white uniforms seen below: Was this uniform typical for these soldiers in Nantes following WW2? Are these uniforms credible? Or are they fabrications designed to produce a particular cinematographic effect? (for instance giving an impression of light in the otherwise rather dark setting of the film) I am especially talking about the white color. 

What are these Kottabos players holding in their left hand? It is seen in a lot of similar pictures. It is as if the player refills the kylix from it. Is it a skyphos? Any info on this? 

At that time there were tons of institutions called "Notre Dame", so it is pretty hard to find. According to French Wikipedia, first communion was at age 7-8 in 1910. Not sure about before, but that might be from a école élémentaire (or the equivalent at that time). Your best bet is to find similar anchors in this list of city blasons, and check whether each city had a "Notre Dame" school. The city of Berck has a anchor in its blason, and has a school+college named Notre Dame. There might be others. 

I have heard that blue identified with Saint Martin, and red with Saint Denis, but the Wikipedia pages of these two saints do not mention these colours, so I have doubts. 

Extracts from Kayla Theresa Natrella's Witchcraft and Women: A Historiography of Witchcraft as Gender History mentioned in rougon's answer: Main claims: Jules Michelet: 

In one document (1 only, and unsourced) I have also seen it referred to as the "The Good Dragon". I know there is a lot of information copied about the passengers on it, but I am curious about the ship itself. Lloyds Register does not go back that far beginning in the 1760s and it may have changed names by that time and likely captains. Other references ships named Dragon I have found so far do not in service during this time. My primary question is the class of the ship itself and where I may find general information about learning further about that class or even that specific ship. 

I came across this document on Google Books and I am trying to interpret exactly what it is. Title: Berichte Published 1795 from the Bavarian State Library 24 pages My root question is "What is this document and purpose?" At first glance it looks like it could simply be a generic military field report, a reprimand, or a possibly even a praise or award depending on the context in which the wording is taken. Based on the answer it will help me determine next steps, if any, to see if it might be of value for my research. 

I am attempting to determine the class, size, features, history of the British ship "Dragon" c. 1732 that was known to arrive in Philadelphia on September 30, 1732 with 173 men, women and children Palatine immigrants AND crew total from Rotterdam under the (assumed) command of Charles Hargrave per the following document.