I am currently working as a game developer. I am a recent grad (only graduated from university 2 years ago) and I seem to be in over my head. I did not even look for this job they found me on LinkedIn and I was desperate. I started out at the company as a QA/maintenance programmer due to my lack of experience. However, in the past year the company has grown a lot and now I'm expected to produce production-quality games in 3-month intervals. While I am certainly capable of it - I'm just not interested in the rapid development cycles and the incessant sense of urgency. I was wanting a position where I can also have a day a week where it's not so insane. I just don't have the energy to pour my guts into work day in and day out - I have other responsibilities. Unfortunately because I have a degree in Physics and Math as well as a computer programming diploma employers assume I'm a lot more capable and intelligent than I really am. Or perhaps the incessant push to get projects done is wearing me out but it's what the company needs right now. How would you deal with the situation? I'm not a senior dev, I've only been at this for less than a year and they expect me to act like one. What should I look for in my next job? I feel discouraged and loss of confidence due to the work environment. Being the only female doesn't help either. 

Based on my personal experience and what everyone has told me online, it seems like the gaming industry is brutal (extremely high expectations) and isn't good for someone who is running a young family and neither are startup companies. I keep getting approached by recruiters online looking for game programmers. However, the only real projects I have that are live to the public are games! I want out though. I have other projects from my studies that are web-development based but they are very basic mostly just school projects. Does this summary portray what I am looking for? How can I make it clear that I want to try something new? 

I passed my phone screening interview and I have a 3-hour grilling to look forward to. I know I had better look on the company website to see what they do and what they value. However, other than that I don't know what else they would expect me to know or where to find the information. The company is in the finance industry and I honestly don't know anything about that industry at all. What are some things they would expect you to know for an intermediate level software developer? 

My daughter is now 7 months old and since I came back from maternity leave my female coworker keeps nagging at me to see the baby. I live over an hour and 10 mins from my work so to bring the baby in would totally disrupt her feeding and sleeping schedule (2.5 hours of travel for a 10 min visit). I've politely explained this to her but she keeps persisting. I'm getting annoyed because it happens every 2 weeks or so. I feel like I can't talk to this person without her nagging at me about seeing my baby or my choice to take a short mat leave indicating that the bond won't be there (how would she know she doesn't have kids?). I generally don't like to talk about my personal life at work and don't ever bring it up either. How would you handle this situation? I've already told her I live far away and don't have a car. In addition to this, we are not personal friends. I did not even know who she was because she was hired while I was away on mat leave. No gifts were given or anything like that either. I did show her a photo but she still keeps asking. 

I started out as a fresh grad in this game company as a QA and legacy game programmer. I was very happy to have the job and eager to learn but the poor attitude of the 'senior' devs shot me down. Ironically, I never ever considered a job in game development in my life - it was the only job I could find at the time. They found me on LinkedIn and I was desperate for a job so I took it. They didn't want to train me at all and I was left to my own devices 99% of the time. I tried my best to look into their custom framework but whenever I had an important question about it they shot me down. I hardly call asking questions about how things work and why they are done 'hand-holding'. You cannot Google stuff like that. And yes, I did give things an honest shot before bugging them. They expected me to be at their level and know everything. How could I? They had been at it for 7 years. I had never worked as a programmer in my life and had a lot of struggles getting started on any of the projects. I didn't know how to use github etc. and instead of offering suggestions to improve my learning they just were bitter and looked down on me and gave a horrible attitude. I did not put these things on my resume and they were not listed under the job requirements and I did not learn them in my studies so they had no right to direct their anger at me. I hated it. I felt so unappreciated and disrespected. They do this to all 'newbies'. They don't want to help out with 'rookie' stuff. One of the other people threatened to quit if they didn't get more help. As a result, I just stopped asking them for help and did unpaid overtime quite a bit getting myself up to speed - I distanced myself from them and quit asking questions. I never REALLY got a handle of the framework they were using but I still managed to get 2 games out. I am a curious person and I like to know ALL about the tools I am using. When I ask questions I should have known the answer to a year ago (I've been there 2) they look at me like I'm crazy and stupid but they didn't want to help at the time so how would I know. It's getting to the point where I've had it with these people. I feel depressed and have lack of confidence. You have probably seen my other posts. What kind of questions would you ask at the next interview to avoid these kind of people again? Would you bring it up with management? What would you say at the next interview if they ask why I left? I cannot understand these people because I like to help others as much as I can regardless of their experience level and I like to collaborate. If junior devs are such a burden on seniors why bother to hire them in the first place if our 'lack of skills' is so disgusting to you? 

I'm currently working as a Haxe game developer and I've been there for 2.5 years. The current manager and I don't get along too well so I'd like to move on. I'd also like to get out of the gaming industry. A recruiter reached out to me about a JavaScript job. I passed the phone interview and they'd like to see me in person. Here are the recruiter's suggestions to prepare: Part I a) Know the general algorithms in CompSci at a high-level and particular functions using any language (i.e. bubble-sorts). b) Be familiar with Java Script and web-related technologies; be familiar with best practices for development and deployment, asynchronous programming (advanced JavaScript concepts), and technologies cited in the role details, including ReactJS and CSS. Part II a) Be prepared to address server-concepts, therefore conduct a review of Computer Science elements. b) More detailed discussion/timing around JavaScript and web development technologies I can prepare for algorithms questions and review some JavaScript but I honestly don't have a lot of experience with server-side stuff at all so I'm not sure how we can fill the remaining of the 3 hrs with that. Also, I've only been out of university for 3 years and while I know about 50% of the job requirements I'm not sure how they can grill me for 3 hours. The job is more demanding than my current one but also pays 25k more. I'm having my doubts about being able to perform at the expected level. How does one fail gracefully in this case? How do I 'prepare' when I hardly know anything about the topic? 

I am writing a neutral reference letter for an object-oriented software developer in Canada who voluntarily quit but had many interpersonal clashes with management (not necessarily her fault just didn't mesh well). Here is the original letter: 

Ditto a lot of what the other comments said. I'm a woman in software development. If you single someone out out of the blue and ask them if they feel welcome then they are going to be very weirded out by that. Instead ask them for some feedback about how to improve the team and workflow. Always keep it about work and nothing persona. Trust me, if there are personal issues the individual will go to Hr. What is unique about female Dev's? How lonely it is! I remember being the only woman in my university classes and not too many guys wanted to study with me so we are often left alone and miss out on working on large group projects so don't hold us to impossible geeky standards. Allowing for flexibility at work helps when we have small kids at home.