Being alone in the wilderness and being there with a group or with friends are two different experiences, each with their own merits and drawbacks. You have experiences with groups already, so I'll talk about going out alone. I do this much more often than going into the wilderness with others. When I have only a little time to go into the wilderness, I'd rather be by myself. Advantages: You feel much more aware of your surroundings. Other people talk, distract, make noise, etc. All that makes it harder to really perceive the wilderness, and it will also alter the wilderness itself. You're far more likely to get to see a bear in the wild, for example, when alone than in a group. I have only encountered a bear (talking North American black bears here) while hiking three times, and I was alone each time. I'm sure I've gotten close to bears many more times than that, but these three times I noticed the bear before it noticed me. Each time the bear bolted as soon at it saw me. Getting close to a bear before it notices you with a group is basically impossible. Groups as a whole, and often unfortunately individuals in groups, just aren't careful and quiet, and don't care. You can do what you want. With a group, each person is sortof obligated to not cause the group to stray too much from its stated objective. That means if you come accross a scene you'd like to take the right photograph of, you can at best take a snapshot or two. Carefully moving around to get the best vantage point, trying different approaches, etc, that take time are out of the question. Good nature photography takes patience, which is something you can't have with a group. Generally I don't even bother take a camera with me on a group outing. For me anyway, nature photography is a personal experience between the wilderness, myself, and my camera. Having other people around seriously interferes with that. You can go the pace you want, whether fast or slow. Groups tend to go slower than individuals. That can be frustrating if you just want to hike. On the other hand, it keeps you from stopping and exploring something in more detail if you want. You can have some interesting experiences just sitting quietly somewhere for a while. Try it some time. Go somewhere people aren't regularly coming by and find a comfortable spot, like on a nice rock or against a tree, with a good view. I like overlooking a wetland. After just a few minutes you'll be surprised at all the comings and goings of the wildlife. You can't do this in a group because there is always someone that can't sit still and shut up for 30 minutes, and each person is one more chance people will be spotted and the wildlife will be more inhibited. You don't need the deep wilderness for this. Some of the best experiences I have had like this have been right in the town I live (Groton Massachusetts). We have about 10 square miles of wild land open to the public, but it's a patchwork of many small parcels. Almost all of it is within 1/2 mile of a paved road. However, there are still some very pretty places where people go infrequently enough that you can sit and watch nature (actually more like experience nature) by yourself for a hour at a time. You should definitely try something like that. When you've had enough, you can be back in the car in 10-20 minutes. You don't have to have a plan. I occasionally lead hikes for the AMC and for the town Trails Committee. These are all advertised as going someplace specific, at least roughly. People aren't going to show up to a "We're just going to bump around, don't know where we're going or when we'll get back" hike. When going out by myself, particularly locally, I start someplace and then just go whatever way I feel like going when a choice comes up. That may be related to the weather, where I haven't been recently, something looks interesting in that direction, I see something I want to check out more closely, or just I feel like it for no specific reason. 

It makes more sense to insulate you than the whole back of the truck. Get a foam pad to put under your sleeping bag. You say there is a plastic liner, but a real sleeping pad should insulate much better than the liner. As for losing heat from the top, get a warmer sleeping bag or just put a blanket over the existing one on cold nights. You've got a whole truck, so carrying a extra blanket or two shouldn't be a problem. With the blankets, you can tune your insulation to the temperature. 

Bison roam over large areas of Yellowstone, and you'll certainly spot a few from the road. They don't care about cars and humans much. I remember them being readily visible from the road in various places, particularly along the stretch north of West Thumb where most of the geyser basins are. You'll see them even if you aren't trying to. However, if you just want to see wild bison, there are closer places. Yellowstone may have the largest wild herd, but Yellowstone is also large. There are other reserves further east where there may be less bison, but the area is also smaller. I remember in particular bison causing traffic problems in Cave of the Winds. A few decided that the middle of the road was a nice place to sit for a while. When something the size of a small car wants to sit someplace, there is little you can do about it. Remember that bison are ultimately grassland animals. Their natural range does extend into the mountains, like in Yellowstone, but their real home is on the prairie. Most national forests and state parks in the prairie region have native bison. They really aren't hard to see once you go to where they live. 

As a rough predictor of weather. A recent decrease in air pressure (at the same location and altitude) usually indicates a storm is coming. High pressure usually means the opposite. 

That all said, there is another designation, called a Wilderness Area1, that can exist within just about any kind of federal land. These places are strictly reserved for nature where "the earth and its community of life are untrammeled by man, where man himself is a visitor who does not remain". This is the highest form of protection in the US. No permanent structures are allowed, including roads. Trails and trail signs are allowed. Some of the most awesome wilderness areas are within Forest Service and BLM land. These are truly places where you may take only pictures and leave only footprints, and you should be careful about the impact of the latter. 116 USC 1131-1136, Public Law 88-577, The Wilderness Act, 3 September 1964. 

It took 2 hours for 4 volunteers to carry the parts to the site and to assemble and install the bridge. In this case we were fortunate that the parts only had to be carried by hand about 100 feet. It also helped that the ditch this bridge spans was dry and walkable that time of year. The work included installing a post and some signs not shown in this picture. Here is a breakdown of the cost: 

I had a pair of Yaktracks for a couple of winters, and they turned out not to be what I really wanted. They do work very well on packed snow and you can walk inside most places without having to take them off. However, they work poorly on hard ice, which make them less than ideal for walking around town in the winter. The hard metal coil spring doesn't dig into the ice, so just slides almost as readily as a bare shoe. If the ice has some roughness, then they help more. One problem that almost got me was unexpected. I was leaving work, so put them on my shoes in my office. The lack of spikes makes them OK for walking in the building when just going in and out. I stopped by the bathroom on the way out, which had a hard stone tiled floor. I slipped and almost cracked my head on a sink. The hard metal on the hard stone was about as slippery as the shoes would have been on bare ice, but I wasn't expecting it. Eventually one of the spring wires broke, so that was the end of the Yaktracks. I haven't gotten any replacements, but winter is coming and it's nice to have something you can walk around with outside without having to worry about slipping on ice. I'll probably try something with small spikes next. That may mean I have to take them off when entering a building. I don't know if there is something that works on ice and doesn't hurt indoor floors. Probably not, so I guess I'll get to see how that tradeoff works. If they are easy to put on and take off in a few seconds, then it will probably work. If not, they'll probably be more trouble than they are worth. I am eagerly looking at other answers for suggestions, although I am surprised others liked their Yaktracks better than I did. 

Many nails and most of the hanger strap are left over. These won't therefore be expenses for the next few bridges. The carriage bolts were longer than necessary. This does no harm, but 6" long bolts would have worked and cost less. That's what we'll use next bridge. The cost above does not include the four masonry footing blocks. That is because we found (yes, sometimes you get lucky) six suitable blocks buried in the woods on another trail construction project. Next bridge we'll have to buy two blocks, but I don't know yet what they cost. In any such project, it is important to consider administrative costs. Here in Massachusetts, any construction project within 100 feet of a wetland or waterway, even a small seasonal one as in this case, must be approved by the local Conservation Commission. This required filing a form and getting 4 copies of it printed. One copy has to be mailed to the state, 2 filed with the Conservation Commission, and we made one for ourselves for reference during the Conservation Commission hearing. Even though we are a town body, the $53 fee could not be waived. This fee is to advertise the hearing in the local paper, which is required by law. The Conservation Commission does not actually get any money from the application. Overall, the administrative requiremets added almost 50% to the cost of the project. This surely varies by jurisdiction, but it is something anyone contemplating such a project should investigate and include in the cost up front. 

What made me originally ask about the time and location of your picture (you've told us time, but I'd still like to know location) was that I observed something unexpected happen during the summer of 2016. There were several infestations in Groton that were quite evident in the fall of 2014. That winter, one night got down to about -15°F, which seems to have killed off most woolly adelgid in the area. There was very little to be found in the spring of 2015, and thru most of that year. The next winter only got to -5°F, which is apparently not low enough to kill off the pest. Things started off in the spring of 2016 about where they left off in the fall of 2015, with some severe infestations by July 2016. I didn't monitor the woolly adelgid again until fall, when I tried to find a good candidate location for testing a bio-control. To my suprise, most of the places I checked showed no current signs of adelgid, and even some recovery of the trees. Most trees seemed to have healthy needles at branch tips, even though further back the needles were still lacking that had dropped previously. Here is a good example of the foliage pattern: 

I visit AZ every summer and include some hikes in the desert when I'm there. First, don't just take water. That can lead to electrolyte loss, as actually happened to me the first year I did this. Now I dissolve some gatorade powder in the water, and I haven't had that problem since. I usually mix it 1/2 to 2/3 strength relative to what the directions say. The first thing I do when I get to AZ is to buy one of those large tubs of gatorade powder. I go thru most of it in the 10 days or so I'm out there. I don't like carrying more than 1 gallon of water, so I plan my hikes accordingly. Depending on where exactly and the weather that day, that can be good enough for a all-day hike of 8 hours or more, or only 4 hours in some cases. In cases where I know the conditions are severe, I either plan to be out no more than 4 hours or I'm going out and back along the same route and turn around when the container gets half full. A good example of the severe case is when I went hiking in the southern White Tank mountains west of Phoenix. (I recommend avoiding the White Tanks, too many yahoos with guns, dirtbikes, and trash everywhere, but I didn't know that at the time.) It was a hot day, even for that location in August. I drank all I could stand before leaving, and took a gallon of diluted gatorade. When that got down to 1/2 gallon, I turned around and went back to the car. I only got a few miles in, and I think the whole hike lasted only about 3 hours. I had a little liquid left when I got back to the car, which I then drank and felt about right. Other times at somewhat higher elevations and a bit cooler temperatures, I've gone the whole day on one gallon. One example was a whole-day hike around Juniper Mesa in the Prescott NF. So in the end it matters a lot where you're going and what the conditions are in that location on that day. For the real serious desert in the heat of summer, I'd say a gallon per 3-4 hours, then derate according to weather from there. 

Let's look at the physics behind where all the condensation came from. At night the air gets colder, but the ground has a lot of "thermal mass", so stays much closer to the average day/night temperature. This means at night the moisture from the ground will be entering the air at the ground, but that air will cool as it rises. That increases the water saturation level so that the cold but saturated air is just looking for a place to dump the water. The first hard object it hits is the tarp, which is close to the cold air temperature, so the water gets dumped there, on the bottom side. These are tiny drops, which aggregate and eventually run down the inside of the tarp. Your tarp was a dark color, which may actually cool it to below air temperature on a cloudless night due to radiational cooling. Your dark blue is probably mostly black in the IR region where most of this radiation will occur. White would be the best color for this purpose, although white in visible doesn't necessarily mean white in IR. Of course black body radiation isn't the only criterion for the color you may want, with visibility and camouflage possibly being others. I wouldn't want to go stealth camping with a white tarp, for example. So from this physics, two solutions become apparent. First use a ground tarp or fold your tarp so that it covers the ground. This keeps the ground moisture from entering the air at your immediate surrounds. You will notice the underside of that tarp to be quite wet in the morning. Second, use a tarp that has a high reflectance in the IR region to minimimze radiational cooling. That's not so easily done, but camping under a thick leaf canopy will achieve most of the same effect.