I myself do the speeding up with a hop and a firm swing of my arms for the first step, followed by another firm swing with the arms in the next step, after which I'm on my target pace, more or less. I have no technique for quickly slowing down, though. 

Why would you want to do any specialized training at this point? If you are progressing with two runs a week, then it seems to me there really is no need to do anything else beside it. Enjoy your runs! You might want to consider doing one of your weekly runs short and fast(er), and the other long(er) and slow. This way you vary your training during the week, giving your body more stimuli to improve performance. As others have suggested, interval training comes on top of the bulk of your training, which should be at a leisurely pace, mostly, with some moderate accelerations during those runs. In my opinion you need to do at least three weekly training sessions before even considering anything else than just running a certain distance, roughly at a constant and appropriate speed. However, there are other approaches (as there always are). For instance, by doing extensive intervals with walk breaks (in the beginning, slow paced running if you're more advanced). However, these all assume you already have a race result, giving you a target running speed between the breaks (which "breaks" are the "intervals" in interval training, BTW). You do these extensive interval training sessions instead of your weekly runs, changing your training method altogether. There are several possible variants to this approach, but discussing them doesn't really answer your question, I guess. You may want to know about those anyway, so that's why I mention them. If you are interested, look into the run-walk-run method by Jeff Galloway and the Verheul method by Dutch running coaches Klaas Lok and Joost Borm. I'm sure there are many more similar approaches, and knowing about them is good, even if you don't plan on using them at this point. It puts things into perspective, and more knowledge about your favorite subject is good, never bad. 

I'm running every day since a month and now I'm pondering about how to add more running sessions in a week. However, I want to do it safely, without getting injured. My current weekly distance is around 60 km (37 mi). My current schedule is like this: 

Since I'm not a sports scientist, I cannot judge how valid this study is. I supposed that since how much distance is too much depends on the person, no blanketed statement can be made above what weekly distance running becomes a health issue. Furthermore, one can find articles that claim athletes can prepare for ultras with a modest weekly mileage, based on the philosophy of Crossfit Endurance. It seems that the high volume of training distance in preparation is what makes marathons and ultra-marathons such a health risk, though I haven't seen any scientific studies backing up this claim. 

I ran a 5000 m on the track on Saturday, and two days later, on Monday, I ran a 5 km road race. The results are almost the same (21:44 and 21:48), and I could push my body really hard in both cases, in warm weather no less. Doing races feels easy to me right now. I train every day, race at least once a week. It's all easy peasy. Aside from my weight (75 kg, 1.74 m, BMI 24,8), which has to drop even further, does this mean I am currently in what one would call a "good running form"? If not, how would I know when my performance is peaking and I should start thinking about taking it easier in a few weeks time to let my body recover from the hardships of training and racing? Additional information: I've been actively training for more than 16 years, mostly to support my running habit. Since April 1st, except for weekly race days, I've been training daily, and racing between 5 and 15 km. Aside from the races (6 - 19 % of weekly distance), my training consists mainly of endurance runs (70 - 80%), with some interval training (10 - 15 %). My current weekly distance is around 80 km (50 mi). 

I had an issue with the KSO and the logo on the big toe. I took an exacto knife to it and removed the backing to the logo. Looking at your photo, looks like you do not have that luxury. I have a permanent red mark on my foot where the logo was. 

Best way to start is a couch to 5k program. Teaches you to increase your mileage a little at a time over nine weeks. It is a walk run program. You start out walking more than running, but eventually you do not walk any. There a lot of training programs, some are built for your phone. Just remember that you do not need to be running 5 minute miles. Slow and steady wins the race to completing the program. Speed comes with training or you are a freak and born with it! 

Different plans and different trainers will make a rest week mean different things. Plus they also can mean different things based on what you just accomplished. A rest week during training for me is dropping my mileage by 10-20% and running at a slower pace. I might end up taking longer walks with the dog/family. A rest week after a long race [marathon/ultra] is to not run, but normally walk. Hal Higdon has a plan for that. The rest week is basically time for your body to recover, you put your muscles through a lot and they need time to rebuild. Some freaks can run without rests, look at Mike Wardian who ran a 50 miler [5h 33min] two weeks ago and just finished 2nd at a marathon on Sunday [2h 23min]. 

If they do not smell to bad and are in okay shape I do it. They make perfect dog walking shoes or working in the yard shoes. 

Running on a treadmill is even ground. There are no bumps or slopes like a road has. The downside to this is your stabilizing muscles do not get the workout so they do not get stronger. Adding weight lifitting can help build those muscles. Nice thing about the tradmill is the belt is easier on the joints, but you do not get the benefit of perception on motion that can help your body move in a more fluid motion. There are charts that can help you figure out what road speed vs treadmill speed correlates too. Best thing to do is see if a local gym has an indoor track to run around on. Might be worth shelling out a few bucks every couple of weeks to get actual forward momentum into your training. 

There is really nothing you need to change unless you have a problem. Only difference is you will have one hand on the stroller making it go, so you will not have the back and forth motion on the one side. Just use the safety strap and jog away. I have logged many miles with my single and double stroller, just remember that kids do get bored and hills become a real workout. :) 

Bad posture can cause you to lean over and put extra stress on your next and shoulders. Also some people tense up when they run and do not relax. Some people find holding objects in their hand helps them relax their upper body. The object in your hand can be as small as a stick or as large as a water bottle. How can you solve the problems? Light massage and heating pad/ice will help loosen it up. Exercises to help build the back and core muscles can help your posture. 

If the race is on Saturday, I do my pre-race prep on Friday, an 8 km recovery training on Sunday and an easy pace 8 km on Monday. Two days to recover from a 15 km run seems short, but I managed to recover enough to run a proper race. The moderate pace comes down to a time that is 5 minutes more than I would need in a 15 km race. I'm anxious to add more speed training, like High Intensity Interval Training (HIIT), and my goals lie between 10 km and the half marathon distance, though I run shorter (5 km) to support my 10 km goal. My recent best times on the 10 km is 45:22 minutes, and the half marathon 1:41 hours. I'm 54 years old, male. Additional information I'm an experienced runner (16 years of continuous practice, lots of injuries, and have recovered from all of them). Since January this year I've been on a regiment of 60 - 70 km in 4 - 5 sessions per week to support half marathon racing, and I've switched to daily sessions to support 10 km racing since April of this year. The reason for the mid-week long run is that while raw speed is not much of an issue (2:55 min/km I can do easily in bursts of 30 s), endurance at speed is. While I know the cause is probably bad running economy (which I'm working on with daily exercises to increase my strength and agility of my legs), I still need to push my body to maintain the target pace, and not to speed up when I get fatigued, only to be forced to slow down before the finish because I'm spent. 

No, I don't think it's ok to continue running barefoot or minimalistic. The ankle pains are a clear indication you still need better footwear at this point. It could be that your calf muscles aren't strong enough, or even that you don't have the build to run without proper protection of conventional running shoes. My advice is to temporarily stop all running until you don't experience any discomfort climbing up and down the stairs. If the cause was weak calf muscles, try and work on that first. Go stand on one leg for a period of time (say 30 s), then the other leg; repeat daily. If that's not a problem anymore, do 20 - 40 reps of standing on your toes, then back on your flat foot (one-sided), also daily for each side. Only then return to jogging short distances, recovering with walk breaks in between, on proper running shoes. This will ease you back into running without any nasty injuries, like ankle pains. After that, you might try some barefoot running, but no more than a few hundred meters/yards per sessions at first, and gradually increase the distance to a mile or so over the weeks (or months). If you are able to run continuously for 3 miles (5 km) barefoot or on minimalistic shoes after half a year of gradually increasing your running distance, you are doing very well indeed. Remember, it all takes time, and you need to be very patient with your body and its lack of strength. Good luck! 

If you can't lower your calorie intake, maybe you should try increasing your workouts a little bit. Personally, I find 0.5 kg/week already very taxing on my body, especially when I do it several months, as I'm doing right now. In my experience, 0.5 kg/2 weeks is much more doable, while 2 kg/month is easy. But then, I run more than 60 km per week, requiring over 4000 kcal/day. All I have to do is keep my daily intake slightly below 3600 kcal or so, in other words, eat normal, but no more. Even so, I don't loose weight gradually. It goes in fits and starts. I expect that might be happening to you as well. Be more patient with the results and don't focus on the day-by-day development too much. It's better to see the bigger picture, by putting your weight in a year graph.