No, nothing can delete results of actions. They will rippe anyway. But to know that and to straighten you mind will makes it not so painful. The idea that apologize would make things undone is merely advertised in Almighty-god-believes. 

Peter What ever magical practice that might be, it has nothing to do with the Buddha, Dhamma an the Sangha and is called "Animal Art" by the Buddha and a grave misconduct. Wrong livelihood for contemplatives So maybe the question is better placed outside of "Buddhism" Skulls an bones are used as object of investigation and meditation, asuba-nimitta (object of unattractiveness), to gain high concentration if done right. Of coures such training in what is called Jhana, can lead to supranatural powers but such is not the aim just side effects of practicing. (Note: This is a gift of Dhamma and not meant for commercial purposes or other worldly gains.) 

(for internet this means to people holding power while one would speak - moderators and others with tendency to delete or banning, willing to put Dhamma in that wsy under their power) 

The equation seems to have a failure. Atma (my person) tries to focus mainly on the sample at first hand. In one case, one hurts the truth (by lying) and in the other a person. Another misunderstandig might be that Vinaya reflects automatical wholesome and unwholesome. Self defense is always unwholesome, since it requires Delusion (believe that a Self could be damaged, touching form, feeling, perception, formations, recognition). And one more, a lie does not necessary hurt a listener directly, he could be pleased as well (even mostly) Generally again, Vinaya does not go deep into Abhidhamma but stays for the most at bodily and verbal deeds. It works with very gross defilements. So it's not good to assume to much in regard of karmic effects. Vinaya is made for wordlings, yet not able to understand mind and intention fully and meant as protection in defiled states. 

(Please, if knowing, do not share often usual kermis and trade fairs) May you rejoice by sharing merits and invitations to such, as well those many able to take part on you futune. Anumodana! So where to got today evening to make sacrifies to the Buddha? May all take up this possibility today and gain liberating joy with it! (Note: This question is a gift of Dhamma and not meant for commercial purpoes or other wordily gains.) 

One teaching the Dhamma to people without any respect, or to those bound to people without respect, even one might think that "compassion" would reqire such, does not serve the Three Gems and simply gives gound for even more demerits of already hardly lost people, since what could they aspect aside of long time suffering in those many unfurtue existence for a long long time. May all of you continue to work on conditions to be one time able to meet assosiating with people of integrity. May all beings find the way to liberation for themselves with ease. 

In addition, Lasan, in regard of the reason why you asked: Who ever teaches "this was said by the Buddha, I know.", one does good neither to take it nor to reject it, but simply prove it if it holds against Vinaya, if it stands with the Dhamma of the Blessed One. If, one should say: "This is what the Buddha taught, by way and meaning." If not: "This is not what the Buddha taught, by way and meaning. This Monk is not teaching Buddhas message." One does not need an enlightened Person to simply hear the good Dhamma with proper attention, yet for sure it would be more secure to listen to an Arahat, but did the Buddha wanted you just to quickly believe or to investigate and look for your self to archive the own realisation? So why would it be of great benefit knowing who's an Arahant or on the way to be? "Simply" because it is the great field of merits in this world, could be the personal interest. But if one, not really knowing, and having made his judgement upon wrong understanding of liberation, gives to a person an individual, it can be not only just low merit but also demerit, if investigated wrong and that is why the Elders always tell: Even to give to a Noble One would be of greater merit as to "simply" the Sangha, it is better to point one mind to the Savaka Sangha, before, while and after giving, those people following good and rightly the Buddha, and even dedicate it verbal as such. The side effect is also this, that a Monk has much more responsibility and "pressure" receiving a gift for the Sangha, even if it is "only" food, which in the case of receiving a personal gift would not be such and could be "legal"-looking also easy be misused. Most monks don't like to receive gifts dedicated to the Sangha since they would not even be allowed to give a share to their family, if you understand the way it often works. Yet it is out of compassion to make it easier for certain monks, to give it personal (in cases of people who are well informed). As for the certain case, if Lasan shares links, Name and his teachings, maybe a more clear and straight forward answer in the certain case can be given. (Note: This is a gift of Dhamma and not meant for any commercial purpose or other wordily gains) An maybe extended answer can be found here. Disussion an further gestions, als well a critic and rebukes are also welcome there without strings and conditional "needed" censure: [Q&A] How to know if someone has achieved nirvana?] Addition: In regard of the question caused person, its not really that difficult even for people with much dust in the eyes... 

More on Drawbacks, adinava, here. [Note: This is a gift of Dhamma, not meant for commercial purpose or other wordily gains] 

So the question "should..." is already wrong. If asking "is it good to share and give of what is mine, I am given to give, not needing to take what is not given.": Especially giving Dhamma is the highest gift. There is nothing destroying Dhamma faster as dealing and selling Dhamma and taking part. But there is no way to help those greedy beings, not to speak of those even demanding and believing to have such as rights. Being even in association not only with bad lay friends but also with monks of wrong view who encorage to revolution, demanding and are not shy to walk the thievery Robbin Hood way, who would be able to help aside of big suffering that naturally follows if aware of causes later or even already yet. How much have you given till today, and how much do you demand? Most are not even able to make right anf fair trade and belive that paying the proper amount is already meritorious. As for those poor being, making a livelihood from selling Dhamma, teaching, or what ever with this precious heritage, what else as being slaves for a religion that has been disappeared can they aspect. And think about it, how it could come that you need to pay money to gain at least mostly even fake Dhamma? It's not possible to gain anything in regard of Path and Fruit having bought the teaching of the Buddha. Look of how much they read and pay for meditation. Their situation has causes, and so those today Dhammadealers will end afterwards, meet each other again and wander on in same ways. And? What are you doing right here? Right now? In giving, what is not given to give here? Huge gave a good and right answer here, Sadhu! Take care of such previous friends understanding the basics and teaching you a goid for long time benefit. Foremost misleading people and their websites, to encourage to unskilful thinking and taking what is not given, acting for the demerit of many while destroying also their goodness in wrong view are: suttacentral.org, leaded by Sujato and people, monks and lay people supporting or around them. dhammatalks.net, by Silananda Those shares with their attitude and confirming that, are of great demerits opposing right view, the Buddha, Dhamma and specially the Savaka Sangha and nurishing on their heritage. [Note: This is a gift of Dhamma not meant for commercial purpose or other wordily gain]