It's a "Catch-22" paradox! The Catch-22 paradox is that behaving a certain way because of some desire is a sure way to not get what you desire. If you want to be declared insane in order to be discharged, you can't act insane as only sane men can act insane. But if you don't exhibit signs of being insane, you will not be discharged. The same analysis works for the witch paradox. One point of Catch-22 is to illuminate the dysfunction of the US Army and bureaucracy in general. The continual use of paradox accomplished that goal in my opinion. The point isn't to prove the original statement, but to demonstrate a particular type of absurdity. Another example that I've seen professionally is that in order to get a job that requires a security clearance, you need to already have clearance, but you can't get clearance until you have a job that requires it. In the entertainment industry, blockbuster movies require a lead actor who is a "name", but the only way to become a "name" is to star in a blockbuster movie. The usual solution to these conundrums is to fudge the rules a bit: interim security clearances are granted to people who start jobs that require clearances and actors can star in blockbusters if they are particularly well received in smaller roles. 

It works because smoking is addictive (so once you start it's difficult to stop) and does cause various types of cancer. Obviously not all people who take up smoking will get lung cancer and some people with lung cancer have never smoked. But that's not what the argument is claiming. Rather it's attempting to persuade the hearer that making a certain choice (taking up smoking) could have unintended consequences outside of their control (getting cancer). A similar argument is fallacious: 

Usually Plato is said to be pointing to the heavens, which represent abstract Forms, while Aristotle gestures to the Earth (or possibly breaking the fourth wall and indicating the viewer) to symbolize his commitment to Empiricism. Certainly in an epistemological landscape dominated by Pythagoras and Plato, Aristotle emerges as practically David Hume in relation. But reading Aristotle directly and especially the book he is shown to be holding in the painting (Ethics), I find Aristotle's epistemology to be far more balanced. While he certainly prefers inductive arguments when he can make them, he isn't reluctant to argue deductively from a priori principles that we might not agree with. In fact another popular characterization of Aristotle is that his philosophy held back science by insisting on claims that were not evident in nature. Some of these claims (such as heavier objects falling faster than light ones) could easily have been rejected with very straightforward experiments. So ought we to think of Aristotle as a man who was born two thousand years too early to be a part of the scientific revolution or as a man who wished to moderate Platonic dogma? 

This sort of categorization seems a necessary beginning for any sort of inductive study. Aristotle was obsessed with categorizing everything he observed. Forms of argument that include premises about category, such as "all coffee is bitter", imply categories exist. It is a meaningless statement unless we can agree on what sort of beverage coffee is and what it isn't. Aristotle noted that some individuals make good representatives of a category and others don't. The Reliant Robin would make a poor example of the category of "Car" since it has three wheels and could be (and was) argued to be a motorcycle. Useful categories include the set of individuals that are part of the category and exclude the set that are not. The difficulty in assigning certain individuals to categories implies that categories are artificial or imposed by human reason. On the other hand, Aristotle was in opposition to his teacher, Plato, on this issue. Plato believed that individuals were shadows of true, idealized Forms. He explained the difficulties in comparing individuals to their Form as a result of the imperfection of the material world. Mathematical objects, such as integers and shapes, obviously have theoretical definitions that might not be exactly reproducible in the real world. (If I say I have 3 brothers that's not exactly true since each one is different than the other. The theoretical idea of "3" doesn't perfectly apply.) To Plato, classifications actually exist, even though we don't observe them perfectly in the world. Much of the work of philosophy in the West has tried to sort through these distinctions and their implications. Whether it's a happy accident that individuals can be usefully grouped or whether information naturally fits into groups stands as one of the great unsolved (and perhaps unsolvable) problems of the field. 

Is this what is meant by "the goodness of the soul"? Is "science" a false cognate with modern English? 

There's a closely related argument that's sometimes called the semantic slippery slope. Rather than being of the form "X leads to Y, which leads to Z", it goes "X is like Y, which is similar to Z". This version depends on the vagueness of the lines between X and Y and Z. We see this sort of reasoning a lot in the abortion debate: 

For most people who have lived, this question is on-the-face nonsensical. Most cultures up until now have had some sort of value for purity or sanctity. The very idea of extracting an organ from one person and placing it in another prompts a feeling of disgust and revulsion. Many cultures impose a strong taboo on even touching a dead body. Western culture has largely rejected the ancient value of purity for a variety of practical reasons—not the least of which is to allow Western medicine to proceed. I won't argue here that such a value ought to outweigh the practical considerations of allowing trade in human organs, but I will say that the value of sanctity neither is nor can be defended via reason. Valuing it is just part of being human. 

This is a great question and I hope I won't be the only person to grapple with it. There must be a calculation that balances the pain and effort of examining another's life with the cost of not doing so. The argument would seem to be that there is little to no cost associated with leaving others to their unreflective state and substantial cost to examining them. If so, we would be advised to let sleeping dogs lie. One method to alter the calculation would be to find a benefit that both parties could share which will tip the scales back toward examination. No doubt Socrates would point to the general improvement to the state of Athens as a positive good that might arise from general introspection. If bad habits of thought are routinely subject to the light of reason and analysis, perhaps they will die out. And if Athenians in general are less subject to bad reasoning, they will be able to make wise decisions about their city and fellow citizens. But I imagine there are deeper reasons to examine the lives of others. In my experience, exploration of how another person thinks gives rise to deeper friendship with that person. How can anyone put a price on friendship? For a good friend would you not make great sacrifices? And though I can't see how to quantify it, I feel like my life is better simply for having a handful of good friends. I plan to consider this question more in the future—it has great value. 

Obviously, the specific problem of knowing who Socrates was and what he taught is wholly unique to the man. However, reading books and articles about philosophers and philosophy, I'm struck by the occasions when later commentators disagree about what particular thinkers actually taught. Obviously, for living philosophers, it's possible to simply ask them. But even the best of us seem destined to die and leave nothing but memories and the corpus of texts (and other recordings) that we bother to archive and which are preserved. The problem is that few thoughts are complete and unambiguous. Those that are seem trivial. Over time, the context in which thinking is done becomes diffused and obscured by new context. Even fundamental tools of thought, such as language and basic assumptions change over time. It seems like a great difficulty in understanding a thinker from a different era is to put oneself in their mode of thinking, which may be impossible. Is this an intractable problem or is it possible some innovation in communication can solve it? (For those who are unaware, please read Early Attempts to Solve the Socratic Problem.) 

I can't say that I've read much (e.i., any) Kant, so I'm asking from a position of ignorance. So far I haven't even discovered where I might read Kant's own expression of the relationship between logic and reason in general. Does Kant say that whenever we are using good reasoning, we are following logic whether we know it or not? (That's what I get from the Wikipedia quote above.) 

If we say that some set of principles are moral truths and if there are potential conflicts among the principles, changes in moral practice may arise not from rejecting previous moral truths, but from rejecting the weight assigned to those truths in application. 

The connective tissue of these four presentations of Homeric myth is eschatology: the study of final things. For Greeks, that meant the separation of the soul from the body at death, the judgement of particularly heinous crimes, and the continued existence in Hades. An Athenian citizen was expected to be well versed in these ideas—especially as told by Homer. So it would be expected that Socrates, if he were a wise man, would be able to talk about these myths at length. The charges against Socrates It must be remembered that Socrates was dead when Plato, his student, wrote the dialogues he appears in. Athens convicted Socrates of "failing to acknowledge the gods that the city acknowledges" and "introducing new deities". Part of Plato's purpose in writing the dialogues was to clear his mentor's name. (Ironically, the other charge against Socrates was "corrupting the youth". Plato is Exhibit A.) So having Socrates reconfirm the myths of the city helps show him as falsely-accused. A contemporary reader might wonder if Socrates held orthodox eschatological view after all. Pythagoreanism We have evidence that Plato was strongly influenced by the cosmology of Pythagoras. A principle tenet of the system was the transmigration of souls. Unfortunately, that concept did not mesh well the Illiad and the Odyssey where death was final and souls were doomed to wander shadowy Hades forever. There was no hope for a soul to return. In Pheado, Plato is eager to show that souls return to new bodies if they were not either especially evil (so receive everlasting torment) or especially philosophical (so receive everlasting peace). In order to show that Socrates (or Plato himself) did not dishonor the existing cosmology, Plato reworked the existing images of the afterlife to fit with reincarnation. In addition, Plato's epistemology depended on anamnesis. Since people already know things from birth, it follows that we must remember them from our preexistence as disembodied souls. Naturally, our souls would have needed to have access to practical knowledge (common sense) in addition to esoteric knowledge. Therefore, our souls must have had bodies in "previous lives". Purpose of myth It's difficult to know if either Socrates or Plato believed there was such as person as, say, Zeus. My guess is that neither were particularly pious in the traditional, Greek sense. It seems that both were far more interested in obtaining philosophical truth than in honoring the gods. But Plato, at least, was also interested in using myth to communicate truth. In the Republic (which seems to be 100% platonic and 0% socratic), we read the allegory of the cave which compares our view of the world to shadows on the wall of a cave. Technically, there is no cave and no fire and no shadows and no prisoners. The whole story is bogus if you try to take it literally. But the story does neatly illustrate Plato's point which Paul of Tarsus summarized neatly: 

Pantheism is the more general position that God and all of the universe are the same. In this view, God is in fact equated with mankind (and everything else). I don't fully understand the position, but it seems that Gottfried Leibniz proposed in La Monadologie the idea that everything, including people, are of the same substance as God: 

I take a somewhat pragmatic approach. It's unlikely that the ratio of solid scientific knowledge to bogus knowledge is much different today than it was at other points in human history. My basis for the claim comes from reading histories of science and scientists. Invariably, false scientific ideas turn out to be reasonable and potentially correct explanations of the available data. When advancements in instruments, observation technique, and experimentation arise, they tend to make falsified science look wrong. At the time the ideas were proposed, that data didn't exist. There's no reason to think we've reached the limits of observation. Further, science seems to advance on the backs of creative insights which come from the minds of especially gifted thinkers. (My thinking on this comes from my reading of Thomas Kuhn, especially The Structure of Scientific Revolutions.) Our minds have the remarkable ability to tolerate inconsistent data and we can go a long time accepting mistaken theories before a sudden insight causes us to accept an alternative that better fits the data. The feeling that every bit of new data fits our models is a dangerous bias. We tend to dismiss counter-indicators as "outliers". Now, we probably do know more in an absolute sense. Given that new knowledge is informed by previous work, we've learned from mistakes and refined theories. Engineering feats that depend on fundamental science validate (from a pragmatic sense) that we know more then we once did. But we also assert many, many more things then we once did. Some things we "know" are based on natural phenomenon that were unknown even a generation ago. (I'm thinking of things like medical claims, computer science theories, and particle physics. There are likely theories that I can't begin to understand in other realms of knowledge.) In order for the ratio of things we know to keep up with the number of things we claim, it's inevitable that we know more in an absolute sense. A more difficult question is how do we know which claims are true and which claims are bogus. The example of Aristotelean physics suggests that simply picking the most respectable theories isn't a certain way to select true theories.