One thing no one else seems to mention when discussing the issue of noise in an open office environment is: Management chose to put you into a sub-optimal situation. They are therefore choosing less productivity. Therefore the first thing to do is to stop worrying about the fact that you could do more under better circumstances. When circumstances aren't going to change, sometimes it is best just to accept that there will always be noise and it is always going to be disruptive to some extent. Management knows you won't be as productive and they choose to save money by putting in open offices. Management knows the sales team is loud and they chose to put them next to the accounting staff or developers who need to concentrate. So if management has decided the productivity trade-off is worth the cost savings, there is nothing you can do to convince them. So stop worrying about it and, next time you get a new job, weed out the places with open offices from consideration. Once they can't hire new people, these stupid open office plan offices will start to go away. I expect the trend will take 5-10 years to reverse though because the alternatives are expensive so the hit to productivity will have to be really large. And many people won't realize the problem until they work in one and even then, well, working in an open office is better than being unemployed. Once you stop fighting it, it becomes more possible to ignore the noise. It is your irritation with the noise that is affecting you more than the actual noise much of the time. Once you learn to accept what can't be changed, you are less irritated, and thus less distracted. For instance, if I happen to notice the air conditioning, I am usually distracted for less than a second and then back to work (unless it sounded like it blew up!). That is because I don't attribute any malice to the air conditioner and it doesn't make me mad that it is running (I like it working actually). You will notice in these types of questions that people are most upset about what they consider to be inappropriate noise like having a conversation that is not work related (or not related to their work) or someone who they think is deliberating trying to annoy them by, say, typing too loud. I've noticed that the less the person likes the person making the noise, the more distracting it seems to be. That is because it is your response to the noise not the noise itself that is the the real distraction. Next you need to practice getting back into the groove after being distracted and letting yourself get distracted less and less. The only way to do this is to practice it and gradually, you will find yourself less and less distracted. So the thing is every time you get distracted, you say mentally to yourself, "Oh a noise, back to work" and then turn back to your task. Soon you will get faster at noticing you are distracted and returning to work. The less time you are distracted for, the easier it is to get back into the groove of where you were. Meditation techniques will help you develop concentration in the face of distractions. When you first start to meditate, you are distracted almost continuously. But as you practice noticing the distraction and deliberately returning to the meditation, you find that you are distracted less and less and that the time to return to task take less and less time. Consider your concentrated work as the meditation and just keep returning to task quietly, without emotional baggage. You can also consider having a pen and paper next to you and noting down what you are doing at the time of the distraction if it looks to be a major one. A quick reminder will help you get back on track. 

It's too bad, but you have to work with this guy and you have to behave professionally. You don't have to like him. You have to work with him as well as you work with people you do like or you will be the one who will pay the price. Part of why he may be nasty to you is that he suspects you are being trained to take his job. He is probably very frightened of you. Take the training, document what he tells you in emails (so if he deliberately tells you the wrong way to do things, you can show management what you were told.) and ignore his attitude. You act professionally towards him by treating him in person exactly as well as you treat someone who isn't a jerk. Be polite, be totally focused only on work as there is no point in small talk with such a person. Listen to the work points he makes and verbally agree with him when he makes a good point. (Out of thousands of comments he is bound to be right occasionally even if by accident and it throw s off his rant if you agree with him on something.) Thank him for helping you when you actually get the information you needed. Try to handle things through email rather than in person when you can. If he goes off topic, you bring him back to the point (and you may have to do this a number of times, polite persistence is what is called for). If he rants about you, then you tell him that you just need to get this information and will be out of his hair and return to the subject and ignore the childishness as if he were a three-year-old having a tantrum. In some ways you reward the childishness by paying attention to it. You can set clear boundaries with him as if he were a child for totally inappropriate behavior such as if he touches you. But this is difficult to do when he doesn't report to you. Sometimes a disgusted look or a comment like "Are you done now? Can we get back to the subject?" will work better than trying to get him to listen to any boundaries you as a trainee try to set. 

Do uiniversities still have the concepts of majors and minors? I have always listed my education as a major in Political Science and a minor in Mathematics and I was in a similar situation where I tried to double major but the classes conflicted my senior year and I had to choose. Saying you have a minor in something doesn't look like you were a quitter, it looks like you studied something in addition to your main studies. When they are very different fields, that is often a plus. If you can talk in the interview about how the French lit helps you in the game design, it is even more of a plus. 

That is difficult. Certainly she would want to tell them when the physical changes become obvious. If she is taking hormones, there may be behavior changes that occur before seeing something physically different, I don't know but I know there were emotional sensitivities I had before menopause that I didn't have after, so it is certainly likely that some things might change when the hormonal levels change. If people are going to notice anyway, you can't hide it just like when women get pregnant. However, since her relationship with her management is already strained, I would likely take the following steps before having the discussion (some of which might need to happen before starting the transition): 

I'm going to be harsh here. Only you can change your behavior. There is nothing stopping you from coming in on time and doing your job in a timely manner except yourself. You are being paid to work and frankly what you are doing is cheating your company and cheating yourself. I'm hearing a lot of excuses and it's someone else's fault, but no it isn't, it is your fault. You agreed to the job and you owe the company the hours and the work quality (including meeting deadlines) as long as you accept a salary. It doesn't matter if you are bored or if you hate your job or if you have children, you owe it becausue they pay you. What you are doing right now is basically theft. Frankly I would have fired you a long time ago no matter how well you code because you are a drain on the comapny and you cause harm to projects and other employees with your attitude. So stop behaving like a sulking child and start going to work every day on time. Lots of people have child care responsibilites but they still make it to work, lots of people don't like their jobs but they still are professional enough to do them until they find another. I had to to deal with a sick life partner and then his death, and I still did my job. I've had friends and relatives with seriously ill children who still managed to come to to work on time and do their jobs. So I have no sympathy for you. You have made bad choices to do the easy, fun thing and they were poor choices, so stop making them. Stop expecting everything to be easy or fun. Start being an adult. So stop whining and start solving your problems. Start with seting an alarm clock and getting up and going to work on time every day without fail. Then make a child care plan for when you need to deal with child care issues. First fix your bad behavior before it is so ingrained you can't fix it, and then and only then start looking for a job that is more interesting to you. But don't do it until you start behaving like a professional and not an amateur because the next place wil not likely be so forgiving. 

This is a no win situation for you. The boss will not appreciate being told his son is a slacker, the son won't care, he surely already knows. You can, 100% of the time, assume that in a situation where the boss's son and the other employees are in conflict, the son will win. If you want to stay at this place, you need to assume he will not be helping and do estimates and set deadlines accordingly. If you truly think you need another peson to get the work done, then present that as an idea with data on how deadlines are being missed ad sales targets being missed. But do not mention it is because one person is not pulling the load. Instead show how hard you and teh rest of team are working to get things done and why there simply aren't enough available hours to get the work done. Don't let this person demotivate you and cause your own performance to drop. That is not in your own best interests. I assure you if anyone on the team goes, it will not be the son. If your personal performance drops, it might be you who gets the blame for the missed deadlines and sales targets. Concentrate on performing as well as you can as long as you are there. Someday (possibly quite soon if you decide to leave) you will need to be answering interview questions about what you did on this job and how you handled difficult problems. Ensure that what you did makes you look best to a future employer. Your choices are to accept that the person will do no work and plan the workload accordingly or to leave. I can envision no circumstance where reporting the son is in your best interests.