But now you are the next Messiah & World Saviour? Now you will write books, make videos, be a guest on Oprah and have thousands of zombies follow you as your disciples? 

There is nothing in the teaching that sounds like the luminous mind is permanent; just as saying 'teeth are white' does not sound like permanence. The suttas say in many places (SN 22.59; Assutavā Sutta) whatever mind it is, be it gross or subtle; be it vinnana, manas or citta, it is impermanent. 

The scriptures (AN 6.63) say there are three results of kamma: (i) instant; (ii) at a later time; (iii) at a further later time. For example, a person drinks a lot of alcohol. The three results of this kamma are: (i) immediate pleasure; (ii) a headache or feeling sick the next day; (iii) craving for alcohol in the future. 

The following phrase about the permanence of the Dhamma Law (Natural Truth) is found in both AN 3.136 and SN 12.20. 

You can leave the shitty capitalist system; which is often an inhumane daily struggle to survive life. Permanent retreat is an alternate reality, such as here: $URL$ 

As for the practises mentioned in the original post, they are not 'advanced'. The more complicated & willful they sound, the less advanced they are. The most 'advanced' practises are the most simple. That is why the statement: "Do nothing" often frightens people. Simply 'let go'. 

Bhikkhus, I will teach you the taintless and the path leading to the taintless. Bhikkhus, I will teach you the truth and the path leading to the truth. Bhikkhus, I will teach you the far shore and the path leading to the far shore. Bhikkhus, I will teach you the subtle and the path leading to the subtle. Bhikkhus, I will teach you the very difficult to see and the path leading to the very difficult to see. Bhikkhus, I will teach you the unaging and the path leading to the unaging. Bhikkhus, I will teach you the stable and the path leading to the stable. Bhikkhus, I will teach you the undisintegrating and the path leading to the undisintegrating. Bhikkhus, I will teach you the unmanifest and the path leading to the unmanifest. Bhikkhus, I will teach you the unproliferated and the path leading to the unproliferated. Bhikkhus, I will teach you the peaceful and the path leading to the peaceful. Bhikkhus, I will teach you the deathless and the path leading to the deathless. Bhikkhus, I will teach you the sublime and the path leading to the sublime. Bhikkhus, I will teach you the auspicious and the path leading to the auspicious. Bhikkhus, I will teach you the secure and the path leading to the secure. Bhikkhus, I will teach you the destruction of craving and the path leading to the destruction of craving. Bhikkhus, I will teach you the wonderful and the path leading to the wonderful. Bhikkhus, I will teach you the amazing and the path leading to the amazing. Bhikkhus, I will teach you the unailing and the path leading to the unailing. Bhikkhus, I will teach you the unailing state and the path leading to the unailing state. Bhikkhus, I will teach you the Nibbana and the path leading to the Nibbana. Bhikkhus, I will teach you the unafflicted and the path leading to the unafflicted. Bhikkhus, I will teach you the dispassion and the path leading to the dispassion. Bhikkhus, I will teach you the purity and the path leading to the purity. Bhikkhus, I will teach you the freedom and the path leading to the freedom. Bhikkhus, I will teach you the unadhesive and the path leading to the unadhesive. Bhikkhus, I will teach you the island and the path leading to the island. Bhikkhus, I will teach you the shelter and the path leading to the shelter. Bhikkhus, I will teach you the asylum and the path leading to the asylum. Bhikkhus, I will teach you the refuge and the path leading to the refuge. Samyutta Nikaya 43.14 to SN 43.43 translated by Bhikkhu Bodhi 

If these are real external disturbances (rather than internal delusions): (i) they are not beings from another world; (ii) they are merely minds with psychic powers, as described in the Pali suttas; and (iii) these minds are engaged in transgressions of the Buddhist Vinaya, as follows: 

In the Jataka Tales in the Buddhist Canon, there is the story of the Buddha-To-Be in a past life who killed a would-be murderer to save 500 people, as follows: 

Right Effort uses the judgment of Right Mindfulness-&-Clear-Comprehension to prevent & abandon obstacles to Right Concentration & develop the factors that generate Right Concentration. MN 117 states: 

You should stay with the breath as much as you can. Therefore, if a thought arises & it will just float away, then let the thought float away; like it is a passing visitor. You only have to 'let go' of something after you have 'picked it up'. Therefore, if you have not picked up (attached to) the thought, you do not need to let it go. Instead, just stay with the breathing & let the thought float by & away. This method develops both samatha (calmness) & vipassana (insight). 

In conclusion, returning to the Dhamma method of viewing women as 'mothers, sisters & daughters', for a woman to be a good mother, it is best she has a good mind. Women engaging in heedless sex does not contribute to a good mind for motherhood. This is a reason why the Buddhist looks upon women like mothers. Mothers love their family & want a strong stable family. Women engaging in heedless sex does not contribute to good families and a woman's true happiness. The Buddha explained this respect for mothers in the Lokapala Sutta. 

The Pali suttas state in many places that there can be no arising of consciousness independent of a physical body &/or sense organs (e.g. MN 38, SN 22.53, SN 12.67, SN 22.82, etc). The Pali scriptures do not teach consciousness transmigrates from life to life. Ideas of re-linking or a stream of consciousness were created by later-day Buddhist philosophers & scholars. In MN 38, the bhikkhu Sati was severely reprimanded, admonished & censured by the Lord Buddha for holding such a pernicious viewpoint that consciousness transmigrates. In conclusion, if science is right that consciousness arises from chemicals and nerves in the human brain, this will not disprove what the Buddha taught but, to the contrary, will affirm what the Buddha taught about consciousness. However, it will disprove what the majority of Buddhists believe about Buddhism. 

The Pali suttas, particularly in teachings about kamma, has the phrase: "at the break-up of the body after death". Are there contexts other than kamma where this phrase is used? What does "break-up of the body after death" actually mean in the suttas? Are these words in the language of materialism? Do they have a non-materialistic meaning? 

3. ‘Sankhara’ as ‘conditioning’. Below are two straightforward examples of the word ‘abhisaṃkharontīti’. 

When life & experience is viewed as merely elements & aggregates, there will be no more "mother", "father", "son", "daughter", etc, and no more "death". 

For example, the teaching above states the ordinary person should believe there are 'beings' ('satta') spontaneously born due to their good & bad actions yet teachings for noble disciples, such as SN 5.10, state there are no 'beings' to be found. This is the reason there a teachings that contradict each other, such as MN 60 which states the view of 'existence' is right view for a householder & SN 12.15 which states the view of 'existence' is wrong view for the noble disciple; or teachings such as in Sigalovada Sutta which states the duty of a monk is to point out the path to 'heaven' (rather than to Nibbana) to the lay devotee. That is why the teachings about kamma & 'rebirth' never include the teaching of 'not-self' in them. Later scholars, such as Buddhaghosa, created ideas that impersonal not-self (empty) phenomena are reborn in cycles of rebirth but the Buddha did not teach like this. The Pali scriptures also include some special teachings to Brahmans using their own religious ideas, such as ending 'nama-rupa' ('name-&-form') & radiating love as the path to union with Brahma (God). These teachings confuse many modern Buddhists, who take these teachings to be Buddhism rather than (improvements to) Brahmanism. In relation to what is posted above, the scriptures never report the Buddha making the declaration that 'karma & rebirth' or 'the path to Brahma' were his personal teachings & revelations (since these basic ideas pre-existed before the Buddha or used ideas not relevant to the Buddha himself). The scriptures (eg, AN 3.61, AN 3.134, SN 56.11, SN 56.31, SN 12.20, SN 20.7, MN 56, etc) only state the Buddha declared the 'six elements', the 'eighteen applications of mindfulness at feeling', the 'four noble truths', the 'three characteristics', 'dependent origination' & 'emptiness' to be his special & unique teachings.