In most cases it was regional. Entire towns and provinces were expelled if they were German. When you are expelling hundreds of thousands of people at once, you don't have the time to be going person by person. You just ship out the whole county. In cases where population was mixed, the name would usually indicate whether the person was German or Polish. If the person had no papers or otherwise verifiable name, a Polish interrogator would simply determine what you were. Of course, I suppose a German who could speak Polish fluently and tell a believable story might be able to convince a Pole that he was Polish, but those were probably exceptional cases, not the norm. 

Besides the Football War you mention, the only instance I know of that a football game influenced an actual war is case #10 listed below, the 1990 Red Star vs. Dinamo game in Zagreb. Here is a list of ten games that featured violent outcomes: 

Unfortunately, historians are not very scientific, so the kind of reasoning you envision is more or less absent in historical research. History, as practiced today, is more about collating facts from literary sources, rather than reasoning about those facts. Not that there haven't been plenty of people who have attempted theories of historical reasoning. For example... Karl Marx (and Engels) are perhaps the best known historical logicians. They created a method they called "dialectical materialism" which proposed a sort of logic of history. It was popular in the former Soviet Union. One of the best known theorists on historical reasoning is Karl Popper. He was a philosopher, not a historian. As a general rule, theories on historical reasoning tend to be constructed by philosophers like Popper, not historians. Plenty of other such theorists can be found. For example, a man named Lewis published the book "A Treatise on the Methods of Observation and Reasoning in Politics" in 1852 and you can find many other such books. Historians ignore such books. I took many history courses in college and not once on any of the reading lists was any kind of analytical or methodological work included, nor did any of the lectures ever include any attempt to teach the students how to reason about historical fact. You can assume all American history professors were brought up in the same tradition. In terms of recent publications you can refer to Martha Howell's "From Reliable Sources: An Introduction to Historical Methods" which sketches out the basics of how historians work and various techniques for ascertaining "the truth", whatever that means. 

Another thing (again, Belov's forces are an example of success) is that even after been encircled, they could break through after spending weeks hiding in wilderness (horses eat hay and do not need gasoline). 

Lastly, the rank of a citizen of honor in pre-revolutionary Russia has nothing to do with the title of a honorary citizen that can be awarded by a municipality or a country as a sign of recognition for some special services. (E.g. Raoul Wallenberg was posthumously awarded the title of a honorary citizen of Canada, Hungary, Australia and Israel.) 

In this very detailed paper, comparing the anti-miscegenation throughout the country (his state-by-state tables list affected ethnic groups and the Jews are not there), Browning only mentions the Jews in the following passage (pp. 32-33): 

"Of Mongrels and men. The shared ideology of anti-miscegenation law, Chinese exclusion and contemporary American neo-nativism" by Geoffrey Neri, is a 40 page long study of anti-miscegenation laws in the US. The "religious basis" for these laws is listed (pages 8-9) as 

There is a very detailed discussion of this issue on pages 281-284 of Законы о состояниях (Св. зак., т. IX изд. 1899 г., по прод 1906, 1908 и 1909 гг.). / Сост. Я.А.Канторович. — СПб.: Право, 1911. — 1032 с.. In short: The status of children of clergy depended on the type of clergy, on clergy's education, on the region of residence, etc. For instance, the rules were different for a child of a "white" (nothing to do with race, just means "not a monk") orthodox priest and for a child of a rabbi. Subject to some limitations, in the case of Russian orthodox priests and of Armenian, Muslim (in the Caucasus region) or Lutheran Protestant clergy (in the Baltic provinces) who were not of the "noble" origin, their children would acquire the status of a "Citizen of Honor" (Почётный гражданин). You can find more about this on this wikipedia page in French. Edit. Here is a brief description of privileges that citizens of honor had in Tsarist Russia: 

The two identities are listed separately in biographical encyclopedias of Rome because there is no concrete statement by ancient authorities one way or the other that Sallust's Fulvia is the same as that who came later. Nevertheless, it is highly likely that they were the same person because the later Fulvia was a highly active political meddler and notorious tramp, so it would have been entirely consistent with her later behavior for her to have been the young mistress of Quintus Curius, especially if we consider that this association would have consistent with the political factions involved. At the time of the Catiline conspiracy she would have been about 20 years old. She married Clodius the next year, at the age of 21. 

There is no such thing as a "labor shortage". "Labor Shortage" is just a propaganda term used by employers who are trying to find some excuse to pay less. For example, many manufacturers complain that there is a "shortage" of machinists. What this means is that they would like to pay machinists $10 an hour and, surprise, surprise, no machinist wants to work for $10 an hour. If the manufacturer offered $100 an hour, he would have machinists coming out of his ears. He would have machinists lining up at his front door wanting to work for him. He would have machinists flying from all over the world to work at his factory. Likewise, employees use the same political language. They say there is a "job shortage". Of course, there is no job shortage. If you are willing to work for $5 an hour you will find hundreds of employers willing to hire you. In fact, for $5 an hour * I * will hire you. There is no such thing "labor shortages" and "job shortages". They are just made up terms used by people for political purposes. 

I do not have time to write a full-scale answer, the following is an outline: If you are a Jew who lives, say, in Riga, in Summer of 1941 and tries to get as far East as possible away from the advancing German troops, how would you do it? Would you use a horse-drawn carriage? All horses are a State property (including the ones which technically belong to "collective farms"). Do you drive? Nobody has a car except for government officials and even their cars do not belong to them but to the State. Could you buy a train ticket? OK, you go to the train station and find that there are no train tickets to be sold: All the transport is used for "government purposes", which include: 

From this, it is reasonable to conclude that anti-miscegenation laws were not applied to the Jews in the United States, however, given the "theory" under which such laws were enacted, they could have ben applied to the American Jews. One cannot say for sure, though, without looking at the state laws one-by-one, which would make (a part of) a nice PhD thesis but is inappropriate for the stackexchange. 

It is a long story. I am not completely sure which period you are actually interested in. Mensheviks (RSDRP) ceased to exist as a party in 1951, so I will address the earlier period, up to the 2nd World War. RSDRP in immigration was split in the left and right wing. Roughly speaking, the left (Dan, Gurevich, Schwarz, et. al) following "Martov Line", were hoping to find a common ground with the "moderate" bolsheviks (like Bukharin), they were also hoping for an evolution of the USSR into something more resembling socialism (as they understood it). They were also considering the economic developments in the USSR as the developments of the "state capitalism", which was supposed to, eventually, lead to true socialism. The right wing (Potresov, Gravi, Aronson, et al) , in contrast, were hoping for a popular uprising in the USSR (once things turn really bad - and they did, especially during collectivization). The right wing of RSDRP regarded Soviet system as a form of fascism and did not expect its evolution into a an actual socialism. By the end of the 1938 (after Moscow show processes, mass terror, etc.), and especially in 1939 (after Molotov-Ribbentrop pact) both wings realized that they were wrong. RSDRP in immigration understood very well that their underground organizations in the USSR were completely wiped out. Thus, by publishing in the "Socialist Messenger", Mensheviks were primarily talking to each other (and their numbers were tiny), it was a way to flash out their ideas and disagreements. Their only semi-realistic way to effect the events was through Socialist International (RSDRP was part of it). However, due to their internal split, Mensheviks could not accomplish even that. I am not sure what RSDRP position during the WWII was, if I had to guess, they were again split on how to support the Soviet Union in this situation (i.e. support 100% or support, but to condemn the Soviet totalitarian system at the same time). Incidentally, after the WWII, some of the Mensheviks, e.g., Dallin and Nikolaevsky also known as Nicolaevsky, again became relevant. Among other things, they interviewed Soviet DPs who found themselves in the Western Europe, to record the plight of the ordinary Soviet citizens under Stalin's rule (D.Dallin, B.Nicolaevsky, "Forced Labor in Soviet Russia", YUP, 1947). Since Mensheviks were acutely interested in what was happening in the USSR, they turned out to be useful in the beginning of the Cold War. For instance, once the Russian program of Radio Liberty was established in 1950s, it would invite Mensheviks for their broadcasts (rather than, say, monarchists), I can explain why if this is interesting. The same Nicolaevsky (who immigrated to the US in 1940) was one of the first American "sovietologists" and is regarded by some as "the father of Kremlinology" (see "The Anti-Communist Manifestos: Four Books That Shaped the Cold War", by John V. Fleming, 2009). There are several sources you may want to take a look at, for instance, "From the Other Shore: Russian Social Democracy After 1921", by André Liebich, HUP, 1997. Most of my sources are in Russian, so I am not sure if you will find them useful. There was another party you may want to read about, the Socialist-Revolutionary Party, more precisely, its right wing. In exile, they continue to function through 1940s. 

I am philosophically opposed to answering trivial questions that have no historical importance, but since this question seems to be "accepted by the community" and the only other answer is completely wrong, I guess I will do it. The building in question is the former headquarters of the Eridania Society (meaning corporation), a beet sugar refiner which is now part of a large French-based conglomerate. The reason for having the shields of those four cities is because Eridania had business offices in those cities. For example, a World War I-vintage north-west Italian commercial register listed them as one of the "industrial companies" with a location in Venice, for example as shown below: Now that we have sussed out the earth-shaking reason for this company to have these decorations on its headquarters, I hope we can avoid repeating the process for the buildings of the other 100,000 industrial conglomerates in Italy and France and Britain and Germany and the rest of the world. 

With very few exceptions, immigration into the United States had been largely shut down by the Johnson–Reed Act in 1924. Nearly all the European refugees who came to the United States before 1941 did so illegally, sneaking into the country, usually through Canada, or by overstaying specialized visas, such as visas granted to journalists. After December 1941 all of Europe and the United States was heavily militarized and it was very difficult to cross borders at all, even illegally, so anyone who failed to get out before that time was likely to be stuck unless they were rich and very resourceful. 

Julie Novkov, Racial Constructions: The Legal Regulation of Miscegenation in Alabama, 1890-1934, Law and History Review, Vol. 20, No. 2 (Summer, 2002), pp. 225-277. 

The doctrine lasted from mid-1950s until 1971. You can read more about it in the wikipedia link and, for more detail: William Glenn Gray, Germany's Cold War: The Global Campaign to Isolate East Germany. University of North Carolina Press. (2003) ISBN 0-8078-2758-4. 

In a way, the Hallstein Doctrine served as a form of sanctions (on the part of West Germany at least). 

Well, if you are working in a place deemed "important", say, in an aircraft design bureau, chances you get one are pretty good. (But if you are not on good terms with your boss, you have a problem.) But what if you are working in a shoe-repair place? Or a collective farm? (Which means you live not in Riga but somewhere in a country-side.) Chances are very minimal. You wait and wait and wait for the life-saving evacuation document and then Germans arrive all of a sudden. (The rest you know.) What are your other options? Say, you get your wife, kids, parents and you try to walk along a highway. In particular, you have abandoned your workplace illegally and you are also impeding the military traffic. The first NKVD patrol that sees you will declare you a "saboteur" (somebody sabotaging Soviet industry by leaving your workplace without a permission) and "paniceur" (somebody spreading panic about the danger of advancing German troops and who does not believe that the glorious red Army will soon crash the German invaders). So, you get shot on the spot (quite legally!). Edit. I will add more when I have more time. Here is an extract from $URL$ (which is in Russian): 

Ancient sources are pretty vague about crucifixion. My understanding is that the naked element comes from two sources: a single sentence in the Oneirocritica and from ancient Jewish practice/law. In the Oneirocritica the reference is to "naked (gumnos) flesh" on the pole (stauron). However, this work is about dreams and the context is pretty philosophical, so I definitely would not consider it purely literally. In ancient Jewish practice of execution the condemned was always stoned naked, and this was explicit. In general, I think you are safe in assuming crucifixions were done naked because ancient Roman slaves did not wear undergarments. Most slaves just had a tunic and that was it. Most did not even have shoes. Take the tunic off and the guy is buck naked. Ancients did not, as far as I know, wear "loin cloths". 

What we know of the culture of the ancient Egyptian people corresponds to what the ancient Romans used to write about them, namely that they were a very stolid and peaceful people, given to steady work and reverent attention to their gods and customs. In particular, they spent much of their time attending to their river-run lands, building dikes and canals and managing agriculture. In this way they may be compared to the Dutch who, like the Egyptians, have always spent much time geo-shaping their land and managing their farms. Such types of people tend to be peaceful, not looking to attack their neighbors. For example, it is easy to find many instances of the Germans and French attacking the Dutch, but harder to find examples of the Dutch attacking them. Like the Dutch, the Egyptians were good traders and found goods acquired by trade are often better and cheaper than those acquired by plunder. Yet another comparison is to India, where like Egypt, the soil is considered sacred and a person defiles themselves by leaving it. Such cultures dislike invading or attacking foreign countries and tend to focus on developing their country from within. 

Sometimes Soviet Army (especially during the first two years of the war agains Germany, 1941-43) successfully used its cavalry units. Success depended on many factors including tactical skills of its commanders (General Below for instance was quite successful), terrain (dense forest), weather (heavy rain, deep snow), roads (deep mud), time of operations (night operations, when cavalry could be moving quietly while tanks would be heard form a distance, see "Cavalry Combat at Night" from Tactical and Technical Trends). The History of Soviet Airborne Forces, by David M. Glantz describes in detail some of these operations. Here is Glantz' quote (page 217) of general Halder concerning Belov's units performance: 

Thus, in principle anti-miscegenation laws could have been applied to Jews as well. The paper lists various state laws and court decisions which were based on this doctrine. These legal documents (I presume) are in the public domain, so if you are sufficiently motivated, you can read them and see if these laws and court decisions were applied to Jews. I also looked through: 

From Robert Messie "Nicholas and Alexandra: The Classic Account of the Fall of the Romanov Dynasty." (If you do not know, Ilyich in this context means Lenin.) 

[1] Trotsky, Leon, The History of the Russian Revolution. 3 vols. Translated by Max Eastman. New York, Simon and Schuster, 1932. [2] Bykov, P. M. The Last Days of Tsardom. London, Martin Lawrence, 1934. P.S. The story with the initial official denial of the execution of the rest of the family an then blaming PSR members, I find a bit strange, more precisely, out of character for the Bolshevik leadership: They were not shy (actually, quite proud of) of admitting mass terror against the "class enemies". Executing spouses and children of the latter was quite consistent with the (theory and practice of) Communist morality. However, it is irrelevant regarding the original question.