You don't even need a tidally locked world. Get close enough to the poles and dig in and Mercury is comfortable. The temperate band is some distance from the poles (the poles themselves are way too cold!) so you could go even closer than Mercury and still have a suitable observation base. 

Newton says your penetrator must be degenerate. The problem is that when a high speed projectile plows into something it's going to be basically stopped in the distance where it has displaced mass equal to it's own mass. The only way you'll get that kind of mass is with degenerate matter or else with something traveling so close to lightspeed that the energy liberated by it's passage blows the planet apart rather than drilling a hole. Note, also, that your hole will promptly close behind the projectile. 

No. It's impossible. The problem is the law covers a lot of specialized areas and the law will be written taking into account those specialized vocabularies. Even if you waste a whole bunch of words avoiding the use of the specialized vocabularies it won't help because the average person will not have the understanding of the field to know what the law is referring to. The closest I believe it's possible to come to this is a legal system understandable by the typical skilled practitioner of the act being regulated. I also think it would be possible to basically eliminate precedent as a problem--require that any precedent-setting decision either modify the law itself or at a minimum add the case as an example on the law. We no longer need the law to be a single block of text, it should be full of hyperlinks. 

To expand on what Serban Tenasa touched on: Build generators. Instead of storing energy you store the means of making energy. 

If he knows where the catastrophe is going to happen he should move to far away from it. Otherwise, nothing other than choose his investments with the apocalypse in mind. The thing is, a disaster that is going to wipe out 80% of the world's population must be selective in area. If 80% of the people in a modern society are killed the system will have so many holes that it collapses. We are extremely dependent on resources from elsewhere, when that breaks down the death toll will be major. If we have to fall back on locally-produced resources the US isn't going to be supporting anything like 60 million people. Thus we can conclude that the disaster will kill basically everyone in an area comprising 80% of the world's population and leave the rest untouched. 

As has been said, it's just armor. Why would you bother with making something like city walls out of it? Now, there's one thing worth making out of it--helmets. Back then you could choose protection or visibility, not both--and even if you chose protection you could die of something through the eye slit. A helmet of this material would have no eye slit. 

Proof: Next week's stock closing prices. All of them. Encrypt and send to whoever you are trying to prove that you're a time traveler to. After the time has passed give them the decryption key. What to bring back: As much as possible of whatever has replaced the physician's desk reference. (The whole thing would trivially fit your phone if they have it in a suitable form. If you have to take pictures it won't.) Depending on the exact rules: Whatever can be done in anti-aging treatments in 24 hours. Note that 24 hours will not protect you from the summer heat in many places. 24 hours in the summer outside the city I grew up in--survival would come down to what sort of shelter I could find quickly. No tools, no water--without decent shelter you wouldn't make it. The worst-case estimates for global warming are far nastier than this--even with water it would be unsurvivable. 

Impossible. There are multiple problems here: 1) You can't free dive to hundreds of meters beneath the surface. While you just possibly might be able to create a diving bell (probably not, the compressor needs to be pretty powerful and I don't think they could do it) they're not going to be able to create the mixed gas mixture needed. 2) The same pressure & air problem exists for the city. Even at the smallest depth that satisfies "hundreds of meters" you're already way into the realm where special atmospheres are mandatory. You have no way to make the atmosphere and you're going to have a very hard time keeping the pressure out to do it with a normal atmosphere in there. 3) It's going to be almost pitch black at that depth. What's their light source? I'm not aware of anything that doesn't need oxygen or electricity--you're going to have to be supplying a lot of oxygen to light your city. (Before someone says "bioluminescence" the creatures that produce it use oxygen.) 

All the dematerializing approaches to teleportation have big problems with precision. The focusing surfaces required are simply too big. While prohibitive it is at least possible with something like Larry Niven's teleportation booths where you have equipment at both ends. Forget Star Trek! However, there is another approach. While there's nothing to say it's possible, neither can it be ruled out: Step #1: You create an empty pocket universe. Step #2: You place this universe parallel to your teleportation target. Step #3: You move your target from this universe to your temporary universe. Step #4: You move the universe to your destination. Step #5: You move your target from the pocket universe back to ours. Step #6: You dispose of the now-empty pocket universe. 

Seven gigaton-range nuclear weapons (if you find you can't build one that big you simply use the weapon you can build as the trigger for another fusion stage. H-bombs work just as well as a-bombs at triggering h-bombs) mounted on rockets that can lift them 100 miles up. I'm figuring bombs over North America, Europe, west Asia, east Asia, South America, Africa and Australia. They'll cause devastating EMP damage and light fires out to the horizon (and from 100 miles up the horizon is very far indeed.) The power grid goes down and society will have collapsed long before replacement parts could be built. (The parts are custom, they aren't just sitting around to be installed.) There will be truly massive wildfires that will burn a lot of cities also. While the bombs will cause few direct casualties the collapse of the infrastructure will be absolutely devastating. The world will go from supporting 7 billion to supporting some tens of millions at the most--and all those extra people won't simply die peacefully. Budget permitting do this after the bio attacks mentioned in various messages. 

Black Death level diseases can only exist with a dispersed population or with a non-human reservoir, otherwise they burn themselves out and go extinct. Since we no longer have an adequately dispersed population and no such killers are known that means something new. Unfortunately, new diseases are all too possible due to mutations or species jumps. Fortunately, such upstarts tend to start out not too infective as they haven't adapted to the human body well enough yet. We had a close call with SARS which was no doubt such a scenario. It hit in a place with sufficiently high tech medicine that it got pounced on and quarantined fast enough that it never developed the easy spreading that is required for a pandemic. Fortunately, nobody who was infected flew to a place like Africa that lacks the ability to stomp on it. It would have burned hot through the millions of Africans infected with HIV and by then it would likely be spreading better. However, the really nasty scenario is when something that does spread well picks up lethal genes from somewhere. The flu is notorious for exchanging genes and so it's a likely culprit for this. Of course the disease hunters would see it and try to stomp on it but it spreads well enough quarantine would likely fail and vaccines take months. Modern air travel is a nightmare for quarantine efforts. If you want to take the threat up to 11 consider a madman who does this deliberately. Instead of one patient zero you could have thousands. Put dispensers in a bunch of airports and the chance of a quarantine is zero. 

The only scenario I see is plague. You need a disease that spreads extremely well but doesn't appear worse than the common cold. It will have to happen during the northern hemisphere winter so there's personnel exchange with the antarctic bases. It's second--lethal--stage will have to occur after a long enough period that groups like the boomer crews have been exchanged. While it would have to be an airborne vector it would need to be something that can't live very long in the environment so resupply rockets wouldn't bring it to space. Remember, sick crews don't fly--if you've got everyone down with a cold no manned rockets are going up. All the other nasties that have been mentioned upthread would still have catastrophic effects long past the maximum endurance of the crew. I can't imagine this as anything but a bioweapon. Perhaps some group thought they had a vaccine... Or maybe they did have a vaccine but the world's intelligence services figured out where they were holed up and someone pushed the launch button. 

The reason they don't turn around is they can't. You talk of a slingshot maneuver around a passing star. 1) It's very unlikely there will be any passing stars. Space is vast, it's unlikely there's a star that close to their path. Not only that but the mission planners would deliberately stay away from stars as much as possible--stars mean gas that slows the ship and they mean debris that threatens the ship. 2) If you are traveling at a velocity that allows you to use a star to turn around you're going way too slow to get to your destination in any reasonable interval. If we figure a thousand year voyage to the nearest star we are still looking at about .25%c--well over 400 miles/second. If you want a U-turn at that speed you need a degenerate body. 3) If we are considering a generation born in space we have already flown a lifetime. Suppose you could magically make an immediate U-turn--you're still looking at another lifetime before they get back. Thus such a generation has no hope of getting back to Earth even if they do turn around.