You may be able to lie for a few day days; but they will want to see the form. Unless you plan on faking it and you know they won't call your boss this will not work 

You could suggest that the schedule for the team lead to move the waste should be modified. Most places will throw the grounds into a trashcan which is then collected every day, though sometimes the Friday trash isn't collected until Monday morning. Your team lead could make it their job to remove the grounds at the end of the day. They may either take them home or store them in the their office. Tell them that the smell is getting too much, and the risk of mold growth doesn't help the smell. 

When they verify the dates you have been with your current employer, will they be calling a fake company or will they be calling the old company and you hope that they don't notice that they provided an end date. If they are calling the most recent company they may call your manager who you can convince to lie for you, or the 3rd party that provides employment verification and won't lie for you. You are frustrated. You will run into people that believe that if you are not currently employed there must be a problem with the person. But you also have to realize that others have been in your situation, or have experienced close calls where they escaped being one of the 20% let go in restructuring. 

You must contact payroll to determine if you are the only one, or one of many. You phone call may be the first of a wave of complaints. 

This might be a generic question that they pose to every applicant for every position. But I am going to assume that it is important for the position you are applying for. The job might be a part of a team. You might be the only person of your type on the project team. Or the team could be only a group of people all with the same job type. For example one graphic artist on a 10 person project team; or one of 10 graphic artists supporting company headquarters. Try to think of examples of situations where you have worked in those situations. You don't want to tell stories. But you want to be able to describe the teams you were involved with. 

You need to decide what you will do. And that depends on how much you need the job. If they decided to interview you, and gave you the test, they believe either: 

It is also possible that your colleague is wrong. I had one colleague who had in his mind strict rules about dress, hair and tattoos. The rules only existed in his mind. He refused to notice that management sometimes dressed casually, and that they didn't have buzz cuts. There is a difference between not shaving today because I over slept and making a decision to have a beard. Unless there are safety or health rules banning beards, most companies aren't going to have an outright ban. You also have to evaluate the opportunities you are supposed to be missing. Technical tracks tend not to care about your appearance, as long as it doesn't cost them business with the customer. Public facing positions do have some guidelines. Only you can decide if a beard fits in the definition of 'professional'. 

If the goal is a quiet workplace open plan offices are the wrong design. They are to provide ease of communications, and to provide the exact opposite of quiet. If normal communication creates a bad working environment, then the office space needs to be reconfigured. But what you are asking about are small rooms provided to allow privacy for certain phone calls. They should be sparsely furnished so as not to invite use as meeting rooms or visitor spaces. They typically have a phone, chair, and a shelf that serves as a writing surface. Yes a chair is required so that they don't have to juggle everything while taking notes during the call. They do require a light, but no plugs to discourage people from setting up shop in the space. They door should lock from the inside so that others realize the room is occupied. The walls should be real (not made of the same material as the cubes) and go all the way to the ceiling. The walls shouldn't be completely transparent, so they do provide some privacy. If the doors open out into the hall, the rooms can be smaller, but that can be a hazard to those walking by. They can either be centrally located on each floor, or scattered throughout the building. Both arrangements have pluses and minuses. Central location means everybody walks, but increases the likelihood that when you need a room one will be available. Spread out locations may minimize walking for many people, but does mean that if the closest one is occupied, you will have to keep looking. 

My children and other relatives have over the past few years had a variety of internships. Some have been willing to let their interns take a week off (they had PTO hours), others were neutral, and some were upfront about not allowing any vacation. The one that expected interns to be there every workday said so in the position description that was visible before they could even apply. The company even mentioned it during the interview. One type of internship that did limit the ability to miss days was one where the intern needed to complete X hours in order to receive the college credit. They has no problem with small schedule adjustments, but there was no point in missing enough days to fail to meet the program requirements. The position was unpaid, and you just paid money to the university to fail a class. It is fine to ask. If it is a deal breaker: if they say no you will not want the internship; then ask during the interview. If it isn't a deal breaker: bring it up after you accept, but before you start, In either scenario don't bring it up in a rude manor, but bring it up in a positive light. You want them to know you are helping others, not wanting a week off for beach week. It is best to at some point get it in writing (via email) so that they don't forget. 

If the style of the meeting makes it appropriate then yes complete those small tasks. If the meeting is close to being a hackathon then not only is it appropriate, but it is probably even appreciated. I have even used a smartphone/laptop to pull up relevant info to keep the meeting moving. I have also been involved with projects where the meeting is designed to be one way communication, so fixing the problem as soon as it is mentioned would be seen as disrespectful. I prefer meetings and projects where participants feel comfortable with responding to requests in real time. 

For all the companies I have worked for, the last day of work has to be local. The company expects you to return your badge, credit card, computer, and any other equipment. They will ask that everything of yours be removed from the company office. They may need you to complete an exit interview, and to sign documents. They generally will not be prepared for you to stop being an employee while you are on company travel. As your manager I would ask that either you extend your last day until one workday after you return from the trip; or I would not let you travel and have your last day while the rest of the team is on the trip. Note: make sure that you submit all the required documents for travel reimbursement as soon as you return, that way you don't run into the issue of being unable to submit your travel claim after your email has been turned off. 

Until you have returned a signed offer letter that has zero contingencies, you are smart to keep applying and interviewing. Examples of contingencies are: contract award, background check, drug test, customer approval.... As long as there are contingencies they can easily delay your start date, or cancel the offer. So today you evaluate company X as a better situation, but in a few weeks that might not be true. Don't think to much about this. Employers know that people who are looking for jobs are juggling multiple situations, each of which is at a different stage of the process. 

You are trying to highlight what part of you makes you the best choice for the position. You need to match your strengths to what in in the job description. The information will be in your resume or on the application, but this is your chance to politely point it out to them. If you know something about the company, its history or culture and how you are a good match point that out also. 

Some companies in the United States have tried to use some incentives. They have paid for programs to help their employees to stop smoking. They have offered lower rates for life and health insurance for non-smokers. In a few cases they have wanted tougher rules, but they are difficult to enforce. And you can imagine they are not popular. I am not sure how the availability of e-cigs will change the situation. 

The company has decided that a employee that is on a PIP is critical to project on a crucial system. If I was in charge of the project the number one management goal is to get another employee or a new employee into a position so success didn't depend on the employee on a PIP. Because you are on a PIP you should be trying to find a position, which from your question it appears you have done some of that. You should not feel an obligation to the company, because once they have somebody in place you will be considered expendable. Resigning before you they release you or before you have a signed job offer doesn't make sense. But the PIP means that as soon as you can get a new job, your shouldn't feel bad about resigning. 

In some cases the company may have a government contract that defines the salary range. In some US government contracts the government specifies the maximum they will pay the company per hour for a person with a specific skillet and years of experience. The overhead requirements of the company translate how much per hour is paid the the employee. The contract also specifies the maximum profit the company can make so that ends up setting the floor. For example the government will pay $30 an hour for a mid level widget maker. The company overhead means that $15 is available to the employee as direct pay: the rest go for benefits, overhead and profit. To make sure they don't hire people who are naive enough to accept $10 per hour which would result in an extra $5 in profit for the company, they specify that the lowest pay rate is $12. Thus it will be reported as a pay range of 25K to 31K. It can be even more complex if the are multiple people doing the same job, they can overpay some and underpay others as long as the group falls within those ranges. For the person applying: if the minimum you will agree to is near the top of the range, you might have a problem next year. The issue is that the top of the range generally only moves with inflation, so the size of your potential raise is also limited. If you are near the bottom of the range and do a great job, they can give you a bigger raise next year. 

So if you never turned in a W-4, they should set it to single and no withholding allowances, which will result in the maximum amount of federal taxes withheld. The good news is that you can submit a new form (as well as the state version of the form) at any time. So calculate what it should be, and then submit it. In a paycheck or two you should see the change. W-4s, health insurance forms, 401K and direct deposit forms are very important forms that you should get into the habit of submitting in the first few days or even the first few hours of a new job.