There are always a lot of unknowns in the interview process, and the thing you would hope is that it is the skills of the applicant that determines whether you get the job or not. I think interviewers don't always have the best idea of what the 'right fit' is necessarily, and to take anything they say personally just makes you feel worse when you face a similar situation next time. There is definitely a big factor whether they know you have applied or not and whether it is the same person doing the recruiting or not. I think the fact that you reapplied for a similar job means that it is of interest to you, and I don't think it can work against you unless there was a specific reason they didn't want to hire you the first time and you need to avoid tripping the same alarm again. If you cannot obtain this information, then I would suggest that you look at this as being a new interview where you have gained more skills and experience as an employee, and that if this is the right timing for you then the rest will take care of itself. 

The topic of interest is ergonomics, and you can also find lots of information scattered around the web about this topic if you look at keyword terms like workplace ergonomics and workplace health and safety. I suggest that this is something you raise with a OHSO (occupational health and safety officer) because it is something that should be customized to individual shapes and sizes, the equipment that you use and the office environment. 

I think good things to include would be that you have either had cultural experience (e.g. traveled or worked or worked with people from those countries) or cultural interest (e.g. you are learning the language, enjoy the music or food). 

I guess if his actions (and some of them seem pretty bad) hasn't created the kind of reaction that would draw attention to your boss, then it means that people in the company don't care enough about customer relations. Your case is a good reason why there should be workplace performance reviews, and that people who don't cut it after a probation period should not continue to be hired. Perhaps this is something that needs to be introduced, otherwise you just have to give your boss the hard work and put something in front of him so he can see for himself what the person is doing to the reputation of the business. 

The job contract is an agreement on what your responsibilities and tasks are, so if you view it as important (and the employer should as well) then you should make every effort to raise it with the relevant people. There is no way to tell whether they will honour the terms of contract until you start the work, and so if they break the terms then you should have every right to walk out (after giving them the opportunity to rectify the situation). Putting up with it just gives them the justification that there is nothing wrong, so you need to weigh it up in terms of what you have to gain and lose the longer you wait. 

I'm not aware of a legal requirement to give two weeks notice anywhere, unless you signed a contract to that end. Over my 26 years in IT (Helpdesk, Application Developer, now DBA), I've experienced my fair share of bad fits. There have been times when I wanted to walk out the door without so much as a by your leave, but I never did. That said, if it were a sufficiently bad fit, and if I had something better in hand, I might well consider it. If you can at all give two weeks notice, then do so. If you have already established a start date with the new company, then this may not be possible (e.g. you said you'd start on December 28). Any time there is rapid turnover or a short stint on a resume, yes it will sometimes raise red flags to a future potential employer. They don't want you to walk out the door on them. With that said, I've left places on good terms knowing that I would never be welcomed back there because of a corporate culture of loyalty where you're with us or against us and if you leave then you are dead to us. There is no pleasing some people, even if you are there for a short time and you do good work for them. A lot of my experience gained over the years likely would not have been possible had I not been assertive in my pursuit of opportunities. This assertiveness has led to me work for 14 different places in 26 years, and yes at times they've asked me whether I was a job hopper. Most of the time, when asked in interviews, I was able to make an effective case that either I wasn't being challenged with the work, the organization didn't have a real future, that it was a short term contract I knew about going in, or something similar. If the situation is as bad as you say--and unlike the rest of us you're there on the ground so you'll know best--then you should leave and take the job offer with the new employer, regardless of whether you are able to give two weeks notice to your current employer. In terms of what you should say in the future, or even when telling your current employer that you are leaving, always remember that the glass is always half full, at least. Even in the darkest of times, present things in a positive light. When you are asked a question, any question, the person asking you the question generally does not want you to give a full and complete answer. A question such as, "Why did you leave Company X after working there for only a few weeks?" might take 10 minutes to give a full and complete answer and the answer has five components--three of which are considered positive, one is considered neutral, and one is considered negative. If asked that question, start with one of the positive components and segue into another of the positive components, then stop talking. You will have answered for 30 seconds to a minute, answered with a positive answer, and because you stopped talking they will assume you have answered the question. 

I think regardless of the actual GPA score, the important thing is to provide some explanation so the interviewer can put it in the right context. For example, a bad GPA score may reflect that you are not good at exams if you can back it up with good practical knowledge and work experience. Alternatively, a good GPA score may reveal some lack of practical knowledge but at least shows dedication to learning and commitment to achieving to your potential. So the important thing is to bring out the positive aspects no matter what the score is, and address the concerns that the interviewer might have with any perceived shortcomings as reflected by the score. 

A team made up of a heterogeneous group of individuals each with their own specialist skills (e.g. Graphic Designer, Front-End Developer, Copywriter) A team made up of a homogeneous group of individual each having multiple specialist skills (e.g. UX designers) 

Depends on if you want to place the emphasis on the title and/or the actual involvement that you have had in the project. If you are the key/lead engineer, then the title will suggest that you have a main role in the development of that project. If it is a team and different people had different roles, then you should specify your contribution under the responsibilities/achievements/outcomes of the project. Writing that you participated to a high degree as you proposed, will only like to draw the same questions that you can already answer by providing better details in the cv. 

Is this something that people have struggled with in the past? I find that when you look at a card and everyone is writing the same thing, or someone who knows the person well writes something very fitting and personal, it always makes the next person's job that much more difficult. Is there something that you have used in the past that is both simple and not too over the top, especially when you don't know the person very well? 

I am looking for specific scenarios that is considered common practice or have caused problems in the past when you simply Reply to the sender rather than doing a Reply All to people that were included in the 'cc chain'. There is a perception that people use cc emails to put pressure on people to take more action or include relevant people in the discussion, but if someone does this and your reply is only to them specifically will this cause some other 'political' issue(s)? The question is, in the situation when someone deliberately cc other people (higher up the management hierarchy), would it be considered impolite if you simply just replied to the person (for example a quick yes or no), and will other people in the chain find it okay that they were not included? Does this make any difference if this person is ranked higher/equal/lower than you in the organization? 

Why is it that we sometimes feel the need to have conversations with people in the elevators/lift? I understand acknowledging people and saying hi, but it seems like in most cases (unless you are continuing one from the hallway) it doesn't work well for the people engaged in the conversation or those that have to listen to it. There are a lot of variables in an elevator/lift, such as when people get in and out of the space, when you and the person you are talking to get out, and the number of people in the space at any given time which makes it difficult to have conversation. Is there an acceptable way, or something in the etiquette rules to suggest what we should do in these types of situations?