Turning this into a Bicycles question - Do they have (safe/secure) stands/storage at the local station. Ride your bike to the station, leave it there, get on the train, ride a city bike to your destination. 

A front light needs to have both enough lumens (brightness) and have those lumens pointed in the right places - dictated by the reflector and lens. It also needs a battery (presuming its not dynamo powered) to last the length of the ride with some reserves. Addition things to consider are ease of install and removal from bike and mounting location, and battery size ( do you need to charge after every ride, or once a week?) . More Brightness is easy to cheap to achieve and easy to sell (Mines bigger than yours), and very easy ti lie about "6000lumen". Reflector and lens is design is hard to achieve and hard to sell "Its not the size, its what you do with it that counts" There are plenty of cheap Chinese lights on ebay that will do a good enough job for under $50, closer to $20 - they work on the "Bigger is better". For a better light in every way, you need to move away from these to a brand name light costing much more to something that has some brains behind the design. My budget dictates cheap Chinese lights and accepting the poor light distribution My $25 lights claim 1200 lumen, probably have 600 and its all pointing to a high intensity spot with very little out to the sides.The battery is claimed at 4400mAH, I have measured it at 2000mAH, but do get the claimed 2 hours on high. As already suggested, refer to the BikeLightDatabase, 

9 speed 11-36 is a common maximum cassette size. 42 would probably be too large for a 9 speed dérailleur to work reliably (Only 11 are specified to cope with 42 ). You would likely have trouble with the B screw adjustment, requiring a longer B screw or other hacks to get the dérailleur to clear the large cog. Even if you did succeed, the chain wrap would be minimal, increasing wear on chain and cogs. You don't say what the chaining sizes are on your MTB, or your wheel size. A better option would be a smaller chain ring. 

If you have master link pliers, the link is trivially easy to remove. These are cheap and a worthwhile investment for any cyclist who does any kind of maintenance. Without pliers its possible but some tricks can make it infinitely easier. The key to making it easy is pinching the plates of the chain together. If you get this right, it will just fall apart. If you get a chance, try it on a brand new link and see how easy it is. These links can be damaged using brute force, and its entirely possible to hurt yourself using the wrong tools and high forces, so best to learn to do it right and not need force. First clean the link to remove any dirt and grit from between the inner and outer plates so they can move closer together. If there is any dirt between the inner and outer plates, link removal becomes very hard. Next pinch the plates together. If you are lucky, the plates will slide apart easily. If not, wiggle them around while pinching them. You may need to use a pair of pointy nosed pliers as shown by @kabZX, especially with a dirty chain, but the trick is in the pinching the plates together. 

The brake (not break) / fork interface will be standard post mount and is the least of the problems. Adapters are readily availble so you won't have a compatibility problem that cannot be sorted for a few $$. The other issues to watch for when switching forks from that era would be the steerer - Talon was probably 1/18th straight, but tapered are now far more common. Its possible to get adapters to fit straight forks into frames built for tapered, but not the other way round. You will also need to match your wheel, or more accurately, axle. Likely the Talon had a 9mmQR, forks now comes in many variations of QR and though axle. Therefore you want to find a disc compatible fork fork with the same steerer and axle mount as you already have. 

Despite the the spindle length is 113, but as you observed, the offset is different - so the cranks are sitting in different positions. Not all Shimano BB are made symmetrical - and UN55 BC 1.37 x 24 113mm. means its a 1.37*24tpi thread, with a 113mm shaft - not mention on the offset of the shaft. Based on all this, evidence is that you have an imcompatable BB. Presuming you have correctly refitted the crank (so it is seated properly) - What to do about it - best would be to go to a 110, or even 107 mm BB - this will move the crank to the centre of the bike and fix the problem, also providing better alignment. Alternatively, are you certain the derailleur won't move out further. Best thing to do it unhook the cable outer from the frame (or shifter) so the cable is certainly free and not stopping the shifter moving to it's outer most position, and release the outer limit adjustment screw on the derailleur. If the derailuer then moves out far enough, you should be good to set up, as it's "just" adjustment of cable and limit stops. If not, you will need a different BB. It is not possible to install the BB backwards - the right hand side has a left hand thread....... Edit: In response to OPs comment..... The problem is then to do with the BB getting to the correct chainline - MTB sets should be about 47.5-50mm. If you cannot find the correct sized BB, and a 110mm is too short for the left crank, you have two other options - try a different left crank, or (Perhaps for the really desperate only) I have seen this web article about grinding off the lip on the fixed right hand side, allowing you the thread it into the frame further, thereby to give the ability to adjust the chain line. (I would get a local engineering shop to use a lathe.....) 

Welding aluminum and steel is not a DIY skill - read This. If you must repair rather than replace, a helicoil is the correct way to address the problem. A crank would be cheaper than the coil alone, let alone the time to fix it. Chemical bonding (AKA. Glue) is probably the only DIY solution. The issue I see is that when a pedal comes off while riding, it usually ends in tears (at best) up to a stay in hospital or worse. Why take the risk? Second hand cranks are readily available - I have a box of bit with at least 2 sets and an old bike with another if I needed it. Your LBS will probably have something for a few dollars. Visit you local rubbish tip/recycle center - I can almost guarantee they will have an old, unride-able bike with usable cranks.