I think other people have done a good job of going into the probable genesis of such a treaty, so I'll instead go over the clauses that I suspect would be necessary to create the environment you want, as well as the obvious issues with them. As I see it, there are 4 sorts of weapons which are particularly and obviously destructive to an environment, some of which are more useful than others against military targets. They are as follows: Bio-Weapons. This includes both chemical weapons and bio-engineered nasties, which would most likely take the form of Viruses and Bacteria but for completeness sake should include genetically engineered animals as well (no Xenomorphs allowed). These sorts of weapons are a lot more effective on Civilian Targets than military ones and have the potential for spirally wildly out of the control of their creators, so it's not too hard an ask to ban them. Relativistic Weapons. This was covered in another answer, but any material of even extremely minute mass can pack incredible force when accelerated to speeds in access of several KM/s. Such a weapon could casually destroy a space habitat, though it would be a lot less effective on a planetary body with an atmosphere. Worse still, due to the speed of the projectile, it's unlikely that active defenses would be effective against it. It's an effective military weapon, if a potentially expensive one. I think it would be a hard sell to completely ban this sort of technology, but you could theoretically put limits on the number of them, their total power output or perhaps the places where they are acceptable to deploy. If nothing else, it'll be pretty obvious if a space habitat gets hit by one, so assigning blame if one is used inappropriately shouldn't be too difficult. Gravity Weapons. This is where things get really tricky. Any large mass, when thrown at a larger mass, is going to cause some pretty terrible destruction. All you really need is the thrust to maneuver a comet, asteroid or space colony into a decaying orbit and you're going cause wide-scale damage. It's so easy that a military power need not even be involved. The good news is that, once again, this isn't actually a great weapon against military targets. It's slow enough that a military installation can probably move. Even if they can't, it's not going to be particularly accurate and a fortified military base would probably survive a near (in planetary terms) miss. The real problem is that this is an effective terror weapon, both because of the results and because it's so easy to do. Super Weapons. This is something of a catch-all, which is why I've listed it last. A straight ban on any weapon of sufficient size or power would be necessary for obvious reasons. History has shown that major powers will try to cheat this sort of thing, but skirting the rules is a lot better to openly violating them. In this case, any platform that gives a military power the ability to attack without fear of reprisal will make all other restrictions start looking more like quaint suggestions than intergalactic treaty. With this in mind, pretty strict rules should be in place to make building such a platform as hard as possible. On the bright side, this is actually one of the easier suggestions to implement. Superweapons are expensive and, like with bioweapons, limiting their development has historical precedence. Sure, everyone will try to cheat, but as long as they all cheat equally, it will probably work out. 

Various forms of this have been proposed as propulsion systems for ships in interplanetary or interstellar space, which should give you some idea of the energy that is contained in the beam. A neutral particle beam is needed for transmitting matter or energy over long distances since the beam of charged particles would otherwise disperse. The catcher might be a large superconducting ring, but when the "hot beam" passes through the magnetic field it may disperse into ions again, creating a huge radioactive cloud. If the beam impacts directly onto a target like the lunar surface, then extreme heating and inducing radiation in the target might happen. You will be mining radioactive glass for your materials. A "beam" of macroscopic particles (Smart Dust) might be a better solution. Some proposals make each piece of "smart dust" a tiny solar sail, so sunlight or perhaps a laser in orbit could be used to accelerate the "smart dust" towards the target. Since the macroscopic particles are neither charged nor moving at relativistic velocity, the problem of catching the "beam" of smart dust is also much easier. Perhaps a "pie pan" made from metal or sintered out of regolith would do as your mass catcher. The issue of heat will still be there, only not so severe (maybe you will have to pry off a pile of sintered material from the "pie pan" structure). Some proposals using "smart dust" to propel a spacecraft suggest that you can use the beam to achieve incredible accelerations (usually by breaking the beam down into a plasma so it can effectively couple to a superconducting magnetic "drive plate"), so it is possible to generate and transport a lot of energy using a macroscopic dust "smart beam" as well. 

I think the scenario you have outlined is plausible, if not necessary likely. Here is my suggestion for a different way you could implement it: Perhaps this city was built in a river valley/canyon along a long but narrow corridor. There would be plenty of reasons to want to built a city here. The river provides food and transportation, it can act as a key control point for river traffic up and down the river and the shape of the valley can provide natural defenses. In this situation, it makes sense that the rich elites would want to build up the walls of the valley. It's further away from the industrial center of the city along the river, it has better access to light and it's physically higher up. It's not much of a jump to go from here to erecting large bridges over the valley, creating more space for the upper class and making stratification more stark. Town is probably already going to be prone to flooding in the winter and spring as the river swells and wanes naturally, so erecting dykes along the river would make sense, which could gradually transition to walls as events further up river caused it to gradually become larger and as foundations were needed for the upper levels of the city. If it becomes really bad, they might even build a dam to control the waterflow, though this would require at least 1 canal to facilitate river traffic. Wrapping things up, this being a river valley suggests that it's not too terribly far from the mountains, from where a quarry could supply the building materials. In addition to fish caught from the river and crops grown on the fertile (if flood-prone) delta-lands at the mouth of the river, the rich are well positioned to feast on imported food. 

Pure/good/virtuous These sorts of words can be applied to practically anything. There may be a superstition (or even magical basis) for these words helping ward off evil and lead to favourable outcomes. It helps if the language makes no distinction between adjectives and adverbs ("pure" and "purely" are the same word). E.g. My pure wife purely brought pure-home purely 4 pure baskets of pure fish! The word can even be repeated a few times when the speaker is particularly concerned about something, or wants to show particular respect for someone/something. Additionally, the word (possibly repeated) could be used as a greeting and farewell. "Good good good good good!" could imply "This event [our meeting] is excellent!" With-God For religious reasons, it may be expected to say "with God" (which may be a single word), or something similar, about practically everything. Um Usually people who are searching for words mix up their filler words ("you know", "like", "um", "uh", "well") so as not to be too repetitive. But there could conceivably be a culture where conventional wisdom states that there should be one way to say something, and the simplest way should always be used, meaning that people always say "um" when they are searching for words, and they search for words a lot because they are trying to find the simplest way to say things. (Ha!) If the word rolled off the tongue nicely (like "mala") it might be repeated a lot while the person is thinking. Emphasis word A word that adds emphasis might be thrown into sentences frequently, sometimes repeated several times. If intonation and stress already serve other purposes in the language, then this usage could be reasonably long-lived. Overuse of not It is conceivable for sentences to be formed using negatives galore. For instance, "I'm not sick" could be phrased "not-others not-is not-healthy". Why would people do this? It might start out as humour, then turn into tradition. Maybe some revered hero or wise man spoke in this way and generations of people studied his teachings and emulated him. Maybe a bit far-fetched but somewhat plausible. 

Since an Earthly biosphere wasn't specified, I would say a closed ecosystem and the skills and materials needed to run such a thing would be the absolute minimum. Explorers can exit the "bubble" to discover what resources are there (so you would need geologists, prospectors, biologists and so on to catalogue the resources on your new world). Finally, trained technicians who understand mining, smelting forestry, agriculture and all the other trades needed to utilize these resources, so you would need a fairly large colony (to contain all the skill sets), some form of advanced database and learning system to teach the people new skills if you have a small population, or some form of advanced AI to teach people and run machines remotely would also be needed. If this seems pessimistic, consider the essay I, Pencil by Leonard Read. The accumulated knowledge to make a typical pencil in the modern world is spread among so many different people and different places (gathering raw materials, the logistics chain to get them to the factory, the various skills needed to convert the raw materials to a pencil and the logistical infrastructure to get the finished pencils to market) that no single human being knows all the steps needed to create a typical pencil and get it to the end user. Of course, you could also go the other way and send an enclosed ecosystem as a space colony and enough technical equipment to mine asteroids and moons to replicate the bubble as many times as you like, although once again a vast pool of either people or knowledge would be needed. Go straight to a space based civilization and ignore the planets (or leave them for later). If you can do that, the reasons for leaving the initial solar system might well be moot, unless you have to leave because your Sun is going nova or the solar system is being bathed in a gamma ray burst.