Creation is a concept of the Abrahamic religions but the concept does not exist in Eastern religions/philosophy. I always find it amusing that philosophers (and scientists) in the West want to divorce their philosophical musings and scientific cosmologies from religion but always find it hard to get rid of the concept of creation. The universe, or universes, are "projected" out of the Godhead which is neither existence nor non-existence, since it is is impossible to 'create' something out of nothing. What we see as the universe is simply a cycle in the eternal projection. What the Abrahamic religions see as the creation of the universe is seen by the East as the start of a cycle. A cycle ebbs and flows, expanding and contracting. Once it contracts, there is a period of quiescence, after which a new cycle of expansion begins. The projection is eternal - always was always will be. Even without a Godhead, why not an eternal universe that ebbs and flows throughout eternity? Outside of the sensual universe there is no time, hence eternal. Apologies to Dawkins and Hawking, but I find their logic lacking for a creation out of nothing. Their minds are still caught up in their childhood education that there was a creation at all. 

This sounds like Hinayana (Theravedic) Buddhism. Chandradhar Sharma in his book A Critical Survey of Indian Philosophy, Chapter V, section VI, says (available here - $URL$ 

What is mind? - Never matter! What is matter? - Never mind! But what is That that perceives? If you accept that you are a materialist, who perceives? If someone is dead, their brain complex no longer perceives this universe - yet, the brain is still there (albeit decomposing - but you don't feel the decomposing....). Whom then is perceiving this universe when you are living? Many people analyze the world as being either one of two states of existence, one of stone (matter) and the other of thought (mind). What right have you to limit existence to these two? Is human thought, human consciousness, the ultimate in consciousness? Cannot there be something greater than human consciousness? Taking for granted that there is no greater or higher state, what are we going through this circle all the time; what reason can explain this world? The sensible world will be the limit to our knowledge if we cannot go farther. But what reason is there is there to believe in the testimony of the senses? If reason is all in all, it leaves us no place to stand on this side of nihilism. Kant has proved beyond all doubt that we cannot penetrate beyond the tremendous dead wall called reason. But that is the very first idea upon which all Indian thought takes it's stand, and dares to seek, and succeeds in finding something higher than reason, where alone the present state is to be found. Mind and matter are not opposed to each other but are two states of a third state, which is neither mind nor matter. A good reference is What is Life? and "Mind and Matter" by Erwin Schroedinger 

Your theism is western centric theism - in Hinduism, religion is not in faith, or in belief, or in dogmas, religion is in realization. In the West, religion is for the most part a matter of belief. God is thought to be something that can only be experienced after you die. In the East, one is taught that God can be seen, can be realized (enlightenment), while you are still living. One is taught that it is not necessary to believe in God, that belief ultimately counts for nothing. One is taught to try and find out for yourself whether there is a God or not. One does not become an astronomer by laying in bed and saying 'astronomy' - one becomes an astronomer by studying a long time with astronomers and learning how scientific observations are done in astronomy. Likewise with seeing God. One cannot lay in bed and simply say 'God' - one has to study for a long time and learn the ways that others in the past have employed to realize God. As in the scientific method, there is a methodology to seeing God - not s set of beliefs. Hindu concepts of the universe are not in conflict with science. 

Nachiketa being a good obedient son, was only following his father's orders. In Katha I. i. 5. Nachiketa says "Among many I am the first;..." this sentence implies that a good son or disciple anticipates his fathers wishes, he does not have to wait to be told to do something before acting. In the Indian philosophical tradition, once a man says something or gives his word, it is considered a great sin to go back on it or take it back. Although his father had spoken in anger, it didn't matter. There are other examples of similar circumstances. When Arjuna brought his wife back with his brothers he called to his mother to come out and see what they had brought home today. Without looking out, their mother (thinking they had brought home some food) called out to share it equally among themselves. To keep it so that their mother would not have to go back on her word, all the brothers married the same woman. When Rama was supposed to be crowned King, one of his father's minor wives reminded his father of a promise he had made to her and demanded as payment of the promisse that he make her son King. Rama, so that his father would not have to go back on his word, declined the crown and was sent into exile. The moral of all these is threefold; 1) don't go back on your word 2) always be very careful what you say, and 3) be an obedient son/daughter/disciple no matter how bad the circumstances appear to do otherwise. In all three instances, Nachiketa, Arjuna, and Rama, it was an opening to great teachings and epics. 

From our human perspective, monistic traditions have no need for a design theory. It is only in dualistic monotheistic traditions that the concept arises. As Vivekananda points out, the material universe is the result of the limited consciousness of man. In monistic traditions there is no universe, no awareness by the Godhead of the universe. All this is only an apparent manifestation. The appearance of design is only from our limited consciousness, in a small segment of what is perceived, by us, as time. From what may be conceived as the larger scheme of the universe, infinite space and time, what we may perceive as design is only a series of haphazard events when seen through the lens of infinity. 

So, first you have to define what is the scientific method. The first step in the scientific method is to observe and collect facts in the natural world. For instance, using the classical myth, Newton observed an apple falling from a tree. He then observed that all the apples he watched fell from the tree (none went up in space, none hovered). He then observed other items also fell to the earth. He then collected data as to rates of falling speed, etc. He then developed a hypothesis - gravitation - that would explain the mechanism as to how things always fell. He then developed a mathematical formula that showed how gravitation could be applied to all objects. He then confirmed that his hypothesis was valid in new events (subsequent objects that fell did so at the same rate predicted by his formula). As his hypothesis could be tested repeatedly in the real world it and became generally accepted it became theory. If his hypothesis had not been able to predict future events, it would have remained a hypothesis and never a theory. Note: Newton never tested the hypothesis that objects fell because the gods pushed them down. He never tried to disprove the theory that objects fell because the gods pushed them down, he only tried to prove his theory. 

The Hindu scriptures do not teach creation. You cannot create something out of nothing. They state that the universe is projected out of Brahman which is neither being nor non-being, pure consciousness. They also teach that the universe is only one in a series of cycles, which have been going on infinitely before and will go on infinitely in the future. The universe comes to a state of quiescence between cycles. Brahman being consciousness, the universe projected out of Brahman is only consciousness. We perceive it as we do through Maya. We perceive Brahman as the universe. But we are part of the universe; Brahman is perceiving Brahman, but wrongly through Maya. 

All moral/immoral actions are personal. A group of people may share the same morality, but all actions taken are individual and are based on personal morals which are based on a person's own set of beliefs. Killing a person at random, no matter what the later consequences are, is immoral. It has a lasting - damaging - effect on the person's psyche and their own karma. What would happen if a person killed someone at random and then found out later his killing saved 1,000 people? Maybe he thinks he's a tool of God, or he can do no wrong? That all of his random immoral actions will be justified sooner or later? A very slippery slope...... 

Brahman of the Hindus is identical to Nirvana or Buddhahood of the Mahayana Buddhist tradition, but not the Teravedic tradition. The sameness of the Advaita and Mahayana traditions has been told to me directly by senior Hindu Sannyasins (monks) and senior Tibetan Buddhist monks. A good referential text is Professor David Loy's book "Non-Duality: A Study in Comparative Philosophy". On page 190 he states: "Of these three [Advaita Vedanta, Buddhism, and Sankhya-Yoga], only Advaita Vedanta is obviously an attempt to describe the experience of subject-object nonduality. With Buddhism one must be more careful qbout such a generalization: it seems true for Mahayana, but not for Pali [Teravedic] Buddhism, at least not explicitly (an issue we return to)." As afar as the Christian tradition, the Christian mystics (for example, St. John of the Cross, St. Teresa of Avila, Thomas A Kempis) were very circumvent in describing their spiritual raptures of "oneness" - not wanting to run amuck of official church teachings. Please see Professor Elaine Pagels book "Beyond Belief: The Secret Gospel of Thomas" and if you haven't read it, her book "The Gnostic Gospels" For a more nondualistic spin to Christian history. Haven't read any Taoism in years, but what I vaguely remember was it also was akin to the Advaitic non-duality. Please see page 123 of David Loy's book for his take on The Tao and Advaitic Vednata. I would only caution that I think Loy has slightly mis-interpreted the Vedantic concept of Maya on this page, and I would proffer that it is more akin to what he says is the Tao interpretation of this world. 

First, you have framed your question wrong. What does creationism vs evolutionism have to do with the 2nd part of your question? You are implying that if you have a creation, you must have a God. Second, that if you have evolution there is no God. Why cannot you have evolution and a God? You are also accepting a fallacy in the creationists argument. As described by Stephen Jay Gould (I think it was in either in one of 2 of his books, either Hens Teeth and Horses Toes, or Eight Little Piggies), that he says there is evolutionary fact and evolutionary theory. The creationists like to mix the 2 together evolutionary fact together with evolutionary theory. There is the fact that when we dig deeper and dig into older and older strata of rock, life becomes simpler and simpler. Then there is evolutionary theory, which is the explanation of these physical discoveries. Further, these are artifical limitations. In the Hindu religion, no matter what the philosophical bent, monistic to dualistic, they all agree there is a God, and they all agree that there is no creation - the universe is projected out of God. The actual original Sanskrit word is projection. According to the monists, the universe does not exist, we are seeing God, but we don't see it as God. The world is God and is real, but that is not the world we see, just as we see silver in the mother of pearl where it is not. We see Reality, but mistake it for something which it is not. Second, evolution was described in one of the early Hindu scriptures, in the Sankhya philosophy. Patanjali holds that the transformation of one species into another is effected by the "in-filling of nature" Evolutionary theory exists in some of the oldest recorded scriptures. Finally, Why did God create the universe? There is no concept of creation in Eastern philosophy. Creation is a Judeo-Christian concept. Eastern philosophy says that that what we see as the universe is a 'projection'. What we see as the universe is a projection of God. You can't create something out of nothing, there is no logic in that. To see the universe as it truly is - God - is what is meant by enlightenment. The projection always was and always will be - it has no beginning and no end. It is eternal. You were born in a human body and your senses have been bombarding your mind since birth that what you senses present to your mind is real. The illusion is eternal, to escape the illusion is what is meant by enlightenment - to become aware of your true nature. When you achieve this you see the world as God, not what your senses have been mistakenly seeing it as. Control the mind, cut off the senses. To ask why God created the world or why there is a projection is not a question that can be posed outside the sensual world. There is no why. "Why" only exists in the world of time space and causation. God is beyond the sensual world of time space and causation. For God to have a 'why' implies that God has a purpose in the creation - or projection - of the world, for God to have a purpose implies that God is not perfect. The syntax of your sentence is correct - Why did God create the world? - but good syntax does not imply good logic. 

The phenomenal universe rest on the Absolute. But the Absolute, according to both the Buddhist Mahayana school and the Advaita Vedanta school assert that the Absolute is not the 'cause' of the phenomenal universe; but it is that which the phenomenal universe rests upon. A desert does not 'cause' a mirage in the desert; the mirage is in the eye of the beholder, but the desert is the backdrop upon which the mirage is dependent. Being the 'cause' of the universe does not imply a first creation. Buddhists and Hindus assert that the universe has always existed and will always exist; that it goes through cycles...there was no first creation. For an example of this same non-dualistic reasoning from an Advaita standpoint, see this link, in the Introduction pp xix-xxii, and the section following the Introduction called Adhyasa or Superimposition - $URL$ 

You make a lot of unsubstantiated assumptions in your views of Eastern philosophy. First, Pre-modern African and pre-Colombian American would not qualify as Eastern philosophy. There was an empiricial school in ancient Hinduism (B.C.) but it has for centuries been only studied by scholars and has had no adherents since then. Swami Prabhavananda says in his book The Spiritual Heritage of India (p 201): 

You have made an a priori mistake in your logic. In the scientific method, a hypothesis is not the first step. The first step is an observer observes a natural phenomena - or fact - and sees if the natural phenomena can be seen (or tested) again. Having observed the phenomena multiple times (or tested), the observer then comes up with an hypothesis to explain the phenomena observed. The observer then tests the hypothesis by seeing if the hypothesis can predict the future outcome of the observable phenomena before it occurs. If the hypothesis does predict future behavior, then the observer develops a theory to explain the phenomena. If the theory developed can be supported by or enhances our understanding of other previously accepted theories, the theory is then generally accepted. Your second scenario does not fit the scientific method as "every object is created" is not an observable fact. You have started with a hypothesis that is not relying on any observable fact. The observable 'fact' is that we observe the universe, but if it was 'created' is not an observable fact. If you wish to have a hypothesis that it was created then you need to be able to observe a 'creation'. Read "Chaos: Making a New Science" by James Gleick. The universe is really a wave function.