Clamp the inflated tire (regular pressure) in a well secured workshop vice. You want to clamp the tire itself at the point where it dips. Then pull on the top of the wheel to force the bead into place. Make sure you only clamp the tire and not the rim and don't forget to flip the wheel and repeat for the bead on the other side. An LBS showed me this trick when I had a stubborn tire. At first I thought it was madness, but it really works. 

Have you learned how to skid the rear wheel yet? As you are coming into the stop you can give a few hop/skids to re-position your pedals before you come to a stop. After a while you get good at judging distances so you can nail getting the dominant foot forward at each stop. 

Try adding a particulate (e.g., glitter) to your sealant, this can help plug larger holes. Some sealants include particulate as part of their "formula." The hole may simply be too large for any sealant to successfully plug. In this case you repair with tubeless tire repair kit. These are either a cord that you use to physically plug the hole or a special patch for the inside of the tire. 

The lever pointed down is in the closed position and is how the manufacturer intended for the brakes to be used. The brake pad clearance should be set in this position. If the brake cable is routed correctly and the lever fully closed (and not damaged), tension on the brake cable will further lock the mechanism in place as it is on a slight angle causing the lever to be further pulled closed under braking tension. The lever in the up position opens the caliper arms up wider to facilitate wheel changes. Some people flip up the lever as a lazy way to get extra brake pad clearance when the rim gets out of true, but it isn't the best idea. That said, the brakes will still work, but are generally less effective with the lever positioned up. 

Spray generously with penetrating oil (something like WD40) Give said oil time to work its way into the seized thread (15 to 30 minutes) Use a vice-grips to grasp the rounded nut and unscrew If unsuccessful, go back to step 1 

Sounds like the thread of your skewer and/or the end nut is stripped ... as an emergency measure you could try inserting a slotted washer (see below) under the nut so that the QR can be tightened again, but for a proper repair, you'll need to get a replacement skewer. 

You should read up on bicycle handling dynamic to understand how various elements influence how your bike behaves during cornering. You did not provide the actual sizes of each tyre, nor the pressure you use in them. My guesses to explain why your cornering has changed so much would be: 

As anecdotal evidence, on my commutes, I find I am consistently 10% faster on my fixie, compared to my geared hybrid. I put this down to the noticeably better power transfer, and also to a lower riding position using bullhorn bars instead of flat bars. 

Flat bars are costing you some speed and so will your CX tyres (to a lesser extent). Converting your bars back to drops would make you faster for the same effort. So would mounting slick road tyres. To convince yourself of the importance of position on your bike try cycling at a steady level of effort while holding your bar ends as normal. Now while maintaining the same effort, move both your hands towards the stem so they almost touch in the middle. I almost guarantee that your speed will go up by 1 or 2kph because it forces you to lower your upper body and also narrows your front profile. Head to the Bike Calculator and experiment with expected speed when changing riding position to get a feel for how much "free" speed you are leaving on the table because of your flat bars. 

Most of the new schools of thought suggest moving back or forth on your saddle is more of an indication that the saddle offset isn't set up correctly, than it is advantageous. I would tend to agree. If you find yourself constantly shifting forward or backwards, this likely indicates that the saddle isn't in the correct position. Old school fitting have been obsessed with KOPS (Knee over pedal spindle), but this was originally derived as a general method to determine whether or not a frame size was appropriate (i.e., if you couldn't get into KOPS, you needed a different size). (There isn't even consensus on how you even measure KOPS as everyone landmarks the knee differnently - this can result in over 1cm difference in offset alone). Depending on your body proportions and bike position if you setup your bike to comply with KOPS this may have put you into a sub-optimal position, which is why you may find yourself moving forward or backwards. Best advice is to go out with a set of allen keys and level and ride a reasonably long climb. If you find your self wanting to move forward, try moving the saddle forward (0.5cm at a time) then retry. Eventually you should be able to fine tune your fit. The level is used to ensure you can keep the attitude of your saddle (i.e, nose up, level, or down) the same between trials. Optimal saddle attitude is a topic onto itself (I feel a lot of "experts" have little understanding on the functional bio-mechanics of hips and how this inter-plays with saddle attitude.) 

A geared bike main advantage over single/fixed gear bikes is to keep you at an efficient cadence over a wide range of speeds. This is particularly important when riding up hills. I find that on flat courses, and in the absence of strong headwinds, that advantage become quite small if you choose the correct gearing on your single speed. A single/fixed gear bike is simpler, lighter and more efficient than a similarly priced geared bike. This is particularly true of a fixed gear bike which greatly reduce energy loss in the drive train. So for a repeatable commute without steep climbs, you can select the gearing on your single speed to help you reach your optimal speed, based on your fitness. If you know your functional threshold power (FTP) this can be done quite easily. Use the bike calculator to calculate the speed you can theoretically achieve on your bike and course. Then use the other bike calc to work out what gearing will keep you at your preferred cadence for that speed. As an example if my FTP is 250W and I want to ride at around 80% effort, I'll enter a 200 Watt effort, my body weight, bike weight, riding position into the the first calculator, which gives me a speed around 31km/h. 

Everything I described above happened and I would not recommend running a clearly faulty BB for too long. I believe a BB using bearing cartridges might not fail as catastrophically as one with simple cages like the one pictured but I doubt it would end well in the long term. 

Example of an inner link measurement (10 links apart) I settled on your inner measurement approach (pictured above) and calibrate my Vernier calipers against a CC-2 device, so I could translate a linear measurement into an approximate % wear. I did this by creating a calibration regression chart converting the Vernier L1 measurement to a stretch percentage (see below). I figured that while the CC-2 can be difficult to use consistently, it should at least be generally accurate. Note that my calibration measurements involved only a very light push on the CC-2 gauge. Calibration I repeated three measurements of the CC-2 gauge at the 0%, 0.25%, 0.5%, 0.75% and 1% gauge readings. I then took the average and did a simple linear regression against the gauge readings (below). 

A recent study investigated the impact performance of 675 used helmets (some as old as 26 years) without signs of damage. (They collected 1500, and eliminated helmets with signs of damage). They all passed, except four. Three that failed were only made to meet the old ANSI standard, and the only newer helmet to fail was a recalled model. Because all of the helmets were used, some of the 675 would have been incurred some slight damage (e.g., being dropped, or bumped through regular usage) without showing direct signs of damage . The fact only 4 failed, and those 4 had other issues, this suggests if you don't see visible signs of damage on a modern helmet, it is probably okay. In fact given the large sample size and consistent ability to pass the impact testing, I now have a lot more confidence in the quality of modern helmets than I did before. For your helmet, makes sure to carefully inspect it. If you don't see visible signs of damage you are probably fine, assuming that the helmet was properly manufactured (i.e., NOT a grey market helmet), that it has passed all the modern certifications (i.e., check for the certification stickers), and that it was not a recalled model. 

In my experience, bike shops don't make much money off of turning wrenches. It then follows that they don't typically care for some bike that you chose to buy online instead of from their showroom, which is where most of their money is made. If you buy something that doesn't align well with a particular shop, i.e. an overly cheap bike and a shop that deals a lot with higher-end stuff, they might not want to associate themselves with such an inferior product. Cheap shifters and derailleurs, for example, can be impossible to dial in. One can not expect even a seasoned mechanic to be responsible for cheap metals that bend under pressure as their eventual imperfect performance could then be associated with his work or his shop. As a second example, cheaper rims can be a nightmare to true; as is expecting them to remain so. The time that it takes to work with a cheap bike is not worth the shop's time. All of this being said, however, just go into the bike shop and explain your situation to them. If you're ordering something that they think is worth their time, then expect to pay at least $100 to $125 for them to properly assemble it and tune it. They might even be able to show you something there in the shop that is comparable to what you're interested in! 

This is a textbook cable tension issue. Since you stated that your highest and lowest gears are working well, I assume that the middle gears are the ones that are slipping. You could take it back to the bike shop and explain this to them and they'll surely fix it for you. Given the time that has passed since they last touched it, they'll probably charge you. If you want to just fix it yourself, use the thumb and index-finger adjusters either up near your shifter or down at the derailleur. First, shift to a gear that slips, preferably the most centered gear on your cassette. Looking down onto your bike from above, or from behind the back tire, align your eye with your chainline and your cassette. Twist the cable tension adjuster to increase or decrease the cable tension and watch the derailleur move away from, or toward your spokes. Center up the line that the chain is running by watching your cassette and the derailleur pulleys. These will likely be very small adjustments! Center it up and then jump on and go through the gears. If you get it close, then use the adjuster up near your shifter to fine tune it while you pedal. If you can't get it, the cable might have stretched to the point where it needs to be reset at its anchor point at the derailleur. Bike shops should know to stretch all cables when they are installed and test ride everything, but this is a good thing to know how to do. 

For context, I have been doing group rides for about 20 years now, raced at the cat 1/2 level for a good portion of that, and had a fixed gear obsession off and on for many years too. Riding fixed is an interesting challenge, but it is most certainly not an out and out advantage. The short of it is that your 55 kph fellow is likely a strong rider, who also knows how to time an impressive effort. The combination of the factors is leaving all of you scratching your heads and doubting yourself... club ride mission accomplished! When fixed gear be an advantage In the right circumstances fixed gear bikes can be extremely efficient. You have a straight chain line, no pulley wheels and a lighter overall bike. Plus, your momentum helps push the pedals through the dead spot, making it easier to spin fast. If your gearing is right for the stretch you are riding then you may actually be at an advantage. For example, if you have a flat time trial with consistent wind and the right top end gearing, once you are up to speed, you will be hard pressed to find faster set up (other than a full aero TT setup). That said, fixed gear are only optimal in a limited set of situations... the rest of the time it's a suffer fest. When fixed can be a giant disadvantage While there are times you can fly on a fixed gear, depending on your environment and terrain it can also be a massive disadvantage. 55 km is a fast pace, which suggests he is pushing some big gear-inches. If you had any big climbs on your ride, or strong head winds, this gearing would likely be a massive suffer fest. One of our club rides has attacks starting on a stretch with sustained 17 degree gradient. On a fixed gear with a tall gearing pretty much any rider would get tossed out the back due to the mechanical disadvantage. We can also have some nasty sustained head winds. Again a fixed gear with tall gearing would be a suffer fest. If you lowered the gearing to accommodate these features, you likely would be able to hit your 55 kph "chicken run" speed. How to make yourself look stronger when at a disadvantage One part of group riding is figuring out ways to turn the screws on your fellow riders. This is often a combination of psychological warfare and physical strength. One of the best skills to learn is knowing your limits, your advantages, your disadvantages, and developing a good sense of timing. If I find myself at a disadvantage (i.e., slower bike, less fitness), I will focus on pacing, never doing more than the absolute minimum (conserve, conserve, conserve). I will likely plan for only one large effort, but in that effort I will put all my cards on the table (absolutely everything). Leave nothing behind (similar to the swimming scene in Gattaca. Even if that means getting spit out the back shortly afterwards. All you need is one massive effort for everyone to remember and be intimidated. No one thinks that is all you have, they often assume you could do it again and again (which is often not the case). What you can do Next ride, watch him for the whole ride. Does he hold back on other aspects of the ride (like taking shorter pulls), allowing oneself to slip from the front to the back during climbs. Is your club ride fairly sedate before the "chicken run?" All of these scenarios may allow him to metering and conserve his effort in preparation for laying down a beating on your "chicken run." If that is the case, it's not the bike that is the advantage its the combination rider and strategy and execution. If you want to flip the situation, you need to play to your advantages and his disadvantages. Because you have gears, you can ride at an optimal gearing in more situations. You need to make use of this advantage. You can do this by attacking him whenever his fixed gear appears to be putting him at a disadvantage. If it looks like the his gearing is too tall on a climb, hammer the hell out of the climb. If you have a head wind, gutter the peloton so that he can't draft. The more you do this the more his fixed gear will become a liability, and the less reserves he will have left for the fabled "Chicken Run." 

Note that this works fine for English threaded BB/frames (so with the majority of modern bikes). If you were to ever work on a classic Italian or french bike with Italian threads, the directions would be reversed on the drive side. 

I can use the second calculator, to select the best sprocket to pair with my 48 chain ring in order to get around my preferred 90RPM cadence for that speed (in that case 48x17). 

Your new tyres have a significantly bigger outer radius, hence affecting the trail of you bike. Your new tyres run at lower pressure and are therefor flexing more when leaning in corners. Your threaded tyre offer increased grip on the edges, while your slick have a reasonably constant grip regardless of leaning angle. 

Eventually your bearings will disintegrate and your BB will lose its ability to hold the spindle centred withing the BB shell, that will result in the crankset becoming wobbly, your chain will come off, your chainring might even go hit your chainstay and if you're lucky it will happen at low speed. Here's a BB I personally exploded on my fixed gear commuter 

Knee issues are mostly a symptom of bad pedalling mechanic (over extension, misalignment, imbalance, that sort of thing). Low cadence "grinding" does not fundamentaly change that unless you start altering your pedal stroke as your cadence goes down. Note that for fixed gear riding, you also need to consider how very high cadence (descending) may also alter your stroke. In terms of knee problems, fixed gear skids are another potential knee pain inducer as most people will bend one leg inward to get leverage against the frame. So in short, if your pedal stroke is sound, riding at low cadence should not represent a higher knee injury risk.