I've found that "soft shell" garments work really well in that temperature range as long as it's not raining. Soft shell fabrics are jack of all trades. They are much more breathable than your typical nylon shell, they are more windproof than a microfleece and with a good DWR they are reasonably good at repelling light rain and snow. My favorite fabric of this type is Schoeller Dryskin, but it's kind of pricy. Polartec Powershell also works pretty well. IMHO, you want to avoid anything that claims to be waterproof/breathable. Even the best versions of these kinds of fabrics are not breathable enough for moderate exercise. WB fabrics (i.e. goretex) have their use, but they are vastly oversold. 

The tools are relatively expensive compared to cone wrenches, but all cartridge bearings can be replaced if needed. $URL$ You need both a puller and a press of some kind. Cartridge bearings last a very long time with no maintenance at all. Since installing fancy ceramic bearings is part of high end road cycling these days I would think most competent shops would have the tools and knowledge to replace a cartridge bearing. But if you don't ride in the rain or power wash your bike, it's unlikely you'll ever need to replace them during the life time of a single rim. For road bike wheels, I don't have preference either way. It really depends whether you have the tools, skills and time to keep a traditional cone and ball hub working. 

What is the real goal you are attempting to accomplish? Increasing FTP suggests you're purely interested in improving your TT or climbing speeds. If you want to hang in the pack and be able to make that hard effort when tactics require it you need to do both kinds of intervals. Both kinds of intervals will have an effect on your FTP. The one that more closely matches what you are attempting to accomplish will probably have the biggest "bang for the buck". If you're purely interested in increasing FTP, then the longer sub-full effort intervals will likely show the most initial results. However, there is also the issue of diminishing returns, there comes a point where doing the same thing over and over again doesn't provide additional training benefit. And on the other hand, you have to be able to recover from the workout, those relatively long sub-full efforts can be very sneaky. It's easy to over do them. The short hard ones are largely self regulating, once the times start dropping, you know the workout is over. The kind of speed work you do is far less important than making sure you recover properly from the workout. There's no magic bullet to tell you, do this to achieve that number. Everybody responds differently to a specific workout and the best thing you can do to improve is to monitor your response. This is why athletes have coaches, figuring out exactly what to do next is difficult. 

As an ex racing cyclist who would regularly ride 100km per day just for training and 210km on a sunday club run I'd say your not giving yourself much of a chance here as riding that distance even over 3 days is not easy for a non cyclist.. You really need to be bike fit for a 330km ride, especially if there are time constraints. Training sets you up properly and will make the difference between the ride being an enjoyable experience and a painful slog. You may start off fine on your first 50km or so and think everything is going well.. But with no miles or training under your belt you'll soon be suffering from muscle fatigue & cramps.. Not to mention the increased chance of injury. Also be aware of the other pains associated with starting to ride a bike... Like wrist, butt and arm pain, these will normally pass but it takes a few weeks for everything to settle-in, assuming that the new bike fits you properly and is adjusted up well. I'm not trying to put you off here.. just trying to make you aware of what you can expect. I'll still wish you all the best on your endeavour.. & BTW.. Stay fuelled-up & hydrated. 

Its not unusual for wheels to go out of true within the first few miles or so of riding a new bike.. Especially if they're not built up strongly by a trained wheel builder... Most cheap to mid range bikes have wheels that are assembled by machine these days and the machines build them quite loose in a lot of cases.. Then when you put weight and lateral loads on the wheels during riding, they flex and end up out of true. The bike should be checked after a while by the place you bought It from, a sort of first service (normally free) And as well as checking the bike over.. They should also re-true the wheels for you and tension all the spokes again properly. This takes out the initial slack & flex in the wheels meaning that the wheel will stay straighter for far longer in future. 

Ghost shifting is generally caused by the frame flexing, not by friction in the cables. Other causes can be a poorly fitting or too short cable housing. Something is causing the length of the cable between the stops to change. Cleaning the cable run and using a teflon coated shift cable won't hurt and might alleviate the problem if it's a combo of bottom bracket flex and sticky guide. When this is the cause the problem tends to be very intermittent and only occurs when standing on the pedals to climb. However, as Daniel R Hicks suggests, check the frame carefully for cracks. An aluminum alloy frame of that age that has seen a lot of miles is at the end of it's usable life. If you can't find any cracks, examine the cable housing runs carefully. The cable housing ends should not move at all in the stops when shifting or turning the handlebars. Check the derailleur hanger to make sure it's not loose. The part you are looking at is called a Bottom Bracket Cable Guide, but your's looks just fine. They rarely wear out, shift cables aren't under much tension, so a plastic slider is plenty slippery enough. On an old enough bike, they are made of metal. 

This is an old chestnut from the days of 5 speed freewheels and chainrings without shifting ramps. With modern hyperglide cogs and the relatively slinky thin modern chains, cross chaining is simply no longer an issue. While there are very few studies on this, the one I've seen suggests that there is no loss in mechanical efficiency for cross chaining at the angles typical of most bikes. In general for a given gear ratio, big/big is more mechanically efficient than small/small. So the only science out there suggests that cross chaining on the big chainwheel is actually more efficient. $URL$ Use the gears you like, check your chain wear and replace your chain often and the expensive bits of your drive train will last a long time.