I did the calculations a couple weeks ago. Generation ships are slow and sort of dumb, and will never be used in our grand colonization of the universe. What you need are relativistic ships. With an acceleration of 1.25 Gs(12.25 m/p/s, you can reach Proxima Centauri with a ship-time of about 1126 days, or over 3 years. You can do this for distances as large as you want. Even to Andromeda, without it becoming a generation ship. Here's a handy calculator that I used a lot: $URL$ 

I'm wondering if a pine forest with near-constant rain and thunder could be possible. I was thinking that possibly something like this could be created by high mountains next to this place, lightning-wise, or somewhere on a tidally locked planet, but I don't know a lot about this topic. What geographical and other conditions might create a place like this? 

This requires three things: paid thugs or any militarish force, super-ultra-elite squad, and a big-ass EMP. The EMP's role should be obvious: destroy security. Even if they can replace every component, they'll need to reinstall and reset all of it, which could take weeks. This should also disable any uninterruptible power supply system in place, which at this point is barely relevant. The elite squad doesn't have to be big, but it has to be highly-trained, special forces, sneaky soldiers. The main troop can be anyone capable to hold a gun and shoot people without getting wiped in an instant. My recommendation would be mercenaries, bonus points if you can just eliminate them once it's done. That will cost you money though, but apparently you're trying to save the world so following budget should be pretty low on you priority list. So what you do with that is you just plain attack the facility. Nothing subtle about it, not as far as you troops or their security is concerned. You should attack around wherever the target is. The reason is your elite squad will go there to grab a random assortment of equipment and intel, but also to capture random people. How much you should take? Enough that it won't look targeted but rather an opportunistic grab. Your agent has only one task: neutralise the target (dead or alive) and bring the body to a designated location. Ideally, they only know that the attack will happen and that they have that one mission. Before turning back, your elite squad grabs the body of the target. Once it is safely out, break off the attack. Make it look like you bit more than you could chew. Your elite team must survive and extract with all their loot. 

Question in title. In a situation like this, I could see the tribals having (unknowingly) the most to gain, but not really having anything the advanced civilization would need, and ships going back and forth would raise the cost of goods that would be cheaper produced in the homeland. Any ideas? 

I have a being that does not have vocal cords, and instead, speaks to 3-dimensional beings(humans) by manipulating air to produce what sounds like human speech. What would its voice sound like? 

There's a concept that is 100% hard, and is exactly this. It's called Starlifting. Here's a video: $URL$ 

Thinking outside the box, here. It's entirely possible. The soil could even be normal, Terran soil. The light shining on it could be blue, though. As O-type stars are really rare, and not recommended for life, let's go with a B-type, a blue-white, or light blue star. If you place a planet in orbit of one, you're going to have blue soil. For your color requirement, here's a nice picture of Bellatrix, a example of a B-type star that's 250±10 light years off. Now, would the soil be fertile? The main issue is of how long these stars live. It's not very long. Enough for planets to form, but the star will go nova or supernova before then. You could always terraform one of those molten rocks, or build a megastructure like a shellworld there. 

I thought I would expand on my comment, because why not, so here are things to consider in our wonderful time and age: Law and order, and also justice. And maybe the people a little bit. Think CSI. You'll leave fingerprints, DNA or any identifiable marker at some point. If the police is looking for you (and unless you're on their payroll they should be looking for you). It would take time, but should be able find you eventually. I mean, they find terrorists, murderers and other criminals, what makes you think you can hide from them? Now, you may be wondering "why would the police chase ?". Because the police upholds the law. Fighting in public is most likely against the law. Breaking the law was the right thing to do to save the world? That's a concern for your trial, not the police. You can debate whether police officers will put much effort into arresting Goodman, or whether a court of justice would sentence him to anything non-symbolic or non-public-service-y. Because if Goodman does good and has public opinion on his side, then he'll probably have some latitude to operate. However, Goodman is not mandated by the powers that be (as opposed to Goodcity PD) and that's probably an offence you can pin on them if you want to. Obviously, if there is property or personal damage, then you have something an angry mob will put your head on a spike for. And then the police will come after you. Security cameras, and other forms of cameras A British superhero will get recorded all the time. They wouldn't even need British Disney to make superhero movies. Western civilization in general is just full of cameras ready to record you. You have public security cams (operated by the civilian government or by people mandated by them), private security cams (operated by private security companies, or companies that handle their own security) and smartphones. You may know someone who constantly take pictures and videos of every aspect of their boring life. We all have a smartphone with a camera that's better than what science-fiction ever imagined. I mean, look at Star Trek's idea of a mobile phone. If everybody carries pocket computers with high-definition slo-mo cameras, you'll never not get recorded. Social media and the internet mob Say one word as a superhero, it will be hashtagged, retweeted, and find its way onto the wall of that one friend who only posts quotes of other people. Throw enough material out there, 4chan will piece everything together somehow. They'll do it. They can get cat abusers arrested and they can harass women out of their home out of pure hate. Don't think they won't hunt you for sport. Moreover, you only need one unsubstantiated tweet, for instance "Like, Wruce Bayne is tots Batdude, lol #BayneIsBatdudeForPresident2016", for a rumor to spiral out of control. Once that's out there, good luck convincing people that no, your aren't Batdude. If it's not social media, it's the regular media Okay, I've thrown all of it in the title. See the Panama Papers, Swiss Leaks, Wiki Leaks, and so on. What the internet mob doesn't have access to, maybe the press has. I mean, if even one person knows, you aren't sure that the information won't find its way to an Edward Snowden. And if it's not them, it's the NSA Seriously, these people have invented global surveillance before the internet. 

This depends if they're 'right' next to each other. I would assume a day's walk is okay, which Wikipedia informs me is about 40 kilometers. On a tidally locked planet, there's a large ice side and desert side. But that's too large. Good thing we can lower the mass, while lowering diameter, to have the same gravity. Not sure about the exact measurements, and you could have a mountain range blocking light from getting to a specific area, which could just be cold enough for snow and ice to exist at all times. 

I can do something close, but yet entirely possible within our known sciences. In 1984, Larry Niven published a book called The Integral Trees. The setting is a vast gas torus, around a neutron star. The gas torus is a known object, and Niven did the math to make the setting scientifically accurate. This gas torus was formed by a gas giant's atmosphere being sucked into orbit around the neutron star. The gas torus was located 26,000 kilometers away from the neutron star, but, after a detailed examination of the numbers- distances, the neutron star's size, orbit time, etc, it was found that it was incorrect. But by adding a zero to the kilometers, it was corrected. So, Niven just dropped a zero, and removed public interest in this fantastical object. So we have a place for floating islands, but no floating islands. And that's where Jupiter's Trojans come in. They are two large clusters of asteroids at Jupiter's L4 and L5 points. These asteroids are numerous, and there are estimated to be around 600,000 asteroids in between 2km and 1km in the L4 group. In the L5 group, there are over 1 million asteroids above 1km in size. Now, we just put these two things together. It is not a world in the strictest sense, but no world seldom is. The main problem is the absence of gravity, but we don't know what happens when someone is born in zero gravity. That means you can make something up for yourself. There is a miniscule amount of gravity on these asteroids, but it's so negligible it could just be called zero gravity. Plants should still be able to grow downwards on their own. They should be extremely tall, but I cannot find anything about that. This should be enough for your world, as anything else would be not be your work. 

10 years according to whom? Time is relative, and it does funny things as you approach the speed of light. Particularly, it tends to dilate. A ship might travel near instantly from its own perspective, but for an outside observer that trip looks like 10 year, all of that thanks to time dilation. Either that or it actually takes 10 years to travel, but that brings the problem of your cargo and crew being able to survive that long. If you have just the one ship for a particular route (because e.g. not profitable enough; space ships are just rare; route is too dangerous; your own reason here) that would certainly be a perfectly reasonable explanation. 

Depends what you want to accomplish, how much destruction is acceptable, what your endgame is, and what technology you have at your disposal. If the goal is elimination without regard to civilian casualities (aka massive war crime) and long time consequences, then throwing rocks is a fine solution. It's crude but effective. There's little reason to engage in a costly war, or building expensive weapons when you can just put thrusters on a rock. At .9c you'd have trouble finding a more destructive and cost effective weapon than rocks. There are little defense against this besides prevent the other side from installing said thrusters on said rock, or hacking the Mainframe™ to take control of the rock's guidance systems to deflect it (if applicable). You would be justified to retaliate with the same kind of tactics and disregard for collateral damage the moment you detect them trying to launch rocks at you. Though, you know, if you can detect that there's a good chance it's already too late. Now what do you say? "These aliens want to destroy us, we'll show'em a good time, hooah!" I mean, if it's about survival, it's an easy sell. Humans like to survive. 

Question in the title. A Rogue planet is a sunless world that exists in interstellar space. It might be possible for life to develop on one, but what happens when that happens? I've seen people say that plants could not develop on these worlds. But there's the theory of Thermosynthesis, which is almost what I'm looking for. But would it be possible to absorb infrared photons? What is the most efficient color to absorb infrared light? I've heard different things about nonvisible light's albedo, and can find nothing to confirm one way or another. I saw this, and I can see nowhere on it that mentions the color of plants. 

I've only found out how to get the materials to make the wire. Back in the 1300s, your average English labourer earned about 672 grams of sterling per year, or about 2.1 grams per day. That converts to .20 cubic cm, then to 2800 cubic millimeters. Going through some more math, that would be 36 days worth of pay for a wire 100 meters long. Solution: rob a peasant. 

You'd have to look out for the weather. I don't think you'd go fly with 90kph wind, or in a thunderstorm, heavy rain or generally unpleasant weather. So you'll still need another form of transportation in these cases. You'd need appropriate gear to keep you warm. That could mean to carry a change of clothes with you. It's not a big obstacle, but it's a hassle you don't have to deal with in a car. Most likely, you'd have to shower at work everyday. Not every company has showers. Socially, it's a big requirement. Most likely again, you'd have to increase your breakfast budget. Effort requires energy, energy for humans typically come in food-form. I say breakfast in the context of flying to work every day, but that would apply to any trip. Carrying heavy stuff. For instance, and related to 4, groceries. That would require a change of habit (more frequent grocery trips for instance) and would limit you to what you can carry. But since we're close to living in a world where drones can deliver pizzas in 30 minutes or less, this may not apply. Crowded skies. I imagine what would Tokyo would look like if everybody flew around. People would probably fall out of the sky on a daily basis, and die. That's a danger for the people flying and the people down below. Also, drones if applicable. 

I'd say something psychological. Elves, in fiction, are known for their love of nature and such. If they eat something that came from a sentient being, it's possible that they start breaking out in hives, or become sick, not because they have a species-wide allergy, but because of their culture. 

What would be the best place to put a colony on an extrasolar planet? This planet is earth-like, about the same age, and has sturdy trees that can be made into houses (demonstrated by the two people sent out to catalog the life and other science things there). There are 500 people on this colony ship, and they will be transported down to the surface by the extremely large colony ship aerobraking. As materials can be obtained from asteroids, the main resources being required would be food, through agriculture, and wood, through sustainable nearby logging. The planet has no predators more dangerous than what we have here, and generally in the same population. Nothing that can't be kept out by a wooden or chainlink fence. A river is only optional, it would just be aesthetic. The environment would have to be temperate, so no really hot and humid environments. Energy can be obtained from either reactors or solar panels, so energy isn't a problem. Edit: Essentially, what other factors should be considered when placing a colony? 

Here's how it should go: "These [insert people name here] heathens don't follow the rule of Virtue and Law, and we're going to bring them in the path of Virtue and Law by pillaging their cities and indiscriminantly kill them. Who's with me?" You're worried your justification will not stick, but in reality, and since you are about to wage war, you presumably have influence, wealth and an army. What else are going people to do? Question you? Crusades are geopolitics, not religion. Religion is the excuse you have to rile up the troops, because you yourself are some form of religious power. They may not understand why god suddenly wants to start a crusade but they're not the ones in charge, and it's not to them that god speaks. They can't doubt your word, because they'd be doubting the religion and god itself. And that's just ludicrous, god is so virtuous and lawful that it, and transitively you, can't be wrong.