You can't define locations in 3D space using only two numbers (e.g., one angle and one distance, as you've done). You seem to be thinking of the Galaxy as perfectly flat, which it isn't. Think about locations on the surface of the Earth, which is a 2D problem: we use two (angular) coordinates: longitude and latitude. You can think of this as an angle measured from the North Pole (that's longitude) plus a distance along that line (latitude). But if we want 3D locations on the surface of the Earth, then you can add something like altitude from sea level. If you want something Earth- or Sun-based, why not use the Galactic coordinate system plus a distance along the direction vector? 

I'm afraid the short answer is that's it's probably impossible to tell unless you set up your new solar system and actually do N-body orbit integrations to see what happens over time. Things like eccentricity, obliquity (tilt), and precession variations can be chaotic (or not) depending on the orbits and masses of the planets. It's unlikely you'll have the same Milankovitch cycles we do now, because you've changed the interactions of the planets by changing their masses and orbits (changing their diameters makes no difference). For example, changes in the Earth's eccentricity currently depend primarily on the gravity of Jupiter and Saturn. Since you haven't changed the masses of those planets and have barely changed their orbits, their influence would be roughly the same... except that you've made both Venus and Mars several times as massive as the Earth, and since their orbits are much closer to Earth's than is Jupiter's, this probably would have an effect. (E.g., the gravitational force of Venus on Earth at closest approach is about half that of Jupiter's; in your new system, it's about three times stronger than Jupiter's.) It's a little hard to tell what you've done with the Moon: "has only 14% of Earth's gravity" -- does that mean its surface gravity is 14% of the Earth's (as compared with the current lunar surface gravity, which is 16.5% of the Earth's)? Assuming that plus the change in the Moon's size, your new Moon is actually almost twice as massive as the old one. Since it's further away, the change in the gravitational influence of the Moon almost cancels out. However, the tidal effects will be a little different: crudely speaking, the new Moon's tidal effects will be about 75% as strong, making the Sun's influence relatively stronger. You could guess that the periods for the obliquity (tilt) and precession variations would be a little longer than they are now (since the general history over the past several hundred million years is for the periods to get longer as the Moon moves further out in its orbit) -- if everything else in the solar system were unchanged. 

One thing to note is that along with Shell Theorem comes dealing with all your concentric shells and final (remaining) earth sphere. You would have to come up with a way to prevent them from colliding with each other (for whatever of many reasons) since air won't dampen the inner movement nearly enough. Such a collision could lead to mass destruction. If you could somehow stabilize your world in some kind of pillar lattice, it would still be brittle (how large would your pillars have to be to hold planetary scale spheres and not crush themselves under their own weight, short of unobtainium). IMO you'd be better off increasing surface area by creating structures which both rise in altitude and extend subterraneanly. Think something along the effect of a heat-sink on a computer's CPU. The heat-sink optimizes on surface area contact with air. Excavate large areas of land to create valleys and mountains of large incline. Essentially medium-scale terraform parts of your planet to increase surface area. It would look akin to a spiky ball or super fine-fringed honey dipper. 

You have portrayed your Lodge not only as the prevailing order, but as a house of peacekeepers whose purpose is in "helping the world and all its peoples". They also have free reign and hold no one sovereign to themselves. As to whether they are involved or passive with regards to external events you haven't made their nature apparent. To truly "control" (bad word) everyone and keep the peace everywhere they would also have to be everywhere. They do not bow to the rules of these places and seem to have the power to enforce their will even with resistance, which could of course be avoided with diplomatic lubrication. This can be resolved by having the equivalent of embassies in major locations for fast response time, a larger coverage and easier access to the state of affairs in many places. With this they should receive ample warning of impeding threat and could from these forward bases of operation dissuade or prevent altercations well in advance. By having an embassy everywhere they ensure a face of neutrality and can under this mask of neutrality target and deal with any single party which is a legitimate offender to "rules" without siding with that party's enemies. Their paring with otherworldly beings also differentiates them from their charges and passively separates them in a way that gives them further "superiority" and claim to declare oneself such a powerful peacekeeping entity. Should all these precautions fail and the hand is forced. The lodge would most likely seek a path that keeps closest to its ideals while still ensuring its survival. They have shown to be willing to take precarious, possibly risky decisions to achieve their ends. One would assume they could resort to drastic means. As to which "side" in an option of two. Most likely the one where they survive, if survival is more important than risking becoming something one doesn't wish to be. 

Depending on the specific setting/tone you're going for, maybe something as simple as a simplified "third eye" would be enough: 

Human Ruin Everything A tiny cabal of human technologists (no more than a dozen), viewed this second generation of androids as the final nail in humanity's coffin. While the androids would keep humans from going extinct, they would leave the species trapped in a prison of apathy. We would never venture to the stars and colonize other worlds. The technologists were the last practitioners of the ancient skill of Programming, which would allow them to alter the androids' AI. Over a decade, they developed a virus with the following directives: 

The ideas you already have sound like they'd work just fine, but here's some alternatives that may help spark some ideas for you (I don't know your naming convention, so my names are bland): If it's an application of physical force like telekinesis, you may have an easier time splitting it up based on how it's used (like D&D damage types): 

First, I'll try to define that "internal harmony" requirement a bit, so I can use it to build the faction motivations: Internal Harmony: The angels are only able to uplift organisms with the appropriate "harmony". This may include extreme selflessness (willing to let oneself be subsumed by a higher power, for the sake of a greater good), or extreme faith (truly believing in the righteousness of the Source, without a hint of subconscious doubt). Disharmony: The higher realms would all be harmonious, but of increasing complexity. Conversely, the lowest realms (our universe, for example), would be chaotic messes. Our universe is brutally hostile to all forms of organic life. So, only a particularly lucky situation would result in complex organisms...and only the most savagely cunning species would survive to evolve sapience. From the Angels' perspective, humans would embody all of the things an angel cannot be. Don't Drink the Local Tap-Water: Watchers would be programmed with the same "internal harmony" of the Angels, as the Angels would not be able to comprehend doing otherwise (they couldn't intentionally program something which could disobey orders from On High). As such, the Watchers wouldn't be explicitly forbidden from interbreeding with humans, because the Angels (and therefore the Watchers) have no concept of sexual attraction to humans. From the Angels' perspective, humans are--at best--psychopathic children. At worst, humans are barely-sentient bacteria. Watchers would initially view the idea of breeding with humans as being on par with bestiality, robbing the cradle, or taking advantage of the mentally ill. The First Sip of Tequila: The problem is, the Watchers possess biologically human brains, as those are the organs necessary to live down in the gutter-reality of our universe. Only an organ so chaotic can function in The Disharmony. Eventually, some of them would start to experience sexual attractions, either instinctively, or as learned behavior of watching humanity for countless years/decades/centuries/millenia. Without a specific order against interbreeding, some watchers might decide to interbreed solely out of temptation, or curiosity, or even out of a genuine desire to "think like a human" (as understanding humanity is their mission). The Hangover: After a few of the Seraphim (human/Watcher offspring) begin to exhibit superhuman abilities, the Angels would immediately attempt to ban all further interbreeding (implementing a hot patch on all current Watchers?) to avoid contaminating the experiment. Unfortunately, the Watchers themselves would be too disharmonious at this point, so the ban wouldn't implement reliably: free will would get in the way. Why would the Seraphim have superhuman abilities? The Watchers might be biologically human, but they were designed to be able to communicate with Angels who exist in a higher realm. They'd also be designed to lack any human frailties (old age, susceptibility to disease, etc). Their superhuman knowledge might also be genetic, which means that some of that information could be passed on to their offspring. Seraphim would be born with some or all of those capabilities, but stunted or warped. For instance, the "Angel Sense" might not be properly attuned to the Angel's realm, and would instead give the Seraphim a view of spacetime's fourth dimension-- seeing the future or the past (or both). They may even be able to hear other people's thoughts, or project their own thoughts into others' minds. Physically, a Seraphim might possess almost perfect regenerative capabilities, but still be susceptible to injury. The combination might allow them to constantly become stronger and more resilient over time (muscles growing stronger with use, bones breaking and healing more durably), until they're several centuries old, with a superhumanly powerful physique. Putting the Genie back in the Lamp: Once the first few Seraphim are born, the human species would be irrevocably changed. Once that Angel DNA is introduced to the gene pool, the superhuman traits would keep manifesting even if all the Watchers were recalled or destroyed. Over many generations, the abilities would become diluted with baseline human genes, resulting in people with very subtle superhuman abilities: prophetic dreams, uncanny empathy, Olympian strength and endurance, photographic memory, or almost instinctive knowledge of science or mathematics. Occasionally, an Atavism would occur: a throwback to Seraphim capabilities, or even an almost pure-Watcher (the result of two Seraphim mating, perhaps). The original Seraphim may also still roam the world, millenia after the Watchers have left, concealing powers which might have grown even stronger over time. EDIT: Burning Down the House: I'd forgotten to address the part of the original question regarding the high energy requirements of the superhuman abilities. I'll try to give a few ways for that requirement to fit in with my other recommendations. 

Without re-iterating what a lot of people have said from a maths and physics perspective, the zombies will conform to local maxima. That being said, there are loud dynamic moving sounds factors like thunderstorms/earthquakes which behave as catalysts to "joining" two local maxima as a result of expressible/model-able random functions. Given sufficient time, storms could run all the necessary paths to "herd" all the local maxima together. 

I doubt that there is much which could top TechZen's answer, but a relevant theory which hasn't been touched on is Panspermia. EDIT: Missed post by DonyorM Panspermia: the theory that life on the earth originated from microorganisms or chemical precursors of life present in outer space and able to initiate life on reaching a suitable environment. Microscopic fungus has been shown to be able to survive and hibernate in the harsh conditions of space. Over a viable (extremely large) period of time, these fungal spores could traverse the enormous distance separating habitable/soon to be habitable worlds and enter before/after atmosphere formation to enter the primordial gene-pool of the planet. All life on earth has a large similar genetic base which could be transported with these spores and be implanted in the evolution of life on the other planet. This life would inherently be similar to life existing on earth. 

Let's give this a stab by starting to appeal to all the conspiracy theorists and consider the first possible time frame "Ground Zero". Along with the black suit syndrome, we don't know the unknown people (organisation X) who would be at G0 seconds before the projectiles (pod and ship) hit their likely calculated impact points (Let's say X has abundant resources and power to remain hidden from us common folk - be as creative as you need ie. able to intercept satellite/government/intelligence etc. to mislead their predictions of the orbital entry or crash). Case X - A: Assume that X somehow had prior knowledge of the existence of the newcomers. If relations were diplomatic -> a search/rescue/recovery and cleanup of evidence would take place (Lots of question about media footage with no answers still preferable to spilled beans). If relations were hostile (ship was possibly compromised by X to begin with) -> cleanup of survivors + evidence. Case X - B: X is just caught off guard like the rest of the world but they still want the information first, and if need be contained. They would likely undergo recon with risk assessment, capture/detain/eliminate hostile survivors. And attempt to clean up the scene. Entering slightly more realistic ground and say X doesn't exist or is otherwise occupied with more pressing concerns. Considering there was ample coverage and warning (uncompromised by X) of the craft's approach, countries or areas expecting the crash in their yard will likely have prepared a military/scientific/media resource at the site. Likely in that order. To first secure the situation and ensure the craft or its passengers pose no immediate aggressive threat. Followed by an investigation into the specifics of the craft/passengers/crash and the environmental threats they could pose. Concluded lastly by allowing/or not the media to disclose details of the event. As to what happens afterwards and who gets custody of the evidence, it's unlikely that a single government could cover up or lay claim to such an event (A claims crash site, B claims orbital entry into their skies, C claims debris, D claims death of civilians... etc.). I suspect a panel/convention/union of countries would be formed with regards to which decisions will be taken. Most likely these decisions will lead to scientific investigation for the most of the foreseeable future. Information released would most likely be that deemed safe enough to release to the public, or that necessary to control and keep the public calm. On a global scale there could be religious turmoil or similar such which would claim to explain the existence of the ship.