The simplest (and in my view the best) explanation for the deviance of the a-clause is the fact that the NPI anybody precedes the negation not and is therefore not in the scope of not. But this explanation conflicts with the data from quantifier interaction, where it seems that linear order has little impact on the scope of quantifiers. Concerning the example sentences in the question, linear order is apparently not impacting the scope of the modal elements in relation to each other in a clear way. What is impacting the relative positions of the modal adverb and modal verb is intonational prominence. Modal adverbs prefer to immediately follow an intonationally weak auxiliary verb rather than immediately precede it. Thus the order in the first sentence in the question is fine because have to is not an auxiliary: 

In German, plural generally trumps singular when it comes to choosing the subject. Thus in this example, neue Vorhange 'new curtains' is indisputably the subject of the sentence, a fact that makes was wir brauchen 'what we need' the predicative NP. A related observation occurs in the following case: 

What I'm asking is whether there is any concept or project of a decidedly linguistic nature that would make you think, "Hey, that reminds me of the P versus NP conjecture in computer science," supposing that you are already familiar with said conjecture. Sure. Take a look at essentially any article by Thomas Graf for instance. Research page of Thomas Graf 

It has been famously shown (by Emmanuel Dupoux, among others) that the ability to differentiate phonemes markedly decreases after the age of 2. Consequently, you presumably have less ability to distinguish the phonemes of English which are absent in Hungarian that someone who was born and raised in an English-speaking family. In that sense, you might not be a native speaker of English (and you wouldn't be even if you had stayed in the US). The experimental protocol is as follows: subjects listen to increasingly rapid random series of two phonemes X and Y which are distinct in language A but not in language B and are asked to distinguish them. At first the error rate is identical for both native speakers of language A and speakers who are native speakers of language B but grew up in a language A environment since the age of 2, namely linear with respect to the speed of the series . But after a certain threshold, which is independent of the languages A and B of the phonemes X and Y, non-native speakers lose the ability to distinguish X and Y and their answers become no more correct than random ones whereas the error rate of native speakers keeps following the linear rate for a much longer time. 

I'm sure I've read the following idea written by a linguist somewhere. I didn't manage to find the reference and I'd love to have serious references for that. The following is mainly a first person description of my native language's grammar, on an aspect which is not taught at school, but seems obvious in retrospect. Such an indigenous language is my native modern French ! The tense corresponding to mythological/ancestral past is passé simple (French Wikipedia link, with more details, but in French). Basically, this past tense was used for distant past event (older than 24h) in the 18th century but totally disappeared from oral speech by the beginning og the 20th century. It stayed in formal writing, and by now only appears in old text and fairy tales. For example, when my 8 years old niece invents a fairy tale, it is at the passé simple tense, and it is the only occasion she ever uses this tense. 

is not a violation of Principle A. Further enquiries (within that framework) would entail investigating the syntactic properties of the functional head Den Dikken calls a Relator; an interesting syntactic question, in fact. 

The Syntax of French by P.Rowlett (see here) would be a canonical answer for French. That said, I think it is worth pointing out that the project of writing a full grammar of a given language (identified presumably with the official language of some nation-state) or even of devising a complete account of some syntactic phenomenon peculiar to a certain language (say object agreement in French) is at least somewhat at cross-purpose with the minimalist entreprise in syntax, as the latter is interested in the syntactic phenomena that stem from the core human faculty of language and its interaction with interface properties and thus has almost by definition nothing to say about the former's apparent object of interest. Much more congenial to the minimalist framework is the project of writing a complete account of a cross-linguistically attested syntactic phenomenon (binding of pronouns, wh-movement, agreement, raising, DP-licensing, voice alternations, noun incorporation etc.) or even better of the correlations between those in the terms outline above. Of that variety of work, you'll find no shortage; the one you are apparently interested in, not so much. 

This confirms my native instinct. Otherwise, I wouldn’t have needed a linguist to notice the redundancies of my natural way to say “What is this ?” : «Qu’est-ce que c’est», literally, *“what is it that it is”. For me, «Qu’est-ce que» is just a fancy orthography for a word [kɛskə] translating the English “what”. The same question in 18th century French would have been asked by «Qu’est-ce ?». But est-ce without a following que is no longer used in spoken French, unless you want to sound archaic and/or formal. Obviously, given the chronology of this development, there is no way est-ce que could be cognate to similar interrogative words in any other language. 

Warning: I am not a linguist! This post is essentially a long comment on French’s use of est-ce que and your exclusion of it because “it’s a whole phrase”. I think est-ce que in modern French is not a “whole phrase” anymore, at least in colloquial French, so colloquial French is an example of Indo-European language with such an interrogative particle. (In the citation bellow, Rodney ball mentions the Polish czy, which would be another example). The difference between formal written French and spoken French are quite large, even in grammar. While est-ce que is currently part of standard French, it doesn’t sound very formal to my native ears and is discouraged in formal writings. I believe it is a relatively recent development in French, but I clearly do not analyse it instinctively as a “whole phrase”. Rodney Ball, in his (excellent) Colloquial French Grammar, section 2.2.1, says 

For most dependency grammarians, the terms phrase structure grammar and constituency grammar are synonymous. For those constituency grammarians who do not pay attention to dependency grammar, the two terms phrase structure grammar and constituency grammar are not synonymous, however. The term phrase structure grammar denotes a non-transformational approach to syntax along the lines of GPSG or HPSG. These frameworks do not acknowledge movement in the sense of traditional Chomskyan syntax. They intentionally use the term phrase structure grammar to mean 'non-transformational grammar'. For an example, see Borsley (1991: 8). Borsley, Robert. 1991: Syntactic Theory: A Unified Approach. London: Edward Arnold. The GPSG/HPSG crowd is likely to use the term constituency grammar as an umbrella term to denote all constituency-based approaches to syntax, be these approaches transformational or non-transformational. In this regard, constituency grammar and dependency grammar are opposites in the relevant sense, whereas the term phrase structure grammar denotes a subtype of constituency grammar, a non-transformational one. 

seated is the first example is an adjunct, but a particular type of adjunct, namely one that functions as a predication over the object. Such adjuncts are sometimes called participant-oriented adjuncts, since they function as predications over one of the participants, i.e. over one of the arguments. We know that such expressions are adjuncts because they can be dropped from the sentence entirely, e.g. Peter painted Mary. sentado in the second example is also a participant-oriented adjunct, but this time it is functioning as a predication over the subject. We know that it is adjunct because it too can be dropped from the sentence entirely with little change in meaning: Peter painted Mary. The same is true of the third example. The fourth example contains both types of participant-oriented adjuncts, one a predication over the subject and the other a predication over the object, as stated in the question. In my view, there is no good way to produce an X-bar analysis of such cases. In fact attempting to do so would be difficult, although it is undoubtedly possible. 

This document also contains many other examples. You also have some examples on the corresponding Wikipedia page. N’Ko N’Ko is a modern (20th century) RTL script used in western Africa for Manding languages. I happen to have an introductory book on N’Ko at home, and it ends with some example of elementary arithmetic operations, which are written right to left, as expected. Furthermore, the numbers in N’Ko (contrary to Arabic) are written right-to-left: The current year (2017) is written ߂߀߁߇, with (߂=2 ;߀=0 ;߁=1 ;߇=7). Remark on historical texts And if you look at historical texts, then you have lots of different conventions to adapt maths to different typographical traditions, including vertical writing in East Asia. (See e.g. this Unicode proposal pdf about notations used to translate Western mathematical texts in Ming and Qing China). 

Beyond other answers, I will add some examples of actual use of phonetic writing systems actually used for Chinese (or any Sinitic language, what is traditionally called Chinese dialects/topolects). These example show that it is linguistically possible to use a phonetic script to write Chinese; of course, doing so would be a major revolutionary change, rendering some poetic or technical texts totally unintelligible. Actually, any text which needs supplementary explanation of homophones when read alone would by definition pose problem. In all examples below, a phonetic system is (or was) actually used by a sizeable community of people as a writing system for several generations, ensuring its actual usefulness. For them (except maybe for the medieval 'Phags-pa case), it is the main writing system, since they don’t have access to the usual Chinese characters. If you are interested in discussions about phonetic writing of Chinese you can read this post by Victor Mair at LanguageLog and the links therein. Historic use of phonetic scripts in China Historically, China has been in contact with various phonetic scripts (Mogolian, Tibetan, among others) and I think several have been used to write Chinese. Notably, Phags-Pa (wiki ; more details by Andrew West) was commissioned by Kublai Khan for this use, and was an official way to write Chinese (and other languages of the Mongol empire) during almost a century (from 1269 to 1351 or 1352). However this was not popular among Chinese scholar and disappeared with the Yuan dynasty. I have no idea about the balance of the political vs linguistic factors in this lack of popularity, but I think it illustrates well the difficulties a phonetic orthographic reform would face for Chinese. If a century of effort by a power as strong as the one of the Yuan dynasty didn’t manage to impose a phonetic spelling, in an era where only a minority of the population was literate, it seems unlikely to see such a reform ever happen. Arabic script has also been used to write Chinese by Muslim minorities, and seems to still be in use but declining, according to the linked Wikipedia page. Chinese Braille Nowadays, a phonetic script is the main script for many Chinese blinds: three different systems are used for Mandarin and (at lest) one for Cantonese. I have no specific information about the actual use of this script, but I guess millions of Chinese read and write in it, and thousands of book are transcribed in it, with not much problem. Dungan in Cyrillic The Dugans are essentially Hui people who moved from Gansu to what is now Kyrgyzstan and Kasakhstan in late 19th century. Being form northwestern China, their language is closely related to standard Chinese. However, due to the Soviet policy on minority languages, it is fully written in Cyrillic script since 1953, with a perfectly functional orthography used by a community of 50,000 people. The implication of this fact on a reform like the one you have in mind is the subject of a paper by the sinologist Victor H. Mair, written in 1990 (html version; scanned original pdf) 

Focus hosts elements in focus (again, for the moment, by definition) and is distinguished in Romance from Topic by a number of properties: most saliently focal stress, the necessity for the sentence to be contrastive and the fact that there may be only one Focus position. L.Rizzi also gives a number of much more subtle diagnosis (weak cross over, quantificational properties...) For instance (focal stress in bold): 

Compared with the original, I was surprised that none mentioned either God or angels in their summary and interested by the fact that they, like me, find it especially hard to identify mood and modality (about half thought the son wanted to go in the forest see the beautiful things and the other half thought, correctly, that he had already seen them in the forest). 

is clearly taken to be no. Consequently, you are right that the problem of distinguishing "John hit Mary" from "Mary hit John" exists. The null hypothesis in this school of syntax could be formulated as follows. Unless forced to by strong empirical evidence, assume that the narrow syntax of every human language is the same. Applied to the particular problem you raise, this takes the form of the Uniform Theta-role Assignment Hypothesis (UTAH) which was first formulated in Mark Baker's 1985 thesis in the following way (in the language of X-bar theory). Identical thematic relationships between items are represented by identical structural relationships between those items at the level of D-structure. In plain language, this means that these people believe that thematic roles are encoded in the syntax. In a contemporary formulation, the UTAH is usually taken to mean that there exists a step in the building of narrow syntactic objects (so before spell-out) where arguments are introduced in a certain way which is characterized by structural relations only (order and position of first Merge) and which is uniform across language. The element first merged in the structural position of agent, for instance, will always be interpreted as the agent after spell-out, independently of wherever it might have landed at the end of the derivation because of movement/re-merge/etc. The works in minimalist syntax that I'm familiar with are unanimous that this step occurs very early in the construction of the narrow syntactic object object. A majority of them believe that patients are introduced below agents (so are first merged deeper in the structure than agents) but Bowers (2010), for instance, disagrees. To sum up, the majority of works in minimalist syntax believe that "John hit Mary" is semantically distinguished from "Mary hit John" because Mary was first merged in the deeper structural position corresponding to patient in the first sentence whereas John was first merged there in the second one. Importantly, these works believe that "Mary" and "John" are first merged in the same loci in all of the following sentences, that "Mary"'s locus is deeper than that of "John" and that this explains why "Mary" is always interpreted as patient. 

The term part of speech is narrower than the term syntactic category. Every part of speech is a syntactic category, but many syntactic categories are not parts of speech. This holds particularly of the distinction between word and phrase. Words are parts of speech, but phrases are not. A noun is a part of speech and a syntactic category, whereas a noun phrase is a syntactic category but not a part of speech. An adjective is a part of speech and a syntactic category, whereas an adjective phrase is a syntactic category but not a part of speech. Thus the term part of speech denotes a subgroup inside the greater group denoted by syntactic category. 

This is simply a trait of the plural demonstrative pronouns (these and those) -- there is no good explanation why plural demonstrative pronouns behave differently than definite personal pronouns; they simply do. Note that the plural demonstrative pronouns also behave differently than the singular demonstrative pronouns in this regard, e.g. 

Edit: add N’Ko I know of two modern living RTL mathematical tradition: Arabic and N’ko. I have no idea how other living RTL scripts (Hebrew, Dihevi, Syriac) deal with math. Arabic For Arabic (including other languages (Farsi, Urdu), written in the Arabic alphabet), there are three distinct traditions (Morocco, Maghreb, Mashrek), so I think the fraction order might be ambiguous depending on the country you're in. The W3C document on Arabic mathematical notations says, for this specific case : 

If being the official written standardized form of the official language of an independent country is enough to be a “language”, the answer is yes. The difference between languages and dialects is often tricky and politically loaded, and in some cases, languages are very closely related. I guess the best case showing this is the pluricentric Serbo-Croatian language, which, after the break-up of Yugoslavia, now corresponds to four official national languages (Bosnian, Croatian, Montenegrin, and Serbian). According to the Wikipedia page comparing these languages, the 1st article of the Univerwal Declaration of Human Rights (UDHR) can be translated as follows in Bosnian, Croatian and Serbian: 

The words in caps are the relative pronouns. These pronouns serve in both of the clauses, the matrix clause and a subordinate clause. Note that the pronouns of free relative clauses are often marked with -ever. In this regard, the example sentence produced sounds better to me if -ever is added: 

The question can be interpreted to be asking how X-bar theory prevents nonsensical phrases such as the really house, running the, and every inside. The answer is that no aspect of X-bar theory prevents such phrases from being generated. The X-bar schema merely provides the scaffold for phrases. It is a rough schematic outline that all phrases supposedly conform to. What blocks such nonsensical phrases from being generated is the combinatory potential of the lexical items involved, i.e. of the words. The combinatory potential of words is often explored in terms of subcategorization and/or valency. subcategorization and valency traits dictate how lexical items can combine with each other. These characteristics exist independently of the X-bar schema. The X-bar schema takes these traits for granted. The valency traits of the adverb really require that it take a verb as its head. The valency traits of the quantifier every require that it take a noun as its dependent (on a DP analysis of noun phrases). The valency traits of the preposition inside require that it take a verb or a noun as its head and a nominal as its dependent. These valency requirements prevent the X-bar schema from overgenerating. Worth noting is the fact that X-bar schema was largely abandoned by much of Chomskyan syntax in the mid 1990s, so-called bare phrase structure (BPS) taking its place. The MP (Minimalist Program) does not assume the X-bar schema. Ray Jackendoff, who produced the seminal book X-bar Syntax (1977) abandoned the X-bar schema decades ago. He now advocates much simpler syntactic structures than those associated with X-bar theory - see his book with Peter Culicover Simpler Syntax (2005). Many other approaches to syntax (e.g. Head-Driven Phrase Structure Grammar, Construction Grammar, Tree-Adjoinig Grammar, Word Grammar, Meaning-Text Theory) never assumed the X-bar schema. Thus if there is skepticism about the X-bar schema and its potential to provide a universal basis for exploring the syntactic structure of natural languages, this skepticism finds much company among many grammarians.