The combination of 1 and 2 shows that there is no fundamental disagreement between these various formulations of logic, just about what the statements in various logics express. But this is more a philosophical question, and mathematicians are not necessarily interested in these. Note that there are deeper disagreements about which principles are acceptable in mathematics, more or less related to the question of finitism. In this case, there is no hope for a clear resolution as above, since consistency of non-finitary systems can not be shown to be equivalent to that of finitary systems. This last point is essentially the failure of Hilbert's Program for building a consensus about the consistency and completeness of mathematical foundations. However, despite the prima facie failure of this program, reverse mathematics and proof theory can be seen as a rigorous way to explore the different viewpoints and find a compromise. My conclusion is that, while these are very interesting philosophical questions that are still being explored, there is no fundamental disagreement about what constitutes a sound mathematical argument. 

I think that your question may be related to the more general "being assured that you'll live in full happiness, why would you refuse to enter into a system where you abandon critical mind which is bind to worrisome, and so decrease your happiness potential?". Formulated this way, I think it become even more clear that anyone pretending that he can guaranty you a completely safe sandbox is either : 

While the latters may seems to treat subjects out of topic, remember that language is an important part of thought process, mind representations, social communications, and so on. 

Note that Reinhardt cardinals do not provably exist in ZFC. If they were, it would contradict Gödel's theorem. It is the largest cardinal currently defined which is believed to be consistent with ZFC. As Mozibur notes, you can't have a largest such cardinal, since given a consistent extension of ZFC, you can always (in theory) find a stronger theory which proves the existence of larger cardinals. However, it may be found next week that Reinhard cardinals are actually not consistent with ZFC. That's the tragedy of the incompleteness theorem. It turns out, however, that if ZFC is consistent, there is a smallest cardinal which is not provably such in ZFC. To show this, you can simply consider the set of all uniquely defined syntactic objects which ZFC proves to be cardinals, and take the smallest cardinal not in that set. Edit: I missed the fact that Reinhardt cardinals are inconsistent with Choice. You can replace ZFC by ZF everywhere in my comment though, or Reinhardt cardinals by some smaller cardinal numbers (superhuge for instance). 

You may say that self-mortality awareness is just a byproduct of a representation ability that allow one to adapt its behavior with a large range of evolving situation. In this view, it would be more that self-mortality awareness and improvement of your own life by mind simulated scenario selection have a common cause, but not that the second depend on the first. 

The question may gain distinguishing what kind of validity you are seeking for. On the one hand, you may be "simply" interested in using the state of the art mathematical tools to ensure that your engineering project as a consistent specification and that the thing that you built map exactly that. If that's what you are interested for, proof assistant may be an interesting entry point. On the other hand you may be interested with more ontological concerns, like knowing if mathematical objects reveals eternal underlying truths or if their are just mere mental representations resulting from an ugly patchwork of cognitive biases. If that's what you are looking for, you may look up for realism, idealism, solipsism as entry points. 

Wikipedia does a good job of summarizing the four stages of enlightenment, which are stream-enterer, once-returner, non-returner, and arahant. They are distinguished by their remaining attachments such as clinging to rituals, self-view and doubt to an arahant who is fully released. There are no objective standards for determining the stage of another individual but there are certainly clues. For example, any expression of self-view is undeniable falsification: Insult their mother and see how they react. However, the stages along the path are subjectively but entirely testable and in minute granularity. All schools of Buddhism recognise the authority of the nikayas/agamas, in which the Buddha describes the dhamma and practice in detail. While many factors are enumerated, in whole the path and attainments are not linear. For example the four material jhanas are sequential but the eight-fold path is better described as cyclical such that the development of each characteristic reinforces the other characteristics of the path. Wisdom, virtue, and concentration are developed in parallel. Some traditions emphasise an instantaneous enlightenment (chan, zen), some hold a view of a prior enlightened Bodhi nature that must be revealed, while traditionally it was presented as a methodical process. But I don't think it would correct to say that different traditions have different notions of enlightenment. I hesitate here on certain teachers, particularly in Tibetan/bon traditions, who assert the rebirth of arahants. The rebirth of enlightened worthy ones contradicts the Buddha's own definition of nibbana/nirvana, which literally means unbinding, fading out, the end of rebirth, not entering any womb. But rebirth is difficult to objectively test without some fancy super-mundane instruments. 

Yes, law of identity is an axiom, something that is asked to be considered true without proof. Generally, the only argument provided to support such a statement is its "self-evidence". But not all philosophies agree that identities exists. Probably the most famous saying expressing an other point of view is "No man ever steps in the same river twice", attributed to Heraclitus. 

Depending on what you mean with language, one may say that the Universe itself is the language in which every possible problems are "formulated". You may then report your problem to commensurability between "the Universe", and "human representation abilities". Maybe you'll be interested to reduce your problem to something like "Is there any formal language able to describe unambiguously any problem that human may face, lead to know if the problem have a helpful solution, and if yes, what move to do to perform it?". If you consider "resolving a problem" can be reduce to "computing a solution", then you may want to look at the computability theory, and especialy to the halting problem and the decision problem. The fact that there are undecidable problems will interest you, because it provide a negative answer to the question "is there an algorithm which is able to tell me if a given language is such that any problem in the Universe can be described unambiguously using this language?". At best you can have an algorithm that will never meet such a case and you may only conclude that you don't know, but potentially will if the answer is no. 

Several things might be important to note. The first is that formal logic is relatively recent, by mathematical standards: it's modern version is about a century old. On the other hand informal reasoning has been around for quite some time, and there is little doubt that we can do good mathematics with it, as others have noted. The second is that while some may reject the use of the excluded middle or even the use of the principle of explosion (also known as ex falso quodlibet), the relationship between these principles of reasoning are well explored. In particular: 

Now, even in the last case, the problem is that even if it's true, as a human being you can't access absolute certitude that the entity which promise you the safe sandbox is really what he pretend to be. Believe it would be an act of faith completely drived by your hope it's true, ignoring your awareness that it may be false. And this awareness is provided precisely by your critical mind, the safeguard that you should abandon to check whether it was true or not. And once you abandon this safeguard, there's no guaranty you can have it back. So I would say that this category of problem rely on the false assumption that you may be in a situation of perfect certitude that you'll live the promised situation. To me it sounds exactly like "if you accord to someone that everything he may say is true, then for you everything he will say will be true". The reasoning may be valid, but to my mind premises are seriously doubtful.