However All of these are ultimatately to be regarded as suffering because of their impermanent nature. Being conditioned all the impermanent phenomena are categorized as suffering in relation to the unconditioned element. Which is explained in the Nibbana Sutta: Unbinding 

When you meditate you can see weird visions of many kinds, unless you make them intentionally for meditative purposes like attaining some jhana ala Visudhimagga style or as in MN 128 Upakkilesa Sutta - Imperfections, you should not attach to them much significance in general. This i say based on teachings on imperfections of insight. You should remember what is happening to the body imagination, postures, behavior, feelings & sensations. If you are going to discern some other things you should focus on these or others from Satipatthana Sutta that i did not mention here: 

Not much comes to mind but there is the Dhammapada verse from the Violence Chapter: Whoever uses violence .. Quickly goes to one of ten conditions: ... Bodily injury or insanity, .." When it comes to hell realms, it is too abstract to say. The question is always what particular views, perceptions, tendencies and volitional formations are in play in the process of death because these will be giving rise to consecutive formations and desireablity of the result will be determined by the nature of the parent-states. From Dhamma point of view you reap what you sow, so when asking what caused X, just by knowing things about X we can know some things about the things that caused it. So in example good is caused by good, bad is caused by bad, otherwise it would be paradoxical if something rightfully discerned as good was caused by something rightfully discerned as bad. If one doubts, pounders and does not gain conviction because of hypothetical situations in which bad actions seemingly have good results, that would be dependant on wrong understanding of the mechanics of Contact and therefore the Aggregates, basicly the whole analytical aspect is not grasped. 

Did not read all the answers but if suicide would work it would be the way indeed but it does not work. Before we were born there is seemingly like a void, so from a void we came to be, after death seemingly there is a void, so its perfectly reasonably to assume that that void is no different from the one before we were born and that from it Experiences of a being can potentially arise. As disciples of the Buddha we try to eliminate the causes for such arising. 

I see the original question as been modified when I went online again. The original question included "hinting/asking" I have included this under wrong livelihood. Monks need to follow all of the rules 227 rules and also the rules in the Culavagga and Mahavagga. Likewise, they need to follow according to the commentaries as well in most cases. Most Western Bhikkhus do not like the commentaries. That is where "interpretations" can come. Most of the information below, is from the BMC The Buddhist Monastic Code Summary: A Bhikkhu cannot use money. A Bhikkhu cannot point out a kappiya without someone asking, "Who is you kappiya?" A Bhikkhu cannot accept envelopes presumably with money inside. It is an asannya offence (in the root text). Which means, no perception is necessary for it to be unallowable. That means the monks should not be intentionally ignorant. The BMC debates and allows the modern use of "checks." A Bhikkhu cannot ask for things from "Just anyone". He needs an invitation from a non-family member ( blood relation) A Bhikkhu cannot hint to "Just anyone" (as above) A Bhikkhu cannot do the above for another bhikkhu(s) either. The BMC says checks are not money but a "promise to pay." Sri Lanka and Myanmar Vinaya traditions call this money. Money is defined as anything accepted as used in trade. A US dollar is a mere bank note too. Google "A Life Free From Money pdf" The same as above is judged with signing checks. A bhikkhu can ask for a bowl from anyone if it is broken or stolen. A bhikkhu can ask for a single robe from anyone if he is left with only one (of three). A bhikkhu can go for alms in the evening for "extra items," usually medicine or oil for light. The donors will offer food and he will refuse. Then the person may ask, "what do you need?" Then he can say. Lay people or committees can ask "just anyone" for things or money, etc. for monks if it is their own idea. This might be what you are seeing on brochures and websites, etc. A Bhikkhu cannot ask his helper, committee etc, to ask others for money for himself. A bhikkhu must be invited by a committee or kappiya before he asks them for things. The above list is followed correctly unfortunately by a small minority of monks, known as vinaya monks, or forest monks. Often the other (majority) monks do not know what proper behavior is. They may memorize the rules, but do not think it is something to be practiced since corruption is so wide spread. One of my monastic friends told me he cried when he found out that he was never supposed to touch money. A monk may purify himself at any time. Often, they just do not know. Traditions often have interpretations which makes items seem "allowable.". Sometimes this is allowed and sometimes one can just be fooling oneself. In the end it is up to them. Often bhikkhus do not reflect or question questionable practices in a tradition because of the wide spread use. Money and medicines are often such topics. 

buddha loved all animals and all humans - the thing is you dont have to pet an animal to love it i dont pet cows and chickens but im still vegan - so he dosnt have to like petting them as long as his not hating them 

Is there a benefit to "wishful thinking" ? not like in a very deluded way - but like if i think about meditating a lot during the day - or getting money to also give others and aid practice 

what is the effectiveness of removing triggers for temptations (food, entertainment etc ) ? i for example took apart the stationary (to avoid watch youtube videos for example for fun) computer i have but after some time i reassembled it if there wont be one attachment there would be others than even if less obvious attachments - can they be less bad ? monks try to avoid this triggers as well i believe (like asking woman to dress modest when visiting monasteries) so i guess it has its merits i wonder how much of a change to a practice this can make - would love to hear general thoughts on this subject 

Not a direct answer just some points about this : 1 - More crops are grown specifically to feed livestock than to feed humans so the move of people to a vegan diet will reduce the amount of crops needed (and yes animals are fed non-edible plant parts and feces "fish flour" ect but thats on top of the crops you grow - about "grass fed" first its a tiny tiny part of the meat in genral and even grass fed are fed crops- by piles of crops put in the fields - by feeding cattle in winter time - by feeding the cows a high calorie diet some months before slaughter ect) so if someone really cares for insects ect that's just another good reason to become vegan ! 2 . A good source on the buddhas diet is : $URL$ 3 . A good video about eating meat is "animals and the buddha" : $URL$ 4 . This is hard to explain in non-buddhist sites but here its simple : INTENTION to kill is key - a lot of the deaths in crops are not intended to be dont (some are but not all) unlike the deaths in the meat industry which are intended - so when you buy meat you pay for someone to kill you pay someone to cause some very bad karma So INTENTIONAL KILLING vs UNINTENDED KILLINGS ..... and knowing for sure that when you buy meat its going to cause intentional killing and yes its not like killing the animal yourself ... but still there is a difference - and this is another thing people should take into account 5 . i follow theravada buddhism so i talk from this point but i know there are vegetarian sects in mahayana buddhism - but maybe im wrong didnt research this - but my view in theravada is you can eat meat - but it is conducive to avoid eating meat completely and being vegan 6 . monks and lay people are very different and theres a different between a monk accepting meat and a lay person buying meat at the supermarket 

Masterbation is unwholesome just like getting angry is unwholesome. Getting angry is not recommended, but it is not against a precept. I think there is confusion with abrahmacariya precept taken with 8 and 10 precepts. This precept replaces the third sexual misconduct precept of regular followers and requires complete celibacy. Abstinence from sensual pleasures are covered in this rule and also in the other higher precepts included in the eight/ten group. These precepts are taken by serious lay followers and novice monks. Bhikkhus must do manata/parivasa (probation) if they do such an act. It is very serious for a monk to do such a thing and very serious legal act to rehabilitate. Often, separate "prison monasteries" are set up for this purpose in Asia because of the difficulties in the logistics to carry out such a task. Novice monks ask to do chores (danda kamma) if they break this. It should be noted that the only difference in precepts of a lay person and a novice monk is the tenth precept of not using money. As far as the third precept (sexual misconduct) is concerned for the five precept yogi; "It takes two to tango." 

According to the Fifth Method of Dependent Origination, there are five causes and five results. The five results are the five khandas. The five causes are ignorance, craving, clinging, formations, kamma force. This is listed in the Vissudhimagga. Path Of Purification (2011 PDF, p601) These are broken up into two consciousness wholesome and unwholesome for humans who are lucky to have a wholesome factor in their near death moment of the immediate past life. Humans always have wholesome kamma force and sankhara (formations) The unwholesome is the craving consciousness. It includes the ignorance mental factor which is part of craving. Clinging is repeated craving. So all three are nearly the same type of unwholesome mind. Got that? Wholesome with unwholesome do not mix together, but the unwholesome mind can "surround" the wholesome mind. So when you did something good in a past life, like something of generosity, you wished to do something (that requires a body) or you wished to become someone (ignorantly). So someone who is male previously wished for becoming male. Someone who is female previously wished to be female. Whether or not one has enough kamma to get that wish is another story. It is like a raffle ticket. Buy more raffle tickets and you have better odds. Do something once that is really big and many raffle tickets get put into the pot. Habitual kamma is a good way to get that wish. Heavy kamma like what Bill Gates did, will also help. (His is both because of his continued involvement, but he may wish other things). Bill Gates probably did something similar in a past life and kept wishing to help other people (to do that with a male body). Then the opportunities (supporting kamma) from other kammas helped support that wish. Read "Outliers" and you will see it was not chance for him to become so rich. Often people switch sexes and species, but I imagine that most people wish with the same sex perception because they do not imagine otherwise. I suspect most sex changes happen via the animal realm. For instance, a dog may want the conditions to have food and whoever feeds him may be the gender resultant next life gender. There are of course humans who wish for sex changes and even do so even in their current life too! So it does happen as humans for future births as well. There is a wheel publication by Venerable Nyantiloka called "Fundamental Themes". It is not easy to read, but it is correct. "The Workings of Kamma" by Venerable Pa-Auk Sayadaw explains this too. There is a chapter on kamma in Ven. Narada's book.. "The Buddha and His Teachings". I think a pamphlet was made from that chapter too. This is a great book for newbies. You might be able to find a meditation manual on dependent origination by Ven. Pa-Auk Sayadaw. It is called "The Fifth Method". It is not readable for the average person. However the first section might be interesting. It is posted it to my website..unlisted. The rest should be easy to find for free. 

I dont get much effect from death contemplation on myself - i wondered lately maybe contemplating the death of those close to me might work to install a sense of urgency do you think its effective ? and should i do it the same way as death contemplation of self or different ? I want to do it to get a sense of urgency all thoughts on subject are welcome 

What technique you practice ? do you have a teacher ? Cause if you dont i would recommend it In case you have a teacher and you practice in a correct way, than i can tell you what helps me now : which is that every action you do have an effect (even if not every kamma has an effect) so nothing was in vain and remembering that each action you do has an effect can help motivate you - for example if every action you did has an effect than failing and trying again and again even if never successful still has its point see this question - especially the chat i had with Sankha Kulathantille : What are the cases where a karma's fruit is destroyed? 

I am thinking about making a practice based on enjoyment to help gain motivation to do stuff - a positive incentive but not sure how to do it (or even if i should do it) - all tips appreciated even if its just one i do correct vipassana meditation finished with a short metta meditation - still i dont enjoy it really not the 1 minute meditation not the 2 hour meditation and i am aware of benefits of the practice from study and from experience but not enough to combat the hindrances - and since i stop practicing for few months try and stop try and stop my motivation is really low maybe if i say i eat a piece of chocolate/listening to music/watching videos etc after i meditate ? but that is to much greed and will probably harm the meditation cause i will think about the "prize" at the end im asking based on an answer i got here on a different topic which made me think about it : 

i practice for a few years - did basic course and few retreats in Ven/ajhan tong tradition (vipassana) - But no matter what technique i try (meditating a short amount like 5 minutes - only being mindful - keeping 8 precepts meditating all day) i never manage to keep practicing more than a few days and than taking a break for a few months with 0 minute meditating and being mindful Question : I remember reading in several places the importance of continued practice of a steady practice - and since i make huge breaks all the time and cant seem to prevent them - i wonder if there is a point in the practice if i almost certain i will take this huge breaks - i don't seem to be "advancing" in any way but i would keep practicing if it was only not seeing "results" but cause i read in so many place the importance of continued practice is there a point in a very inconsistent practice ? if so in what ways someone who has this an inconsistent practice like mine be advancing advance ?