17 year old athlete, 190lb 5'11" I want to really gain some definition and strength for my forearms but don't really know how to go about it. Any recommendations on good exercises to do or other methods? 

Many of my friends use a pre workout such as C4 prior to lifting. I have never used one but am curious if I would see a major change in the effectiveness of my workout. I do a lot of strength training and weight lifting for my hour long workouts. Will using pre-workout help at all besides giving me more energy? 

I am in the same situation actually as a high school student. I wake up at 4:30 in the morning sometimes to get to school and don't get home until 6 just to start my homework. I certainly find that eating healthier is a must. I know it is easy to succumb to the temptation of a bag of chips or a soda on the way home from school just to get some food into you, but grab an apple or a banana instead. If workouts are not going to be possible, then watch what you eat. Even for half an hour find a way to run or bike for a little while. Not only does it help with your physical fitness, it also helps you mentally and keeps you focused and relieves stress. THe gym I usually go to is open late so I will usually study from 7:00-9:00 then go to the gym until 10, returning home to study for another hour. If a gym isn't an option or you just don't have time, there are plenty of at home workouts you can do before or after school to take a break from the books. This is one of my personal favorite at home workouts: $URL$ 

Usually this would be called an active rest day, and is something that I find very effective. I lift 6 days a week then do cardio whether it be riding my bike, jogging, running, or soccer drills. I find it quite helpful. It gives your muscles time to recover but you are still getting your daily dose of exercise. As you said, it is important to avoid using the muscles you just trained. This is why I often do my leg day first day of the week or mid week, so my cardio day is not back to back. 

Then you can just add variations as you get better. For example, with the first pattern, go up 2 rungs or go up in a pattern 1 - 2 - 3. When you are even stronger, go legless. A good resource is the book "Gimme Kraft". Kraft is german for strength or power. 

I am not a good runner. I am definitely not a distance runner. My foray into running styles was an exercise to manage a minor knee injury. So my running style is entirely to do with injury prevention. I've tried forefoot running, but that gave me very sore calfs. I can't say that it is wrong. I still tend to land more on my forefoot if I sprint. Still a big improvement on my legs and knees. At my gym, the trainer has adopted the Pose method. As far as I understand, this encourages a mid-foot landing. As far as comfort and injury prevention goes, this has been the best method for me. Be aware, the Pose running website is really bad and looks like a scam. But worth a try if injury prevention is your main goal. 

As an example, you might say: Ultimate goal Lose 20lbs by Summer 2015 Intermediate Goal: I want to be able to run until the counter says 600 calories. Current capacity: 300 calories. Intermediate-intermediate goal: Every other sessions I will increase that count by 10 calories. So say you run twice a week, try and hit 310 calories twice. If you go for 1 month you should be at 340 calories. Write down your progress and how you feel if that helps you. At the end of the month ask yourself, was that too easy? Too hard? Have you hit a plateau and need to do something else for a while? Are you on track to lose that weight? Then revise your intermediate goals and go for another month, then revise again. Be specific and realistic with your intermediate goals. If you set yourself something well beyond your ability, you may lose confidence, lose interest, get injured, over train etc. You need to be able to constantly chip away towards your goal, form good habits, and show yourself that you can in-fact push slightly beyond your perceived limits and still be OK at the end. 

I'm an 18 year old athlete, 210 lbs. I work out a lot, working on gaining strength and muscle. After a really intense workout I'll get stretch marks along some of the areas that I worked such as biceps. Is this normal? Should I be worried or are these common for anyone who does intense weight training? Thanks in advance. 

A warm up is often dependent on the sport. For instance, before I play soccer,i specifically warm up my legs because I know I will be using them the most. I wouldn't warm up my arms. As you stated, warming up is getting the blood flowing, and this is exactly right. Your muscles do not receive as much blood flow when they are not in extreme use, so doing some light exercises such as jogging or lunges would help to "prime" your muscles. This light activity raises the athletes pulse, which pumps more blood to the target area and helps it to sustain physical activity for longer. When you perform physical activity, your cells require more oxygen to keep going, and this is why you warm up. It prepares your system for the intense activity you are about to perform. 

Alright so what I use when I do parkour or free running are adidas classic samba shoes. They are very soft and after some wearing form to your foot in a good manner. I really like them as they have enough support for my arch yet enough grip for vaults and other moves. I have had 2 pairs and neither have ever ripped, i just out grew them. I would highly recommend them for parkour if you like this type of shoe. 

I felt the same way when I started to drink protein. I wasn't sure if it was safe or effective to use these supplements. I actually consulted my doctor regarding them and she said that used in moderation there is no health risk for them unless you are allergic to the ingredients. That was about a year and a half ago, and now every time I finish a workout I will drink a single shake with usually 60 grams of protein in it. Very often whey protein is used to help build lean muscle or mass. If you are really concerned about using these products, there are all natural protein mixes out there that can be combined with fruit or vegetables to make shakes with the same amount of protein. Blender Bottle has a whole list of different shakes that all for whey protein with natural things such as yogurt or fruit: $URL$ 

Personally, I have one of the fancy Buddy Lee Aero Speed ropes. A little more expensive, but it's been a really great rope. Edit: The typical material is PVC, not nylon! 

Ask someone at your gym for advice and to show you drills. Otherwise maintain good general fitness. Edited to try and answer the question more directly. Thought the Edit Summary field would add an editing note. Does not seem to be the case. Edited again to put edit note 

One hand up, match, other hand up. Go as high as possible, remembering to have enough energy to come back down. Come back down the reverse way. One hand down, match, other hand down. One hand up, match. First hand down, match. Repeat. Keep one hand on the same rung. Move the opposite hand up one rung. Keep moving the same hand up until you can't go any higher. At your limit, cut loose with your feet and then put your feet back on the same rung. Match your top hand with the lower hand directly. Do other side. Reach up with one hand as high as possible. Then campus down with that same hand until you match on the starting rung. Do other hand. Lots of other ideas and patterns ... 

Rest days usually means mobility, foam rolling and stretching. Total workload is a little less than yours. So I think your work load is OK. But I prefer having clear rest days. I definitely benefit. The workout never really changes. Fundamental upper body strength is probably very similar to fundamental leg strength (squat, squat some more). I do enjoy some of the more gymnastic work, so I sometimes throw in some handstand drills, back levers, front levers, muscle ups etc just for fun. 

That is very similar to the program that I have for upper body strength. My core work is done every training day though. It's usually shorter and varies depending on our trainer. So I did not devise my program. I attend a quite relaxed CrossFit gym that allows for a lot of different work to suit other goals. So abs might be 3 rds or 30 each of side plank, side plank, hollow position. Only 4.30min. Or 3 rds 10 slow GHD situps, 15 back extensions, 15 reverse hypers not for time. Probably less an 10 min total. So I would do, starting on a Monday