Normal people may not care about scientific advancement, but fortunately, we don't need to rely on them, even in a democracy. In the U.S., for instance, a lot of funding comes from the National Science Foundation (NSF) and National Institutes of Health (NIH), as well as a few Department of Defense groups, e.g. DARPA. Let's take the NSF as an example. Each year, they request a budget from Congress (in 2017, it was about 0.2% of total federal spending for the NSF) and give them a high level overview of how the money will be spent and examples of the sort of impressive things NSF funding has supported in the past. But then once the NSF has its budget, qualified people decide which research grants will be supported, so even if a research project only has long-term benefits, it will still get funded if it's a promising idea. Another major source of funding comes from industry. In addition to in-house research, companies will sometimes send funding to academic researchers working on topics relevant to them. Even if they won't be the only ones to benefit from the research, they don't need to invest any time or employees into the project, so if they have the money to spare, it can be a good investment. (It also buys goodwill from potential future employees.) And finally, a base level of funding comes from the universities themselves. Undergrad tuition pays salaries, and offering solid research funding will attract good professors to the institution. The average citizen may look at something like a particle accelerator and say "That will magically create a black hole and kill us all". A congressman may look at it and say "That won't have any practical benefits before the next election". But the NSF people will look at it and think, "That may reveal information that will open up new avenues of research in 50 years" and fund it. The more short-sighted people just need to know that funding "Science" has always paid off before, so if we show them that it has, they'll keep funding it. (That came out as a bit more cynical than I intended, but if I'm being honest...) The average citizen of a democracy doesn't necessarily understand or even care about specific research projects, but as long as you have a good research infrastructure in place, they don't need to as long as they're interested in having technology continue to advance. 

Living memory is a two edged sword. Sure they have the wisdom of ages but they also have the bigotry of ages. They remember that your great great great granddad still owes them money. Imagine a grudge that lasts as long as some religions. Set in their ways just doesn't begin to cover it. They need the young to drag them kicking and screaming into the future. Now you humans get off my lawn! 

This could usher in a golden age or it could doom all of the Terran people. It really depends on the republics relationship with Earth. Were the other planets of the republic totally dependent on Earth? Was Earth repressing them? Was Earth just a tourist destination that provided nothing but traditional ceremonies? Without knowing the relationship to Earth, really it could cause anything to happen. Maybe the whole galaxy is going to commit suicide since now they'll never see the last season of Game of Thrones. 

Depends on the smith and how complicated your design ends up being. You have me thinking of playing with piano hinges at the hardware store. 

Willy sells only the best! Won't stand behind his product though. Likes it better inside where he can breath. All sales final. 

Biggest problem you have is that you've been asked to do this by the government. So lets take care of that. First, hire a bunch of pharmaceutical engineers. Have them develop an efficient way to extract poison from the jellyfish. Use that to supply the government with blow darts. This will turn out to be lame, but since you're a campaign donor and since it's what the government asked for, just not what they needed, you'll be fine. Now that you have a steady government contract you can hatch your real plan, skimming. Take the most deadly of the jellyfish out to make herbal supplements. Don't actually claim it cures cancer and warn people about how incredibly dangerous it is. Make them sign liability waivers. The more you hype the danger the more people will want it anyway. Soon as someone dies dilute the heck out of it and call it "homeopathic". Now you're free of reliance on the government. Use this same cynical view of mankind to branch out into other ailments until you have a vast economic empire. Whenever your enemy's confront you, you can hire a team of lawyers to sue them into oblivion. Or just smack em in the face with a bucket of jellyfish chum. Whichever's easier. 

Simulate printing the message. The scientist could do absolutely anything here and I have no way of predicting what specifically will happen. Predict with perfect fidelity all second and higher order effects that will happen as a result of (whatever happened in step 2). Make recommendation 

Have alternate plausible explanations for how they got the information. The British interception of the Zimmerman Telegram is a good example of how this can be done. In WWI, the British intercepted a telegram sent to the German embassy in the United States, and upon decrypting it, determined it to contain information that if revealed to the U.S. might get them to join the war. Specifically, it was an offer for Mexico to ally with Germany and invade the U.S. in the event that the U.S. joined the war in Europe, along with plans to engage in unrestricted submarine warfare. However, the telegram was sent over a U.S. cable that the U.S. didn't know the British were tapping, and encrypted using a cipher the Germans didn't know had been broken. The British needed a way to share the telegram with the U.S. and convince them it was genuine, without revealing either of those facts. Since the British knew the contents of the telegram, they knew that it would have been forwarded to Mexico using a lower-security cipher. The British had broken that one too, and they didn't care as much if the Germans discovered that. So they bribed a Mexican telegraph agent to get a copy of that version, then decrypted it and sent the plaintext version to the U.S. along with an explanation of how it was decrypted. Since the U.S. telegraph offices would have copies of the ciphertext version, they could decrypt their copy and compare with the one supplied by the British to verify its authenticity. So at this point, the only thing that might suggest that the British were tapping those lines or had broken the original cipher is the question of why they decided to steal the telegram from the Mexican office, but that's something they might plausibly have done without knowing the contents, so they were able to safely share the information with the U.S. embassy. 

I think you just invented the most fun physics toy of all time. What you are abusing is Sir Isaac Newton's second law of motion. Force equals mass times acceleration. You could also say: force divided by mass equals acceleration. That means if mass is infinite no amount of force is going to cause a net acceleration. This has fun consequences. For one thing if it's moving when you turn it on it's going to keep moving. If you drop it, even slightly, before turning it on it's going to slowly plow through earths core for no better reason than it's not stoping for nothin no how. See Newton's first law. (And Thor's hammer). If you don't move it before turning it on you can leave it hovering in the air. Gravity is still pulling on it but it isn't gonna budge. If it wasn't for your magic the earth would be moving toward it. It almost sounds like you've suspended the third law. Or maybe you just figured out how to have all the mass you like and not cause any gravity. I know I want one. I'll spin it before turning it on. Perpetual motion! Energy crisis over! 

Why risk wrapping the rails around the sun by going to mars? Let's go to Alpha Centauri so the orbits of the planets are trivial when compared to the distance between. Now stretching is a non issue. Just have that pesky speed of light to deal with 

It might be possible. But you have to think outside a few boxes. For one thing. What makes a sun your sun? Do you HAVE to orbit it? We already do exactly this with Polaris. We just don't think of Polaris as our sun. Polaris doesn't exactly keep us warm. But why shouldn't it? Because it's fairly long way away. Any way to fix that? 

It might be useful to turn the question around. Suppose you're a perfectly normal serial killer, and the cops are on to you. You want to convince them that you're actually part of a secret murderous cult, so you can try for a lesser sentence by turning yourself in and offering to inform on a few "fellow cultists". Maybe Alice and Bob from work; they're jerks, anyway. Now, regular murderers are a lot more common than the secret murderous cultist kind, so the cops aren't likely to believe you unless you come up with some really solid "evidence" to back up your story. Maybe you could break into Alice's and Bob's computers and forge some incriminating messages between them. (You think Eve might know the password.) But you really want physical evidence if you're going to convince anyone. So a better idea would be to grab some of the bloody knives in your garage, and possibly the kidney you took out of that one guy, and plant them at Alice's and Bob's houses. It'd be great if you could actually get a recording of them with one of the victims, but that's probably not doable unless you have time to kill another one before turning yourself in. Now all of those things that the hypothetical serial killer was going to use to "prove" that he was in a cult? Don't have those things in your cult. Don't discuss anything in writing except maybe in really vague terms. Properly dispose of all the bodies. Use regular kitchen knives for your sacrifices instead of fancy ceremonial ones, and wash them properly when you're done. (That's just a good idea anyway; you don't know where that sacrifice has been.) Don't videotape your ceremonies, and for that matter, don't let anyone bring their phones or anything else that can take pictures to the ceremonies in the first place. If the would be traitor can't provide actual evidence that the cult exists, all they'll accomplish by going to the authorities will be confessing to a murder and sounding like either a crazy person or a bad liar.