I have somewhat recently started as a software development consultant at a new company through a 3rd party staffing company. I am working at a very large company, and work with other offices distributed across the US. It has been stated to me that I will be made an offer from the place where I develop after a 6 month period. I work with 3 to 5 other developers on the same product, with similar sized teams residing in other states. The "managing developer" for this product sits in one of the other offices. The managing developer alone has final say on what pull requests are merged. I will call him "Ted". Myself, and a few other newer engineers in this office, have noticed problems with the code coming from the other offices. There are frequently issues with the code - pull requests often contain code that will have no effect, or it is plain to see they will have no effect based on the description of the ticket. To further compound issues, many of these pull requests are made by a veteran dev, with a lot of tenure. I'll call him Dave. The developers from my office frequently call out issues on Dave's code, and they are almost all ignored. Further, we have weekly calls to discuss these pull requests, and they often become heated, with Dave interrupting anyone he disagrees with, and frequently talking over others in defense of his stance. Sweeping architectural decisions are made by this person, and (I suppose you'll have to take my word for it) they frequently have large issues. A lot of this involves "re-inventing the wheel", diverging from known paradigms/structures/mature 3rd party libraries that solve simple problems more robustly than we could. Compounding the issue, Ted will not intervene to stop Dave's unprofessional behavior. He is not that strong technically, and I think just defaults to following whatever Dave instructs due to familiarity (the pair are located in the same office across the country). Ted frequently merges pull requests that have a lot of valid, unresolved comments on them. Recently, we had a debate between two approaches, and we didn't end up going with Dave's approach. That night after we'd left the office (different timezones), Dave got Ted to merge his PR instead of the team's agreed solution. I have researched this question, but it was closed for not having a goal. My goal is to have more productive conversations with these individuals, while at the same time not conceding that code quality is an issue that should be taken seriously, and that others have valuable input. Additionally, I am not sure if my position is different being technically an outsider (consultant). 

I don't see anything wrong with telling her directly that you aren't sure about your word choice. There's no need to beat around the bush. I would write an email, something along the lines of: "Hi Debbie, thanks for writing the proposal for a project that is long overdue. We will all benefit from an update. However, I'm a bit worried about saying that it's "unstable" - this isn't technically accurate and I would hate to see this thrown out on a technicality. You never know what management will pick up on. Can we meet up to talk about another word to describe the system? Thanks. Paul." Because there is an implicit criticism, I'd say an email is the less confrontational way of starting the conversation, but it should lead to a face-to-face conversation. If you have experience of submitting similar proposals you could bring that up too. 

You should say so right away, but that shouldn't be the only thing you say. In your initial contact give details of your experience and the type of work you want to do. Explain why you are attracted to their organisation. Explain that you would like a job that is part-time, but you wouldn't be opposed to increasing your hours in a few years' time (if this is true). In short, you don't want the requirement to be easily missed, but you don't want it to be front and centre. Even if they don't have anything for you right now, you will have made a good impression. 

I've been working on & off on a game for about a bit over a year in my spare time, and I'm trying to decide if it should go on my resume when applying for jobs. My thought was to show that I enjoy learning new things & being creative in my free time. However, the position is not in the games industry, but more of a general programming position. My fear would be appearing distracted or otherwise not "devoted" to the position or company - I would do game development full time if I thought I could. 

I am a (somewhat) recently promoted mid-level software developer at a large retailer. Some time before my promotion, a departmental restructuring along with some turnover has left us short-staffed, with me doing what I would consider "senior" level work within the context of my company. Due to need, I have been thrust into this role even several months ago when I was at a "junior" level, and have been taking it (I think) in stride. I feel my responsibilities are beyond the expectations of colleagues/friends of mine at the same level. The thing is, HR has made it clear (in company-wide emails) that associates of my level are still subject to the traditional promotion timeline, which would only see me advancing at in early 2017. Would it even be worth bringing up a promotion to my boss? And if so, how could I suggest circumventing the normal timeline? Could I just be misjudging my own worth? Any input is appreciated. 

If your manager is impressed with the speed of your work then I wouldn't worry. If you still feel inefficient, then I would say instead of just reading whatever on the internet, read things that are relevant to the kind of work you do. That way, the long breaks you are taking are really just professional development time. 

I am currently the manager of a team of 15 people. In two weeks' time I will leave this job for a totally different one, in a different sector and a neighbouring city. At my current job, I have one member of staff (professionally qualified) who has a very challenging personality. Although highly intelligent, she seems to have no awareness of how she comes across to people; and she comes across as dismissive, presumptuous and condescending most of the time. She's a know-it-all in the worst kind of way. Among her more irritating traits is the tendency to reply to brief announcements or requests, delivered to the whole team via email, with very lengthy (500-1000 words), structured emails, outlining what she sees as every possible objection anyone on the team could have to it and detailing every aspect of the request/announcement she thinks could go wrong. She typically sends these within hours of receiving my email, putting into question her time management skills. (Luckily though, she doesn't usually "Reply All".) Prior to a recent conversation she and I had over a more inflammatory missive, she seems to have been unaware that nobody else was responding in this way, and indeed that few of the objections she anticipated ever came to pass, and never seriously. I think she misinterprets idle chatter, and the usual mild criticisms of one's boss, as expressions of deep dissatisfaction on the part of her colleagues. I know that she has ambitions to move into management, and I also know that the team would revolt if she managed to do this, given her personality flaws. I am sympathetic to her though, because I know she is professionally frustrated. I believe she continues sending me these emails because she wants to show me she has the chops for management -- unfortunately, it shows me the opposite. Before I leave, should I take her aside and tell her this? Would this help her, or be a waste of time? She has a history of missing the point, and at this stage (she's about 40) she's unlikely to change. But I also feel she has a right to know what is holding her back.