Of course there have been many systems of time, as elaborated in some of the great other answers. There are several differences between time and systems like weight or length: 

If we look at the rest of the world, it seems city building civilizations require large population growth which is sustainable through farming. Quite simply, if you can't feed a city, the city will fail. Additionally, in colder regions people need to move to warmer regions with more food in the winter, unless they can store food in sufficient quantities to last through the winter. In case of a bad harvest, it needs to last through 2 winters. If it doesn't, the city will die. In warmer climates people can have more harvests per year, resulting in more food and a more stable supply of food. There were loads of different ways different tribes dealt with this. Due to the winter, people also need to build shelters that are better at keeping the temperature, or they need to burn more wood. If they burn more wood than grows near the city, the city will die. Running out of wood is seen by some as a major reason for the fall of Cahokia, a large city near St Louis. There was also the onset of the Little Ice Age from about 1300 onwards, which may have prevented further growth of existing settlements in colder climates, and even lead to their decline. Solving these problems takes time, and chance. In Central America there were fewer problems to solve, so they had a better chance to reach the city building stage first. Once all of these problems are solved, population growth will likely still be slower in colder climate, slowing down the time it needs to grow from small settlements to large city states. As the size of the settlements grows, trade between settlements is more likely to grow and therefore the rate of advancement of knowledge is likely to increase. These effects can be - and have been - countered through other effects such as traditions, caste systems, religion, government policy, wars, epidemics, natural disasters, etc. But these effects seem to be far less dependent on climate than the consumption of firewood and the amount of harvests per year are. For example the black death affected all of Europe, regardless of latitude. In contrast, in Europe the knowledge of growing crops was imported as was much of the population, so they didn't have to solve all of these problems on their own. Add to that the Roman Empire and the Migration Period, and you see how these developments can very quickly become completely random and unpredictable. 

While clearly everything in the film was done with an eye to how it would come across on the silver screen and historical accuracy was not the paramount goal, nonetheless the influence of medieval ornament and pattern on the costumes, too, is evident: 

UPDATE: It turns out the story is a little more subtle and nuanced than retailed by Mr. Lebe and French Wikipedia. As yet I have not found an online copy of de Commynes' writings. What I have found is a Google e-book version of a 1984 monograph by Emile-Charles Varenbergh titled Mémoire sur Philippe de Commynes. While de Commynes may have been a loyal PR hack during his service for the Duke of Charolais, his writings published after Charles' death exhibit a much more reflective and at times wry tone regarding the exploits of his famous master. de Commynes recalls entering the service of the Duke as a young man in 1464. He quickly became his friend and confidante. The next year, the Duke rode into battle at the head of an army of "4,000 poorly armed and inept fighting men", with de Commynes always by his side. As the title of his memoirs -- Memoires de Commynes, ou Fragment de la comédie humaine -- indicates, the chronicler had an eye for the quirky and off-beat. He was a sharp observer of how the best-laid plans can go awry. The carefully thought-out battle plan at Montlhéry was soon thrown to the winds. The French King (Louis XI) had wanted to avoid conflict, yet the conflict took place. The Burgundians had planned on giving their infantry enough rest before the battle but in fact the men had had no rest, and in their eagerness to charge, they trampled over their own archers, giving the enemy time to retrench in safe positions. In any case the Burgundians profited from lack of discipline in their foes, enabling them to rout the enemy's right flank. But Charles, who had hurled himself almost alone at a large group of them, received a belly wound from a lance as well as a neck wound from a sword. Nightfall then separated the combatants, with the Burgundians camping on the battlefield. During the night, Charles counted his dead and wounded, expecting defeat if the enemy returned in the morning. Luckily for them, the King had beat a retreat during the night. Charles rejoiced in the victory and from that moment would never listen to advice again. On reading these descriptions, the word that comes to mind is "reckless" more than "bold". However -- I am now back to reading the French Wiki -- the first recorded instance of a chronicler calling Charles "The Bold" was not de Commynes': 

I recently came across this video which claims that Edward IV was probably illegitimate, effectively rendering the branch leading to the Windsors also illegitimate. That's quite a bold statement to make, but my question is not as sensational. I'm not a historian so I won't make any claim one way or the other, but assuming a certain royal branch was discovered to be illegitimate, how would this affect a kingdom (i.e. UK) today? Specifically: 

The Royal Library of Alexandria is estimated to have had over half a million documents and house about 100 scholars, according to this article. This would suggest a fairly decentralized archiving system, perhaps with every section having its own system of record keeping. According to the relevant Wikipedia entry, the library also engaged in textual criticism, which implies further detailed record-keeping. Apart from that I couldn't find any other insights into how the collection was organized. What do we know about the indexing system used by the Library? To clarify: the title refers to the organization of the manuscripts, not the structural organization of the Library itself. 

In the movie U-571 (IMDB) there's a scene where two U-boats fire torpedoes at each other, at close range, while both submerged. I always imagined U-boats would fight one another while on the surface, with their deck guns. Use of torpedoes underwater adds the problem of the third dimension, thus hitting an underwater target would be very improbable and a waste of ammunition. I am sure modern submarines have no problem firing at each other in 3D space, but I'm not convinced that the scenario I describe has never happened with their WW2 predecessors, however unlikely. Are there any references to this tactic? 

The Nazi regime had planned to stage a big show trial for Thälmann, Elser and other enemies of their rule after a victorious end to the war. That is why they kept them alive. But by 1944 even the diehards knew that the war was lost. Hitler and Himmler gave orders to have Elser and others like Dietrich Bonhoeffer and Wilhelm Canaris killed. There was no time and no resources for such a trial at that late stage in the war. A web site dedicated to the memory of Georg Elser shows a facsimile of the execution order for Elser. Dated 5 April 1945, the head of the Gestapo Heinrich Müller instructs the commandant of the Dachau concentration camp to have Elser discreetly executed and to announce his death from a "terror" (i.e., bombing) raid. Already in August 1944, they had disguised the murder of Ernst Thälmann as the casualty of an Allied bombing run. There would have been no propaganda value from announcing Elser's summary execution after six years of imprisonment. And as mentioned, a planned show trial which was to have indicted the British as the instigators of Elser's failed assassination of Hitler was no longer feasible at that time. They were not going to allow Elser, Thälmann and other high-profile opponents to see the end of the war. I have not been able to find any record of discussions among the Nazi leadership how their enemies should be disposed of and why they decided on the "cover story" of a bombing raid. Historian Peter Steinbach and political scientist Johannes Tuchel, probably the leading authorities on Elser and whose scholarship informs the above cited web site, do not touch on this point in their writings available online. Two possible motivations appear plausible: one, the regime still clung to the facade of "law and order". Executions without a figleaf of legality would have undermined that facade. And two, some in the regime might have deluded themselves into thinking that they could escape facing responsibility for their crimes after the war if evidence of their worst deeds were covered up, especially if they were hoping for a negotiated capitulation and perhaps even some form of continuity for themselves in power. 

The following is an anecdotal account from my mother which I recall from memory: She was in the changing room of a clothing store (in Athens, during the 80's or 90's) and overheard the attendant, who had in the past conspired in abducting young women to supply a harem, and who was relaying the story to a friend of hers. The incident was made memorable to her because of the method that they used: They would put an ad in the paper looking for an actress or dancer (or similar), and during the interview they would tell her that it's a very small role, won't take too long, no need to tell your family or friends. That's pretty much what she overheard, and told me that a similar offer had been made to her while she was looking for work some time prior to that. She also remarked that this method had pretty much died out nowadays (late 90's at the time) due to the collapse of the Soviet Union, and the supply of eager (though potentially unwilling) emigrants from these countries. I'll ask for more details when we next speak and update this answer accordingly. Again, this is an anecdotal account that I relay from memory, so take it with a generous pinch of salt.