Highest energies means equivalently probing structures at the deepest levels of divisibility. If space & time are emergent features at the plank scale, one may ask what are exactly its constituent pieces, a fragment of space seems possible, but what is a fragment of time? Can fragments of time divide or perhaps assume new shapes? Perhaps a fragment of time has several directions of time. Perhaps a fragment of time is no time - like a fragment of a door is not a door but something else entirely. What is to say there is no new physics beyond the plank scale? Inductive experience surely veers towards asserting that this will be the case. We are far far from probing this regime. It may be millenia before we can, or perhaps never. This is what gives us the space for speculative metaphysics, and/or speculative physics. 

(In fact it is quite possible to follow and verify each step of the proof and not actually understand the proof at all; so, so much for 'proof'; but note, that this isn't a complete and blanket dismissal - it is a sign that proof is much more subtle than a simple logical 'concatenation' of propositions; proof to 'waken belief' given that mens nature and their circumstances are plural are also in themselves plural). This in fact was the influence of Kants philosophy on him via a commentary on the Critique of Pure Reason, thus: 

Its by formalising the idea of membership, and regarding that as the fundamental relationship that gives the idea of Sets Mereology instead regards the subset relation as fundamental - the idea of part to whole. Category theory instead takes the idea of function seriously. They are able to express the other ideas of set theory simply in terms of this. For example, the idea of a member of a set is thought of a function from any one-point set to the set and this picks out the elements. A gentle introduction to these ideas is in Conceptual Mathematics by Schanuel, and to see how Structuralism is used in Set Theory - Sets for Mathematics by Lawvere is pitched at an introductary level but has all the essential ideas. 

One notes that poetry comes from the greek poesis which means simply fabrication. Can at least one distinction be made that the material poetry proper is poesis of the sensual, whereas philosophy is poesis of the abstract? Is mathematics, when considered as a form of philosophy, poesis? A cheap metaphor for example, is to put number & geometry together to produce the real line; a metaphor more dearly bought is to put number & geometry together and produce sheaf theory. (One does rather note, that poets are quick & many with their metaphors whereas mathematics is slow & few with theirs). 

Following Kant, we cannot access, the thing-in-itself (ding-an-sich), but we have access to facts. Facts simply are - they do not bear truth-values, that is we do not say that they are true or false. So, what is it that we do when we say something is true or not? According to Wittgenstein: 

Well it took 2500 years to verify atoms; 350 years to incorporate locality in Gravity. They're arguing over these 'interpretations' because thy very much matter; but one expects the answer may take a couple of lifetmes to solve. 

Murder is commonly distinguished from manslaughter - a death of a man by accident; or from a man killed in a justified war; all deaths and causes of deaths are not alike; so yes, context mitigates or amplifies. Pacifism - which I take in a general way - to mean an absolute injunction against killing - for any reason, has always been a minoritarian, but real position in the world: for example, the Quakers or the Jains. 

In Hobbes Leviathan, chapter II: The imagination he writes: That when a thing lies still, unless somewhat else stirs it, it will lie still forever, is a truth no man doubts of. But that when a thing is in motion, it will be eternally in motion, unless somewhat else stay it, though the reason be the same, that nothing an change itself, is not so easily assented to. Is this something that he gets from Aristotle? 

First not all religions are proselytising: the Jewish, Parsi, Jain and Sikh faiths don't actively seek converts. Arguments can be distinguished as apologia; which is a defence of faith. It derives etymologically from the Greek; and early Christian writers used it in both the sense of defending and recommending; in the Greek, it is one of two key technical terms used in legal discourse; the prosecution delivered the kategoria, and the defense offered the apologia. Religious apologetics is an effort to: 

Why says he this? When a boy alters, and becomes a man; what he is before, and what he is after, is distinct and different. Or when the colour purple is diluted and becomes violet or vermillion, then this too, before and after, is distinct and different. This, then, is alteration; and it is not uniform; for what it is before, and what it is after - is perceptually, or in itself, or by relation different; and not the same. But when a ball moves from place to place, and it in itself does not alter; and each place the same; then motion is uniform: though there is change, no change is perceptible - either in the ball itself, or by place. Also linear motion cannot be potentially infinite, for at some point it would turn back; therefore potentially infinite motion is circular. This, then, is uniform motion. It's commonly taken, at this point that A identifies time with the motion of the heavenly sphere; but this isn't what he says; he says rather: 

When a speech act or a text reveals a plurality of meanings this does not mean that that they cannot be placed in some system of significance from which the context may select one. Plurality does not mean relativity where each significance has the same weight. Your example, of arranging a meeting, when conventionally understood is straightforward. But supposing it was taken from a drama or a thriller then the context of that act may be to heighten dramatic tension or colour our understanding of a character. In conventional reality we cannot step out of the text. There are many texts interwoven in the present. 

Formally the two sentences have the same structure and symmetry. So, if you understand the issue with the first sentence, you can perhaps understand the issue with the second. But that introduces the idea of an 'evil God'. You are correct that something must exist before one can make moral judgements of it; and as its been pointed out already this argument was made by Kant. Though of course he introduces noumena without proof of its existence, but by plausible argument - and I'm not being pejorative but positive when I say the argument is plausible. To be honest, if a God as traditionally conceived does exist; it seems rather dubious to imagine one can have him up in court like some petty criminal and try to find about his moral character. Should one call in some character witnesses too? 

So, propositions for Wittgenstein must have the possibility of being either true or false; he expressly forbids analytic propositions which by their very form are always true or false. In his view propositions must have possibility. But can one have more than true or false as truth-values? It first appears that the answer to this question must be yes, for in modern logic there are species of logic that are multi-valued, for example intuitionistic logic, but note that this is a formal system and the meta-logic we use to manipulate this formal system is still classical and thus admits only true & false as the only truth-values. 

Positivism (as formulated by Mills & Comte) advocated an epistemology based solely around the 'scientific method'. No doubt due to the stunning successes it had already achieved by then. Marx said that he took Hegel and turned him down: that is from spirit over matter to matter over spirit. Did he do this at the behest of Positivistic thought? 

According to Arendt, however, Aristotle claimed that wonder (thaumazein) was the beginning of philosophy; Wordsworth appears to be expressing exactly this sentiment and in fact da Vinci paints Aristotle in the Academy pointing towards the earth ('Ye visions of the hills') and of course prelude is a kind of beginning. But if wonder is the beginning of philosophy, is it then pre-philosophical, and one cannot philosophise through it? Does Aristotle mean that wonder is the beginning of philosophy in the history of philosophy and hence not repeatable; or does he mean that it is the beginning of philosophy in every man or woman who is struck by the wonder of the world, and then takes hold of this orientation? 

They don't elaborate the distinctions here, which both Virmaior and Quen Tin have so usefully done in their excellent answers. But As they introduced three terms in this discussion - thought, reality, truth - Dr Bohm introduces another view: 

This of course is Parmenides formula; here there can be no real becoming or passing away, as the things that are have self-essences; and therefore permanent; in a modern guise, they are atoms. However, dependent origination is relational; the things that are, are relations; hence they lack svabhava, intrinsic essences or self being (sva=self, bhava=being); they are because of the 'network' of relations; they can come to be and they can pass away, essentially because they lack svabhava. From Nagarjunas Madyama-karika (verses of the centre - madhya (centre), verses (karika)) 

It appears to be making the case that a person of 'bad character' should be allowed to live out their life peacefully; it appears to be a plea for clemency, of a kind. 

Poincare, attending to the constancy of light everywhere (again note here the resonance with Newton conception of time which flows everywhere uniformly) showed that a synchronisation procedure based on light signals explained local time. Poincares explanation still referred to aether, and it was Einsteins achievement to dispense with it, or in another perspective to merge the idea of the aether with that of space itself, so that time must flow at different rates at different places, where place is not taken absolutely in Newtons sense (recall there is no acceptable notion of rest), that is place itself is in motion. And its only places whose motion with respect to each other are at rest that the conventional simultaniety still holds. 

Consider a single particle in empty space; by what argument can we say that it always occupies the same position or place? Space itself has no identifying mark or label being everywhere the same. Suppose, otherwise; and every point of space has a label; and as a concrete illustration say along the three axes they are labelled by the three primary colours - red, green and blue; so any point of space was identified by a colour that is unique. Then were we in motion in space - we could see it - by the change of colour as we move; or not - if we do not. But given space has no such structure then it seems we cannot justifiably say that a particle is at some identifiable position. 

I haven't read the book by Boole; but it can be an instructive example simply because since the time it has been written much about has gone main-stream and it has been endlessly commentated on and rendered into a prose in which Booles ideas have been rendered transparent. Those that look at Boole when he was writing the book forget that at the time no one, or very few were interested in the direction he was pioneering; they have the hindsight of history - a history of which he began one of the main lines of thought. So, when one looks at his prose it's difficult to understand; as are the ideas. Another example would be Russell's Principia, or a contemporary one would be one of the early papers by Giraud on Linear Logic. In a separate discipline, have a look at Newtons Principia where he uses geometrical proofs in the style of Euclid; and this from the inventor of calculus - one suspects that he thought the mathematical public, small then, were not ready for two impossible things before breakfast; this didn't hold back Liebniz (hence the priority dispute that rumbled on for a century); the point is - he wasn't being obscure for the sake of it; but using a language which was regarded as the epitome of precision - neccessary when the arguments when one is making are new and controversial. Of course, now, when one looks at it, it does look obscure and old-fashioned... 

Steve Bruce in his book Fundamentalism writes: Hinduism might be better described not as a religion but as a loose collection of religions—that of the Shaivites, the Vaishnavas, the Shaktas, the Smartas and others—that share some common themes but that tolerate a huge variety of expressions of those themes. Unlike the Abrahamic traditions, each of which has a canonical scripture that can function as a rallying point for defence, the Hindu tradition contains such an abundance of scriptures, laws, and philosophies that ‘it becomes very difficult to single out any one specific item’ as being basic or ‘fundamental’. However, in the Western Reception of Hinduism, The Bhagavad Gita is central - perhaps much more central than it is in Hinduism itself. There are standard commentaries within a number of Indian philosophical schools that discuss its metaphysical & moral philosophy. Malise Ruthven in his book also named Fundamentalisms writes: 

and written in many books, or as graffiti on some walls. But we do not think of this as thought itself being split. Perhaps, genetically identical twins are splittings of the same person? But no, they are from conception two different persons sharing exactly the same genetic material; their consciousness of being here, is seperate in each - and was never unitary as in a single consciousness or mind. Thus your A does not hold: a thought expressed is not the thought itself; and merely places or translates the thought from the world of thought into the world of matter - and matter is essentially described by extension, and one of the properties of extension is that it can be split - so being able to split such a translated thought doesn't demonstrate the splitting of thought, but the splitting of extension. Thus also your B does not hold; for no mind has been demonstrated in a computer; but simply that the expression of thinking can be automated; and this automation - this motion of matter - or extension in motion - is in essence no different from a thought expressed in writing in a book; and we do not think a book thinks, or that it has mind; even though we might ourselves think new things or recollect old feelings when our mind passes 

Actually, this is a question that Aristotle asks in his Metaphysics; he asks "what is the place of place"; where before he defined place as something like our notion of space - it is like a container which can contain a body. He admits this as being as being an obvious question to ask, but struggles to answer it himself, admitting it as a difficult queston.