They hire for the team. It's possible the company has considered you to be a good fit for a specific team, and there would be almost no translation to any other office. In this case, they will probably not be able to do anything for you besides start you over in the interview process with the new location, with the equivalent of a good recommendation. (Maybe they could also skip phone interviews.) Specific locations have specific hiring practices. Even though the company may hire more generally, they also might have different hiring practices in general locations, enough that one location is not willing to bring you on based on another's interview. In this case, the situation would probably be the same as the above. Generalized hiring practices. If the company has really good universal hiring practices, you could be considered directly for another location. They would still, at a minimum, need to figure out whether the team has a need for people with your specific skillset. And, the compensation portion of your current offer may become useless (and they may not be too happy about that). (See below) 

Is the pay commensurate as what you are now, plus some? If you are truly an able and capable programmer, and have interpersonal skills as well, you'll not be a "junior developer" for long. Since you will have taken the position in good faith, even if you do get treated as a (much more) senior person, it will be unlikely you'll get a raise as soon you might end up desiring. By saying treated as here, I mean you'll probably be given projects and responsibilities than a more genuine junior person would be given. You need to consider for yourself, if you will be getting an attitude because you're not being paid commensurate to all of those responsibilities. If you, right now, consider the pay raise as worth more than a junior, but at least fair to a mid-level, then when you end up being treated as one, you'll already be fairly compensated. Another thing is, if you take the position as a junior developer to a more senior one, it will be expected for you to not come in displaying a desire (hidden or not) to 'take over' ... even if you feel you could "do the job better" than the current guy, it's not what you will have been hired to do, so don't. At least until you have been in the position long enough to prove your own abilities and aptitude. As an anecdote, in my current organization, we had a web development team lead leave for another position. We hired a new senior developer/team lead. A couple years later the old lead wanted to come back and we needed his skills (they were already a known quantity as it were.) He was re-hired with the express acknowledgement that he would not be the lead. Things didn't work out so well. I know this isn't what you are planning, but plans don't last past implementation very well. People refer to positions as junior, mid-level and senior, even I do, but in real life, things are never so cut and dried. Your skills and experience add up over time to being a quality and quantity. If your S&E are beyond junior, than that is what you are. Getting hired as a "junior" person, when you are really a senior person in experience and skills rarely turns out well, unless there is a well thought out basis for your under-positioning. 

The best approach is to set a lower limit under which you won't go with your salary (given that's the only negotiated factor), to demonstrate willingness to walk away and to do so if necessary. This way there is no way they can push you below your limit and the only option they have, if they really need/want you for the team is to meet your price. In the worst case you found out you're wrong and they either can't or don't want to afford you and you go ahead and find someone who does. 

I don't consider interviews as tests that can be passed or failed, but at opportunities to gauge whether the interviewee would fit the position I'm seeking filled. If they went through the trouble of researching what I might ask and prepared the answers on a sheet of paper, I might actually consider that a good thing, because it could show their determination to learn what it takes to get the job, and, by extension, maybe also do it well. What bad might come from this: probably only wasted time on either side. You pass the interviewee on to somebody with domain knowledge to find out whether their skills are adequate for the open position and they might figure out the interviewee is not. But unless you know the domain of the interviewee, you can't do much more than follow a script of questions about it. So failing to see that their answers might be scripted (unless you heard them before, verbatim), shouldn't reflect badly on you. 

Lastly, that OTE is likely extremely optimistic and you need to work down from those numbers. Keep these things in mind: 

In most of these "I don't want to offend them but I want to do this other thing" cases, honesty is the best policy. Most often, if you offend somebody, it's going to be because you caused them to feel like you participated in the negotiation/transaction in bad faith — leaving them without a fair chance, thus wasting their effort in an exchange they didn't have a chance. No one wants to put effort into something where they don't have a chance, and organizations and people alike actively avoid parties that they fear will take advantage of them. Example of bad faith They offer, you accept. Two weeks later, you reneg, saying your old company wants you. They might feel like either you used them for more money (as a safety net in a bluff), or you're flaky, but either way, you didn't give them enough information to truly compete and it possibly indicates low integrity. They had no chance to really get you, and they put a lot of effort in, leaving them with a sour taste. How to act in good faith In this case, you're right to be worried, since it seems like you might not be completely sure why you are reconsidering (since you haven't really told us). Remember, the base assumptions when you seek out (and especially when you accept) a new job are that something about the old job was not good enough. It could be: 

Once you go through a recruiter you usually aren't allowed to contact the respective company directly. Conversely, recruiters won't follow through once they realize you're already in contact with the company, because it's costing the company extra money to pay the recruiter, which they won't pay because they already have a relationship with you. Also, taking up the offer of a recruiter is hardly keeping them from introducing more potential candidates, because it increases/activates they pool of candidates and because the more people they introduce the more likely it is that someone will fit the profile and they will get paid. Telling the company that you've also been contacted about this job by a recruiter may be helpful if you wrap it in a hint towards their stated policy of not working with recruiters. It shows that you pay attention to them and that others deem you a fit for the position, too. 

Some job agencies work like that. You have to talk to them to figure that out, though. I know a few and the common denominator in my experience is, that they try to get to know you personally over a few meetings, develop a detailed skill profile and have at least some knowledge of your field of profession in their team as well (which helps find better, more interesting opportunities). Good criteria to look for: 

You've met with the client rep at the beginning of each sprint, or project. The two of you (or your teams) have come up with an agreed upon scope of work for that duration. That is your official list. Put it down on "paper" (document/spreadsheet, what have you) and send a copy of it to your manager titled something like "Project X - client agreed scope of work". Now let your manager manage. If/when he adds new scope/deliverables, add it to your official scope list and then email that back to him. Let this go for a cycle (or two). If he doesn't adhere to the list and you feel strongly enough (and are willing to accept the consequences, whatever they may be, including termination I suppose), you could up it a notch or ten and send the agreed upon initial scope list to the client rep, and then each time your manager adds to it, send that as an addendum to the client. That will ensure you are covered from the point of view of the client. Just know that your career at your current company may be shortened. 

This is a very tough one. I've been in peer review processes that are similar — that specifically ask for "something they could do better". Here's how I approach it: 

I think in your case it already includes commission. It says "£20K - £50K plus OTE", but I think that is just poorly written. I would read that as "The OTE for this position is £20K - £50K plus". "Plus OTE" wouldn't make sense, because OTE means total. They also want to show you total numbers that look better, not watered-down base salaries. 

By "not much different" I mean you should only consider taking the interview request if there is a good reason to: 

It sounds like you are asking how to deal with it in the moment, not in the long term. I'll try to help with both. Why would someone say such a thing? Knowing how to react is going to require understanding why a person would say something like that. 

Getting your degree isn't really a magical date; you are going to see it through and you've already gained much of the experience. I would start looking now; some employers may even see that initiative as a positive. As with most things, employers are usually willing to try to work with issues that the candidate is honest about. 

(And they really were mentoring you already, though passively. Keep that in mind.) These ideas don't have to be overly original or special or genius. Just apply your perspective, take the time to really think it through and find some things you can really stand behind. From full-blown synergies, to minor usability fixes, everything is the right thing. Why does this work? This approach works, because even the most succesful, genius person can't think of everything, so they value new stand points, new input. And giving it freely, without strings attached, is a sign of appreciation they probably won't see often, so you stand out from the crowd of either silent admirers or people trying to work an angle. How would you know? I'm taking this advice from some, mostly passive, mentors I have, in particular Napoleon Hill, James Altucher and Jerry Colonna, who at some point or another all say this exact thing. 

Salary prospects Usually there is some pool of extra salary companies hand out year-by-year in the form of small-ish percentage increases. New titles are always opportunities to negotiate pay raises beyond what these annual increases would give you, so to situate yourself better for future raises, you should drive a hard bargain to come with a new title (as there is new responsibility involved, too). On the other hand you don't want to be passed over when promotions are coming up. So there's a trade-off when chosing this route. Outside value If your short to medium term plan is to leave/switch companies anyway, grabbing titles and certifications will put you in a better position when negotiating with potential new employers. This may differ from country to country but I don't know of any laws that force you to disclose your exact current/last salary during an interview, so accepting a lower-than-average one for a promotion that will increase standing may be a good idea. Conclusion You have to know which direction your 'future growth' is taking, then the answer will be clear. 

Take it at face value, since it seems to be the first and only occurrence. Now your supervisor knows you are interested in more responsibility, so be prepared to be given it. You may, or may not, like what you get. I would also plan this as a topic of discussion at your next regularly scheduled personal/personnel/annual review/meeting with your supervisor. Keep it in his mind and he should make it a higher priority for you. The only time I would take offense, would be if it happens again, with the same management chain in place and basically exactly the same circumstances. Please trust your manager that he knows more about the other teams than you and made what he considered the best choice for a valid reason. The next opportunity may have the same outcome - someone else may be a better fit for some reason. It would bother me only if it was essentially the same as before. 

I am an employee of a large defense industry company and am on a contract to provide IT services to a large government defense agency. I've been a contractor now for 18 years in various companies. All of the companies I've worked for fit what I'm going to say below, to a T. Note that I've never worked in a pure civilian-side position (non-defense, non-government) in any of my last 30 years of employment. All of that aside, I can only speak for my division of my company and the requirements we get from our government customer. There is only one no heck requirement: Security+ or an equivalent from a short list of certifications. That's it. As far as education goes, every single IT job (not counting upper management, of course, which aren't IT as much as management) requires a Bachelor's Degree (of some kind) or anywhere from 5-9 years experience. Recognize that no where in that last paragraph did I say anything about where the degree is/was from.