Thawing is a important factor in ensuring safety of frozen foods. Ice cream is an example of a frozen product which is documented to be contaminated by different bacterial pathogens. 

“Will o’ the wisp”/ignis fatuus: Phenomenon involving faint flames or a flickering, glowing fog, usually green, that sometimes appears to recede if approached. The scientific lab demonstration by Luigi Garlaschelli explains the 'will o’ the wisp' phenomenon as the decomposition of phosphorous acid generated phosphine which caused a fog formation in the flask. A faint, pale-greenish light was noted to be clearly visible when air and nitrogen stream was fed into the phosphine vapors. However, Massimo Polidoro who coinvestigated the phenomenon with Luigi Garlaschelli could not replicate the lab success in the field (cemeteries, graveyards, marshes) and more peer reviewed field and lab evidence is needed for explaining Will o’ the wisp. Min Min lights: Referring to Professor John D. Pettigrew's explanation of the Min Min lights in the peer reviewed journal Clinical and Experimental Optometry, a natural or man-made source of light is refracted to an observer who is separated by long distance which can be hundreds of kilometres away by an inverted mirage or Fata Morgana. 

The use of Kambo is cautioned against the possibility of infection of the wounds which is certainly not a characteristic of an ideal antibiotic which should have selective toxicity. 

Per IISS Strategic Dossier on nuclear black markets, nukes were known to exist for sale through black market to the whole world when a Pakistani nuclear scientist Abdul Qadeer Khan was arrested on 31 January 2004 for being part of a black market network that had sold nuclear weapons technology to Iran, North Korea, Libya and he was also claimed to offer the technology to Iraq and possibly other, as yet unknown, countries. In 1972, the year Khan received his Ph.D., he got a job in the Dutch offices of URENCO, a newly formed international consortium dedicated to manufacturing centrifuge technology that joined together enterprises in Britain, Germany, and Holland. Khan became the interpreter of technical and highly classified documents between German and Dutch since during his studies he had learned German and Dutch. While in Pakistan for a holiday, he was then given an audience with Bhutto, who immediately put him in charge of a program aimed at using centrifuges to enrich uranium to levels sufficient for a bomb. He returned to Holland soon after to gather more information, and by the time he came back to Pakistan in 1975, he had stolen the essential designs and parts of the URENCO centrifuge technology. Khan later made a public confession on Pakistani television regarding his illegal nuclear dealings and claimed that he initiated the transfers based on an "error of judgment." Following these disclosures, in early March 2005, Pakistan acknowledged A. Q. Khan had provided centrifuges to Iran, though it denied having had any knowledge of the transactions. In May 2008, A.Q. Khan publicly stated that elements of his confession relating to proliferation to various countries including Iran had been coerced and otherwise fabricated. Known nuclear smuggling incidents are mentioned here. Areas of particular concern also include the Russian black market in uranium and plutonium. The former Soviet republics of Ukraine, Belarus, and Kazakhstan still have stockpiles of weapons-grade uranium and plutonium. Ukraine and Kazakhstan also have nuclear power plants the byproducts of which cannot be used to make a nuclear bomb but might indirectly tempt terrorists trying to buy and make a claimed "nuclear dirty bomb" which is a regular explosive laced with lower-grade radioactive material. Per CFR, the following countries could be trading nuclear information on the black market: 

Also media advice such as this and this show the threat perception for pedophiles during their incarceration. TL;DR: In summary it is true that in some prisons, pedophiles are likely to be sexually assaulted or even killed if they are not placed in protective custody while in other prisons, child molesters are found to be safe and not harmed when kept in an environment designated according to their prison classification. Source: Corrections today 

Per US CDC, the effectiveness of the Pill each year is between 88% to 94% which means 6 to 12 pregnancies per 100 women can occur each year. Per US HHS, the effectiveness of the combined pills is 91% each year and the effectiveness of the mini pills is 95% each year which means of 100 women who use the pill each year, about nine women may get pregnant on the combined pills and five will get pregnant on the mini-pills. The risk of pregnancy is much less for women who take the pill correctly every day at about the same time. 

The sterility of expired and sealed soft contact lenses was investigated in a study published in The South African Optometrist regarding the safety of expired lenses. The results of that study shows some contamination in expired lens packs, but the researchers were unable to make any broad claims due to a very small sample size. Their goal was to initiate further research into the quality and utility of expired lenses than to answer the question authoritatively. Further the authors report in the 2008 study that 

Smoking-attributable mortality is high when compared to obesity associated deaths in a large population which is seen by the following example in USA. "Approximately one-half of the population aged 2 and older consumes sugar drinks on any given day. Studies in children and adults have found that reducing sugary drink consumption can lead to better weight control" among those who are initially overweight. "An estimated 42.1 million adults in the United States currently smoke cigarettes and an estimated 3,000 kids each day under the age of 18 try their first cigarette and another 700 become regular, daily smokers". 

A 2007 investigation called 'Revised Report into Allegations of Organ Harvesting of Falun Gong Practitioners in China' by David Matas, the senior legal counsel of B'nai Brith Canada and David Kilgour retired member of Parliament for the southeastern area of Edmonton, Alberta found the allegation to be true. 

Antimicrobial peptides such as Dermaseptin derived from Phyllomedusa bicolor have been studied for potential to act both as an antitumor and mitogenic agent. 

TL;DR: The feathered shuttlecocks used in badminton players are made up of 16 feathers either from the left or right wing of a goose or duck attached to a 'semi-ellipse' shaped cork. 

The claim that Donald Trump violated Palm Beach ordinances by putting up an outsized U.S. flag and pole, then donating the money he was fined to veterans’ organizations is mostly true per reference to Politico column by Frank Serabino. 

Research by Gerald Schatten and Helen Schatten show that the "egg is not merely a large, yolk-filled sphere into which the sperm burrows to endow new life. 

There is no evidence that sitting at a computer screen has any effect on the development of age-related macular degeneration or any other retinal problems except for eye straining referring to Dr. Stephen Rose. Patients at risk for age-related macular degeneration who are frequent users of LED computer monitors need to protect their eyes from harmful blue-violet light using blue-blocking lenses. Comments below are from a roundtable paper from a lens maker called Crizal. 

Per Maddocks and Jenkins in 2013, "medical grade honeys need to continue to undergo robust, appropriate clinical trials if they are to find a place in clinical practice as a prophylactic or treatment for wound infection". 

RSS a right wing Hindu organization has claimed to reconvert 200 Muslims to Hinduism in Uttar Pradesh under a ceremony called Ghar Vapasi ("homecoming”) in 2014 by offering to get benefits such as ration cards for the converted people. 

Jason Padgett acquired a new and unique skill/ability of drawing mathematical fractals after getting hit on the head which is known as a phenomenon called acquired savant syndrome. Savant syndrome is a rare but remarkable condition in which persons with developmental disabilities, brain injury, or brain disease have some spectacular skill or ability that stand in definite contrast to the overall handicap. There have been a number of cases reported in which, after some brain injury/disease, savant skills unexpectedly emerge, sometimes at a prodigious level, when no such skills were present before injury or illness which is called acquired savant syndrome. 

However, not all injection wells (hydraulic fracturing, wastewater disposal, and enhanced oil recovery) induce major earthquakes. 

Please note that this answer does not constitute medical advice. It is only meant to summarize published research related to the topic and limited to the cited sources. Consult your physician about what these results may mean for your health. 

Measurable levels of Fukushima-Caseium have been only been found in Pacific Blue Fin tuna until now. The nuclide analysis results of other fish and shellfish is recorded here. 

TL;DR: Referring to David Mech's website, the concept of the alpha wolf is outdated and per latest wolf research, wolves are just termed "breeders" or "parents". 

Yes, Gandhi slept with girls naked as a part of sexual experiments on attaining celibacy when he was 70 years old. The girls were Manu (Gandhi's grandniece), Abha (wife of Gandhi's nephew Kanu) and Sushila Nayar (younger sister of Gandhi's personal secretary Pyarelal). 

Also in reality if the above mentioned patent holders for State retention power gated cell are dead, the rights for all payments would pass on to their descendants. 

Per study by Corballis MC et.al. in 2008 of 11-year-olds in England, the results showed that those who are naturally ambidextrous are slightly more prone to academic difficulties than either left- or right-handers. 

Yes (Note: Air flow needed through the charcoal for the claimed benefits). Per 'Science of Bamboo Charcoal: Study on Carbonizing Temperature of Bamboo Charcoal and Removal Capability of Harmful Gases' 2002, the conclusions of the researchers were “charcoal can be used effectively as a countermeasure against Sick Building Syndrome or as a deodorant.” 

Issue: Whether organic vegetables are comparably more carcinogenic to vegetables treated with pesticides? Evidence: 

Soda taxes also might influence people to switch to the so called better "diet drinks" which causes further negative impacts. 

Quoting Snopes first published information on 9 July 2015 regarding Kim Davis marital history who in turn refer to Associate Press details as follows, "Court records detail Kim Davis’ turbulent marital history: She has been married to her current husband twice, with a divorce and another husband in between. 

Organophosphate pesticide residues in urine of farm workers and their children in Fresno County, California Paul K. Mills, 2001 

Radioecologist F. Ward Whicker said that "the concentrations of iodine and cesium levels "would have to be orders of magnitude larger than the numbers I've seen to date to cause the kind of radiation doses to marine life that would cause mortality or reductions in reproductive potential." 

Carbon black will prevent the plastic from breaking down in UV light, which also help the balls survive longer and give them a multi-decade lifespan. 

Intake of repeatedly heated olive oil was noted to produce harmful effects on endothelial function in normal young healthy volunteers. 

"Dark characters on light background lead to better legibility and are strongly recommended independent of observer's age." 

Per a 2004 study 'Effect of cow milk consumption on longitudinal height gain in children' by Tomoo Okada, researchers observed a height gain in the children who consumed a high amount of cow milk. Per a 2009 study 'Dairy Consumption and Female Height Growth: Prospective Cohort Study' by Catherine S. Berkey et.al., researchers concluded that off the foods/nutrients studied, dairy protein had the strongest association with height growth. "These findings suggest that a factor in the nonlipid phase of milk, but not protein itself, has growth-promoting action in girls." Per a 2015 study 'Milk intake, height and body mass index in preschool children' by Mark D DeBoer et.al., researchers concluded that "in a cohort of children at age 4 years, the volume of milk consumed was associated with higher weight status and taller stature, while at 5 years, higher milk consumption continued to be associated with taller stature." This study supported current American Academy of Pediatrics recommendations that pre-school children should consume two milk servings daily. 

Defensive use of guns in USA by crime victims is a common occurrence indicated by national surveys. However, researchers dispute the exact number of people using guns for defense. Research shows that an armed victim might use a weapon to resist attacker aggression and avoid injury . Referring to 'Committee on Priorities for a Public Health Research Agenda to Reduce the Threat of Firearm-Related Violence' review of possessing arms for self defense and injury rates, further research is needed to confirm or discount whether having a handgun increases your chance of injury. 

The mobile app does not possess a feature of being automatically turning on without permission or being always on recording your every day sounds. 

The Church of the Latter Day Saints or the Mormon Church have created Missionary Training Centers (MTC) which are basically target language boot camps which utilize a hybrid task-based and focus-on-form approach to assist missionaries in both obtaining survival communication skills and acquiring the ability to spread religious messages. 

Untreated rain water from well maintained roofs is generally safe to drink. Consumption of rainwater collected from ground catching systems without treatment is not recommended due to high levels of microbial contamination. 

Food allergy present in childhood and with infants is now also recognized to develop in adulthood as adult-onset food allergy detailed here. 

Research by scientists at Athlone Institute of Technology (AIT) in 2012 found that digested coconut oil was able to affect the bacteria that caused tooth decay. 

Per meta-analytic studies listed below, there is evidence that coffee drinking is associated with a reduced risk of certain types of cancers 

The Statue of Liberty known to be a symbol of American freedom against monarchy and slavery was erected in the New York Harbor in 1886. The design concept 'Liberty Enlightening the World' for the statue was patented (US Patent # D11,023) by a French artist named Auguste Bartholdi. 

Omar Bakri Muhammad had issued a "big" fatwa on Rove McManus based on these false allegations (since the evidence presented to him was considered offensive) which is seen here at timestamp 9:40 to 9:51 of the video and once this evidence was revealed as false, the fatwa was removed by Omar Bakri Muhammad which can be viewed here at timestamp 10:24 of the video. 

Hypothyroidism (Underactive thyroid): Condition in which the thyroid gland cannot produce optimum levels of thyroid hormone for normal hormonal activity. Harvard med education states "hypothyroidism is seldom the main reason for overweight or obesity. Treatment with thyroid hormone, while medically necessary, does not usually cause a significant weight reduction." In adults, hypothyroidism is associated with obesity, although a cause and effect relationship is not clearly established and thyroid studies may be helpful to determine a diagnosis. 

Alcohol consumption is carcinogenic to humans (Group 1), ethanol in alcoholic beverages is carcinogenic to humans (Group 1) and acetaldehyde associated with the consumption of alcoholic beverages, is carcinogenic to humans (Group 1) per the International Agency for cancer Research (IARC – WHO). Alcohol consumption (and not abuse) is associated with increased risks of the following cancer types: oral cavity, pharynx, larynx, oesophagus, upper aerodigestive tract, colorectum, liver and female breast In Australia, the National Heart Foundation explicitly advises against the consumption of red wine and other types of alcoholic drinks for the prevention or treatment of heart diseases. In 2007, the World Health Organization (WHO) affirmed that from both the public health and clinical viewpoints, there is no merit in promoting alcohol consumption as a preventive strategy. In 2012, the World Health Organization (WHO) stated a greater reduction in death from ischaemic heart disease could be obtained by being physically active and eating a healthier diet than by drinking a low dose of alcohol. It is mandatory to remind that alcoholic beverages consumption (without abuse) favours the development of about 60 different diseases, and that one unit of alcohol a day (about 12 grams of ethanol) significantly increases the risk of hypertension and dysrhythmias. 

TL;DR: Alcohol in small amounts can cause sleepiness through its sedative effect in insomniacs but in large amounts can cause disruption in sleep patterns in healthy individuals.