There are 3 size aspects to a crankset (and, of course, lots of variations between product lines as far as materials, color, price, etc.). 

My method, which works very well and is fairly quick (although it required initial shopping and drinking some Gatorade): Edit: this requires having one of those reusable 'gold links' to detach/reattach the chain at will. 

You can, but it depends on whether the particular trainer will accommodate a 26" wheel. I have two trainers, one that will work on a mountain bike (found at a garage sale), and one that won't quite adjust close enough (so I use that one for a road bike only). Best check the specs closely before buying a trainer. 

About 30+ years ago I bought my first road bike. It had an old (used) Brooks leather saddle on it, whose design probably dated back to 1900 AD. To anyone who hasn't seen these, 

Find a good LBS (Local Bike Shop) that deals in road bikes and has a used bike section. They might not have something for you right now, but if you talk to them, tell them what you are looking for, try some new bikes to get a really good handle on the size you are needing, they may just give you a call when the right trade-in appears. 

they look like a they were inspired by horse saddles, but tinier. The leather is rock hard, but once they get broken in are surprisingly comfortable. Nowadays the saddles you see in shops are all high-tech, lightweight creations. I had to search, but found some ads for Brooks on Amazon. So: does anyone use them? Or are they outdated and anachronistic? 

Remove the chain and put a string on it to fish it out of the gatorade bottles Simple Green: I have an old gatorade bottle full of 50/50 diluted Simple Green, which is a great degreaser. Put the lid on (with string outside, for chain removal). Shake it up baby, now! Really work it. Remove the chain when it looks clean enough. Grime will accumulate at the bottom of the bottle, but I just cap it and reuse the Simple Green again next time. Clean water: Hot is best. Another Gatorade bottle with water, put the chain in, shake shake shake. This is to remove the Simple Green. I don't save the water, just dump it out. Hot will evaporate off the chain more rapidly and dissolve the Simple Green more quickly, but cold will do. 92% Isopropyl alcohol: water rusts chains (bad!). Water dissolves in alcohol, and the alcohol then evaporate super quickly. So, chain in Gatorade bottle of alcohol, string outside, cap on, shake shake shake. Remove the chain, watch the alcohol drip off and evaporate in no time. 

Get a seat bag and have at least one spare innertube, a multi-tool, spare CO2 (if that's your inflator of choice, a frame pump otherwise), and park a $10 bill in there. It's not a matter of 'if' you have a mechanical, but 'when'. Anticipate it, prepare for it, and deal with it. More than once (because I don't learn quickly) I got as far from either end of my ride and had a flat. I ended up riding home on my rim, which is BAD. Additionally I have a laminated photocopy of my driver's license in case I'm unresponsive, but that may be overkill. 

Yellow and orange high visibility vests both do a good job of reflecting light. The Wikipedia article on high-visibility clothing mentions the first use of 'safety' orange 

I'm trying to find what kind of brand/make my bike is so I can find more information about it. It might help me determine if I should buy a new bike. All I can tell from looking around my bike are the words 'Challenger' and 'Resistance'. It's a hand-me-down mountain bike, I haven't got a manual or receipt for the bike so I suspect there must be some way of finding out otherwise. I've searched for 'Challenger Resistance' on the web and the best result I received was from an auction on eBay of an identical bike. Here's what my bike looks like: 

It's not necessarily about how many holes your helmet has as opposed to how the air flows through. It's important to try them on before you buy them, so I would look for the lightest helmet that still provides a good fit with comfort. If your helmet is causing you irritation it may be fitted improperly. 

My bike has several gears labelled one to six. Do these numbers relate specifically to a certain standard? In other words, would a bike set to say gear four on one bike, perform in the same way as another different bike set to the same gear? 

What isn't clear in the article is how effective the orange colour is. It was noted however 'the rate of deaths and injuries on the rail network has been reduced considerably'. I don't think there is enough research to prove any major difference between the two. Perhaps at the time it was about distinguishing rail workers from public service workers. I think it's also a matter of preference, from a UK site that sells high-vis jackets the choice of colour appears rather inconsequential. What ever colour you choose it's likely that the retroreflective stripes will be the most effective. 

The Official Highway Code for the United Kingdom states that cyclists are only permited to cross on their bike when a green cycle symbol showing. If the light shows only a green man, you must dismount and push the bike to cross. If you are part of the traffic (not crossing from path to path) you must obey the red traffic light and stop. 

I've bought a saddle bag with a set of bike tools; stuff like alan keys, puncture repair kits, spanners etc. There's this one tool (well two but they screw together) that I have trouble recognising. I know for sure it's not part of the installation of the saddle bag. It also didn't come with any instructions. 

The simple awnser to your question is no. However their are a few other nations that have well established bike lock reviewer's, including "Thatcham and Sold Secure in the United Kingdom, ART in the Netherlands, SSF in Sweden, and VDS in Germany" (1) With this in mind I'd suggest considering that individual bike lock brands will likely have their own security rating, which you should take into consideration depending on how much you value your bike. 

Lube and wax. I know there are bike polishes that probably have wax, but I'd get the paste car wax that comes in a can. Really clean the bike, then use the wax on your frame, seat post, fenders (especially inside where they take a beating from road grime while riding), exposed metal, but NOT your rim braking surfaces. Put good lube on your chain. One guy I know who does a lot of randonneur riding in bad weather (brace yourself, this is a bit extreme) strips his chain of grease and grime, then dips it in melted paraffin. After it cools there are excess chunks of wax, but they drop off quickly. The point is he gets wax inside the pin bushings, which keeps his chain fairly water-resistant. Really lube your cables, or even better get teflon-coated cables. Your might want to put a cover on your saddle and handlebars, just watch out for condensation forming inside the covers which would defeat the purpose. 

I've heard different rules of thumb (rule of thumbs?) about how much use you can get, and remember none of them. What I do know is that not lubeing a chain often enough--actually, cleaning and lubeing--will cause it to wear such that it 'stretches'. Not stretch like taffy, but gain overall length due to the pins and bushings in the links wearing down, getting slightly more room in how they link together. Once the chain stretches it wears the teeth of the cassette and chainrings much rapidly. Bottom line: lube and clean your chain often enough and everything else will last longer. 

The length of the crankarms, usually around 170mm +/- 2.5mm increments--these are the same with both normal and compact cranksets The diameter of the bolt circle to attach the chainrings--compact are 110mm, regular are 130mm The number of teeth on the chainrings (and this is the whole reason for a compact crankset, to allow smaller chainrings). Most compact cranksets are sold with 34-tooth and 50-tooth rings (referred to as 50x34), whereas most regular cranksets are currently sold with 53x39 combinations. You can also purchase other chainrings, but those are by far the most common. 

Be as visible as possible, and assume you are invisible. No matter how much neon spandex and blinky lights you have, some drivers won't notice you until it's too late, especially if it is rainy, getting dark, and their radio is on. ASSUME you are invisible and they are all out to hit you, and ride accordingly. 

Doubtful. Differing lubricants can act as solvents for each other, causing it to drip out and be lubeless. This was attributed as the cause of Alaska Airlines Flight 261 crashing; differing maintenance crews lubed the horizontal trim jackscrew with two different lubricants. They dripped out, the part failed, and the jet crashed. 

As you ride in the wet, try to plan your trip around all of the slippery surfaces already mentioned. When you cannot, try to stop turning and braking until clear of the bad stuff, then get back on it. I wanted to comment on surfaces others have mentioned, with "that's the worst" or "this is even worse than that!"...but anything besides clean pavement can be a hazard. Something else you might do if planning to ride: realize that visibility for drivers goes way down; get lotsa lights. I keep a front flasher going throughout the day, as well as a regular tail light and a helmet-mounted tail light. The best bike I saw, the rider had colored light sticks on his spokes, lights on his handlebar ends, saddle, helmet, 2 headlights. It seemed like overkill, but I could see him through a rain-spattered windshield easily. Remember, being hit by a car once is worse than multiple slips and falls.