This question reminds me of the adage/quote that any sufficiently advanced technology is indistinguishable from magic. It applies to operations as well as technology. In real life, you're not going to find anyone like James Bond or Ethan Hunt, etc. There are no super soldiers who are one man armies that can take out hordes of trained opponents. To be brutally honesty about it, there aren't even any people in the world who can consistently win a "fair" engagement against a single trained opponent... which is why spies and commandos (special forces) have so many resources behind them and work so hard to avoid a "fair fight". That said, there are people in real life who might look like they can do that, if all you're looking at is the point man, and you don't see, or ignore the hundreds of people involved in a successful, real-life covert operation. The reality of espionage/black-ops is that it's an extremely expensive team effort that is usually mind-numbingly boring, and whether it's a magical, implausible super-spy trope or just the result of a good planning and multiple highly-trained trained teams is largely a function of perspective. Consider, for example, the case of Stuxnet. A bunch of politicians identified a problem - Iran was developing a nuclear program. A group of spies and analysts gathered intelligence about that operation, including who was involved, and what equipment was being used. This involved billions of dollars of surveillance equipment and thousands of man-hours of surveillance. Using that intel, a team of software engineers developed a complicated computer program to target that specific configuration of industrial machines. Then a spy was given the task of getting that program onto the laptop of one the workers at Iran's nuclear weapons development facility. (Another task that probably took multiple teams to gather intelligence on and execute). All that to make Iran's Uranium-enrichment centrifuges fail inexplicably. If all you see is the spy who managed to break into the laptop (or turn the owner, or however they did it), and the results, it looks like magic. If you know the whole story, it's much more mundane. The same applies to combat operations by special forces operators. For every impossible-looking mission that a special operations team takes on, there is millions or billions of dollars of technology, thousands of man-hours of surveillance and analysis and a massive support staff backing them up to make it happen. So, as far as the super-spy/super-soldier trope in real life... well, you can't actually get anywhere near it. No amount of science is going to give a guy the ability to break out of any restraints, take out multiple opponents holding him captive, dodge bullets, or anything else. With enough resources behind you, though, you can definitely make it look that way to anyone who doesn't have the whole picture. 

I would suggest that with clever enough materials science and engineering of these fuel pellets, it might be possible to achieve the same thing with an intense burst of focused sunlight, rather than a laser (like we do now), though admittedly, it seems like a long way to go do do it that way rather than using lasers like we do now, and a different technique altogether, like magnetic confinement, is probably a better bet for fusion power as an energy source. The major technical issue with creating a fusion reaction is not getting up to the necessary temperature, it's sustaining the reaction and extracting energy from it. To that point, at least 5 countries (and possibly as many as 9) have successfully tested fusion reactors so far, though the more common term for them is "hydrogen bombs" (a fission bomb is used to heat and compress a tritium payload, which then creates a more powerful fusion explosion). So I'd suggest that you're focusing on the wrong problem, as far as fusion goes. Getting your fusion fuel hot enough to create fusion is relatively easy, and we've been able to do that for more than 50 years. The part we haven't pulled off yet is sustaining the reaction in a way we can extract usable energy from, and that's probably where your scientists would have trouble too. 

Space is big. Really big. Looking for a particular asteroid somewhere in the solar system is pretty analogous to looking for a particular rock, somewhere on Earth. Unless you already have a really good idea where to look, you're not going to find it. As such, I would suggest that he doesn't need to take any measures to hide it, just place it out of the way of anything people are likely to visit. Consider the fact that we're still finding new near-Earth asteroids in the inner solar system (even when we're looking, it's hard to see something that doesn't reflect or generate light), and haven't even begun to map the Oort cloud. In a future with private spaceflight, I'd expect there to be asteroid mining activities, and outposts or colonies near habitable planets, and therefore, I'd suggest that the best option would be finding a suitable asteroid out in the Oort cloud, or dragging something into orbit way out in the far reaches of the solar system. An asteroid in our solar system's asteroid belt (for example) or otherwise near colonies or outposts could possibly be stumbled onto by mining activities, and I don't think a paranoid person would take that risk. On the other hand, place it way out on the edge of the system where no one goes, and you reduce the chances of someone stumbling on it to about 0. Putting it near the Oort cloud provides the advantages of both isolation and camouflage - not only is it somewhere no one's going to bother to travel to, it's also surrounded by billions of other similar objects, so no one will be able to pick it out, even if they did end up in the area, somewhow. As long as you know its orbital path and speed, you'll know where it's going to be, and when, which would allow you to make your way back to it. 

Are they smoking, or are they just inhaling recreational drugs? Honestly, the idea of people actually burning dried tobacco leaves as a method of inhaling nicotine in the future seems far-fetched, in no small part because we have a better way now - "vaping". And if you want, you can even puff out cloud of vape, if you think that looks cool. As much as I agree with the other answers which point out that people do all kinds of things that they know are bad for them, and that's not going to change, inhaling drugs by burning dead plants is unpleasant, inconvenient and a just plain inferior way to get your fix. (I say this as a former smoker who now vapes.) There's a long list of inconveniences and hazards that arise from setting your drugs on fire in order to get them into your lungs, and I don't see that method persisting much into the future when there's already a widely adopted method that's better in every way, right now. I would submit that the half of the population that still inhales nicotine does it with some form of vaping mod, rather than flammable sticks of dried nicotine. If you are particularly attached to traditional smoking, you could use economics - a good vape setup costs at least a hundred dollars up front, compared to several dollars for a pack of cigarettes, so people who can't afford the upfront cost smoke traditional cigarettes, while the rest vape. I suppose you could also extrapolate out the current anti-vaping efforts in some countries to a ban or other restrictive regulations on vaping products, though it might be tough to explain why more dangerous cigarettes didn't get similar treatment. Either way, the reasons people use recreational drugs of any sort are fundamentally unchanged since the dawn of time. (There are literally thousands year old warnings about opium use in Ancient Greek texts, and people still use opium, and stronger opiates today.) It feels good, so to hell with the consequences. There's more to life than maximizing how long we get to live, and most people would rather live a shorter life they enjoy than a longer one they don't. 

The whole individualistic, cut-throat, power-mad dynamic you have planned mirrors a lot of real-world systems I can think of. (This sounds lot like politics to me. Or intelligence work. Or executive-level politics in the business world. Or crime in general. Etc.) Rather than reinventing the wheel, or coming up with specific reasons that this happens for mages in your world, I'd suggest setting up the magic system in your world to mimic the real world systems that also exhibit this dynamic. In brief, these systems have a number of commonalities that encourage this dynamic. Broadly speaking, they all offer the potential for a lot of power (which attracts power-hungry people), generally high stakes, and select for ruthless, selfish behavior by making it more advantageous to compete and betray rather than cooperate and be loyal. It's self-evident why criminal organizations and politics and intelligence work (etc.) end up fostering this dynamic - success (and often even survival) in these systems requires this kind of behavior. When you get right down to it, if you want to create or explain ruthless behavior in a system, there's no better way to do it than to have the system reward that kind of behavior. In the real world, that's something that is generally an unintentional byproduct of an organization or system. Having the advantage of foresight in fiction, it's not difficult to model your system off of real world examples that create the dynamic you're looking for. 

The existence and history of Scientology would seem to suggest that there's no upper bound on when a new god might be created and accepted. While Scientology does not per se include a deity, consider that it was created in the modern era (1954), contains scientifically falsifiable claims (76 trillion year age of the universe, among others), direct statements from the religion's founder that cast his motivations in a dubious light1, but despite all that, has a strong following among the "cultural elite" and a large number of members worldwide. Much of that success has been credited to the idea of specifically targeting and effectively recruiting cultural icons (TV and movie stars), so there's really no reason a similar religion, with a new deity couldn't rise up in the same way that Scientology did. The backstory of Scientology itself does seem like it would provide ample fodder for new deities, Hubbard having described it as a space opera. Rather than nameless, anonymous "thetans" bringing the universe into existence and eventually losing their true selves, Hubbard could well have introduced specific thetan heroes as new deities who created the universe and eventually went to war with each other. (And that would certainly be more space operatic than the story he wrote.) Seems that the trick is pandering to pop culture icons, and you can get hundreds of thousands of people to follow your religion and fork over tens of thousands of dollars a piece to whatever spiritual snake oil you want to peddle. 1You don't get rich writing science fiction. If you want to get rich, you start a religion. - Response to a question from the audience during a meeting of the Eastern Science Fiction Association on (7 November 1948), as quoted in a 1994 affidavit by Sam Moskowitz. 

Brains get sick and die, just like the rest of our organs. That said, removing all the other causes of death from the equation would increase life span, sure. However, even brains in a box (or whatever) would be susceptible to prion diseases (such as Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease), neuro-degenerative diseases (such as Parkinson's disease), biological agents (some microbes cause damage to our brains) and eventual death. Nothing has an indefinite half-life, and all the cells in our bodies die off over time, brain cells included. 

I can't think of a reason why people would manufacture a suit that can move around on its own, and then put people in it. If you're designing an autonomous machine, you design an autonomous machine, and you don't try to stuff a "pilot" inside it. If you're designing a machine that requires an operator, you don't make it autonomous. So the simplest explanation is the best. They were designed as suits that require a human operator to move them around, and mobility is what these sentient bio-suits get out of the deal. You could obviously fiddle around with the exact details of this arrangement - instead of a human operator being a strict requirement, the original design intentions assumed a human operator, and thus, the bio-suits are slow or unwieldy without a human operator, or mobility requires a lot more energy without the human operator, or something of that nature. Along similar lines of considering how they were designed, if you consider that they were designed to contain a human, and unexpectedly developed sentience, it would stand to reason that they would have a psychological need or desire to pair up with a human, much like the human psychological needs for social interaction and sex. 

Depends on what tech level we're talking about, but to go a little near future, I'd suggest an asteroid mining accident. Some large, near-Earth asteroid is being exploited for the burgeoning space industry, and an industrial accident alters its trajectory just enough to make it hit the Earth with an extinction-level (or near-extinction level event), so we do to ourselves what nature did to the dinosaurs a while back. Since you clarified that we're talking about before we colonize other planets, it should be easier to arrange the accident (or "accident") - space mining would probably still be focused around Earth orbit, the most efficient way being to drag the asteroids into a high Earth orbit of some kind. Someone makes a minor miscalculation, a thruster malfunctions, or even a malicious actor does it on purpose, and we get an extinction-level event instead of a source of minerals near Earth orbit. As an added bonus, without lots of inter-solar-system traffic, it's much more plausible that there's no way to stop or redirect our impending doom. 

Well, historically, militaries facing this issue came up with strategies to deal with it. Their main answer was to employ professional soldiers as noncommissioned officers ("Sergents", usually) whose primary duty was to keep conscripts from running away from battle. They would position themselves behind the back rank (because retreats and routs usually start in the rear, believe it or not) and carry out their duty by killing the first person to try to run away. Since the conscripts knew this was the plan, there was a substantial deterrent effect as well, so it often never had to come to the Sergeant killing anyone. "Cowardice" (retreat) and desertion were also generally capital offenses, which helped, but the general theme was "fight for your king and country and god and you'll either live or be rewarded in the afterlife, or don't and you'll surely die and be subjected to the eternal fires of hell." ...and lest we think this was only done in the uncivilized middle ages, or by modern day barbarians like ISIS (who on multiple occasions treated fleeing recruits to a public execution by burning them alive), there are plenty of examples of Western governments executing recruits for "cowardice" (fleeing from battle) as recently as WW I (and more sporadic examples as recently as the Vietnam war, IIRC). There could be other factors, as mentioned in the other answers as well, but I didn't see this, and it probably deserves mentioning, as it's been a historically common answer to thus exact problem for centuries, if not longer. 

Sometimes the old ways are best. The standard way to punish politicians throughout history has been killing them, and sometimes replacing the whole government or governmental system. (Why not, while you're at it, right?) Say what you want about the French, but they devised a very effective way punish their political leaders when they'd had enough monarchy. You can spend a lot of time analyzing and studying the problem here (how to hold those in power accountable for their actions), but ultimately, fundamentally, you encounter a very large, mostly unresolvable problem in that people are self-interested, and people in power have the means to protect themselves by virtue of being in power. So at a very basic level, it's nearly impossible to do what you want to do "within the system," precisely because those in power use the system to protect themselves. In modern times, that means a massive government and the resources of millions of people they can levy to their defense. Therefore, if you want a way to actually, effectively punish those in power at any kind of scale, you have little option but to burn the system down with them... at which point, you can round them up and cut off their heads, or levy whatever other punitive measures you have in mind.