The automotive industry is being disrupted by new trends such as electric vehicles and self-driving cars. These, still, represent a minor part of the market. So the answer would be no, for the moment besides media attention, there weren't gigantic shifts in the industry as to have monopolies. Looking at the last years data it seems to remain an oligopoly with 4 very large manufacturers. If you need further info this is usually not free - look for the automotive industry in business databases such as IBIS world, or get a report from a consulting firm such as this one. 

The dotted line is just to help you read the scale and compare the isoquantas at each production level. It touches all the isoquantas at the point where you have equal inputs of labour and capital. The rest of the explanation is on the figure itself - it's just an example of increasing / constant / decreasing returns to scale. 

The question touches several points, but I can try to explain the "where did the money go in the crisis" with an example from Portugal: 

The best measure depends on what specifically do you want to measure. If you want to measure the asymmetry per se, then you can focus on alternative indicators and descriptive statistics, as you suggested. 

Said in other words, having this minimum means that \$100 would be the GNI per capita that would provide the lowest or minimum standard of living possible. Answering to the "isn't \$100 too low": 

Stock Exchanges are made of the investments, and serve as meeting point for company's ownership to be traded fast and legally. It's need and value increases with the the number of investors and companies in the market. Several developing countries lack legislation and law enforcement that would incentivize the use of a stock exchange. On the other hand, in developing countries the ownership of the largest companies is typically in the hands of a few powerful elites or foreign investors, and neither benefit from using a stock exchange, as they are usually not looking to exchange their investments. 

To complement WorldGov's great points, there are milk subsidies provided in Algeria, which might have been abused for re-sale in other countries: 

When you look at case number 1, the Fed lends money to the bank, the bank can ask more than the assets it owns (e.g. asking for 2M when all the cash and bank assets are worth 1M). This means that the debt of the bank is accounted for and will be paid back with interest - but it is not backed. If the bank doesn't pay, even seizing all the bank's assets wont pay the debt back. 

Source: Financial Times This supply chain is unlikely to become more centralised or placed offshore, for political and economic reasons. 

Just to add to Alecos excellent answer: besides production and consumption, the government takes the role of investor too, providing the capital to execute projects like building a military base. 

Australia is now conducting a survey on same sex marriage, to decide if they take the vote to the parliament or not. Although it is called a survey, the population is treating it as a referendum. The government could decide on its own to legalize the same-sex marriage, the same way it decides on topics such as immigration laws. Are there any economic arguments that help a government to decide which topics are polled from the population and which are not? 

That's a very interesting question and there are multiple potential reasons for this. One reason is that production is simply not efficient at a larger scale. There are diminishing returns to scale: i.e. doubling inputs will result in less than twice the output. This means that two smaller production facilities can be more efficient than one large one. One way to think about this are kids shoveling snow in winter. Beyond a certain number of kids with shovels they're just going to get in each other's way shoveling the same driveway. Now they could of course split up into two or more groups, these two groups could be one firm or these could be two firms. But what's the rationale for combining these two firms into one? They probably will not economize on any fixed expenses. They need to ring the doorbell, bring their shovels, and ask people whether they wish their driveway to be shoveled. Sure one kid could specialize in negotiating a price and ringing many doorbells and scheduling appointments, but the gains from specialization are probably not such that it's worthwhile. It's not how that "industry" works. You ring, you shovel, and you move on. So there is no good reason for combining. The kid ringing and making appointments is an unnecessary overhead. It's better that he shovels too. Another reason are the fixed costs of certain regulations. You're probably familiar with the fact that in some jurisdictions firms above a certain size need to provide certain services to their employees. If you're a small firm, then you will incur that fixed costs all at once if you expand over that threshold. You'll have to get your existing employees those services and the new people. These additional fixed costs might not make it worthwhile to hire extra people unless you can be certain that you can expand your business well beyond that. A third reason is that many people do not want to expand their businesses. They enjoy the work that they do and the extra income is not worth it. They'd have to spend less time doing the work that they enjoy and more time on administrating the work done by others. Effectively this is a change of employment. So you might as well ask why do some people do work A and not work B? These are three reasons. The reasoning is the same each time though. The benefits of expanding do not justify the costs of expanding in that particular situation. Given that there are many different situations there will be many different reasons why people choose not to expand their business. Does this answer your question? 

Ben, Let me dispute the premise of the question. A high debt to GDP ratio cannot be bad by itself. The debt to GDP ratio becomes a bad thing when it is too high. Too much alcohol. Too much ice cream. Too much time spent online. These are all bad things because they are too much. But how do you know that these are too much? Let's take alcohol as an example. Too much alcohol can make you do stupid things which you'll later regret. But how much alcohol is too much? When you're with a group of friends and you all drink five or six glasses of beer, and do stupid things together then you're probably having a good time. Drink five or six glasses of beer in the afternoon at the office and you can get fired. This is generally considered a bad thing. The same quantity of alcohol is just right in one situation and too much in another situation because of the consequences. Now you've mentioned some consequences of public debt. The government usually borrows funds to spend it and re-allocate scarce resources. This can be a bad thing, but this can also be a good thing. The United States for example borrowed funds (and compelled its citizens to lend it funds) to fight the Nazi's. This is generally agreed to have been a good thing. The United States also borrowed funds to invade Iraq under George W. Bush. This is something that many individuals considered (ex ante or ex post) to be a bad thing. We can say that when the United States borrowed funds the debt to GDP ratio was high, but it was not too high because the costs were exceeded by the benefits (fewer Nazi's). The resources used could've been used elsewhere but the highest value of those resources was when they were used to decrease the number of Nazi's. Whereas some will argue that when the debt to GDP ratio was increased to invade Iraq, this debt to GDP ratio became too high. The costs were not exceeded by the benefits. The resources could've been used better elsewhere. In addition to the costs of re-allocating resources, there are some other costs of public debt. It has to be repaid through taxation and individuals don't like taxation and it distorts incentives. Some others have argued that a public debt can lead to higher inflation because the central bank might monetize it. Others have argued that it means less private investment as people save in terms of government bonds instead of corporate bonds. And this might eventually lead to lower output due to a decrease in the quantity of capital per inhabitant. There are many other potential costs. And these costs depend on the situation. There is not one economic theory of debt to gdp ratio. There are many economic models that are appropriate to make sense of different situations where the debt to gdp ratio might play a role. Returning to the question why a high debt to GDP ratio is bad, I hope you can see that it isn't. A high debt to GDP ratio is only bad if it is too high. And you can only know whether it is too high when you compare the costs and the benefits of the debt to GDP ratio and these depend on the circumstances. In addition whether it is good or bad is purely subjective. If you think that the consequences are worth it, then it's not bad. Next time that you might encounter a situation where someone declares that something is good or bad try making the distinction between what is and what ought to be. A statement that something is bad implies that the situation should be different and this is premised on a value judgement. You can't arrive at the conclusion that something is bad without a normative premise, a value judgement. The real world consequences of a high public debt to gdp ratio are is up for dispute. We can learn from what we see. But what value you attach to these consequences whether these are good or bad is not up for dispute. It's a preference. Just like chocolate ice cream is better than vanilla is a preference. 

First of all, valuation, especially for startups, is a topic without much consensus on the single way to do it. You can take several approaches, such as DCF, multiplayer, prepetuity and EVA (or residual income). One frequently used way to make a valuation of projects and businesses is to use the Discounted Cash-Flow model, where you estimate the profits and losses for each year, including the financing and the depreciation you would have from the initial investments. This will give you the expected net result of the project, discounted to today (the net present value). As some startups have difficulties in projecting costs and revenues, alternatives such as the multiplier method are used by some entrepreneurs & investors. I do not consider this method very accurate, as it is easily manipulated by the choice of multiplayer. Go beyond the numbers If you're looking for investors to fund your large initial investment, you usually need to provide proof that you can actually sell to your customers. If you could get customers to sign already a future commitment to buy this would help investors trust you and fund you. You can also try to resort to debt or public grants for starting a business, or try to anticipate some sales revenue to finance your startup. Get legal advice before signing with an investor, this is critical to ensure you still get a fair share of the deal. 

This means that if a country would have most of its population living out of subsistence farming, which in practice could be registered as zero income, this would lead to an estimated/assumed GNIpc equivalent to \$100 per year per capita, which no country would ever go below. Having this value makes sense when reading the starting notes of that section: 

Aid money is channeled towards immediate disaster relief and reconstructive/reparation efforts, depending on the needs. Examples are the following: Immediate disaster relief costs: 

With the crisis several companies and financial institutions went bankrupt, meaning that the government increased spending with the automatic stabilizers such as unemployment subsidies => more public spending due to more subsidy and loss of tax collected from company and salaries Allegedly due to international toxic assets, as well as some media speculation, some banks couldn't face their responsibilities anymore, declaring bankruptcy - see BES bank for example. People were in panic because the money they had in the bank could disappear suddenly, so the government nationalized the bank, guaranteeing everyone's deposits, assuming the losses of the bank. This means that the government increased its costs in millions of euros to save this and other bank, in the interest of national financial stability. If you are more looking at how central banks inject money in the economy, take a look at money supply tag. 

Make a list the most requested items and raw materials. Keep an eye in the market to buy the most requested ones on discount, and resell them with a tiny margin in the community. List the items that gave you the biggest losses recently. Restrict the requests for them (e.g. a X maximum per month), or keep a look at the market to buy the same item whenever it is at discount. If you must buy items or materials at loss, then offer to buy from your community first. Like this you're making the community wealthier, which is a benefit to be a member.