There are two real problems with the notion that deterministic physics means determinable outcomes: 1) If the functions that determine the behavior of everything involve feedback, and are nontrivial in complexity, they will exhibit chaotic dynamics. 2) We cannot distill all of the contributing information that leads to a current state. Nor can we determine the exact current state itself without destroying that state. But the details below our ability to measure remain. Randomness does not just decrease over time as things settle into consistent patterns, as traditional mechanistic thinking once imagined. Nor does it "play itself out": entropy is not a form of energy, it is a different thing. Our inability to predict outcomes, especially at small scales, spreads and recombines with itself. And it tends to increase. Chaotic dynamics shows how very small changes can have disproportionate effects. So there is a pervasive basic randomness on a small order that cannot be removed, just pushed around. And we cannot assume all of its effects will be small. So there is a large gap between the idea that "things are determined", and the idea that "there is no randomness". The outcomes of experiments may be as determined as their inputs. But at some scale, those inputs are not determined either. The remaining uncertainty leaves plenty of room for free will up and down the scales of behavior, even if the rules are perfectly obeyed at every point in space. Determinism may be theoretically true, but irrelevant. 

These appear to originate with Avicenna, and not to have been communicated to the West in a lasting way. They may be a tuning and clarification of Cicero's Five Canons of Rhetoric: construction, arrangement, style, memorability, and performance. Each of your listed arts, in turn, seems to be dominated by the corresponding canon of Cicero, with less emphasis on potential political deployments than educational ones. It seems to me that: 

The feeling of having a rational thought is an emotion. It is confidence itself. Like any other emotion it can be shaped incorrectly by biology or experience. But that does not make it an illusion unless it is wrong. If it were wrong as a matter of course, most of the time, we would have died out as a species long ago. But of course, faith that we have not died out, and that you are actually here with other humans requires confidence in sensory information. You can have confidence in your thoughts because you simply do. Even if you lack confidence in your thoughts, you have confidence in your lack of confidence. This is the basic fact of Existentialism: that we have an authentic experience of knowing what we know, and that arguing with it is nonsense because we are doomed to believe it anyway. We can shape and train our sense of confidence, like most of the rest of our emotional responses, through exercise and experience. But it will not go away, and doubting it absolutely, instead of playing with it and developing it, is just evading responsibility for taking care of it properly. 

It is not clear that Bernoulli takes frequencies as proof of the probability. The idea that measuring frequency is what indicates the probability is the gambler's fallacy in disguise. Any experiment meant to determine the probability from observed frequencies (and not a census) is still random, and will randomly mislead you as to the base probability a certain percentage of the time. Right? You can make the odds small, but you can never get rid of them. So, if you want a known probability, then in principle, at some point, you need to base the probability on some cause other than observation of outcomes, such as the physics of a coin's construction, or an actual known distribution of incidences in a finite population. In theory, you cannot use past observations to predict any single result in the future, because there is always a tiny chance your history is cursed, and you have no way of telling a representative history from a terribly biased one. 

Nietzsche sees Christianity itself as a sort of mob action to suppress excellence and freedom, and he sees the way it acts as entirely based on nonexistent virtues that are actually self-deceptions. The virtue of humility is not despicable because of what it is, it is despicable because it really is never what it claims to be. It is really a move in a competition to be a 'better person' than others, to more thoroughly support the common good over one's individual good because his sense of his own value is reflected in common social interests, rather than in natural ones. Someone with an honest awareness of his value, even if that value is low, is not humble, he is honest, and adapts to reality. He does not consider his humility a virtue. Someone like Gandhi, who adopts a lowly lifestyle out of compassion for others, and uses it to manipulate those with an equally false worldview into admitting they are lying to themselves, is not humble, he is fair, brave, and shrewd. Those are virtues, but those virtues are not humility. The obvious fraud is given away by the fact that this 'common good' is only so common. This ideology of loving others instead makes its supposed adherents the ones most likely to go to war with them, to create ways to indirectly dominate them, or to force them into a mold of the dominant culture's choosing. No one is actually humble. So whether there could be non-despicable humility of some sort doesn't matter. 

If constant change, even when not traversing space, is not rest, then it is a consequence of Heisenberg, and more basically of 'frequency' as an essential aspect of matter due to deBroglie, that there is no absolute rest. Things either have a frequency, or they cannot be detected. Interference with another thing with a frequency is the only way of detecting things. And to a certain degree, things with no effects do not exist in the same way that detectable things exist. To admit them ontologically opens you up to a profusion of nonsense. I don't think this is tied to the relativity of space in any important way. If time is measured as accumulating entropy, then this may have to do with the relativity of the arrow of time. My pet Boltzmann-inspired way of looking at quantum frequency is that what is increasing and decreasing at that frequency is the local component of entropy, and so what is 'waving' is time. 

The modern way of looking at hedonism through utilitarianism is simply false. (I would lay the blame for this misunderstanding at the feet of the sort of economics we serve religiously. But, whatever the reason, the idea is just wrong.) It is not really hard to find proof that is just not how animals (including human ones) function. Humans are not naturally driven to maximize their own pleasure, any more than the things other animals are driven to do necessarily give them pleasure. As a male spider is being ripped apart by its mate so that it can reproduce, I don't think it has some recourse to rationalizations that make that event pleasant, even if it is something that serves his own genetic ends. He accepts that what is happening is proper for some unrelated reason. Our own determination of our ends is often equally distant from pleasure. We surely don't raise our children in the way that gives us the most pleasure, or they would end up pretty terribly malformed characterologically. We realize that both we and they suffer through their development for reasons that may well pay off for them only after we are dead, if ever. The pleasure we get from them does not really offset the sacrifices we choose to make, and we would make those same sacrifices for a child that caused us only pain, even if we could not tortuously rewrap that behavior into some convenient feeling that we could relabel as pleasure. We are driven in this way, and in others, instead, by a need for faith, and a resulting dedication to rules and consistency outside our wish to be happy. And that is what Kant is attempting to speak to throughout his ethics. Autonomy is simply making decisions for ourselves, and not being driven to make them by some outside force. When we try to raise our children as we ought, because we genuinely feel there is a way we ought to raise them, we are asserting autonomy. If we bowed entirely to any force, be it our own pleasure or social norms, without considering what we consider proper in our own eyes, we would be driven by heteronymy. 

Leaving the ship of Theseus aside, and taking a modern, less 'essentialist' view of definition, the real problem is why we should care whether you are a dog? In what context do you want it to be relevant that you are a dog? If there is no political or ethical way in which you intend to have us treat you like a dog, you are free to be a dog, or an orange, and participate in society without reference to the identity. Socially, we don't care if someone's 'dog' is actually a 'coy-wolf', if it serves the same social function. Biologically, we know that it is dog DNA that first allowed coyotes and wolves to interbreed to begin with, so we can actually call the animal a dog if we want to, and we can also call it a coyote or a wolf. How we treat it depends a whole lot on that choice. But the name does not change the animal itself. There is no essence to what a dog is. There are only cultural and biological conventions around dogliness that help us get along in the world. But both of these serve real purposes. If there is some aspect of dog-status that you wish to retain beyond the name, we don't want encourage you to be the Rachel Dolezahl of the canine world, participating in a marginal way that troubles dogs or those aligned with dogs. And we don't want to just assign you a biological label that might confuse your vet.