Skip the recruiter. You can negotiate a higher salary if the company doesn't have to pay the recruiter's finders-fee!!! Also -- since the hiring manager's out, it's likely that you're not going to get anywhere faster by going through the recruiter. 

Don't fool yourself. Here's the scenario. You leave your current job (a bird in the hand) for a "potential" (the two in the bush). They put you into this probationary period where you've agreed to work for less than you know you're worth. Once the probationary period's over, what's to stop the company from making up excuses as to why they can't give you what you were promised? There may be no actual intention to do as they're promising. Think about it. You're devoting time to a job search now. I don't know how much effort or time you've put in so far toward that effort, but I'm gonna guess you won't want to do that again in a few months. And on-boarding to a new job is a pain in the rear -- payroll stuff, health insurance, NDAs, where do I park, what's the best commute, and covering for needs in your household. No one EVER says, "ooh, I want to go through THAT stuff again!" Additionally, no one EVER looks forward to drawing unemployment insurance between jobs. And this potential employer is aware of this, too, because these things are a huge disincentive for you to decide to leave once you take the job, even if the situation turns out to not be to your benefit. If you pursue this -- which I wouldn't: 

Follow the old rule as best as you can: "don't mix business with pleasure". You get along well professionally, but have you ever dealt with him in a crisis situation? People are funky in a crisis. Getting him close to your family and what's inside your house gives your boss leverage in a crisis situation, and can alter how he makes decisions about you. There's no telling what things your boss may see in your home that can be used against you in the future. Got nice things? It may incite some jealousy. Do you keep house in a much different way from your boss? It may incite some dissonance. It's little things. Keep your boss out of your personal affairs. 

When you have something important to share, prefix the conversation with "I've noticed that in speaking with you prior that you often cut me off. It's important that I feel you're really hearing what I say. Can I ask, before I start, that you not interrupt?" No reasonable person is going to say "no". If you get anything other than "no" --- ouch. But presuming you get a "no" (on interrupting) and you still get the same behavior, gently remind him of what he promised to do before you start speaking again. Some people just aren't that aware. 

You're not in your home country any more. If presidents (William "Bill" Clinton) and astronauts (Edwin Eugene "Buzz" Aldrin Jr.) can use nicknames, you're probably in the clear. None of these people you're worried about pay any of the bills in your house. Moving right along! 

Make up your mind on what it is you want to do. If you want to write code for the rest of your life, do just that. But don't walk in the door slingin' your PhD, unless you are looking for a leadership role specifically in a development capacity -- you might want to downplay those credentials. 

Since the response was addressed to "guys", it probably warrants no response at all -- so don't take it personally. It's not as if you can tell the director, "no, I'm not gonna do as you requested." That person is simply trying to limit the need to read through extraneous e-mail. 

There are entire books on this subject -- "Death March" projects. I've been in the same position. I was eager to please, and optimistic. I didn't leave a buffer for the things I didn't know about the specs AND the organization. And actually, I was being used as a pawn. My former employer (over 10 years ago) had 18 months to meet a VERY important legal obligation by way of the software I was to modify, but I had only 5 weeks' time to reverse-engineer their existing product and come up with something more stable after my start date. But see, if I didn't make it on time, I could be easily outed as the fall-guy. On deadline day, my boss told me I was being fired. But as this was a public school district, he had several hoops to jump through to accomplish that even though he'd been counting on just scaring me away. Avoid these jobs like the plague, if you see it coming! 

I purchased a phone number over at Numberbarn.com, and I use an e-mail anonymizer service from Blur.com. I use this phone number, and an anonymized email address, on my resumes that I post on job sites. The premise is real simple: one day, I'll get the job I'm looking for, and I won't want to be bothered by recruiters. At that point, I can zap both the address and the number effortlessly. The other thing, too - I put all the "repetitive" info on the voice mail that the Numberbarn number lets me configure. If they're still interested after the voice mail, pressing "1" will ring through to my cell phone, or they can hang up at that point. I still get a few stupid ones who hear the message (and what I'm looking for) and ring through anyway with requirements way out of my scope, but this still cuts out a hell of a lot of time on the phone for me. 

I'm sure it's possible for you or someone else to put some empty boxes on a desk or table (not on the floor), and then you can fill the boxes with whatever you can pick up without having to strain, bend or stoop. This gets some of the work done, and you can leave the job of lifting the boxes out (and packing the rest) to someone who is more physically able. (That "someone" might actually be your boss.) The approach above would demonstrate that you're a team player. You can discuss some explicit boundaries on this with your boss, and if he's demanding that you do more, take the issue to HR but absolutely don't do anything that's going to jeopardize your health. 

If you've "trained" your client to believe that scope creep is a freebie, you shouldn't be surprised one bit at this stage. I've seen lots of situations where the client holds the final payment as a hostage over large last-minute changes, and it's not fair to the developer at all but many developers tolerate such behavior out of (innocent) ignorance. Don't worry about project #2, because honestly you can go over to the 'Computer Gigs' section on Craigslist in any major city and see how many parties are trying -- daily -- to get work done for free with promises of additional work later. It's a very common hustle. Be more concerned about this client not trying to get over on you for project #1. Set your price, and stick to it. I recommend you charge hourly, because beside your code changes, the client is also going to expect you to migrate the existing data to Firebase. Develop a written scope-of-work document, and have your client sign to it before you start any work. This step cuts down on misunderstandings later. 

Recruiters are gonna do what they do. It won't probably change if you're employed and have hot skills that will make them a buck. If they don't bug you, they get nothing. No need to react, or do anything. They'll go away. 

Since management is responsible for hiring and firing, there's nothing you can do to make this team member carry her load. BUT you aren't required to carry her load, either. I think this environment you're in is one where you are hypervigilant about customer service, and this is causing everybody to take up the slack for this low-performer when she falls apart. In psychology terms, you are enabling the behavior by accommodating her shortcomings. She won't grow because she doesn't need to. When she falls on her face during a customer interaction, and you've made steps to give her the proper training (document where, when, and who gave the training), let her dig her way out by herself. When the customers start complaining -- and they will -- and management approaches the rest of you, pull out your documentation. But stop helping. This is the only way things will change. It will be messy in the short run, but it will correct itself in the long run because management will be forced to step in and either get her on board properly (or fire her). EDIT I just read about the "shop" commission - that sucks!