If the kiss was between unmarried, heterosexual youths the boy would be criminally liable to the girl's father, guardian, or another male family member. "... if a woman was an aggrieved party and owned a right of prosecution, she was to put her claim into the hands of a man." [Byock, "Viking Age Iceland" pp. 317] After all, "giving away a daughter in marriage, a father or the head of a household, sometimes a woman, was investing the family's limited marriage capital in a new kinship alliance...." [Byock pp. 214] If the kiss was between married adults the man would be liable to the woman's husband like the adultery case in Hallfred's Saga [Byock pp. 121]. The law didn't actually govern all extramarital sex: it is clear from the sagas that concubinage was a national custom. Grágas barely mentioned it despite its great detail about cases of seduction [Byock pp. 134]. 

150 guns with no response is very different from the other pattern, perhaps reflecting the unusual relationship those two powers were in. Did similarly disproportionate salutes happen anywhere else? 

When California became a U.S. state, Californio ranchers' land holdings were under legal, financial, and physical attack. Their Land Commission claims were held up for years in the appeals process, but they did have one defense mechanism available in the form of selling quitclaim deeds. A quitclaim could raise money for legal defense, satisfying a squatter occupying only a small portion of a cattle ranch, who would then have an incentive to corroborate the legitimacy of the chain of title. Strategically selling off land around the edges would protect the core. Christian Fritz writes in Federal Justice in California that the immigrant and fraudster José Limantour sold $100,000 worth of quitclaim deeds against his exaggerated holdings. Indeed, that alone could be enough reason to make fraudulent claims to Mexican land grants. Many Californios mortgaged and lost their ranches. Did any of them sell enough quitclaims to pay their legal expenses? 

Yuri Semyonov, in his rather saucy history "The Conquest of Siberia: An Epic of Human Passions", wrote: 

According to De Lesseps (survivor of the La Perouse voyage), travel between Kamchatka and St. Petersburg took half a year in the late 18th century. 

James Gibson's "Feeding the Russian Fur Trade" mentions episodes of scurvy occurring during the expansion into the Russian Far East (Northern Siberia and Okhostk Seaboard). These lands were inhabited, but population growth outpaced the ability to provide vegetables. I previously thought scurvy had only occurred on sailing voyages and possibly in castaways. Did scurvy occur among any other landborne human population? 

What you called stone looks to me like concrete which has been poured around a form supported by temporary vertical members. Notice how the supports don't have matching height. Why this technique would have been used on that wall is another matter. 

The office of the personal lawyer of the U.S. President has been raided by the FBI. Clients' communications with their attorneys are protected by the doctrine of attorney-client privilege, or legal professional privilege. Therefore, reporting indicates, the U.S. Justice Department only performs such raids after meeting special criteria like the approval of a top-level bureaucrat and establishing the likelihood of records being flushed if the target had warning. I couldn't think of another time investigators raided an attorney's office, so I tried a few searches without any success. NPR said a by-the-books law enforcement raid on an attorney's communications and records was "rare but not unheard of". Until the present case, what was the most significant or consequent of these actions in the United States? 

A parallel "white legend" within the Soviet Union was described by Bolkhovitinov (machine translation): 

In the Spanish and Mexican eras, California was an economy very cut off from its mother countries. Most trade was by bartering goods [Josiah Belden by Doyce Nunis, Jr., 1962]. Is there evidence of the use of cash for transactions? Presumably the money would have been reales, the "Spanish dollar". 

I used the word "creole" to ask the question, but apparently it does not apply in Siberia, at least by Black's definition. 

Dallas's The Hide and Tallow Trade in Alta California reveals that in 1822, William Hartnell negotiated his firm's deal with the San Gabriel Mission to pay for half its acquisitions in cash, half in kind. About the 1830s, from Hague and Langum's Thomas O. Larkin: 

Only a few cities were divided into sixths. The most famous, those of Venice, were and continue to be Cannaregio, San Polo, Dorsoduro, Santa Croce, San Marco, and Castello -- nothing resembling the name quoted, Emilione. The spelling doesn't completely justify this theory, but one outside possibility is that the translator mistook figurative use of the adjectival form of the region's name (a "sestiere emiliano") for the actual name of a sixth. The one relatively closer to Emilia in the south of the city is Dorsoduro. Seeing the Italian text from Benedetto's edition would clear this up. The statement is a confusing one and I would rely on other sources if possible. 

I think this is a color error (in reproduction, printing, fading, etc.) It is a 19th Century Venezuelan flag with the cluster of stars visible on the blue bar. 

The German scientist Fyodor Shtein (Friedrich Stein) was the naturalist on the voyage of the Blagonamerenny to California in 1820-21. His purview included geological and botanical research, and his findings are mentioned in passing by others from the same expedition (Vasilyev and Shishmaryov's descriptions are excerpted in "California Through Russian Eyes", Gibson, editor). Did Shtein himself keep a journal or write a book about his trip? 

Did Khvostov and Davydov really bring a centuries-old Korean cannon back from Japan to Kamchatka in 1807? 

The ranchos established during the Mexican period of California history relied on the labor of native Americans. Unlike the Mission properties, ranchos did not attempt to prevent workers from escaping or to recapture those who had left; but under what conditions did they work? Were they coerced in any fashion? Did any receive a cash salary? 

The journal translation I used in the question was commissioned by an independent historian. I wrote to her and she offered me a copy. It says that the cattle on both days were for "provisions". I decided to check this assumption against the original. I was able to find the transcription from which the translation was made, in a book called Россия и Калифорния. In the first case the cow was indeed for ship's provisions (для судовой провизии). In the second, though, the cattle were for salting (для соления). Wow! I guess the ship already had the salt on hand. I found that a bit surprising. 

Under what circumstances would anyone construct a reservoir of bronze? Is reservoir even the right word here? Was it melted down after all? 

At the time of the Latin American wars of independence, the Imperial Spanish army employed men in ranks like Capitán (captain), Sargento (sergeant) and so on, between the King and the lowliest footsoldier. Wikipedia suggests that "Royal Ordinances for the Regime, Discipline, Subordination and Service in his Armies" of 1768 was in place, but the Naopleonic Wars may have occasioned some reforms. What were the military ranks used by the Spanish Empire? Is this list identical to that used by other powers? 

Kirill Khlebnikov was a Russian business agent who made several visits to Alta California. His "Travel Notes" from 1820 describe negotiations to buy grain from the Franciscan priest in charge of Mission Santa Cruz, Ramón Olbes. Khlebnikov wrote about "an Irish sailor who had deserted; he had lived with the padre for a long time, winning his confidence and managing his affairs." Who was the Irish sailor? 

California has been administered under Spanish, Mexican, and U.S. law. Divorce is presently legal, which it assuredly was not in the Spanish Empire. At which point in history did the process of divorce, civil or religious, become legal and viable in California? 

Did Victoria have a principal office? If so, was it in the port, the fort, or the new capital? Bonus points if it is clear in which building he worked. 

The term "textual mutations" can describe gradual changes in received works. Whether founded in errors or in judgment calls, they accumulate over time, as you observed. That said, there might be more substantive answers on the Linguistics.SE. 

I believed at the time of writing that the best matching English term was "chamberlain" (Merriam-Webster: "an attendant on a sovereign or lord in his bedchamber"). Both words derive from reference to the bedroom in which the duties are performed: covilheira from cubicularius, and chamberlain from chambre. Sometimes the French term valet, or valet de chambre, was also applied. 

Khlebnikov's journal, in the volume you mentioned, has him arriving in Nizhne-Kamchatsk ten days before his arrest, and staying there after his release. I don't see any evidence that this transpired in Petropavlovsk, which was not the capital of Kamchatka until a decade later. Nizhne-Kamchatsk was an ostrog, a wooden palisade fort. The word ostrog also indicates a prison in that fort. Typically an ostrog had one or more towers for defense. Including people living outside the fort, in 1792 the settlement had 548 residents. You can see both in this illustration from Krasheninnikov's 1755 work: 

Emmanuel Le Roy Ladurie more or less founded microhistory with his book Montaillou, village occitan de 1294 à 1324. Records of a certain religious inquisition were the author's principal source, and presumably you could satisfy your interest in primary sources by consulting them directly. 

Solá, a Basque, was the last Spanish governor of Alta California, serving from 1815–1822 at the Presidio of Monterey. Did he have a wife and family, there or elsewhere? 

All else equal, when these types of forts were in use, was an adobe fort or a palisade fort more defensible? A bit of what-if led to this question. Russians ostrogs such as Nizhnekamchatsk and Fort Ross had palisade perimeters while Spanish presidios such as Tubac and Santa Barbara had adobe perimeters. The two empires never battled (at least in the Americas) even though their most remote forts fell within about 100km of each other. Sample (not necessarily representative) images follow: 

The Russian-American Company bought a lot of grain in Spanish and Mexican California. In 1829 or 1830, not enough was available, and the ship Baikal under captain Etholén continued south to Chile. Kirill Khlebnikov was aboard, probably as supercargo. This might be the only time that a Russian-American Company ship visited South America. According to Winston Sarafian, some company employees deserted in Valparaíso. What news or impressions did the Russians make? 

Without suggesting there is any documented evidence of a connection, 9/11 was also the date of another recent aerial attack on the downtown of a major Western city, Pinochet's 1973 coup in Santiago, Chile. 

Some places have seen a whole day pass in an instant. December 30th 2011 had no duration at all in Samoa and Tokelau: 

After California became a U.S. state in 1850, land taxation was one of the factors that bankrupted the Californio ranchers. Apparently, it had not existed in the native, Spanish, nor Mexican periods. When were property taxes first assessed in California and what was the rate? Did each county or municipality introduce their own tax policy? 

The Russian-American Company's colonial headquarters were at Novo-Arkhangelsk, today's Sitka. Occasionally, supply ships from Russian ports to the west (Okhotsk, Petropavlovsk, Kodiak) would arrive. The Sv. Mariia Magdalina, under Nikolai Kuritsyn, left Okhotsk in 1810 and reached Sitka in 1811. Did any other ships arrive there during the 1810-1815 period? 

California's coastal Highway One was completed in the 1930s. Until about 1970, the roadway actually passed through the stockade of the Russian colony, Fort Ross. Later the Fort became a state park. Today the highway is a bit farther away, still right near the rebuilt fort. Look up 19336 CA-1 Jenner, California, for the road view onto the fort. Why it might have been moved away seems obvious. Who made the original decision to run the highway through the fort, and on what basis?