On behalf of all bosses busy with meetings: Yes there is a way. Don't expect us to have time for important things while we try to squeeze a meal or toilet break in between two meetings. The day is full of meetings because a lot of people want to talk to us and you are only one of them. The solution is dead simple: Schedule a meeting! Write it all up, put it into the Outlook (or any other system you use) appointment and then meet with your boss. Take meeting minutes with the results and mail them to all who attended afterwards. 

Good managers never specify what has to be done in a day or how many days can be used for a feature. They ask their developers what can be done in a day or how long they need for a feature. Normally, developers err on the optimistic side, so for good measaure, assume they will be 20% late. The framework is in the state it's currently in because you put in the time you did. That's what it did cost. Someone selling it would take your cost, add a factor to make some profit and price it that way. If you think you are not as experienced as someone earning x$ an hour, it may be a lot easier to keep to the facts (the hours you worked) and instead adjust the price of an hour of work. If you really want to know what it's worth, write up what it provides as requirements and ask other companies what it would cost if you wanted to buy something like it from them. That's a good measurement for market value. 

Assuming your boss has the security clearance and you don't, ask you boss what to do. He should know the proper procedures, that should be part of his clearance. There is not much you could do and doing something wrong might make it worse. So ask for advice and wait for orders. 

The professionally/ethically correct way of doing this would be to accurately inform your customer about all risks. Then let him or her weight these risks and let them make an informed decision. You are not in the business of making risk assessments or business decisions. That's their job. You don't want them to tell you how to program, don't tell them how to do their job either. Prepare a statement where it it clear that you see that risk, in simple terms so they can understand it. If you want to underline the importance of this risk, you can try to make them sign off on it. Have them write something like "I read and understood this risk, I want it implemented anyway." If the only risk is the business losing money, then this is all you can or should do. It's probably a whole different can of worms if the business owner is risking something that does not belong to him (for example client's health), but that is a different question and should go to a legal professional. 

It is important, mostly because your "given" is wrong by a factor of 10+. Agile is a lot about you doing work. It's no longer the boss telling you exactly what and how to do. It's you, planning, estimating, communicating, collaborating. That takes time. It requires certain traits that are not required and actually despised by most traditional project managers. And it follows certain rules. Rules you don't know (yet). 

Refusing to work for other reasons might be legal if the work was "unzumutbar", but that is Lawyer territory, do not try to figure this out yourself and do not go with what your gut tells you. People study years just to find out they are wrong in court. This will have consequences, so consult a lawyer before you refuse to work. You said you are asked to build essentially a minified version of your actual product. And you were asked to explain your work to a single fellow professional. This is well within your responsibilities. None of the above reasons apply. 

That sounds like the organisation implemented SCRUM by having the same old boss-workers-hierarchy and just renamed the "boss" to "scrum master" and now thinks is using SCRUM. It's not. The guy leading the whole thing is called the product owner. And that's not the same person as the scrum master, or that whole thing will go down the drain. Only the product owner is talking to the client. There is nothing the SCRUM master and the client could talk about. You need to figure out what you want. If you want SCRUM, there is 3 participants, the product owner (big boss), the team (guys doing the work) and the scrum master. He is neither anyones boss nor a member of the team. His job is to make sure that the scrum process rules are implemented properly. You may want to read a book on SCRUM to know if it's set up properly. Based on scrum, your questions were directed at the wrong person. Anything that is a requirement from the client should be clarified by your product owner if you have any questions. Anything related to software development should be clarified by your team if you have questions. If you have questions about the process, about SCRUM itself, feel free to talk to your SCRUM master. Maybe it would be a good idea to ask who the product owner of your product is. If the scrum master steps up, run. Fast and far. He probably never read the book about SCRUM in the first place. 

Your supervisor has told you that there is no technician available for this month. You are not lying if you tell your customers exactly that. Why there is no technician available, whether they are all busy or the whole crew was fired or it's not economically viable for the company to send one this month is none of your business (your supervisor did not tell you) and none of the clients business either. The fact that your scheduling software displays a green icon, does not mean there actually is a technician available. It's just a piece of software. The client is free to decide that they want to take their business to a competitor with better availability of technicians, but again, that's their decision, not yours and it's probably not based on why your technicians are unavailable. As I client, I don't care why you cannot service me. If you cannot, I will go to somebody who can. To the best of your knowledge, you cannot send a technician this month. That is the truth. 

In all instances this was enough to satisfy my curiosity and also perfectly legal public information. The job ad will contain a lot of interesting information about the job without giving anything away anything that would be confidential. It's way better than being told "none of your concern", no matter how friendly you say it, it's neither helping nor leaving a good feeling with friends, people that trust you and now have to come to terms that you don't trust them. 

Gifts are always tricky and may be seen as bribery. HR may not be allowed to accept it. If you want to thank the hiring manager, send a nice card and no gift. 

The point of the daily meeting is to have a short status update. It's not the place for lengthy explanations or retelling of peoples day-to-day work. Be short. be precise. Do not waste peoples time with details. 

I don't know any language where names would be spelled lower case. Spell them like they should be spelled. Just look it up: Java JavaScript C C++ Spelling them differently would be a spelling mistake. Not the best thing to have in your application. 

There are so many different believes and sects within those that you will not come to any results on your own. You will need to ask them. Schedule a meting with them, tell them in advance what you told us, so they can prepare and listen to what they have to say. As they may not follow the same religious guidelines, you should schedule a single meeting with each. It goes without saying that for this meetings, you should err on the side of caution and dress very conservative. Make sure you tell them that you will try to make it work. In the end, you will need to decide what exactly is worth it to accomodate them and what is not. You are running a business (or have been employed to do so). If religion gets in the way of said business, you will have to make some tough decisions. 

Firs things first: yes, you should look for a new job now. The other answers already got into detail about this, I won't repeat it here. Just in case you do not find a good job when they do lay you off or close shop: I was in a similar situation a few years ago. This is what helped me, maybe you can pick a few points that apply to your situation and will help you as well: Social If you are on good terms or maybe even friends with your colleagues that also lost their jobs, you have hit a jackpot: the company just provided you with your very personal "I lost my job" support group. A whole group of people going through the same things you go through. And they already know you and your situation. The next few weeks, they will have the same problems you have: who do I have to call at the Arbeitsamt? How do I write a Bewerbung? What form to fill for Insolvenzgeld? Which photographer to pick for shooting the Bewerbungsphotos? Can a lawyer help me with the Abfindung? You all have the same problems and you can share your solutions. For example we found a lawyer that would charge us only once for counseling even though we were 5 people because we all had the same story and no secrets and he could counsel us all in one meeting. We shared our experience with photographers and we read each others' CVs to improve them in terms of both spelling and contents. We all searched for jobs and when we found an ad or a connection that had a job that would fit our references but wasn't what we wanted, we would tell the others about it, because they were qualified and maybe they liked it better. When you are laid off you suddenly have a lot of time on your hands and all others are still busy as hell with their own lifes and jobs. But there's your personal support group. They do have time. If you can make it work, it's very helpful. I would have probably made it without them. But certainly not in that a good mood. Personal A job is giving life a structure. It's providing a routine that is suddenly gone. The first thing you should do is get a new routine for yourself. No matter what it may actually be, finding the time to go for a morning run at 07:00 or maybe reading the newspaper every morning or maybe watching your favorite episode of whatever on tv at a fixed time. But get a routine. With lots of time and nothing productive to do it is easy to slack off. Don't even start. But there is more. A job gives your day a kind of definite end where you know all is done and you can relax. When this end is gone, make sure you create an end of your own. A definite point in time where you sit back and relax without feeling guilty. If you need to write applications, it's hard to relax, because you could. It's not like work where you couldn't work anyway if you are on the couch at home. You could write another application. You could surf the net for another job opening. Make sure you do this, but also make sure you find an end for your day where you can stop doing it without feeling guilty about it. 

The next time they call, be super friendly. Tell them that you don't want to change jobs. If they want to talk to you after that, ask them for their billing information to send them an invoice for the time they need talking to you. Be adamant to not talk to them any further without that information. At least for various types of marketeers, that normally ends the conversation quick and decisively.