This is going to be brief as on a phone : I welcome somebody posting a more complete answer. But the basic principle of large waves appearing from wind is: from a smooth water surface, the wind can produce only small ripples. But those ripples mean that the surface is no longer smooth. The higher the ripples get, the more surface there is for the wind to act upon, thus enlarging them more. Thus are local wind waves formed. For these wind waves to build into the large swell that is found in the oceans, this process needs to continue for a number of days, and some hundreds or thousands of miles. Large swell waves hitting the coast may have been formed in a storm the other side of an ocean. 

I'm not going to look for examples, but there will be some. More interesting is to consider the underlying geometry: At one extreme, if you fly from north to south (or vice versa) you'll experience little or no change in time zone no matter how long you fly for. At the other extreme, if you fly from east to west the time zones will go in the wrong direction. Depending on how you define the question there might be an "answer" in this direction, where you fly west for n hours and go back by n time zones. But for the rest of this question, let's assume you want later time zones. If you fly from west to east, you're chasing the time zones in the right direction... but unless you have a supersonic aircraft, you can't go fast enough - you will travel east slower than the rate at which the earth is spinning, so (as long as you go far enough for more than a 1 time zone change, i.e. to get out of rounding errors) the number of hours you fly for will always be more than the number of time zones you gain. So to match the two, you must fly diagonally : north-east or south-east. The exact angle will depend on the speed of your plane and the latitude that you start from. And then, you have to find a city along that line! 

Climate predictions are only valid statistically, over long periods - typically >30 years. For shorter periods, any effect of climate change is lost in the random (and cyclic) variations of weather. This means that climate predictions are never of the form "in the year 2045 we will see x happening" - specific events like that are weather. What can be predicted is "The period from 2050-2080 is likely to be different to the period from 2020-2050 in the following ways...", looking at differences in statistical measures (such as averages) over long periods. So you will never see climate science tell you what will happen in specific near-future years. However, it may be possible to predict what general characteristics are likely to be different in the next 10-20 years compared to recent history. The shorter the time period for which the prediction is given, the less certainty there will be in the effects. This doesn't quite answer your question, but hopefully helps to put other answers into context. 

Adding an answer here just to note that the usual practice that aretxabaleta explains is not universal. It turned out for me that the software I was using counted from the start of the Dublin Julian Day epoch (1200h, Dec 31, 1899). So I guess it varies a bit. 

Disclamer: I am not an atmospheric or climate scientist; corrections are welcome if I have anything wrong. Human heat production According to the IEA, world primary energy consumption in 2012 was 13370 million tons of oil equivalent, which works out to being $5.6 \times 10^{20}$ Joules. Averaged over a year, this equates to $17.8\,\mathrm{TW}$. Wind, solar, etc., are a negligible part of this, but it does include a small but noticable amount of hydro and biomass. Strictly speaking, all of the hydro and some of the biomass should be excluded as they are simply a short-term "reuse" of energy that has already arrived from the sun, and not "new energy". Let us use the figure above but treat it as an upper bound. The area of the earth is $5.1 \times 10^{14}\, \mathrm{m^2}$(source: Wolfram Alpha), which means that the figure above comes out to $0.033\,\mathrm{Wm^{-2}}$, a comfortingly close match to the figure given in the literature in Sabre Tooth's answer. Energy from the sun According to the Wikipedia page "Earth's energy budget", average solar insolation on the surface of the earth, taking into account day and night, summer and winter, is around $240\,\mathrm{Wm^{-2}}$. The figure that we should use is higher than this, as some is absorbed in the atmosphere and contributes to warming, but let us treat this as a lower bound. Multiplying by the surface area of the planet gives us an incoming energy flux of $1.22 \times 10^{17} \, \mathrm{W}$, or 122 petawatts. Comparisons Total human heat production, then, is in the order of 0.01% of the energy from space, and as such one might consider it negligible. By contrast, the total energy imbalance that results in global warming - including any effect from anthropogenic heating - is estimated to be approx 300 TW, or 20 times the total anthropogenic heat output. (As an aside: Initially when writing this I thought "human fuel use is 5% of the planet's energy imbalance - that's significant!". But of course the greenhouse effect results in an imbalance that is a proportion of the total radiated energy, and human energy makes an insignificant difference to that total radiated energy.) 

Large parts of Delft3D - including, I think, the sediment transport module - are available in an open source form. The GUI is not currently open source, but (a) Deltares have been offering licences for this for free for academic use; (b) if they are no longer doing this, it is entirely possible to use the software without the GUI. FVCOM also has a sediment transport module, and is available free for academic use. This isn't what you asked, but I will note that if you don't have experience with hydrodynamic modelling, or access to somebody who does, then the use of these models may have a steep and time-consuming learning curve. 

Changes to temperature are harmful to the environment - or, to use a perhaps-less-contentious wording, changes to temperature change the environment. The important thing here is to understand how heat and temperature are related. This can be considered on local and global scales. Locally If a continuous point source of heat is sufficiently intense, then it will raise the temperature of its immediate surroundings, and this can affect local ecosystems. Examples of this are the warm water outfalls from power station cooling, and heating of soil by buried power cables. On a slightly wider scale, anthropogenic heat is a contributor to urban heat island effects. Globally There is a continuous flux of energy arriving on the planet from the sun (and, to a far lesser extent, from the inside of the planet), and leaving via radiation into space. A complex system of factors determines the equilibrium between these, and the resulting global temperatures. The amount of energy produced by human activity worldwide (sometimes termed "Anthropogenic heat release") is in the order of 0.01% of the amount of energy arriving from the sun. At the moment, therefore, the global effects of heat generation such as you refer to are negligible, especially when compared with the effects of the chemical changes in the atmosphere that cause global warming. See also: (not duplicate) How does anthropogenic heating affect global warming? 

A fourth reason may be public acceptance; while people may view a few token turbines on rooftops as a good thing, the quantity needed to make a substantial contribution to national demand would drastically change a city's skyline, and might meet with disapproval similar to many rural wind farms. However, I have no evidence for this. 

In an idealised scenario (ie where the plane is flying due north or south at a and there are no other perturbations to its course apart from the Coriolis effect), yes. And I guess it would be the most efficient course too! 

This all depends on the context in which the word is used. From an astronomical perspective, the solstices are midsummer and midwinter, and the equinoxes are the middle of autumn and the middle of spring. However, the seasons, as perceived in terms of weather, lag somewhat behind the astronomical seasons (presumably this is due to the thermal mass of the planet?). For example, most people of my acquaintance think of northern-hemisphere summer as occupying approx. June/July/August, putting the June solstice near the start of it. Therefore, colloquially, the solstices and equinoxes seem to roughly match up with the starts of the seasons, and hence are often treated that way. Why does this apply to the equinoxes more than the solstices? (citation needed - but purely from personal observation, many people think of the summer solstice as "midsummer" but the spring equinox as "the start of spring"). I'm speculating, but my guess is that midsummer and midwinter are really obvious to anybody keeping an eye on the sky (when the sun reaches its greatest or least north/south extent, or "when the days start getting shorter", or whatever). The equinoxes are slightly harder to judge, and so aren't noted in quite the same way. 

Let's assume that the earth didn't suddenly stop spinning (because intertia and conservation of angular momentum would do all sorts of "interesting" things that are deserving of a What-If answer), and stipulate that the earth slowed down gradually, or possibly that it was never spinning in the first place (although I'm sure this would have all sorts of other effects that wouldn't have got us to where we are...) Yes, sea levels would change, but not necessarily for the reasons that you think. Centrifugal force Part of the bulge in oceans is due to centrifugal force on the water, but much of it is not. There is an underlying bulge in the seabed as well as the ocean. A result of this (and other variations in the thickness and density of the crust) are that the earth's gravitational field is not even across the globe, and where there is a stronger area of gravitational field, more water is pulled towards it and a bulge results. It is this effect that allows for the bathymetry of oceans to be mapped by satellites that sense the elevation of the sea's surface. I am no geoscientist, but I imagine that this bulge in the crust at the equator is also to do with centrifugal force - but it would take a lot longer to go away, if indeed it did at all, than one caused just by water. EDITING to add that there is now an answer elsewhere on this site re the bulge in the crust: How viscous is the Earth's mantle? Changes in tides & ocean currents If the planet were not rotating, the dominant period for tidal cycles would likely be related to a lunar month rather than to a day. There would also be no Coriolis effect, and these two factors would result in major differences to tides and to ocean circulations. As such, it is likely that there would be substantial differences in both short- and long-term elevation changes that are due to currents. Other effects I suspect that lack of rotation might have effects on the planet's core and its magnetic field, which might result in all sorts of other impacts... but we'll have to wait for a geoscientist in a speculative mood to talk about things like that :-) 

$z_0$ is a theoretical construct that, while useful in its intended uses, cannot be thought of in too much detail as a physical reality. When using a log law to describe wind speed, it represents the distance above the surface at which that log curve decreases to zero. However, if a measurement of speed were made at this height, it would be unlikely to be zero - more detailed, finer-scaled processes dominate here. (I don't know wind modelling, but by analogy from water I'm guessing a that thin linear boundary layer exists between the ground and the point at which the log curve becomes dominant) In practice the log-law approach for wind speed is used when dealing with speeds large distances (tens of metres) above the surface, and is not applicable when $z$ approaches $z_0$. Far more detailed techniques would be needed in this realm. 

It is common to describe tidal elevations at a given location by giving the phases and amplitudes of tidal constituents. One such application is for setting the open boundary conditions for regional flow models. However, the phase of a constituent is only meaningful if we also know a specific time at which that phase angle applies. For example, if a constituent has an amplitude of 2m and a phase of 127 degrees (perhaps more accurately called a phase offset), there must be a specific date and time at which it is at 127 degrees, from which it progresses at a rate specified by the period of that constituent. Is there a convention as to what date and time this is? 

For long-term sea level data, some of the PSMSL (Permenant Service for Mean Sea Level) datasets may be of use. These only cover discrete points, mostly tide gauges on coasts, but do so for the long term, giving monthly and annual means. 

I can't answer why there's a 24x increase, according to the textbook - but it may well be the case for a specific model. In general, If you double the resolution of a 3D model in each dimension, you are multiplying the number of cells (or elements) in the model by $2^3 = 8$. Typically the maximum length of the time step that a model may be run at and remain stable is proportional to $\frac{\Delta x}{u}$, where $\Delta x$ is the size of a grid cell and $u$ is the speed of the flow in that cell (see info on the CFL condition) (for simplicity I'm assuming that the flow is parallel to one grid axis, which makes this one-dimensional; but the same result applies if not). This means that if you double the spatial resolution, you will probably also have to halve the timestep to maintain numerical stability. This gives an extra factor of two on the computation time, taking us to $2^4 = 16$ times. This will vary in its details from model to model, and it is entirely feasible that additional non-linear processes in a given model push that to 24 times.