Because it would be just a waste of the money invested in weight reduction / aerodynamics to use it in plain clothes and with a beastly saddle. Now if you refer to something like this: 

A friends of mine just installed aero bars, we went for a 150 km ride. The aerobar advantages are mainly useful in flat terrain. If you have many uphill / downhill you will be using the side handles. And he reported shifting gears was quite annoying compared to brifter shifting. I wouldn't do it, it is for getting faster speed not for comfort or safety. Edit: I was thinking of the whole aero handlebar with shifters at the end and pushed forward saddle combination, which is expensive to have mounted. If it is only the bars, well, I don't know but it seems like a bit shoddy. Of course try it, since it is not as big an expense. 

Those are called gumwalls. With this keyword you can easily search for them. Brands I see mounted on my friend's bikes are the likes of bontrager, panaracer, schwalbe, but Id say that most tyre manufacturers have a gumwall offer. 

Starting from a dead stop, am afraid it is a matter of leg and core strength and handling skills, which seems that you do not quite have yet. They will come with enough riding time. In the meantime you can try to get the bike in motion by pushing the road with your leg as when you push a skateboard or a kid's scooter, then turning the cranks will be easier. I do this a lot to start when I am in hard gears, not only uphill. If the slope is too steep it may not work, but if slope is too steep you might not be able to resume climbing unless you go down and then turn 180 degrees ti face the hill again. 

Large dogs don't seem to be much of a problem, they usually don't seem to care about me when I'm cycling. It's the little yippy dogs that like to chase. They're pretty easy to outrun, so I just go ahead and do that. They tend to give up real quick. Large dogs I've always just slowed down to a walking pace and they've always lost interest at that point. The plan has been to dismount and keep the bike between myself and them to fend them off while hopefully waiting for an owner to appear. The plan of last resort is my handgun. Unfortunately due to the laws in the area that I cycle, spray strong enough to affect animals (such as bear spray) and tasers are not legal (considered "weapons" of a type that there is no license available to carry them). If you choose to carry anything, be sure to check your local laws, you may be surprised at what's prohibited! 

That depends... I usually carry inflaters AND a pump. I've had problems with both. The CO2 cartridges aren't too crazy expensive, but my most recent flat I used 2 of them and still ended up finishing with the pump. It's really easy to blow the CO2 out without getting it in the tire, and if that happens, you'd better have another cartridge to try, or a pump on standby for backup. The inflaters seem like a good idea and worked fine at home, but in practice when stuck on the side of the road, I'm unimpressed. The small handpumps I've also found difficult to work with. They just don't latch on as well as a regular pump. I'm still looking for a good reliable solution (which I need 'cause I get a LOT of flats). 

Put your shifter in 4th gear. Adjust the cable tension so that the yellow lines match. There really isn't more to it. Not much to do wrong. If you can then shift all the way up to 8 and down to 1, the basic installation is correct. However ... from my experience, these hubs change a little over time. Mine (Alfine 8, basically the same thing) shows slippage in some gear every time I re-install it. After aligning the yellow lines, try to slacken the cable a little bit. This could be closer to the setting the hub was before you changed your tire. 

You will have to train to use the back brake, and try out a few "emergency" stops somewhere safe. These bikes aren't built to be fast and if you take your time and try to stay out of trouble, you will be fine. 

Just to add to FatHippos answer: The same applies to Germany. In my home town there was a survey of all one-way roads between 2004 and 2010, which resulted in most of them now being open for bikes in both directions. These roads are also marked explicitly with a sign like the one you describe. 

Wait a little before you buy a new saddle. It takes some time for both your butt and the saddle to adjust to each other. Wider and softer saddles are only more comfortable for shorter rides or very upright riding positions. 17 km and 50 minutes are a very good point to start. Depending on your time constraints and where you live you can either do longer trips (mostly training for your but), or go farther / steeper in the same time (what I prefer). To build some basic stamina I believe everything between 30 and 60 minutes of real continuous effort (sweating, but not vomiting …) to be ideal. Maybe thats just because this is around the time it takes me to reach the different summits around here by road- or mountain-bike (the uphill part that is, add another 30 minutes to get to the starting point). Even only doing that once or twice a week should be enough to really make you feel progress kicking in rather fast. 

Taking into account the strava ladder, with kom in 20 minutes, and experience on similar length and average gradient climbs, my girlfriend, who is an occasional rider, (less than 1.000 km a year) does approximately double time than the kom, and stops around 3 times in the side of the road. New roads in Spain do not usually have veeeery steep sections (10 +) but older roads do. 

Because I have had my feet sliding from the pedals indeed, and foud that the shape of this sole (possibly just one of the slots/carves on the sole, not two) does make my feet grip better to the pedal and does well to avoid sliding. I'm a student so I'm not wealthy, and I rather not buy some pedals and shoes just to check and see no real improvement. But what is more, I use the same bike to commute and to go on longer routes, and I don't see myself going to class or part time job with cycling shoes, or get the platform/cleat pedal combo. But I also wanted a jersey after those rides, to keep the cereal chocolate bars in the handy pockets, and the pants with cushion, and what is more, I wanted a better, lighter, shifters in brake levers, bike. I was / am, seriusly considering spending some of my savings in this, that is, in the full equip for a road cyclist, expecting to be able to ride at the other riders pace in an easier way. But I'm afraid that the main reason that I lagged and struggled was that I am just not as fit as them in regards to longer cycling. I live way uphill and daily climb some 6 km in 5-10 % steep, in town, and I usually go on longer routes (30-50 km) some evenings and weekends, but I reckon they are simply more fit. Now, thinking of buying a new road bike, I would be afraid of leaving it on the city street, so that implies keeping two bikes. For the new bike, I feel weird to get a 1500€ bike and equip it with platform pedals, so I should get clipless, and get shoes, and then, I feel like I have to buy also jersey and pants, and then I started thinking that this is a bit like internet explorer in windows, it goes bundled, you must go with cleats and spandex, because everyone else is doing so, so it must be better, but if it was not that significantly better it is a bit weird, at least to me to just wear this, maybe with a couple pockets on the side: 

My trainer came with the appropriate front stand. However, I occasionally forget to use it and it really doesn't seem to matter either way. Since I have it, I try to remember to use it, but if I didn't have it, I wouldn't bother to buy one. 

Whatever it is I do I guess. I've never had one break. I don't even worry about stretch. If it's dry, I oil it, but otherwise I leave well enough alone. I don't even bother to clean my chains. 

Interesting problem on the only triple chainring bike I've ever owned (I've never run into this problem on a double chainring ever). It has a 9-speed cassette. In the middle chainring, the middle 3 rear gears hunt around. Example, when in 5th sometimes it'll randomly jump up or down a gear. 6th, sometimes it'll jump down 1. 4th, sometimes it'll jump up 1. It'll stay in the gear you put it for the majority of riding, but occasionally it'll suddenly just hunt around a little within that specific subset of gears and then settle down again. It's been like that since brand new (2006, Cannondale with Shimano components, most notably the Flightdeck shifters). My wife just lived with it (it was her bike originally). When she crashed it (and gave up cycling), I inherited it and I also just lived with it for awhile. Finally the last couple of years I've re-calibrated the shifting a few times in an attempt to solve this issue. I can get everything spot on except for that pesky hunting right in the middle gears! Tips/tricks specifically for adjusting shifting on these triple chainring bikes? 

Having such a limited amount of time for a group ride that in order to finish it on time you would need to push group speed up to a point where the ride is not enjoyable or even feasible 

It is not allowed by UCI rules, but comissars usually allow it if it is due to mechanical reasons and used to get back to the peloton, since they have discretional ability to decide. Time penalties or disqualification if used to gain advantage over the peloton. So, rule enforcement may vary depending on many circumstances, and I guess they don't want to lose stars like Froome, that could also be important when turning a blind eye on some minor issue 

This is the kind of bike I would look for, that I think can give you more for your money: something from early 90's with an old shimano 105 group or similar, which provides reliable shifting and braking, steel frame that will still last a lot and not very heavy... these bikes are awesome... not too old to be overpriced as vintage, not so new that will still cost a lot, and really close to modern bike performance once you master downtube shifting. I bought a similar one for 140€ that I was very lucky to get, but I see them in the 200 - 300 € range, which is still a really great bike for the price. Now, for mountain bikes, it is another story, those have improved more with time, (suspension, disc brakes, smooth shifting under tension, whatnot ..)and I would go for a new one if I was interested in getting out to the trails. The bikes I mentioned are also easy to resell at the price you bought, so if you get into more serious riding you can always sell and get new one without losing much (which will not happen if you upgrade a lot) 

The simplest solution would probably be to just buy new brakes. You can get them starting at about 10€/15$ which makes any attempt to repair them more expensive. I don't know whether these tension pins can be replaced. For me, brakes are too important to try to save a few bucks on them. Make sure the new ones are inserted completely, the pin should ideally not be visible when installed. 

My commute brings me through a park with a lot of rabbits (or similar animals, not a zoologist here) and it has been rather close a few times ... I use a head lamp when driving there at night for two reasons: 

It allows me to see through turns much better The eyes of animals reflect directly back at you, which helps to see them a little earlier 

The lock nut is used to wedge to crank on the bottom bracket spindle. If you open it, you should still not be able to get the crank off, at least not easily. For square tapered bottom brackets, usually you have to use a tool called a "crank puller", which is hold in place with the outer thread. See this article over at Sheldon Browns for details and very interesting pictures showing whats going on inside the cranks. 

The purpose of such a steering damper is to stop the front wheel from turning when using a (two-leg) kickstand or while pushing the bike. Not much use otherwise. 

There are trailers in a similar form factor, like the Burley Travoy (no recommendation, just the first I found), that are made for the purpose. These will be a lot more stable than any home made conversion of something that was never designed to go faster than slow walking pace. 

Having considered between unsing my android phone as a bike computer and buying dedicated computer, I noticed some points that could serve you. Using cell phone: 

It is an old question, but, one important thing I didn't see mentioned is to actually test the climb to see what gearing you will ride it... Since averages are averages and some parts may be less steep, you could start with big ring and upper cassette gears then drop to small ring for a steeper part. Also, if in small front ring, keeping at least one easier gear to resort to and feel a bit of relief by the end can be mentally refreshing. So, more than pacing I would say that finding your ideal gearing for the climb is the point. Your upper body will also play an important part. For pacing itself I would say it is all out, but contrary to what people say I will go really fast from the beginning, because the finish line works as the proverbial carrot, and you will go all out when it is in sight, but if you've been too conservative at the start the all out for the finish may not be enough. 

There are organizations that offer riding in traffic classes, they even plan with you your best commute route, I would look into that as a way to gain confidence. Keep in mind that if you are afraid or you doubt at some intersection or maneouvre it can be dangerous if someone decides they don't want to wait for you to make your move. Confidence and paying attention to your environment is best for safety, which includes, as mentioned above, claiming all the lane for you. Practice and get proper confidence on your skills, get a good helmet,(I wouldn't go for the full closed hwlmet because in the tradeoff between visibility and increased face security I think it is better to have more visibility), see that your bike is in excellent riding condition, gears brakes, etc, make yourself seen without blinding other road users, that's it. And then, rememeber you can't be 100% safe on the bike, but just walking on the city is also dangerous, we have to go outside the womb