Who will get the job? The answer - you can't tell based on the URL of their website because it doesn't matter at all versus the content of the actual site. If your portfolio is good, it doesn't matter what the link looks like. If your portfolio is bad, it doesn't matter what the link looks like. 

Your manager is a human being and it is more or less impossible to plot how he makes decisions or how he or she will make a particular decision The company for which you work is subject to extreme pressure from management, the board, and shareholders, and may act in such a manner that it seems to be acting against itself or towards no good purpose You can never truly change the minds of others The only thing you are really in control of is your own personal attitude and mind 

Sure, everything is negotiable, always. Circumstances change. You may want to work for company A, but company B comes in and makes you another offer of $20K / year more. You can, a) Still work for company A at the original rate (Company A wins) b) Go to work for company B (Company B wins, you win) c) Renegotiate your rate with company A based on the offer from company B (You win, and the company that is willing to pay more wins) As a side note, I have done exactly this, and more often than not company A finds the 20K to see the counteroffer. Sometimes they don't, and are no longer interested in hiring you - that's why it's important to have a REAL offer from Company B, and not just a bluff. 

All scientific evidence I have seen fails to demonstrate puzzles as effective. However, I believe they have some potential in non-scientific approaches. Consider that everything in the interview process is a tool. They're tools to help you and the company determine if they are good matches for each other (mostly to help the company, but it goes both ways). Accordingly, the interviewer uses any tools at their disposal. Some interviewers may find that asking a puzzle question is an effective tool in their toolbox to learn more about you, and then ask more pertinent questions. In such a scenario, I think puzzles are very useful. Its not the answer to the puzzle that matters, per se, but all of the subtle details surrounding it I would like to switch over to fiction for a moment, specifically Frank Herbert's Dune. Fiction is often in a good position to explore the extreme version of a situation, and sometimes that can make the less extreme version more clear. In Dune, one of the groups has something known as the "pain box," or "agony box." You put your hand in it, and it uses nerve induction to generate the most excruciating pain in the universe. It is part of a test to determine if you are sufficiently human to go forward with their "interview." It is explained that it is not the pain that matters, it is how the interviewer observes your reactions, and interacts with you while you feel your hand melting off. In the hands of someone who does not know how to use it, the box is useless as anything besides a torture device. However, in the hands of someone who knows how to use it to accomplish their goals, it peels away layers of defenses so that they can conduct the real portion of the interview without interference from shallow things like memorization or bravado. Now, after describing that interview, aren't you glad that they're really just asking you to solve a few puzzles? 

Your resume should be tailored to the field you are applying for. For example, if you were applying for a sales rep at a shoe store, you would include all the sales experience you have, but omit say, your computer programming experience. Since I can't imagine being on a reality show like that being applicable for any job, I think you should omit it. 

The trick is to neither lie nor tell excessive amounts of the truth - you should selectively tell the truth. "I was in the position for about a month... I didn't find it overly challenging." OR "It was a very interesting learning experience. I feel like it's really prepared me for where I am now." OR "It was really challenging. I learned a lot about the importance of taking initiative!" Basically, keep it all very glossy and positive. If they try to press, continue being glossy and positive. "What was it about it that was so challenging?" "Well, it was very early in my career. I hadn't really learned to take initiative yet. So there were times when I wasn't at my full potential." In conclusion, don't lie, but don't say anything negative, especially about your coworkers at the time. 

Of everything in the question, this looks to me like the best angle to act upon. Who is setting his priorities? If your teams are organized like ours are, it's the team lead's responsibility to set his priorities. Thus, let him know that you recognize that you are not communicating your priorities for him sufficiently, and that you will be taking extra effort to make sure they are communicated properly. An individual like this will most likely have a reply cued up, because this wont be the first time someone will have told them this. I can't say what that reply will be, but it will be a lot closer to what the actual issue is. It will be out in the open so you can deal with it better. Perhaps I am being too subtle. Just in case, I'll be more direct. Anyone in a "senior developer" position should know just how badly they are messing up when leadership offers to "help" them by "taking extra effort to make sure priorities are clear." They should realize rapidly that what that really means is that they are about to lose all freedom of choice in their approach until they shape up. 

The importance of goal parties, kick-off parties and other none development / deployment-related nonsense all has to do with human nature. Maslow's heirarchy of needs (which Peter Drucker himself was a big fan of) states that people have these needs, more or less in this order: 

The problem here is that if you are spending all your time minding your employer's business, then no one is minding your business! So, in short, yes your employer can ask you to abandon your projects, stay late, or otherwise "mind their business all the time", but you should be careful about accepting such a deal. In my opinion it is not a good deal because, regardless of how much you get paid, if you have no time to take care of your business then you will never get ahead. 

You should conduct the interview like you do your job. If you are a web developer, you probably refer to a reference (MDNdocs, StackOverflow (LOL!), WC3 guidelines) frequently. In fact, being able to use a reference effectively is a big part of being a good developer. That being said, I never bring a cheat sheet to an interview because I know what I am doing. You should too. If someone asks you a question you don't know about "XYZ framework," and you don't know, you should reply, "Actually, I don't know anything about XYZ framework." If XYZ framework is something you really need to know to do this job, does it make sense that you would get the job anyways? Another example, an employer might ask a very specific question, like something you WOULD need to refer to. "What is the CSS selector for targeting the language attribute for HTML?" Rather than using a reference, you can answer, "I've never worked with that particular selector before, but if I needed to work with it I could find out what it does fairly quickly." 

Explain to your children that self organizing and empowerment does not mean they get to do anything they want. If your team decided to go steal some automatic weapons and rob a bank, you aren't obliged to follow through with them just because they are empowered. They cannot "fire" you. That is the role of your manager. Firing always comes from up the chain, not from below. Sure, they can jump rungs in the hierarchy and work with your boss to remove you, but since apparently your boss and your bosses boss are both on leave without having put anyone in place in their absence, there's not much of a hierarchy to go to. You've got a few months. 

It sounds to me like you've got quite the predicament, and you are trying to hold to some unreasonable ideals. 

The next step in that story is very context dependent based on your relationship with the customer. You have to be able to explain to the customer why A can't be done as fast as it was done before. That might involve introducing them to exactly how hard some of these tasks are to do. Or it might involve them accepting that you are a go-getter that opportunistically did A when it was easy, and now needs to schedule it. Or they can be the kind of customer that's furious that your production schedule no longer matches their expectations, and you can lose their business. Or there could be a complicated system (like billable hours) which you didn't know about and are accidentally causing problems with. Your boss is the one responsible for this. Work with them. Make sure they understand that the consequence of your pro-active approach is that it won't always be there. Make sure they understand that when they fully task you with all sorts of stuff, you won't be able to just interject those quick turnarounds. In some environments, the boss will say "great. Keep doing the fast paced work. I'll cover for you when you hit 100% load." In other environments, the boss will say "Let's focus on managing expectations, and ensure the customer not only is happy, but stays happy for the long haul." Answering those questions is your bosses job, and you job is merely to provide them the resources they need to answer that question. If your boss is happy with your approach, then that's what matters. All customers like to be satisfied in the short term. All customers like their producers to be able to offer fast turnarounds. Some customers understand the long term implications of these fast turnarounds, while other customers would prefer you and your team to manage them. And in this case, the big difference between your boss and your customer is that your customer may choose to be interested in the long term interests of your company, or they may choose to do their own thing. Your boss should always be thinking of the long term interests of your company, and can provide you such guidance. 

I would say the best solution is to not invite any of your co-workers. The explanation for this can be that you want to keep it small and save money. The advantages of this are several, 

From personal experience, I've done this a lot, having maybe done 12 interviews while working full time in 2013. You can do an interview in 3 different ways without using a PTO day: Beginning of the day (Starting your day by heading to the interview, then going to work) This one is easy enough. Ask for the interview to be booked as early as possible. For work, say you have a personal matter and will be in later than expected. You can stay that same amount later, if you wish, to balance the hours. During and as an extension of Lunch This involves letting your supervisor know you will be running a few errands over lunch. Just leave for your lunch break, and cruise over to the interview location. This is much more effective if the interview is close. After your day is complete Booking your meeting for the end of the day is usually the best strategy if you don't want to miss a lot of work. Most interviewers will accomodate - and remember, CEOs and other entrepreneurs work very long hours. The majority I've known are still at work at 7pm. Actually, it's amazing you have PTO days to even do interviews. Generally, as a contractor, you don't get paid a cent for interview time. Also, it is completely reasonable to expect to do an interview after, or before, work. I've done many interviews around 5pm, 6pm, etc. Conclusion Potential workplaces are managed by professionals who understand you have important engagements with your time. At the point of scheduling the follow interview, all you have to say is, "That is great. I am very excited. I would need to come in sometime in the late afternoon, as I currently have obligations to my existing client." About 95% of the time they will gladly accommodate you. The remaining 5%, what you are asking will actually not be possible, but they will probably have a number of other alternatives. To close, you shouldn't jump too quickly at the chance for an interview. If an interviewer asks you to skip a day of work to come speak to them, and you do, what does that really say? It says that you would do the same thing while employed by them. 

I would second Pete's solution: talk to your counselor. I'm someone who tends to give tough love, so forgive me if it isn't what you were looking for. The tough part comes first. There's a reason the word is "disability." It affects your ability to do a task. If you've had the same conversation many times with your MD for the last 8 months, and it's always come back with "we'll talk after you have 3 months without a sick day," that's a very strong indicator that your MD feels you are not able to meet the job requirements. The fact that the story isn't changing tells me they're dissatisfied enough to not even try to work with you on it. If you're a quadruple amputee, you probably shouldn't get a mountain climbing job. Right? That's the nature of having a "disability." Well, generally speaking this is a good rule. That being said, if you really have that desire in your soul to overcome, do so with such a great ferocity of spirit as to overcome any physical obstacle. (I do love Kyle Maynard's spirit. He's worth the 11 minutes of your life to listen to. Click the link!) The tricky part of that message is that that ferocious spirit is hard to come by. It's especially hard to come by if you suffer from a mental health issue such as bipolar disorder. If your passion is climbing mountains, maybe it's worth spending your spirit on that. If it's just an IT job, you make the decision as to whether it is worth applying such spirit to your job. It's only a job (unless you truly feel otherwise). It is always desirable to have a ferocious spirit for living life, and if spending some of that spirit on your job makes you hate life, skip the job and enjoy life instead. Make sure your life comes first, job comes second. So can I recommend whether you should apply such a spirited approach to your job? No. I don't know enough about the nature of your job strees. I don't know enough about your medical history. Even if you did publish your medical history on the internet (hint: don't!), I personally couldn't do anything with it because I am not a trained medical provider with the experience to take the cold hard words written down in your medical file and heal the human behind behind them. Your counselor does have this knowledge, and they do have these skills. They literally choose to make a living out of healing the humans behind the numbers. They may be able to help you work things out with your MD and get them to be more compassionate. They may be able to help you find a new job. Even more important, they will be able to help you figure out whether you want to stay in your existing job or move to a new job. And from what I have been told, they love working with those who seek to kindle that ferocious spirit for life. Talk with them. They are in the best position to help set you straight. 

The other answers for the question feature a lot of platitudes, and seem to rest on several assumptions that I do not think it is safe to make: Unsafe (But Popular) Assumptions 

Therefore, the advice given elsewhere will only be effective if the assumptions hold true. Here are some assumptions, that if you operate by them, will leave you much better prepared for reality: Better But Highly Unpopular Assumptions 

Your manager behaves in the same manner as their managers before them That the company itself will behave in a more or less predictable manner That there is something you can in fact do to protect your job 

Your manager is responsible for taking decisive action when workplace dysfunction like bullying is involved. I'd say your story clearly involves bullying as the actions of the other team members were totally excessive. An appropriate reaction would be for them to have informed the manager of the situation. It's not really a question of how smelly the lunch was, it's just clear that your co-workers actions were totally inappropriate. Your boss acting in a non-chalant manner in regards to your complaints is lazy and incompetent behavior. The being said, all HR people and bosses are human beings. You might get the same reaction from HR. Nonetheless, you should now speak to them in regards to your manager. Finally, I would really just quit. Seriously, she threw a hat at you? That is so inappropriate. If your manager or HR won't dismiss a person for behavior like that (throwing a hat?? Actually?) then they are simply lazy, arrogant and incompetent and the situation will never improve. If HR doesn't take swift and satisfactory action, your choice is really whether or not to work for them anymore, and the consequences of that decision are yours to live with.