The upside is the Germans get to do what they do best, Blitz. While perhaps not the most realistic plan, its one you have fun with, and does get around some limitations the Germans faced. 

Blessed Trinkets From the Church Perhaps you could expand the notion of the soul binding to a body over the course of life, to include any object person keeps close to them at all times. Individuals could keep amulets or rings, blessed by the church, that are meant to protect their soul for some time after death. The length of time for which an amulet will last depends on the materials. The degree to which they can keep the soul safe from supernatural forces may also depend on materials or the level of blessing placed upon it. And of course you could use the price of such protections to generate revenue for the church or if you want to limit who can get their hands on such protection. 

Let's take that number as "Caloric requirement at rest", since a captive Tarantula would have limited activity as compared to a 'wild spider' who would need to actively hunt for prey. For spiders, a significant source of metabolic cost is also silk-creation. [1]. So the more web/silk a giant spider produces, the more calories it will need. Spider silk is light - enough spider silk to go around the world once would only weigh 500 g, but let's say these giant spiders spin proportionally thicker silk, so that the same length of silk weighs a 100 times more. 

Simplest thing I can think of is the existence of large and dangerous ocean creatures, large horned whales and the like. Perhaps they are attracted to the movement of the ships on the surface and track them once they enter the deeper waters where they reside. 

ZioByte, touched on it, but a large laser array could do the trick. But it doesn't have to destroy the asteroid, merely heat it to the point of vaporizing part of the asteroid. This vapor will act as a small jet deflecting the asteroid from Earth. 

I can logically see Caspar Units rapidly dissociate from baseline humans. They would not just be simply bored running cargo, they would be restless. Imagine being able to just fly off and see or experience anything in known space (or finding new stuff), but instead just carrying widgets from a to b and back again -- for decades. The people you interact with daily would not really be peers, nor would they easily understand much of your actual life. This can be depressing and lonely. Furthermore, kinship would be strong between Caspar Units, as they more and more recognize the gulf between their new life and their old ones. These issues (and other similar issues) would create a history (and bias) of Caspars being flaky on the job. They are known for not maintaining long term contracts (we're talking prejudice here, stereotypes and 'cultural wisdom', not true facts), because they just fly off on a whim. They are terrible in battle because they won't fire on other Caspar Units, they have more allegiance to their kin than to their state. Combine that with pressure from unions and you have nations that believe it is obvious and right to exclude Caspar Units from any important and long term duties. 

So a 70 kg spider producing just 1 g of silk a day would need an additional caloric intake of 4500 Cal per day for silk production. Since real spiders eat enough to tide them over for days at a stretch: 

The paper linked above also gives an equation for activity cost of web building. Total Cost of Web Construction ~ (4.5 * Weight of Web in mg) + [Weight of Spider in grams * (2.79 * Weight of Web in mg)] calories I'm assuming this activity cost gets taken care of by Kleiber's Law, but if it doesn't, then the dietary requirements would be: => (4.5 * 1,000) + [70,000 * (2.79 * 1,000)] = 4500 + [70,000 * 2790] = a whopping and unsustainable 195,304,500 Calories! (An adult African elephant needs around 70,000 Cal per day for comparison) 

Concealing the construction of a tunnel Constructing the tunnel in a limited time-frame Moving troops without being noticed Protecting the tunnel until the sea/air bases can be dealt with 

Mixed Reactions? As alluded to by Ian, some would approach with caution, while others, as alluded to by Gary, would be far more bullish. Remain Cautious There are untold reasons why one should be cautious, not the least of which is the potential for world destroying paradoxes. Unknown effects on our physical world We would have no way of knowing what potential disaster could unfold from use of this technology. Could it tear at the very fabric of space and time, ripping apart our world? Was it merely luck that the chrononaut who has to come to visit us from the future even made it here in the first place without causing irreparable damage? Whether or not these thoughts would occur to Presidents, MPs or Senators, they would come to the minds of scientists and activists that sit on advisory panels or leader multinational NGOs, and international research institutes. As such there would be a healthy body of people pressuring leaders into methodically researching any potential adverse effects of the technology on the user, and the world as a whole. Temporal War It's not just present day world governments who might seek power, and meddling in the affairs of the chrononaut and his technology might cause an outrage in the future leading to potential repercussive actions. I am thinking of a few Star Trek plots which revolve around guardians of space-time who prevent any interference in timelines. Who can say whether or not any attempted interfering with the time traveler and his technology isn't being monitored in the future. Governments would be right to be concerned with this possibility. Time Paradoxes I wont even go into detail as I think he are aware of this. But For reasons similar to ' Unknown effects on our physical world' I can see a fair amount of public pressure to investigate these. presumable some dialogue would occur between our time traveler and world governments on their own findings from the future on these issues, but I am sure we would try and verify them for the sake of understanding and reassurance. Neutral For a variety of reasons some nations would probably have little reaction to the news. Denial There reasons are varied, whether it would count as blasphemy, or it comes across as an impossibility, majorities in some nations would assuredly refuse to believe it as a true event. Apathetic Acceptance Some governments would accept this as a true, and move on with the matter of the day do to overwhelming pressure to deal with current and very troubling affairs. It may become a back burner issue for nations dealing with disease and famine (even if it presents an opportunity to resolve these issues another way) Take Control More to Gary's point, whether open about it, or keeping it a secret, undoubtedly some nations will seek to control what is the greatest potential military and economic leap forward ever presented to mankind. Some may openly call for its control to have a tool to help prevent complete exploitation by those in the future who now many control our past and as such our futures. This could easily lead to both unilateral and multilateral actions to attempt and control this technology. Some would seek the technology to gain the upper hand against present day enemies. They may even use the guise of controlling the technology to counter those from future, while truly maintaining eyes on today. Whether or not that is through force or negotiation is inevitably up to the whims of your nations, and the perceived nature of the time traveler. Militarily Those who have the power may try through military means to gain access to the technology and time traveler. Covertly More interesting would be those who seek to control it covertly. I could see nations trying to bribe or seduce the time traveler to gain access. Or perhaps nations look forward, planning multi-generational infiltration plans to gaining access to the not-yet-invented machine. To that point perhaps out time traveler is a spy from one of these programs (The paradoxes begin) 

ETA: However, even with a thread 10 times thicker (10 microns => 100 microns) and 100 times heavier than normal spider silk, 1 g of spider silk would be more than 166 m (1.31 g/cc /(0.005 cm *0.005 cm *pi)), so it is highly unlikely that even a giant spider would be producing 1 g of silk a day. [Thanks to @Sempie for bringing my attention to this]. So more realistically, unless silk production is significant enough (in terms of width/density/length) to weigh a lot, it would have insignificant calorie cost. Additionally, Spiders often recycle their web silk. If these giant spiders are not expanding territory, they could be eating old silk to 'touch up' their webs, which could eliminate external (non-silk) caloric requirements even more. Hence: 

You want to leave a mark, but let's try to avoid mutilating and otherwise making useless potential future reformed members of society. So how do we do this? Alopecia Various toxicans can induce hairloss, including permentant and complete hairloss. An individual withnot even a strand of peach fuzz will be noticeable though its more subtle then a missing ear. Scleral Tattooing Want something more striking, how about a scleral tattoo? You can't remove an eye tattoo without obvious and severe side effects and different colored eyes can be used to separate prisoners from staff. 

A human inextricably linked to a ship will experience life in a completely different manner to normal people. Their desires will likely no longer fit into social norms to the extent that they are not easily fulfilled by what is available. Look at what they now have. 

Put your mystical gravitation machine (you said wizards, right?) in the center of the ship. It pushes things away, rather than pulling them toward itself. Thereby creating a gravity-esque force on the "underside" of the floors and the inside of the hull. It would balance out as the force is equal in all directions. 

It depends on the degree of similarity you require and how believable you want your world to be. I am approaching assuming you wish to retain most aspects of Greek culture. Greeks were/are Greeks, as Romans were Romans, because of the lands that shaped them. Art, architecture, diet, language, political spheres, policies, wealth, all are influenced heavily by geography. People in a landlocked, snow capped northern plain would not developed as the Greeks did. Climate and geography for example have been shown to have influence on language. Humid climates promote tonal language, temperature influences volume, thinner air promotes ejectives etc. The mountainous geography of Greece played into the development of the various Greek city states by isolating these ancient cities. The vast coasts of Greece would have effected their diet, their access to trade and thus wealth, the degree of foreign influences etc. In short there is a cause for everything, and if you take the Greeks from their lands, but wish to retain all aspects of their culture you best find reason for it, otherwise it may impact the believability of your world.