Is "the capability of the physical laws to build a machine that simulates Turing machines" an abstract idea? It sounds quite abstract to me. It exists objectively, as there could be theoretically a universe without that. It has existed before human starts to think about that. If you define that to be not abstract, it's quite likely you have defined "abstract" to be a specific type of the things not found outside languages. Then, by definition, it exists as an idea, and it doesn't exist physically, or anywhere that is not in languages. You can call that existing or not existing, but please choose in whatever ways the person listening to you could understand. Personally, I feel it quite awkward to say there is a processor that uses x86_64 instruction set while the instruction set itself doesn't exist. 

There is a basic misunderstanding within many people. Pain is not bad. It warns people and animals against danger. Sometimes people want to suppress pain because they already know the situation, and it is fruitless to do anything more by instinct except those they know they will do. People may also feel less pain by instinct if they have a strong will to do something else, or they have a reason to explain the pain (didn't find any source, sorry). Animals are evolved to have the instinct of feeling the pain for a reason. It won't be good to remove them for themselves, unless, in some cases humans are taking over a large part of all the evolution mechanism, such as in the farms, where some kind of pain doesn't imply danger anymore in the perspective of the benefits of humans. If we go further and not only remove the pain, but also the cause of it, it would disrupt the evolution and won't be good in long term. Sometimes people do things not for the animals themselves (as in the Buddhist way, but I don't think they want to specially reduce pain anyway), but for their own feeling. In this case they may selectively want to reduce pain for cats, but not for mosquitoes. It would be easier to understand this kind of ideas just by imagining some extreme things to humans, and try to find some reasons why we would hate it. The fact is, every person received much, much more from the society than they actually pay. And they could contribute to the society (including their family and friends) much more, at least they have the potential. These things won't be justified if they feel betrayed in an extreme way. Beside the pain, it's more about the creepiness from the random treatment to them and the uncertainty of what is going on. It could make many of the people's believes for everyday life questionable. Ethics are mostly about the trust and not generating the good not ever existed, after all. Other people may interpret the reason in different ways, but I described mine just as a example. Does that apply for animals? Well, if you think yourself the person who breed the animals, sometimes it does. In fact, some people would try not to be emotionally associated from the beginning, to avoid these feelings. But most people don't know who took care of a specific animal, so they could only make general statements based on some assumptions, such as they could be somewhat bad. If we could find such a reason, it would be rather irrelevant whether the pain are caused by animals or humans. If they live in a natural way that they should evade the danger, they should feel pain, unless humans made them feel safe and they should actually have removed the danger. If they must die as the human planned, some people would think it's ethical to not let them feel the pain, or at least make the job more relaxed. Other people may only think that's good for the meat quality in some cases (in other cases it's the exact opposite). But in the case that they must die as planned AND they must evade the danger (to train some carnivore for hunting), for the ethical-thinking people, it's... complicated. But humans are practical. They could compare the pros and cons. Very few people could just decide on a single ultimate goal. If you want to be ultimately good you may invent some replacement food moved by a game controller, ie. split the brain and body. But before that becoming feasible and having more priority than most of the other humans' good, some people have to live with it. 

Science is the study of what is measurable. Scientism is the belief that the universe can be fully explained by science. If consciousness is measurable, then it is the proper object of study of science. Philosophy and all forms of spiritual belief are irrelevant superstition. The possibility that consciousness is not measurable is rejected by the followers of scientism; since they do not admit the existence of anything that is not measurable. If scientism is wrong; then there exist things that cannot be measured. Consciousness is one of them. By measurable, in this context, I mean to say something that is perceivable to the human senses, either naturally or augmented by human devices (microscopes, particle colliders, etc.) If you believe in the existence of non-measurable things; you are marginalized and labelled a spiritualist. I believe, though, that it is possible to be a big fan and supporter of science; while rejecting scientism; and accepting that there are things we just can't measure. Yet we can still know them. Look around! Look at the miracle of life. Look at your own consciousness. It's something beyond the chemicals sloshing around in your brain. This I believe. I believe in science. I do not believe in scientism. I believe there are things that can't be measured; but that can yet be known by us. To respond directly to your question, which I take to be, What are the advantages of scientism; well, lately, it's political. I noticed that during the run of the recent Cosmos program with Neil deGrasse Dyson, some liberal-oriented websites took special glee in tweaking the beliefs of religious people. Dr. deGrasse Tyson himself likes to tweak the beliefs of religious people. He's not very keen on philosophy, either, as you may know. He thinks it's obsolete and irrelevant. But of course that is a perfectly rational point of view to take, if one is a believer in scientism, and not just science. But what other advantages? Well, scientism serves the human ego's belief that we can know the universe. But what if we can't know the universe? That upsets some people so they deny the possibility. In Steven Weinberg's popular physics book Dreams of a Final Theory he said that his goal was to be able to explain the entire universe with an equation you could wear on a t-shirt. That, I claim, is the essence of the answer to what advantage scientism holds. That we could find one simple perfect principle that explains everything. Tie the universe up in a bow made of logic. Of course anyone who knows the first thing about life knows that the universe can not be tied up in a bow made of logic. Logic has limitations, as we discovered in the 20th century. And many great scientists do actually understand that all they are doing is describing; not explaining. Newton was explicit about that. But, some scientists are also believers in scientism. And perhaps that certainty or intellectual arrogance is a helpful attitude to have if you are trying to figure out the secrets of the universe. The best reason to believe in scientism is that there's a lot of it going around these days. Books espousing scientism litter the best seller lists. The New Atheists and all that. I'm sure if Christopher Hitchens is looking down on us right now from heaven, he's mighty annoyed about it. By the way there is a classical argument in favor of spiritualism (the negation of scientism). It's called Pascal's Wager. 

Practical question Entirely hypothetical question of ethics here. Wanting to know what the great ethicists would say. There's a paper concerning a particular topic of math I'm interested in. The paper is behind a JSTOR soft paywall. Meaning that in order to read it for free, you need to 

I'm posting this here because it's more of a philosophical question than a mathematical one. In set theory, we define a function as a particular type of set; and since the natural numbers are defined as particular sets, we know exactly what we mean by a function from the natural numbers to themselves. The kind of function they study in computability theory, or number theory. Inputs a natural, outputs a natural, and has existence as a particular collection of ordered pairs. Now if we are using only the Peano axioms, I'm not sure I know what a function is. It's a mapping that inputs a number and outputs a number. But I don't know formally what that is. How do I know there is any such thing? How did philosophers regard functions before set theory? The specific application I have in mind for this question is a bijection between the natural numbers and a proper subset of themselves. In set theory this is perfectly sensible. I'm wondering if this is sensible using only the Peano axioms, and for what meaning of the word function?