A deep, well protected harbor was incredibly valuable to a new colony that would rely on support and contact with Britain to survive and, in the long term, trade to prosper. I imagine that the proximity of such a harbor makes Phillip's decision even easier. 

So assuming my premise that a land invasion would have been necessary to force a Japanese surrender I present the following argument that the bombings did indeed save lives. Taking the best case estimates (the worst case estimates are much higher) of civilian deaths during the invasion of Okinawa, one tenth of the population (42,000 people), and applying this to the Japanese population in 1945 (71,998,104 people) results in a staggering seven million civilian deaths. If this number seems out of proportion or unrealistic then consider that between six and seventeen million Chinese civilians died during the war. The potential for conventional weapons to kill civilians on a massive scale had already been well proven by the time the United States elected to use nuclear weapons in Japan. I believe the answer to your question is yes, the bombings were necessary to end the war. They gave the Japanese regime a powerful and politically viable reason to override the culturally ingrained "no surrender" ethos. 

So yes in short , certain Kings up to 13 - 14 Century AD , from various kingdoms, were bare chested , but in no way , "wearing little to nothing at all" , and in my opinion they were quite "properly" dressed . 

Yes to some extent, you are right , the south indian kings of the chola dynasty in the 12 to 14 century AD, did not clothe their upper body, as evident in the portrait of the famous Chola king Rajendra Chola I 

Cripp's mission really did not make any difference in the outcome of Indian Indepence of 1947 , the reason is largely due to economy of great Britain. Hitler destroyed the economies of Britain and France to such an extent that they were no longer able to financially maintain their military forces, and were hence incapable of containing the burgeoning freedom movements in their colonies. Britain would have left India in 1947 purely for financial reasons, due to its wholly collapsed economy. After WWII, Britain left not only India but nearly all its other holdings, including Jordan in 1946, Palestine in 1947, Sri Lanka in 1948, Myanmar in 1948, and Egypt in 1952. For the same reason, France also had to grant independence to Laos in 1949 and Cambodia in 1953, and had to leave Vietnam in 1954. 

In fact, this is likely to be a misunderstanding. As explained in the research of Michel Pastoureau, blue and red where not strongly associated with the colors of Paris at the outset of the French Revolution. The most likely explanation is that red and blue come from the colors of the uniforms of the Garde Nationale, that these colors were chosen by Lafayette, its first commanding officer, and that Lafayette chose them because he associated them with the American flag, then strongly associated (especially in his mind) with the idea of liberty. In turn, these colors show up on the American flag because they are on the Great Britain flag, where the red is the red cross of Saint George and the blue is the saltire of Saint Andrews, the respective Saint Patrons of England and Scotland. So quite ironically, it seems that the French Flag owes its colors to Great Britain, France's traditional most bitter enemy. 

In his momentous study L'origine des systèmes familiaux, Emmanuel Todd notes that, to the best of a rather sparse archival knowledge, first, the status of women in Eurasia in the 5000BC-1500CE interval seems to historically follow a lowering trajectory, second, this lowering trajectory seems to proceed in a top/down fashion and, third, the adoption of anti-women social mores in the higher classes is linked with the militarization of society and military expansion. To be more precise, pre-civilization societies seem to display a uniformly rather high status for women. It is usually first in the ruling classes that the status of women is lowered (the low status then trickles down through society) and the adoption of anti-feminine social arrangements frequently temporally coincides with changes in the military organization of the society. Todd offers the tentative hypothesis that the idea of restructuring social mores in more military efficient but less pro-feminine ways might have appeared originally in very few places in Eurasia (among them the steppe people of northern China) and then, later on, has spread through military conquests and imitation. Todd offers the following evidence for his thesis. First, the vast majority of hunter/gatherer people that modern anthropologists have described ascribes a high status to woman. Second, a map of Eurasia describing the gradient of woman status circa 1500CE displays the usual appearance of a diffusion process map, with peripheral zones (both in the sense of geography and intensity of cultural contacts) typically exhibiting the conservation of archaic forms and central (ditto) zones exhibiting the newer anti-feminine forms. Third, the archival record displays a clear duality in which royal and higher classes families gradually adopt more and more anti-feminine familial and social arrangements whereas lower classes censuses betray more egalitarian arrangements up to a much later period (though they eventually catch up). I don't think this hypothesis can be deemed uncontroversial, but I do recommend skimming the reference for a sample of the evidence in support of it (which is both quite impressive and quite sparse, as it is of course extremely hard to probe the nature of gender relations in past societies, if only because contemporary documents take them for granted). As an aside, I'll note that seen under this perspective, the relatively rather high status ascribed to women in late medieval, early modern period in England (see for instance the works of Peter Laslett) derives from the peripheral position of the British Isles at the very end of Eurasia. As the attitudes and conceptions of the English speaking world became the de facto international norm because of the disproportionate geopolitical role the United Kingdom and the United States came to play in the XIXth and XXth century, we may attribute the rather high status given to women in the contemporary developed world to the fortuitous later spread of an archaic form originally preserved because of geographical isolation. In a more pessimistic note, the thesis also suggests a factor explaining why historical centers of eurasian civilization (China, northern India, the middle-east, the Arab world) remained largely and very significantly underdeveloped in the XIXth and XXth century: as is well-known, the spread of literacy is highly correlated with a high status of women, so historical centers of civilizations, which had adopted the most "advanced" (we would anachronistically call them backwards) forms of anti-feminine mores, dragged (and still drag, to a large extent) behind peripheral zones in the adoption of widespread literacy. 

These kingdoms range roughly in the time period of 600 BCE to 100 BCE , little is recorded about the attire of kings during this period (or atleast whatever i could find was not sufficient). The Gupta king Kumaragupta I , depicted in the coin below , appears to be bare chested , and having a similar attire of his south Indian counterparts , centuries later. 

South India has had a vast number of kingdoms , each having its own variety and having being influenced differently from other kingdoms , in culture , custorms , religion , art , language and of course the attire of all classes of society. So it's not wise to put them in one general basket called south india. Since it is not possible to quantitatively analyse all the kingdoms , let me consider a few notable dynasties that have reigned this region over a period of few centuries. 

As it is visually clear that the 21st century royal attire has undergone only a certain number of changes from its 15 Century counterpart , preserving the overall basic structure. 

From this point on (till date) , almost all kings of both North/South India , had a similar outfit. Have a look at the present King (ceremonial only king) of Mysore. 

Contrary to assertions above, the correct computation of the size of the atmosphere predates Kepler by five centuries. It is sometimes claimed that this computation was was performed (with a correct answer) by Al Hazen in Mizan al-Hikmah (Balance of Wisdom) around the turn of the Millenium but I could not find reputable sources for this claim. In fact, the earliest well-sourced evidence I found for the computation is found in a manuscript of Ibn Mu'adh (from the middle eleventh century), a single Hebrew copy of which can be found at the French National Library (Source). However, an important point to note is that the idea that the atmosphere was finite was classical: Aristotle held it in part for philosophical reasons but Ptolemy gave hard physical evidence for the claim. Before explaining them, I will point out that until Pascal's work at least, the consensus was aether was found beyond the atmosphere, not void as the question presupposes (1600 years elapsed between the first physical proof that the atmosphere was finite and the first physical proof that void was found beyond). Ptolemy's argument (which are not in fact the earliest recorded, Hipparchus knew some of them 200 years before) is simple: when stars appear near the horizon, they do not appear where they should but higher, and their position seem to oscillate. No such effect is discernible when the stars are close to their zenith. Likewise, the light of the Sun shines on the sky before the Sun appears and lingers on after it is has disappeared. Ptolemy correctly understood this to be the effect of the refraction of the light in the atmosphere. Ibn Mu'adh computed the size of the atmosphere assuming that it was a homogeneous refracting material and that the aether beyond was non-refracting. Coupled with the observation that no lingering light is visible after the Sun has sunk deeper than around 18°, this yields a depth of the atmosphere of 80km. The article here clearly shows that the knowledge of the fact that the atmosphere was finite was well-preserved during the European late middle-age and Renaissance. In conclusion, the scientifically very well-grounded opinion that the atmosphere is finite is at least as old as Ptolemy, and the first scientifically sound computation at least as old as Ibn Mu'adh. 

I have looked through the German Propaganda Archive and haven't found any references to the British occupation of Iceland in 1940. So I would hesitantly guess that if the occupation was used by German propagandists, it was not used widely. 

The Charter Oath promulgated at the enthronement of Emperor Meiji of Japan on 7 April 1868 includes several parts that identify the reasons for the radical social restructure that followed the Meiji restoration and an indication of the motivations for the dissolution of the warrior class that had been a defining characteristic of Japanese society. 

The determination to remove the "base customs" of the past drove the new government to dismantle the old Confucian based social order. This included the removal of the restrictions and privileges that had defined the samurai, peasant, artisan and merchant classes. During the summer of 1869 Tokyo formally reclassified the population as nobles, former samurai and commoners. In 1871 the Tokyo government assumed the responsibility for paying stipends to the former samurai. This immediately accounted for almost one-third of the government's expenditure. This massive financial obligation created pressure to abolish the subsidies entirely. Despite less than universal support amongst the new leaders, in 1873 the Daijō-kan (department of state) offered interest-bearing goverment bonds to former samurai who surrendered their stipends. Three years later it made that exchange obligatory. In 1876 ex-warriors were deprived the right to carry swords. These steps to dissolve the military estate coincided with the establishment of a conscript army based on the Prussian and French models. Vice minister of military affairs Yamagata had seen the efficacy of these armies first hand in Europe and in 1873 enacted a Conscription Ordinance: 

I think the case of the French campaign in may/june 1940 conclusively answers this question in the negative. Indeed, Blitzkieg tactics designed to entrap the opposing armies were used systematically, with great efficiency and with great success during the whole period. After the armistice, the Reich annexed Alsace and Moselle, where Jews could be find in large number, if only because thousands of them had emigrated from Germany an Central Europe in the 1930s. So here is a clear-cut empirical test: the Reich had used Blitzkrieg tactics and had as a result thousands of entrapped Jews under its jurisdiction. What did it do? It expropriated and expelled them to the unoccupied zone, thereby (of course involuntarily) actually ensuring that they would escape the harshest anti-semitic policies of the occupied zone for two years. More generally, the military history of the French campaign seems completely disconnected from the history of Jews persecution, deportation and extermination, with the first ending in mid-1940 and the second really picking-up steam only in spring 1941. Based on these facts, I think it can be reasonably concluded that maneuver warfare on the western front had nothing to do with Jews extermination. By way of reference: $URL$ $URL$ $URL$ These links show that the occupied zone had a much harsher treatment of Jews than the unoccupied zone (English versions accessible from the page, usually). $URL$ details the expulsion of Jews from annexed Alsace. 

By the time of 15 Century , all the kings of india , by now under the influence of the mughal emperors , and later under influence of portuguese , and the dutch , who were the first europeans to arrive before the french and english , had started to change their appearance , they wore dresses , which showed foreign influence , but which did not completely lose the traditional touch. Here is the statue of the famous king Krishnadevaraya , who ruled the prosperous Vijayanagara Empire , which encompasses , almost the entire region of south india. 

And below is the sculpture of the famous Mauryan King Ashoka , who according to me was one of the first indian king , to have a firm hold on all the Indian states , till the british conquered India , as a whole once again , after nearly 2000 years. The Attire of Ashoka , is similar to the Gupta kings , having no cloth on the upper body but having an elaborate neck ornament. For the first time India(the majority of it) has one single Emperor, this is a major opportunity , for the Indians to finally have a unified culture and tradition , this includes the attire. But the unified period is not long enough , to achieve this. 

As surprising as this may seem, there is some truth in these allegations, but of course this does not change in any way their antisemitic character. Why there is some truth The French Triangular Trade was conducted primarily from the harbor of Nantes, from where departed almost as many slave-carrying ships as from all the other French harbors combined. Nevertheless, hundred of slave ships departed from the harbor of Bordeaux, deporting in the 1750-1850 an estimate of 130 000 African slaves (mostly to the French Antilles). The slave trade, or more accurately the global trade with the French Antilles in which it took place, contributed in a significant way to the prosperity of the city Bordeaux. As it turned out, Bordeaux was also where a significant number of Jews expelled from Castile and Aragon by the Edict of Expulsion of 1492 had found refuge, where they became known as Nouveaux chrétiens (new christians) or Chrétiens portugais (Portuguese christians) because most of them had transited through Portugal before being expelled again in 1497 and because most of them had pretended to have converted to save their lives. For two and half centuries, they were subjected to the usual discriminations inflicted on Jews in Western Europe at the time, but they nevertheless prospered, contributing significantly to the economic and medical development of the region. Finally, in 1723, they gained (of course moyennant finance, as we say in France) official recognition of their citizenship and the right to practice their religion. Among this Jewish community was a family called the Gradis, whose members were Atlantic traders, specialized in sugar and trade with Canada. They became extremely prosperous in the first half of the XVIIIth century, gaining a quasi-monopoly of French trade with numerous colonial and quasi-colonial French possessions in Africa and the Americas. As their preeminent status as Atlantic traders in the relevant period, it is thus true that this family organized a significant part of and profited from the slave trade out of Bordeaux; as it organized a significant part of the trade out of Bordeaux more generally. Because their continued prosperity and high-standing during the XVIIIth and XIXth century, several members of this family reached official positions in the French state, and several of them also occupied various leadership positions among the French jewish community. Based on this family alone (and actually many more had comparable though less successful trajectories), there is thus some truth in the assertion "The French slave trade was organized and conducted by official leaders of the jewish French community." Why even a rapid examination of the facts show that presenting it in this way is antisemitic Most of the French slave trade was conducted from Nantes, which was entirely devoid of a jewish presence. Singling out jewish involvement is therefore dishonest. Slave trade was always a small part of the Gradis business: nothing suggests that they were proportionally more involved in the slave trade than any other Atlantic trader of the time (in France at least, there never existed dedicated slave ships: slave trade was considered a part of normal trade and conducted by the same crews with the same ships). Besides, even a quick perusal of the relevant facts establish quite clearly that the involvement of preeminent members of the French jewish community was a side-effect of several contingent facts: 1) the presence of a jewish community in the Bordeaux region, itself a legacy of much persecution and discrimination 2) the success of this city in Atlantic trade 3) the peculiar success of a handful families in Atlantic trade in precisely the period in which Bordeaux was involved in slave trade. And what can I say to people who support such claims ? You can tell them that an honest assessment of the historical facts is: "After centuries of persecution and discrimination, a jewish community became prosperous in the Bordeaux area, especially by investing in Atlantic trade. Preeminent members of this community came to a dominant position in Atlantic trade out of Bordeaux from 1730 to the end of the XIXth century. They participated in all aspects of this trade, including slave trade in the period 1750-1815. They were never the main slave traders in France (these were in Nantes) nor is there any suggestion that their religion played any role in their involvement." Sources History of the jewish community of Bordeaux: $URL$ Slave trade from Bordeaux: $URL$ Gradis family Portuguese Jews in the Bordeaux area