Is this a common thing, and if so, what is the motivation behind it? When I went to unlock my bicycle this morning, when I touched the U-Lock, it basically fell apart. It looks like someone used a hacksaw and cut through it. If it had been half-cut, I might think someone interrupted them (but even that is unlikely since you just need to say, 'I've lost my key!'). But in this case, it was completely cut. I had a cable around the tires as well, but it was all connected to the U-lock; so it was completely unsecured as soon as they cut the U-lock. This was in a parking garage with many bicycles. Do bicycle thieves 'prep' bicycles and then return later to steal them all at once? I was gone for two weeks, so I have no idea how long it has been cut. I'm mostly just scratching my head wondering why anyone would do all the work, and then leave the bicycle? 

The problem with the question is not the owner's interest in the answer - it is clearly there. The problem is that the answer has almost no value for the community of this site: 

Shimano sells Hollowtech II bottom brackets which are labeled for road and mountain bikes explicitly. I had no trouble fitting a Shimano Deore BB52 Hollowtech II Bottom Bracket into my road bike and so I wonder is there a real subtle difference that I failed to notice, or is this just marketing? 

If the bike had a serious crash, the frame will have a deformation where the down tube joins the head tube. Since this is usually hidden from view, inspect this spot. Most other problems, like a worn-out bottom bracket or a cassette that needs replacing, can be fixed - a damaged frame can't. Of course, you still want to notice these problems to factor them into the price. 

For the context of this question, two people are trying to get from point A to point B (and back) where the only viable means of transportation is bicycle (and a tandem bicycle / electric bicycles are not available). The distance between the two points is 20km (40km round trip). Preparation time is limited, we could go visit point B next week, but it is unlikely we'll ever find ourselves in this part of the world again. The bicycles we do have available would be rented, mid-ranged commuter style bicycles. We'd both like to make this trip. One of us is a daily commuter (15km each way) who is used to longer rides of 40-50km on the weekends, the other rides rarely and has never gone more than 3km at a time. Even at a slow pace, 40km would be far more than this rider could do comfortably. What tips/techniques (if any) are there that would allow the stronger rider to complete the trip as comfortably as possible? Thanks 

I'd say, it's time to replace the tire. It doesn't really matter what caused it - could have been low quality, age, or extended use. The cracks mean the layers the tire is made of are separating and in the long run you will see more punctures because the material is softening. A brand-name tire costs 15 to 25 EUR/USD/GBP which I consider low enough to not take the risk of punctures. 

You need to consider in addition what kind of seats are adequate as covered by norms which provide the restrictions I alluded to: 

My wife and I used this setup to make a long day trip more manageable for her. If your concern is just to get from A to B (and not improving as a rider), I think it might work quite well. I wouldn't recommend it for stop-and-go city traffic, but on country roads it seemed to work amazingly well for us. Using a spare inner tube (which you'll want anyway), secure a retractable dog leash to the frame/seat post of the stronger cyclist's bicycle. Extend the leash to a length of ~2 bicycles and tie it to the front of the weaker rider's bicycle. This let's the stronger rider, essentially, tow the weaker rider while still maintaining a comfortable (that is, comfortable for a novice) distance between the cyclists. I'm not sure how clear this will be, but here is an example setup. 

See norm DIN 912 / ISO 4762 - the relevant number for the tool head is s given in millimetre: s=5mm (M6) and s=6mm (M8). The '#6' Allen key has a 6mm wide head and fits M8 screws and likewise the '#5' Allen key has a 5mm wide head and fits M6 screws - so there is room for some confusion here. 

Ortlieb is selling an adapter for this problem: Ortlieb Aufsatz für Ultimate6 Montageset -- this is in German, the link to the English language page was broken. The second image is a view from the front and how the adapter fits into the bag-mounting fixture. The price is below 20 Euro. 

However, when I apply my front brake, with maximum force - it doesn't seem to be nearly enough to send me over the handlebars or skid the tire. I slow down, but it seems to be fairly gradual. I've adjusted my brakes myself (possibly, I've done it incorrectly...) but there is very little clearance between my rims. My wheels both seem to have a very tiny wobble that prevents me from setting my brakes any tighter, but when I pull the brake it feels fairly soft, almost as if the cables have some stretch to them? My real question here is what can I do to improve my braking time? Does it sound like I've done something wrong. I did have the brake pads replaced once before, but they appear to be in good condition. 

A 10-speed cassette is spaced narrower than an 8-speed cassette and for that reason will fit onto your free wheel. The problem is that your shifters are indexed for 8 speeds and won't work with a 10-speed cassette. You could make it work if you have downtube shifters that are not indexed or where indexing can be switched off. The article Drivetrain Compatibility has many more details about spacing of cogs and the pull exercised by the shifter. 

I can only offer my opinion: a $1500 bike is quite an attraction for thieves when parked in public space late a night: in front of library, station, cinema, pool, gym, or pub. I would not recommend using a such bike in this situation, no matter what locks you use. If you are using your bike in less public situations (to and from work, shopping, mostly during the day), locking frame and front wheel with a U-lock to a stationary object in combination with the rear lock is probably good enough. Any thieve would have to deal with two locks, which is quite a deterrent. 

I've been reading a bit about riding and braking techniques ($URL$ and I'm having some trouble pulling off the hard front brake. I believe this is the style of brake that I have on my bicycle: 

I know that Lance Armstrong has decided not to fight the allegations of his doping; while technically not an admission of guilt - he is being sanctioned/punished for doping. I've also read that several of his team-mates and team doctors have also been sanctioned/punished/banned for life for their involvement in doping. Is there a single, comprehensive list of everyone from the team (for the various) years that either has been busted or hasn't been? Is it pretty much accepted that everyone cheated, or were there people involved who were actually clean and unaware of the cheating?