Water in liquid state always takes the fastest route to lower altitude. All rainwater would flow vertically down to the groundwater surface if not the permeability was limited by the material properties. The permeability controls how fast water infiltrate and penetrate the material. For example, can surface runoff water flow on top of a hard road coating, while water from a watering-can goes into the soft soil in the flower-bed. Gravel, sand and fractured rocks have high permeability whiles shale and non-fractured igneous rock have low permeability. So low, that in many cases it appears to be totally impenetrable on a human time scale. The same goes for a river. If the river flows on permeable rocks, typical sediments deposited by the river itself (see picture), ground water will also flow in the sediments under the river bed, permitting that water is still entering upstream. A better way to understand a river or lake in this context, is that it is the surface manifestation of the groundwater table. If you dig a well next to a body of water you’ll reach ground water at the same altitude as the river water surface. The gradient of the groundwater surface and the permeability of the material controls the direction and velocity of the flow. However, if more water enters a system than the surface can infiltrate, the surplus will flow as surface runoff, typical for wadis (See picture) in desert areas. 

As far as I can judge from the picture, it is most probably slagstone, Swedish blue stone. Slag is a byproduct from ore smelting. In old foundries, the slag was molded and used as a constructing material for houses and roads. It is actually similar to obsidian, but is usually rather brittle. I believe that the hardness could be around 5-5.5, depending on chemical composition and weathering. The technique was introduced from England and Germany and became very popular and refined during eighteen and nineteen centuries. It is known as slaggsten, bergslagssten, sintersten or sinnersten in Swedish language. 

(This is modified code, used for something else. For detailed questions, other forums are more suitible. ) 

However, if we know the velocities, eg from borehole data or refraction studies, we don't need to rely on computing heavy semblance velocity scans and uncertain velocity picking. Data are rarely so neat as this synthetic example shown here. Also, it's impossible to derive the gradually increasing velocity in a formation without internal reflectors. The velocity we use to do NMO-correction is not the same as the velocity of the layer, but rather the additional velocity to the average needed to correct the moveout. To finally estimate the actual velocity of the layer, we can use e.g. Dix equation to correct the velocities, but more accurate methods are usually used nowadays. This is the basic application for stacking, but there is much more to it, you can read more e.g. here. 

Taylor (1914) $URL$ Griffith Taylor, Geologist to Captain Scott's expedition writes in his very entertaining report from 1914: 

Disturbance storm time index is a measure of the weakened horizontal component of Earth magnetic field during great magnetic disturbances. The depression is often flanked by peaks, that initiates and ends the storm. Dst is published by Kyoto University and more information about the methods and references are available on the web page. 

See the plot, linked by @JeopardyTempest in the comments to better understand the variations. Plotted on another scale and depth, annual variations would probably be seen as well. 

Mountain ranges are usually formed as orogeny where tectonic plates collides, known as convergent boundaries. The continental plates have less density than the oceanic plates and the buoyancy results in that they are mostly above sea level. Continental sea floor is known as continental shelf, but usually, it doesn't reach far from the coastline. Therefor the continental-oceanic boundaries often runs sub-parallel to the coastlines we see today. At convergent boundaries where oceanic crust and continental crust collides, the mountain ranges can therefor form right at the coastline. Vulcanism is also important in the process as volcanoes forms where oceanic crust is subducted under the continental plates. 

Scientific GPS and SLR have been used for some time now, and the measurements are rather accurate. Not only do we measure horizontal movements of tectonic plates, but also uplift as e.g. in the Tibetan and Colorado plateaus. Before the GPS was introduced, paleomagnetism were used in some studies to estimate the velocities; The age of oceanic crust are estimated by various methods and the travel distance is estimated from the width of the magnetic polarized bands in the ocean floor. To understand paleogeography and make good models we need to incorporate all branches of geology. E.g. fossil records, paleomagnetism, radiometric age estimation of rocks. Some active faults (E.g. San Andreas) can also be directly measured with laser ranging or, in some cases, with a measurement tape to measure deformation of trenches or railway tracks. Still, scientists are trying to understand the exact driving forces behind plate tectonics. Modelling of mantel dynamics is an interesting field of research and many questions remains. 

Technically yes, but practically, usually no. The magnetic field varies in three dimensions and the variations are not parallel to the Earth's surface. However, horizontal distances varies usually on a larger magnitude than elevation and for everyday use, the declination is only based on horizontal position. The common model for the Earth's magnetic field, IGRF-12 (International Geomagnetic Reference Field) uses the radial distance from the center of the Earth (r) in relation to the geomagnetic conventional Earth’s mean reference spherical radius (a). In other words, the elevation. (a/r) will usually be almost 1, and the difference is less than any other uncertainties in the measurements, e.g. deviation due to magnetic anomalies. The magnetic field is often calculated by using the published model and this code. As you can see (the code is rather easy to read), the vertical component is used to estimate the magnetic field for every location. Online calculators are often used to correct declination for navigational purposes: 

A way to understand Rocky Mountains is (as mentioned) to look at the destiny of the Farrallon Plate. In the collision with North America, it didn't subduct but rather slide under the lithosphere until it finally get a steeper angle and subducts at the eastern rim of the Rockies. This long journey could also lead to processes causing destabilization and delamination of the lithosphere under the Colorado Plateau, and causing its rapid uplift during Cenozoic. Recent data from the USArray have improved the models (and generates new questions). The orogeny is somehow still ongoing as the Farrallon Plate still affect and weakens the North America Plate so that the Rio Grande rifting can take place. The Front Range Uplift is also the reason for the Denver Basin that fills with sediments from the orogeny. 

Sun at it's highest elevation at midday. (To be honest, the picture might be taken the day after the first sunrise, as some mountains are hiding the horizon.) Here is e.g. an article from Svalbardsposten, the northernmost newspaper in the world, reporting of the first rays of sunlight after the polar night and some pictures from the last sunrise/sunset before the polar night in northern Sweden. The same occurs at the southern polar circle and south thereof, unless it's cloudy... 

The idea of a southern continent is older than the actual discovery of the Antarctica. There was an expectation of the possible existence of a Terra Australis balance the global landmasses and the theory went far back. However, those models were not based on true evidence but rather aesthetic arguments that later just happened to come true. In contradiction, landmasses were also expected to surround the North Pole in the Arctic, and that turned out to be wrong. 

DMI Even if a boat gets out on the open ocean, the Gulf stream flows northeast, so there are very small chances to get to Sub-Saharan Africa. So the answer would be: (a), very small but depending on the survivors' ability to navigate and the wind direction. (b) None. Here is a sad account of the North Sea currents 

It's called ice shove. Ice on the lake melts whiles the wind push and pile the thin sheets ashore. I don't know how common it is but I've seen it in much smaller scale in European lakes. However, this occasion made it to the news. It does indeed look rather spectacular! The fresh water of the Great Lakes in combination with cold air often create beautiful and photogenic art. 

Map from 1770 before the continent was descovered The first concepts of an Antarctic continent based on actual sights probably originate from The United States Exploring Expedition (1839-42). Wilkes described the findings as a 

The travel time diagram gives a rather good idea of when to expect seismic phases at different distances from the earthquake. The distance is in degrees, so 180$^\circ$ is on the opposite side of the planet. Note how the core shields all direct shear waves, that is why we know that the outer core is fluid. 

Temperature in the active layer and permafrost. The thickness of active layer is less than a couple of meters and the thickness of the permafrost depends on its age, the bedrock and the distance to the coast. (By German Wikipedia contributor, "HylgeriaK") 

I cannot answer your hypothetical question, but the tilt does probably affect the tides and there have been some studies on the topic. Hopefully they can inspire to further ideas and speculations. It appears that the main outcome from the report should be for you to understand how the moon, the Sun and the Earth control the tide and how the tidal force works. 

Filtering is always a convolution of the signal. What you are doing in the frequency domain will also be manifested in the time domain. A sharp edge in frequency domain will create a long convolution in time domain. Ormsby (or trapezoidal) filters cause strong ringing if the slope is steep due to the Gibbs effect. To reduce the ringing, make the slopes more gentle (eg 6, 12, 45, 60) or try to taper the filter slopes. However, it appears that you are using a strong AGC. Check if the ringing is actually a problem before smoothening the filter. Some of the ringings will also disappear if you intend to F/K filter the direct waves. 

I'm trying to think about any oddity that would fit your description, but can't really come up with a good example. Locally you might have the conditions in triple junctions eg. at Afar Triangle. Somehow, it could also describe parts of New Zealand and eastern Mediterranean, but it's very complex areas with more parameters controlling the rifting. Earth is not controlled by any simple equation, its formed by 4.56 billion years of interaction between rocks, magma, life, atmosphere and even astronomic influence, so I'm not sure that divergent boundary never occurred between existing continental and oceanic plates, but at least it's very uncommon and couldn't last long. A way to understand plate tectonics better, and maybe even a good inspiration for world building games, is to have a look at the (free) program Gplates that is used by students and scientists to simulate tectonic history. Don't worry about your ignorance, interest is more important than knowledge. The game might be a good inspiration for someone to learn more about something really awesome. 

It's not easy to access the coast and the landing opportunities are few, especially in East Antarctica. USEE's findings have been questioned later and there seems to have been little substance in the claims. The sighted coast might as well have been just clouds. Ross even accused him for cartographical deceit. Even as exploration continued and increased from the 1890s, the nature of the continent continued to puzzle explorers and adventurers. There was e.g. no consensus whether East and West Antarctica belonged to the same continent or if an icy sea, similar to the Arctic, separated the isolated visited outcrops. 

Madagascar is sometimes refereed to as the eight continent, not only of biogeographic reasons. It was rifting away from Africa and later India during mesozoic time, starting 160 Ma. The last rifting that resulted in the present continents I can think about (probably the community can come up with a later event!), would be the North Atlantic breakup, that is still ongoing, but the last part of separation of present continents was the opening of the Fram Strait 16-10 Ma. This separated Greenland from the European plate and had a large impact on the Arctic Ocean conditions. 

Lakes could be understood as temporary stop in the flow, and it will quickly fill up with vegetation and sediments as the velocity of the water decreases. In a geologic context, lakes are never very old, Baikal being the oldest, 25 million years. Drainage patterns are often much older. So why are some rivers so long? Because of tectonic uplifts and orogenies. The answer to your question 'Did the rivers make the downhill paths themselves?' is yes, as erosion works toward the peneplain (low relief). 

A figure, prepared by Professor Charles J. Ammon, shows the ranges of frequency and amplitude. Source here. The amplitude and period have a large range, that's why prefixes as milli or micro can be used and a logarithmic scale is used for amplitude. In shallow active reflection seismic surveys, we sometimes can use frequencies up to maybe 200Hz, but in the range the penetration depth is very small. For very local events, e.g. in mines and infrastructure frequency range up to 500-1000Hz might be used. Most energy for P and S waves used in teleseismics are in the range of a few Hertz and maybe up to 10-20Hz. Surface waves have the interesting property that the velocity depends on the frequency because low frequency content is affected by deeper elastic properties whiles high frequency content is more affected by shallow geological features. This is used for lithosphere tomography with rather good vertical resolution. The frequency range is 0.005Hz and up to 0.5Hz. This is the frequencies that you can actually see in ground motions caused by earthquakes, if you take resonance in consideration. Normal modes are often in the range 0.3 - 1mHz. (m, as in milli, not M, as in Mega). That is frequencies about one billiard times lower than some radio frequency bands. Another thing to remember in the context of Software defined radio, is that there is no carrier wave for seismicity. When seismologists talk about frequency, we mean energy content of a signal. We are looking at the convoluted wavelet, not continuous signals. If you are interested in working with earthquake detection and to improve algorithms of signal processing of seismic waves, I'd suggest you to take a look at the Obspy package, there are some nice examples and tutorials that can get you started. There are also some project where people are constructing open architecture seismometers, eg the Raspberry Shake. For less than $100 or so you can build a seismograph and start to monitor local seismic events. Most geophones work by transfering ground acceleration to an induced electric current in a coil. It's very possible that inspiration from other fields of signal processing, as in Software defined radio can improve seismic techniques in future. It is always great to get inspiration from other fields of research. 

Scandinavia experienced a lot of earthquakes due to post glacioisostatic rebound 10 - 7 ka. The most likely trigger for the Storegga Slide was a strong earthquake or a series of earthquakes. However, large sediment input from glaciation rather than earthquakes are the causes of the unstable slope. Release of overpressured gas hydrates was the driving force for the violent development of the slide. 

Large areas of Antarctica is ice-free, eg. this valley in Vestfold Hills, East Antarctica. The area was first explored in the mid to late 1900's but sightings of outcrop would assure explorers that they actually saw the continent they were expecting and not floating ice. Geologists could also early correlate the rare findings from Antarctica with surrounding continents and started to reconstruct the Gondwana assembly, a work that is still ongoing and due to the lack of outcrops in Antarctica is to a large extent based on geophysical data. Still, geologists and geophysicists are looking for similarities in Africa, India and Australia to understand the nature of the Antarctic geology under the ice cover. With aviation, it was finally possible to map the hinterland of the continent, and great discoveries were made as late as 1946–47 during Operation Highjump and during the Soviet's expeditions in the 50's. (Don't miss this short footage of the discovery of Bunger Hills: Youtube) As far as I know, it was not until the International Geophysical Year (IPY) 1957-58 an international effort deploy scientists and collect data firmly defined the physical shape of the continent, that we are still refining today. International collaboration appears to be the key to successful research in Antarctica. Seismic data is indeed very important to understand the Antarctic lithosphere, but the resolution is low due to the low seismicity and especially the limited number of deployed seismometers. This is, however, improving during recent years and a number of new studies are using seismic tomography and receiver functions to measure the continental shape of Antarctica. See e.g. An et al (2015a) and An et al (2015b). Seismic data is also used to understand the ice sheets and to derive the heat flux that causes basal melting. Also very important is satellite potential field data. Gravity data e.g. GOCE from ESA is and important constraints, but the resolution is low. Magnetic data especially from airplanes but also satellites as the flight lines are still sparse is used to map and understand geological terranes covered by ice. The ICECAP project is collecting high-resolution data from flights to improve our understanding of the ice sheets, glaciers and also the bedrock under. A good start to look for data and information about the physical nature of Antarctica is to download the datasets in the Quantarctica package. It includes gravity and magnetic data (that should be updated soon). The bedrock elevation data can show you that actually large parts of the Antarctic continent are submerged under sea level due to the weight of the ice sheets, subglacial erosion and lack of major endogenic processes that can cause rapid uplifts. For a geologist, it's however not the elevation that the chemical composition and thickness of the crust that define it as one continuous continent.