Details on this will vary from country to country. There is also a wide range of measurement data or derived data for experts to analyze. Also, weather services will engage in studies about the impact of climate change. 

Since you comment on statistics provided during sport events, I should point out that this method is not scientifically sound. The reason is that for any given data you will find something that will make this dataset unique or "the first of this kind in recorded history". For a light take on this, refer to this XKCD comic. What is methodically required is that first the criteria are defined and only then the data are evaluated. Weather services will typically publish things such as 

The subject you are looking for is called climate engineering. In general, changing atmospheric composition in order to achieve a cooling effect that counteracts climate change is conceivable. Whether triggering volcanic eruptions is the most feasible approach (or possible at all) is of course a completely different issue. From my understanding of volcanoes, you would really need massive eruptions with large plume-heights to achieve long-term impact. Also note that we would need to sustain the resulting atmospheric change over a long time. And the side effects of releasing large amounts of pollutants into the atmosphere need to be considered too. For some more aspects read this answer to a related question. 

So, yes, to Bathurst Inlet via the Burnside River and to Chantrey Inlet via the Back River. You can trace out the two paths on the following topo map: $URL$ The Back River outlet is at the south end of the lake and flows through a series of smaller lakes. 

Aside from the three requirements already mentioned, electrically conductive fluid, rotation of the planet and convection of the fluid, the main additional requirement is a seed magnetic field. There must be an initial magnetic field for the dynamo to start. See the following reference for more information: $URL$ 

Presssure at the Mt. Everest summit has been measured to be 253 Torr (337 hPa). $URL$ Pressure at the Dead Sea as high as 1079 hPa is reported in Fig. 12 of this reference: $URL$ As far as at sea level, 870 hPa was measured for typhoon Tip in 1979. $URL$ And 1067 hPa at coastal areas of Estonia and Lativa are reported here: $URL$ 

From How Old is Our Ganga, the Ganges "formed as a consequence of the India-Asia collision around 55 million years ago resulting in the formation of the Himalaya. This provided a large continental mass which together with large rainfall in the catchment area and long term erosion generated /enlarged the river valleys". 

The fundamental difference is that you are comparing an ensemble reforecast with a reanalysis product. The assumption here is that the reanalysis provides the best possible information based on all available measurements using state of the art modelling. The reforecast on the other hand simulates the forecast process based on current models and all available observations, i.e. it only utilizes observations up to the forecast base time, then runs a forecast just like a forecast system does in real life. This might still be good but you are looking at forecasts with a lead time of 0 to 24 hours if you are using the first day. Also, GEFS is an ensemble system. That means that it performs several forecasts for the same days using different starting parameters. In this way, it is possible to estimate the uncertainty of the forecast system. E.g. if for a certain day the available forecasts deviate a lot, you can assume that there is higher forecast uncertainty. As a summary, I'd say that using reforecast data would require some more justification than using reanalysis data. Using the ensemble information may be a good reason to use GEFS reforecast but would also add another layer of complexity. Finally, allow me some general comments: 

I could find a relatively recent review by Mills et al. (2007) that lists sensitivity to ozone for several crops. Among the most sensitive were (table 1) 

There are several journal articles on this topic, for example Optimal Sunshade Configurations for Space-Based Geoengineering near the Sun-Earth L1 Point. Being truly at the L1 point is unsuitable because the radiation pressure of the photons acting on the shade (like solar sail) would disrupt the equilibrium, so the equilibrium point is shifted toward the sun from the L1 point and depends on the degree to which the shade reflects versus absorbs. The shade should be made of black material to minimize the effect of radiation pressure on the equilibrium point, thereby permitting it to be as close as possible to the L1 point, and closer to the Earth, where it can more effectively shade. The size required is roughly a 1,500 kilometer diameter structure. All parts of the Earth would be shaded to some degree. From Earth, the sun would appear as it does during a transit of Venus or Mercury, but the position on the sun's disc would vary more with ones location on Earth since the shade would be much closer to Earth than Venus is. 

Jeffrey Ralh of Yale and coauthors published Combined single-grain (U-Th)/He and U/Pb dating of detrital zircons from the Navajo Sandstone, Utah, which concludes that Navajo sandstone originated from the Appalachian Mountains. A review of the article is found here: $URL$ Rahl et al. propsed that a large river system transported the sediment. However, Ralh's research concerned only Navajo sandstone, not Coconino sandstone as far as I know. U–Pb ages of detrital zircons from Permian and Jurassic eolian sandstones of the Colorado Plateau, USA: paleogeographic implications does investigate Coconino Sandstone and other sandstones from the region and discusses what fraction are of Appalachian origin and transport mechanisms. 34% of Coconino Sandstone zircon grains are reported to be of Appalachian origin in table 4.