The article doesn't explicitly say that their rationale is valid, but a reader could reasonably interpret it that way, and there's no attempt to debunk it either. Based on the fact that they're willing to travel if they spend a long time at their destination, it's reasonable to assume they're worried about the impact of travelling from one place to another, rather than increased environmental impacts while they're at their destination. The article doesn't indicate how many people would be travelling in the car, or what kind of car was involved. The cities referred to are Sydney, Australia and Melbourne, Australia, and the most distant major city in Australia from Sydney would be Perth, Australia. Fuel Efficiency: Planes vs Trains vs Automobiles and Slate's Has Flying Become More Eco-Friendly Than Driving? seem to suggest that driving is not necessarily more environmentally friendly than flying, though there's a confounding factor of emissions being done higher in the atmosphere for flying. Is travelling by car better for preventing climate change than flying? A similar question was asked at Is flying the worst choice of travelling, considering the greenhouse effect and carbon-dioxide emission? but was closed for lack of a notable claim. 

The Scientific American claims that a paper has stated that there's a correlation between chocolate consumption and Nobel Laureates per capita. The conclusion seems strange, but the most obvious confounding factor I can think of, developed versus non-developed countries, doesn't seem to be a major influence - there's plenty of low chocolate consuming, low Nobel prize producing countries that are developed countries, such as Portugal and Japan. Is chocolate consumption per person and Nobel Laureates per capita correlated? 

There have been multiple studies that have shown that frequent ejaculation in men reduces the risk of prostate cancer. Two such studies are cited in this article from the Harvard Medical School: 

In conclusion, cola does not cause osteoporosis. And it is believed the negative effects of cola consumption can be counterbalanced. As the National Osteoporosis Foundation notes in its risk factors list, "You can help make up for the potential loss of calcium from sodium, excessive protein, too much caffeine and cola drinks by making sure you get enough calcium every day." 

For more information, check out this Radiolab podcast, which includes an interview with Stickgold and talks about his work in this field. 

The Wikipedia article includes citations to news stories and other evidence for many of the incidents listed above. 

Of course, what makes Wikipedia different from a standard encyclopedia is that it can be updated by anyone and those updates appear immediately. When there's a particular hot topic item in the news, it's not uncommon for its Wikipedia entry to be updated rapidly, both by level-headed and factual participants and by more extreme, agenda-driven actors on both sides of the issue at hand. Consequently, when you read an entry at Wikipedia it's important to bear in mind that what you are reading now might include some dogmatic if not outright incorrect statements. As Bibhas noted, it's important to check the sources and references. I also would encourage you to note the history of the piece you are reading. If there were many edits in a short window of time that may be a sign that there is some back and forth going between two "sides," which could imply that the information presented might not be as objective as it was prior to the volley of edits. 

An identical video can be seen at Weather Presenter : Sweden vs Iraq uploaded by "Toxic Male". For those unable to see the videos: The woman giving the forecast for Sweden has all of her hair and neck covered, while the woman giving the forecast for Iraq doesn't have her hair or neck covered, and is wearing a close-fitting pair of pants. Is the Swedish video made in Sweden, and is it an actual weather forecast (as opposed to something from a movie or a comedy sketch show)? An older video for the Sweden weather forecast can be seen at Swedish weather report uploaded 6 November 2011. I can see a watermark for svt.se/vader , but various combinations of Sveriges Television hijab väder didn't come up with anything, apart from a villain with a covered face whose name is similar to the Swedish word for weather. The only latin script I can see in the Iraq weather report is a twitter handle, which seems to be @dhahialfalasi1. That person's YouTube channel has lots of TV broadcasts and his twitter handle is watermarked on them (example). I couldn't find the weather forecast one amongst them. I'm not very skeptical of this video - the uploader doesn't seem to have any agenda, and the video doesn't seem that unusual. 

Does Leonardo DiCaprio fly on private jets? Example claim: Leonardo DiCaprio flies 8,000 miles in private jet to accept ‘green award' 

The Beginner's Guide to C++, from 1994, by the Russian-sounding name Oleg Yaroshenko also uses the phrase. FBIS Daily Report: Central Eurasia, Issues 241-252, published in 1992, quotes someone saying that both the Russians and the Chinese have this expression. There's a couple of scenarios I can think of: 

There have been more than 1,000 peer-reviewed articles written that were based on the results from this longitudinal study. An approachable overview of this study is available in the book, Eat, Drink, and Be Healthy, penned by Walter Willett, M.D., who led the Harvard Nurses' Study for many years. 

In December 2005, the science magazine Nature conducted a study to determine whether Wikipedia was as accurate as traditional encyclopedias, namely the Encyclopedia Britannica. In Study: Wikipedia as accurate as Britannica, Daniel Terdiman summarizes the study results: 

Is there any reason for a healthy adult to take a daily multi-vitamin? My intuition tells me that an adult eating a healthy and balanced diet will get all of the nutrients she needs and that taking a daily mulit-vitamin would be pointless. 

I've read many articles listing the benefits of buying locally grown food and many of the benefits sound plausible. But today I read the following, which left my skepto-meter tingling (emphasis mine): 

So, yes, at least one form of cancer (prostate cancer) is less likely for men who ejaculate more frequently. But before you rush out to bed as many women as possible in an attempt to stave off prostate cancer, bear in mind that other studies have found that the incidence of prostate cancer was positively correlated with the number of female sexual partners. From Sexual Factors and the Risk of Prostate Cancer: 

Is there any consensus as to how many words are in the average adult's vocabulary? Over the years, I've come across various factoids and blurbs online and in magazine articles that have made statements like, "The average adult has a vocabulary of 20,000 words." And if there is a consensus, how was such a number arrived at? Is the "20,000 words" claim (or whatever it happens to be) just a guesstimate or are these numbers arrived at in a more mechanical and, ideally, reproducible procedure? Have then been any formal studies in this vein? 

Suzuki has apparently edited fanzines about the Yakuza, so I wouldn't be surprised if he has made exaggerated claims about them. I have encountered many bogus claims about nuclear energy - I wouldn't be surprised if some sections of the media biased against nuclear energy decided not to scrutinize these claims too closely. I have also seen dubious claims about organized crime. Sometimes people make extraordinary claims about its level of influence, while others (in both fiction, and non-fiction) have glamorized organized crime. Both the former and the latter would be consistent with bogus claims about the yakuza's involvement in the Fukushima 50. 

Did a firefighter rescue cats from a house while it was still burning? Or was it more a case of helping them out after the fire had been extinguished? 

From a comment by Amnesty International Australia's Facebook account, since deleted, with a screenshot having 212 retweets and 235 likes (text courtesy of the Algemeiner) 

And at least a passenger organisation (not an airline organisation) has guidelines about this. From Curious cuts to in-flight films 

Was there a spike in hate crimes after Brexit? Example claim: 'Horrible spike' in hate crime linked to Brexit vote, Met police say 

If Handler claimed that Donald Trump is a non-native speaker of English who speaks English badly, I'd take that as a joke, but her comments about Melania don't seem to be a joke as far as I can tell. While Melania is a non-native speaker, I'd assume someone who speaks five languages including English would be fairly good at English. The Sun cites an article from Page Six but it doesn't have much detail. 

Eating healthy and exercising is, of course, not guaranteed to make you live longer - you could get hit by a bus tomorrow, after all. Nor is there a causal relationship between the two, as you have cited examples where those who ate healthy and exercised lived a short life. But if you look at a sufficiently large population there is a positive correlation between healthy eating and exercise and life expectancy. One such study that reveals this correlation is the Harvard Nurses' Health Study, which was started in 1976 and continues to follow more than 120,000 female nurses. Initially, the survey assessed risk factors for cancer and cardiovascular diseases, but was later updated to include assessing diet. Some findings from the study include: 

But cola consumption is just one of a plethora of risks. In Soda and Osteoporosis: Is There a Connection?, author Gina Shaw examines the link between the two and has several informative quotes from reputable doctors and researchers in the field. Some choice quotes from the article: 

This question is known as the great debate in economics, and it started back in the early 20th century between two leading economists, John Maynard Keynes and Friedrich Hayek. The debate was over how best to spur a sluggish economy. Keynes proposed that the government could directly spur a stalled economy through direct investment and stimulus while Hayek countered that such moves might provide a temporary boost, but were not healthy, had unexpected consequences, and simply delayed the day of reckoning. For more background on the Keynes-Hayek debate (albeit with a bit of bias toward Hayek), read Cochran and Glahe's, The Hayek-Keynes Debate – Lessons for Current Business Cycle Research. For a more human-interest look at the lives of these two men and how their theories shaped modern economics, see Wapshott's Keynes-Hayek: The Clash That Defined Modern Economics. Unfortunately, when discussing world-wide macro-economics the system is so large, interconnected, and complex that it is impossible to come up with a definitive answer to these types of questions, which is why this Keynes-Hayek debate rages on. There's not a simple positive or negative test that can be applied. For insight on this complexity and the hopelessness of making conclusive statements from such uncertainty, refer to Nassim Taleb's book, The Black Swan. So to answer your question, "Can a government end a recession through job creation?" the honest answer is, "It depends who you ask."