I would not recommend using plastic foil or any similar type wrap in an attempt to lose fat. It will help burn more calories (not sure how many more) due to additional heat/intensity, but the results people claim to see are all water/liquid reduction and not fat. You're basically short circuiting the body's attempt to cool down by trapping the heat in - not a good approach to overall health. From all that I read, there is some level of harm and only short term 'reduction' gains - 99% water reduction. 

You may end up not being able to workout alone, many people can't, we (most of us) are social animals and need that interaction. If the issue with a gym or personal trainer is money related...post on workout forums for local partners. 

I work out 5-6 times a week and the days I take off seem more stressful - basically thinking I should work out. I realize rest days are important, but how do you recommend dealing with the assoc. stress? 

For men: (height in centimeters) - 100 = ideal weight in kilograms. For women the same but minus 110. As a rule of thumb for natural bodybuilders this is the maximum weight for entering a competition. Of course, not everyone is a competing natural bodybuilder - in fact, my mother taught me this 'weight standard' when I was a kid, and I was surprised to learn that it applies to bodybuilding too. In general, you should strive to weigh that much while being as muscular as you want. Even if you don't have much muscle you'll look good and healthy at that weight. If you actually are interested in natural bodybuilding and that seems light to you, consider you'd be weighing that much with a very low bodyfat percentage... So for a 6 ft male: 182-100=82 kg=180 lbs As you can see, the weight in pounds is actually almost equal to the height in centimeters here, but that isn't the same for other heights. For a 190 cm tall man the ideal weight is 198 lbs, not 190. 

I think you answered your own question - change to stay engaged. I've seeing articles stating that people should change every 10-12 weeks because their bodies adopt to the exercises - but if you have a complete plan, covering your body to meet your goals, there's no - physical reason (and many power builders stay with the same exercises for years). I feel that each workout should be an improvement over the last, increased intensity through weights, duration, etc....but the actual exercises could remain the same as long as they keep you engaged. 

I've been in the martial arts for 25+ years (Isshinryu Karate and Aikido) and can tell you first hand, that if you do the standard weight training (bench, squat, dead lift, etc.) and go for the full range of motion and stretch, you WILL NOT have any problems with Kung Fu. Sounds like your Kung Fu instructor is old school, where weight training was considered detrimental to speed and flexibility. If you look at the top MMA fighters, they ALL do some level of weight training and if you look at some top power lifters, they're very flexible. My recommendation: focus on power (Olympic lifts) and make sure your form is good and that you go full range of motion. 

The deadlift is usually classified as a back exercise, although I'd say it's literally a "back exercise" because it works every muscle on the back of your body from your feet to your neck! Everything there gets a good beating. But I'd never say it's a leg exercise, or for shaping the legs. The reason is, the main movers are the spinal erectors (lower back), the glutes and the hamstrings. Only the hamstrings are really a part of the leg, and they could be better hit with the romanian deadlift, for example. There's no doubt the deadlift will give you powerful hamstrings, but it will mainly give you a big back. You don't. The belt is here to keep your entire core tight - but you can do that on your own. If your core isn't tight you could get hernia. But you'd need to lift really really heavy weights for that to happen. I never use the belt myself. 

Does anyone have any real experience with using FitBit or any other monitor for weight lifting. I'm interested in tracking calories burned without guessing. 

A good way to feel the difference is squat down 1/4 way - and feel the pressure in your knees. Squat butt-to-ground and the pressure is on your legs and butt. 

Thanks for posting this. I've read/reviewed the one set approach and I think it's worth trying. Like any other approach (steps/pyramid, waves, etc.) - they probably all work, but not forever. I think there's a 2-3 month period where you will see gains and then the body adopts/adjusts to the routine, at which point you need to change. 

Here's a link to Ripptone explaining how much to arch the back: $URL$ Some people have a 'big' arch, this is the person using the legs/hips to drive the bar, usually intended to push heavy weight. So, neither is wrong, it depends on what your goal is: building strength or building ego by moving heavy weight. (butt and shoulders should be touching) 

Many people live under the assumption that there must be some sort of caloric defecit and/or starvation scheme in order to lose weight. The case just isn't so. In september of last year i weighed in at around 253 lbs 24-26% bf. I am now 205 @ 15% bf. I did this by eating MORE. Obviously not shit, but healthy foods and a low carbohydrate intake, high protein, healthy fats..etc. Look, the key to your (FAT)loss is your metabolism. Now look at your metabolism as a fire. In order to keep the fire burning you must keep feeding it.(good foods) Enough shitty metaphors for today, but i hope i gave you a different look at it all. $URL$ -WATCH 

This all depends on what you consider lifting for a "while". Now every human being is built differently. I have some friends who i have trained and they had these neuro-responses from the get go, others not so much. The common denominator between the two where that it went away after consistent time and training. I don't think diet has much to do with it unless you are going EXTREMELY heavy in respects to your own strength, or are starving yourself. Either way keep at it and best of luck 

The latissimus dorsi extends the shoulder joint - meaning it brings the elbows from overhead to near the body. When you're deadlifting, the lats work really hard because you need to keep the bar close to your body. If your form is correct, the lats will be hit hard. If the pain you felt was muscle burn and not anything related to injury, that's ok. But, maybe the bar is a bit too much away from you at the beginning of the movement. Try getting in position so the part of your feet where your shoelaces are is under the bar, and your shin touches it a bit. Make sure your back is straight and your upper back is tight. You don't "need" to do any exercise, but the deadlift is a great one because it works a huge amount of muscle. To answer your questions: 

It takes me 10-15 minutes to cool down - body temp wise - after a work out, this is after a 'cool down' in the gym and a cold'ish shower. It becomes an issue when I workout at lunch time. Does anyone have any suggestions? 

Motivation is tough.....what motivated you prior to stopping? and has that goal(s) changed? Everyone gets/is motivated differently, I like to write my goals down and visualize what it is I'm going for. Some people get motivated by being in groups (social), others by watching movies (try a Rocky movie). What it comes down to is that it's easy not to do something or coming up with a reason why - twist it around, just do it and unless you can come up with 5 good reasons not to, continue. Make it a routine and over time you won't even think about it. 

Mike Mentzer, a former mr Universe (only one with a perfect score), ate around 100 grams of protein daily. He questioned bodybuilding dogma (and was probably the most controversial bodybuilder ever) and reasoned it made no sense to eat a lot of protein because protein wasn't used for energy like carbs and fat are. That means it isn't dependent on your activity levels. I suggest reading How much protein by Brad Pilon (author of Eat Stop Eat), where he analyzed lots of research on protein intake. Among other things he mentions that in scientific research "high protein" means 0.55 to 0.7 grams per pound. In bodybuilding "high protein" is 2-3 grams per pound! He says the protein intake should be between 70 to 120 grams per day on average, even for steroid users. Here's one more article for you to check out: $URL$ Remember that it's the supplement companies that own all the biggest muscle magazines, and that they use those magazines to advertise their own products. The supplement industry is a billion dollar business! How do you think George Hackenschimdt became one of the strongest men ever to live in the beginning of the 20th century, with no supplements whatsoever? All he needed was hard work, good food and lots of rest, and the same applies to you and me. 

Take a look at FitDeck (www.fitdeck.com) - basically playing card exercises used/developed by the Navy Seals. You may also want to look into Tabat interval training - some of the most intense/quick routines developed to build indurance and strength (4 exercises, each of which you do 8 x 20 seconds sets of with 10 second rest periods - sounds easy until you do them) 

I'm looking to change my workout, just to keep me motivated (I do this every 3-4 months) and wondered if there were any home gym/free (open source like) programs similar to Crossfit or p90x. The problem with either is that they require specific equipment or dvd's......and I'd rather not pay anything. 

My recommendation - follows the program you have during the morning sessions and then a little cardio or some hobby at night. The last thing you want to do is burn yourself out and/or get tired and stop exercising all together. To much, to fast is not a good way to approach exercising and your health...work into it, build it up and constantly adjust - it's a life long process. 

This could be one of many things. Overall if your body fat % is high, your face will be a obvious representation of that no matter how much you run, workout etc. Also it could be your diet. More specifically the sodium/carb intake within your diet and hydration. Cut back on the salts and increase you're hydration and see if that can't take off some of the water weight in your face. Also if you are experimenting with AAS (prob not), then this will also add to water bloat in the face. More so in aromatizing compounds such as Testosterones, and other non DHT derived compounds. You want a rugged face ? Lose fat. Lose the salt. Lose the carbs. Good luck ! 

Your muscles are getting a burning sensation because the fibers are being stimulated and are being forced to do work. This is what exercise (muscle building at least) is all about. You break your body down to build it back up, with proper rest and nutrition, so that it is stronger than it was before. However, inadequate rest and nutrition will delay your progression with weights and your body's ability to recover. A possible explanation as to why this workout "hurts" still.