When one does not practice insight meditation ones world view is subjective and not in line with reality. One has no reference point so to say. When one is practicing insight meditation one sees for oneself how reality functions and delusion is done away with, e.g. the illusion of permanence and an enduring Self-entity. An enduring Self-entity can also be called a Self, Me, Soul etc. There is no such thing which is verifiable through the practice of insight meditation. What is believed to be a Self is merely a mental formation. When practicing insight meditation one will see how conditioned phenomena are not stand alone units. They have causes and conditions and they themselves become causes for the arising of other phenomena. The relational factor and interdependency of conditioned phenomena becomes visible to the insight meditator. 

It's merely a feeling. Just note it, observe its characteristics and return to the primary object. If you get attached or interested in it, then note that and take it as an object. Then move back to the primary object. In Vipassana meditation one treats every object equally. 

In the book "Be An Island" by Ayya Khema, the following section can be found in a chapter discussing the benefits of solitude: 

If one tries to search for this self by either using the method of analysis where one breaks things up into the constituent parts and look at them one will not find a self anywhere. If one uses the method of synthesis by looking at things in a relational/interdependent way by using the doctrine of dependent origination one will also not find a self anywhere. Why? Because according to dependent origination things only exist as a part/reflection of other things. Therefore no real self can be found. The false idea of a self arises when the 5 aggregates work together as a physio-psychological machine. The false idea of a self is really just one of the 52 mental formations belonging to the 4th aggreate and all the aggregates are subject to the 3 signs of existence; anicca, dukkha, anatta. For references see Dr. Walpola Rahula's book on "What The Buddha Taught", p. 18. Here is a quote from the book "Comprehensive Manual of Abhidhamma" by Ven. Bhikkhu Bodhi, chapter: Compendium of Consciousness, Guide to ยง2, p. 25-26: 

Something might surface at some point in time. Maybe in this life, maybe in the next or maybe in future lives. Maybe something from earlier in this life will surface, maybe something from last life or maybe something from previous lives. It's not really that important to speculate what comes up at what time since that will only serve to take us out of the present momement. Until one is enlightened then every moment is either a kamma-recieving-moment or a kamma-making-moment. When recieving kamma it's like being dealt a fistful of cards. Now it's up to oneself to play that hand of cards in the most skillful and beneficial way. Here we have the noble eightfold path to guide us. Don't worry too much about what comes up or if anything comes up. Just keep practicing so that you are fit for fight when/if something comes up. One important thing in Vipassana meditation is to treat all phenomena equally. No matter what arises, you treat it the same. Nothing is more or less important than something else. Everything is of equal importance. 

If the mind is pure and the intention (cetana) is wholesome, then the result will also be wholesome. With reference to the twin verses in the Dhammapada. 

Here you can see the US locations for the 10-day S.N. Goenka Vipassana Meditation Retreat. This retreat is free and is solely dependent on donations from past students. So a retreat is a gift from a past student. You can read more about the tradition and the course here. 

What kind thinking are we talking about? If one is sharing unwholesome ways of thinking with others that might lead to wrong speech, wrong action. Another aspect to mention is also whether or not the other being in some way has agreed to be told about one's thoughts. Sometimes a being might have problems in his or her own life and might not have energy to listen to other beings problems. If one then just unloads on that being without that being wanting to listen that might not be a good thing. In the same way if one has criminal intentions and wants to commit a crime then if one tells another innocent being about ones plans one will actually involve that being in the act. Now that being has some unwanted knowledge which is placing that being in an unfortunate sitation. Should the being go to the police with the information or what to do? These are just examples of what might happen if we share wrong and unwholesome ways of thinking with other beings. One could also choose to share wholesome thoughts, i.e. thoughts of renunciation, peace, friendliness, loving-kindness and the like. This would be beneficial not only for oneself but also for other beings. One might share an advice with another being who is in need for advice. Wholesome actions will produce wholesome results. 

Occasionally some buddhists monks will take up the practice of only sleeping in a sitting posture for an extended duration of time - sometimes up to 3 months. 

It comes down to what the goal of the Buddha's teaching is, i.e. to achieve freedom from suffering. To win Nibbana one has to practice insight meditation. Studying is simply not enough since the intellect cannot penetrate reality to it's core. Intellectual knowledge (book knowledge) will only get one so far. Experiental knowledge (insights into reality) is needed in order to fully understand the immense deepth of doctrines such as anatta. These concepts cannot be grasped by the intellect. They are too profound. They must be experienced directly through insight meditation. Nibbana cannot be won by studying. I like to use the onion-simile for illustration. Imagine we have an onion with it's many layers and a core. Intellectual knowledge can only penetrate the top layers of the onion while experiental knowledge can penetrate all the layers and into the core of the onion, i.e. Nibbana. Wether or not the words of scholars should be ignored is really up to the individual being. If we take the perspective of gaining freedom from suffering then the words can be ignored if they do not have a direct relation to the decreasing of suffering, the winning of Nibbana or can be tested in insight meditation. 

I think it is as simple as you mentioned, i.e. to just imagine a bright light or imagine the items described in the quote. 

Even in the "presence-phase" phenomena are not stable or permanent but in a constant flux heading towards their own break up. Phenomena that exists due to causes and conditions are impermanent, meaning that they cannot be relied on. If one tries to rely on them or put trust in them, they will break up and leave one with only suffering and a void. Nibbana is not caused or conditioned, it is unconditioned, unborn, uncaused, permanent, secure, stable. It does not rise and fall. It does not produce suffering. Here is a description of Nibbana from the Buddha himself: 

Actually any object can be taken as a meditation-object, it does not matter if the object is a physical or mental phenomena. If you are practicing Vipassana meditation (insight meditation), then you have to be with reality in the present moment. That is the foundation of the technique. When you are on the job and working with past and future you can be mindful of the thoughts, ideas and other mental formations, as they arise and pass away. If you observe them with mindfulness, in the present moment, then you are practicing correctly. If you are getting lost in the thoughts, that means that mindfulness is absent and the Mind has followed after the object or run away from the object. When one is mindful, the Mind is kept in the present moment, unable to stray from the object. 

It might vary from meditator to meditator. The following quote is from the book "Practicing The Jhanas" by Tina Rasmussen and Stephen Snyder. They were both students of Pa Auk Sayadaw and undertook a Samatha Meditation Course under his guidance. They write in the book that they achieved the 4 material jhanas and the 4 immaterial jhanas. Here is a description of Tina Rasmussen's practice where it's talked about her being able to see the nimitta with open eyes: 

I could not find anything within the Theravada Tradition as to how often one is allowed to visit family. Here is a quote from Plum Village (Zen Buddhism): 

Right View (Samma Ditthi) would be the overall frame of reference when choosing how to act in such situation. It's important and necessary to understand the ethical distinction of kamma into wholesome (kusala) and unwholesome (akusala) and the roots from which these actions spring. Unwholesome kamma is action that is morally blameworthy, harmful to spiritual development and contributive to suffering for oneself and others. Wholesome kamma is action that is morally praisable, conducieve to spiritual development and beneficial for oneself and others. Kamma is wholesome or unwholesome if its roots (mulas) are wholesome or unwholesome. These roots are three-fold. The unwholesome roots, also called the root defilements or kilesas are greed (lobha), aversion (dosa) and delusion (moha). The wholesome roots are their opposites, expressed in negation as non-greed (alobha), non-aversion (amoha) and non-delusion (amoha). Within the negation lies their corresponding virtues, ie. renunciation, detachment, generosity, loving-kindness, sympathy, gentleness and wisdom. A distinctive feature of kamma is its capacity to produce resultants corresponding to the ethical quality of the action, ie. the root cause. Actions originating from the wholesome roots will always produce wholesome resultants which in turn will prepare and make the mind conducieve to the practice of meditation by calming and tranquilizing it, making it steady and less wavering. Also wholesome, meritorious actions can be/is recommended to rejoice in. Afterwards the impermance of the meritorious action should be contemplated in order to achieve insights. In MN 91, the Buddha explains; "When, friends, a noble disciple understands the unwholesome, the root of the unwholesome, the wholesome, and the root of the wholesome, in that way he is one of right view, whose view is straight, who has perfect confidence in the Dhamma, and has arrived at this true Dhamma". To sum up, only you can decide how to act or if it's appropriate and ethical to act at all. If you do choose to act and want to base your action in the Noble Eightfold Path, then the action should be motivated by the wholesome roots, thereby producing a wholesome result for you and other beings. 

The main reason is misunderstanding of the Dhamma due to having wrong view. Two other important reasons are; 

According to the Abhidhamma, there are 52 mental factors (cetasikas). 14 of these are unwholesome mental factors, among those are "hatred, jealousy, avarice, craving". They are of course also part of the 3 root defilements, i.e. greed, hatred and delusion. If one or more of these mental factors are present, it becomes unwholesome. 

The following quotes describing the Luminous Mind are from the book "The Tibetan Book of Living and Dying" by Sogyal Rinpoche: The Nature of The Mind 

The following quote is from the book "The Bhikkhus' Rules A Guide for Laypeople", Chapter: Intimacy - Touching. The last part of the paragraph is interesting. I have highlighted it: 

Depends on what kind of meditation practice you are doing. To gain insights into the impermanent nature of phenomena, one should practice insight meditation. Walking meditation is very beneficial and its a great vehicle to carry over your sitting practice into daily life. By doing a "moving" meditation it will also become easier for you to remain mindful throughout your day, while doing daily activities, such as taking a shower, brushing your teeth, doing the dishes. Here are 2 videos on walking meditation by Ven. Yuttadhammo: 

As far as I know, Theravada Buddhism refuses an intermediate state and says that a new life begins right after the death of a being. Although I have heard the theravada buddhist monk Ajahn Brahmali, mention in one of his videos, that there is an intermediate state. So maybe there are different views on this topic, within Theravada Buddhism. Anyway, be careful about limiting yourself, to one tradition regarding this topic. No one really knows what happens in this stage, unless one has reached the necessary levels of insight, supernormal powers or enlightenment. In Tibetan Buddhism, we have descriptions of the intermediate states between death and the beginning of a new life. The in-between-states are called Bardos. I remember reading about them in the "Tibetan Book of Living And Dying". This is an amazing book, that I think every Buddhist should read, no matter what tradition one follows. This book is filled to the brim with pearls, treasures, insights and jewels. Here is a quote from the book, on the Bardo of Becomming: