Here's a set of buildings in a village clearing. Note how close the forest canopy comes to the buildings. Given how thick the forest is, it's probably not easy to manage, but that could be all the more reason to get to bare ground in these village clearings. 

USGS stream gauges have an associated drainage area, but the associated hydrologic unit is often different than the actual drainage area. How can one determine what hydrologic unit corresponds exactly with the drainage area of a stream gauge, and where applicable, vice versa (...what stream gauge corresponds exactly with a hydrologic unit that is a watershed)? 

I'll preface this with the truth and hope it doesn't disqualify the question but rather give context: after reading Journey to the Center of the Earth by Jules Verne, I am amazed at the prospect of venturing into volcanic conduits to explore the interior of the Earth. How deep do lava conduits go, why don't they go deeper, and what kinds of formations or environments exist at their terminus? I am not new to Earth science but am pretty new to in-depth geology (pun intended) and volcanology. From what I can tell, the type of lava cave which goes the deepest is referred to as a lava tube. Apparently these tubes can be fairly long (e.g. a tube from Mauna Loa goes 50km before terminating[?] at the ocean!) but not very deep (Wikipedia on lava tubes lists a mere 15m!) Why do these tubes not go far deeper? The deepest conduit from surface to inner Earth is apparently the Kola Superdeep Borehole which terminates at ~12km deep upon reaching higher-than-expected temperatures. I think of magma - liquefied hot rock erupting out of volcanoes - as coming from even deeper than that depth. Therefore, why doesn't lava tubes or other volcanic conduit continue to such deep depths? Do they, but it is too difficult to explore? Do they during eruptions, but soon after cool and fill with solidified rock or eventually collapse and thereby fill with rock? As noted I'm new but interested to the subject, so any info to help me understand the processes and environment involved in this interface between inner Earth and the surface would be much appreciated. 

In short, it's a bit of a mixed bag and it will depend on which metrics you use to assess the variability. Something like the NINO3.4 index is simple to calculate, but getting a good (or bad) score doesn't necessarily indicate how well your model simulates the relevant processes (e.g., ocean mixed layer dynamics, air-sea interactions, convection). Section 9.5 also has information on other modes of variability, including the Pacific Decadal Oscillation, the Madden-Julian Oscillation, Atlantic Meridional Overturning Circulation, etc. It's worth a read. 

A hindcast, also known as a historical re-forecast, integrates the model forward in time just like with a forecast, so you'd initialise the model at $t_{-1}$ and run through to $t_1$. If you have an assimilation system that can make use of observations at $t_0$, then it would use them in the same way that it would with a forecast. The point of a hindcast is to do the forecast again using something that wasn't available originally. That new something might be observations (for assimilation or for verification), the assimilation system or the forecast model. They can be used to calibrate the modelling system or just to check that updates to the modelling system do actually improve the forecast. They're often used for cases studies of extreme events or situations that are known to be tricky to forecast; after all, why wait for the next 1 in 30 year event to test your new system when you have one in the archive, probably with lots of verification data accumulated over the years. 

I searched for on-the-ground views of potential villages and found a few that could match the view from above. Here's a large communal structure in a clearing which could match some of the textures we see. Some indigenous groups of the Amazon live in large structures like this as a community, and some just use large structures like this as ceremonial communal spaces. 

I'm trying to better understand the Hydrological Unit Code (HUC) system of the United States. I understand the basic hierarchy of it (HUC4, 6, 8, 12) and watersheds/drainage areas. Here's what I want to clarify: A group of HUC8s can be within a single HUC6, because each HUC8 ultimately drains to the pour point of their parent HUC6. What separates one HUC8 from another HUC8 downstream of it, both within the same parent Hydrologic Unit? I suspect the answer isn't the natural drainage area, because the downstream HUC8 would contain the upstream HUC8 in its natural drainage area - that's based on me thinking that as you shift the discharge point you're examining further downstream, the drainage area you're examining increases. The most concise, relevant explanation I've come across is from the USEPA's EnviroAtlas Data Fact Sheet on the subject: 

In your second example, the feedback loop between temperature and soil organic matter leads to amplified changes in the system, making it more unstable. You're correct in identifying this as a positive feedback loop. In the first example about plant available nitrogen and plant growth, there is a feedback loop there but is it positive or negative? You noted that the effect of increased plant growth would reduce available nitrogen. That isn't necessary the case, but even if it was, reduced nitrogen itself could actually be a positive feedback loop because it would lead the system out of equilibrium and into an unstable state (with the plants present no longer able to sustain themselves). However, in an undisturbed ecosystem I'd expect this to actually increase available nitrogen and also increase stability of the system over time, making this a negative feedback loop. The relationship between soil nutrients and plants can be complex and vary between plants (e.g. leguminous plants would certainly create a negative feedback loop, enhancing the stability of the system they are thriving in). In general plants left to their own succession would increase organic matter which serves as a nutrient reservoir, further enhancing nutrient availability. In our more controlled agricultural systems, you can see this effect applied in crop rotation and allowing fields to go fallow as a means to increase available nutrients among other potential benefits. Note that the nature of a feedback loop also depends on how the system's boundaries are defined. This is especially true looking at industrial agriculture and other systems that rely heavily on external inputs or otherwise have far-removed externalities. 

Quick googling shows that Cherokee county is dominated by metamorphic rocks. The rock looks like mica schist. The roundish minerals look like garnets but I am not sure about traces of elongated ones - might be kyanite or staurolite (or something more exotic), cannot tell from this photo. 

Three layered ones look like either sandstone or limestone with a bit of iron oxides. You can put several droplets of acid and check if they fizz. If they do, that is limestone, but I have seen limestone in that colour only once and think that is more likely to be sandstone. 

It is a quartz crystal artificially coated in thin layer of metal called aura quartz or rainbow quartz. They come in various colours and often can be found in new age shops. More information on the topic can be found on wiki: $URL$ 

That looks like a pebble of sandstone with some iron oxide (red layer). Other option is limestone and you can test it with acid if it fizzes. 

The glittery part of the rock is mica. Mica is a class of minerals which belongs to sheet silicates. As you can see, crystals form sheets, which forms layers in the rock. Crystals tend to grow perpendicular to highest stress direction during deformation event, so that indicate metamorphism in the past. The presence of micas also indicate the composition of rock - it had to be aluminium rich before it was affected by heat and pressure. It is difficult to tell about the size of crystals but lack of other higher grade minerals or deformations suggests it's mica schist. 

To demonstrate the problem: let's say I'm trying to examine the properties of a watershed - a HUC8 or HUC12 - and want to see stream gauge data for it. To find stream gauge data, I'd go to the USGS Water Resources site and hone in on the area of the watershed of interest - the issue is that many gauges have a Hydrologic Unit listed on the gauge's Summary Information page that is different from the drainage area listed on that same page and from the watershed delineation one would get if starting with a DEM and the gauge's coordinates in GIS. That brings me back to my question in bold above - any guidance or clarification on finding paired USGS stream gauges and HUC's that are drainage areas (since not all hydrologic units represent actual watersheds that can be gauged) ? 

I understand that tree roots help mitigate pollution in a variety of ways, and I imagine to greatly varying extents. I get the general idea (I'll describe my thoughts below) but would like clarification through a diagram or scientific study, neither of which I can find. I've read studies on riparian forest effects on water quality, but am not aware of (and didn't easily find) studies that zoom in on how tree roots specifically reduce pollution. My current understanding is that tree roots mitigate pollution in the following ways: 

Interesting question but more an engineering one. The basic physics is that a submarine modifies its buoyancy by filling various chambers (dedicated for this purpose) with water or pumping the water out and filling the chambers with air. Understanding buoyancy is important: basically, if something weighs less than the water it displaces, it floats; if something weighs more than the water it displaces, it sinks. As more water is allowed to enter the submarine's chambers through the opening of valves, the submarine becomes heavier (or another way to look at it is, the submarine is decreasing its displacement of water by allowing the water to fill its volume) and therefore its buoyancy decreases and it can be caused to sink. When air is pumped into the chambers and water is pumped and then sealed out of the vessel, the submarine becomes lighter and has a larger displacement, so its buoyancy increases and it rises toward the surface. Pressure differentials play a big role in all this. Getting water back into the chambers, getting water out of the chambers and filling them with air, maintaining healthy pressure for the submarine's compartments that house humans - all this involves careful calculation of pressures in different parts of the system and how we can manage and change those pressures to get the submarine to function as desired. 

Each of these will require a set of forcing boundary conditions, and there are several commonly used by the land community: 

The ERA archive description document, Berrisford et al (2011) "The ERA-Interim archive Version 2.0", provides additional information about what is available. It's less explicit on the why, but we can read between the lines a bit. The archive consists of re-analyses of the system state at 00, 06, 12, and 18 UTC and re-forecasts out to 10 days initialised from those 00 and 12 UTC states. Table 9 of that document lists the variables (including the ones that you're interested in) that are stored as accumulations since the start of the re-forecast. They are stored every 3 hours for the first day of the forecast (steps 3, 6, 9, 12, 15, 18, 21, 24) less frequently thereafter (every 6 or 12 hours). The variables are not stored for step 0 because their accumulations would be exactly zero. Regarding using ERA Interim for model forcing, you might consider what Balsamo et al (2015) do for ERA Land forcing. They use state variables from steps 3, 6, 9 and 12 and accumulations from steps 12, 15, 18 and 21 (see Fig 1 of that paper). This inconsistency is because the fluxes (accumulations) are particularly prone to spin-up artefacts in the first few hours of the forecast. The trade-off is that the states and the fluxes used in the forcing come from slightly different forecasts. 

First of all, these netCDF files follow the CF Metadata Conventions, which describe the use of and in section 8.1 Packed data of the conventions description. In short, you're applying them correctly: 

Building off of another question I recently asked (Is there sand in Antarctica?) I want to ask a broader question coming from the same motive described there. Are there desert sands that experience blizzards? I know of places with sand that experience blizzards, for example certain beaches in the Adirondacks or Great Lakes of northeastern USA. But what about desert sands? The other question identifies Antarctic desert sands, and a comment even notes that where Chicago is now was once covered in desert sands. The latter point made me realize though, do blizzards (snow storms with high winds, to be specific) occur in these sand dune areas? If yes, then are there numerous examples of where this occurs, or is it a somewhat rare thing? 

You're on the right track, though the positive and negative aspect of feedback loops is more about dynamics of the overall system rather than just the increase or decrease of components in the feedback loop. This website offers a straight forward explanation of positive vs. negative feedback loops $URL$ : 

Hard to say. Some could be clearings for log landings, some for small villages or outputs used by the military or others, some cleared due to natural disturbance in the area (e.g. fire from lightening strikes) though I'd expect the latter to have sparse canopy and not be totally clear. Many of these patches don't have much access beyond air or through thick vegetation. No doubt there can be smaller trails and rivers under the canopy, but no major routes with canopy cleared overhead. Therefore, logging and mining seems less likely, though both occur in the region. Smaller scale operations, like a clearing for more sun-loving plants by a local human population, could account for some of these though. On the village or outpost possibility Consider these clearings: 

The parallel layers suggest that it is a rainbow obsidian. Obsidian (aka volcanic glass) forms when molten rock material cools so rapidly that atoms are unable to arrange themselves into a crystalline structure. The rainbow is created by light reflecting from minute inclusions of mineral crystals, rock debris, or gas. The stone is semi-precious, I remember paying several quids for an unpolished piece. 

Craters actually can be identified by formation of high-pressure materials such as diamonds or stishovites and coesites (varieties of shocked quartz). A good example of this is the Popigai crater in Russia. Pressures and temperatures at subduction zones are usually too low to form big diamonds but microdiamonds (10-80 microns) were discovered within metamorphic rocks related to continental collisions. There are five well confirmed diamond-bearing terranes, the Kokchetav massif of Kazakhstan, Dabie and Quinlin in China, the Western Gneiss Region of Norway, the Erzgebirge massif of Germany, and the Kimi complex of the Greek Rhodope (according to the paper $URL$ 

Quarz veins come in different sizes - starting from milimetre scale ending with several meters (if not more). Quartz veins form from aqueous solution and in most cases that is associated with high hydraulic pressure (be that because of deformation or volcanic fluids). It is highly unlikely that you could identify veins from satelite images because of their size and vegetation. On the other hand that might be possible using drone photos. I suggest looking at Cabo de Gata (cape of agate) satelite images as an example of volcanic region with plenty of silica veins and very little of vegetation. The veins there usually smaller than 1 meter so I don't expect you to see them but you can see some cracks in the rock, which occasionally are refiled with silica (coordinates 36°46'57.3"N 2°06'02.8"W) (source: I did mapping there)