I'd say no. You can have a correct stance on a position without any understanding on WHY that stance is correct. You may also arrive at a correct answer through incorrect reasoning/faulty data. Neither of these change the fact that the final assertion is still true. Example: Rainbows are caused by light refraction through moisture in the air. I don't have direct knowledge of this statement being true (because I have never done the math/experiments to verify), but I take it as a true statement due to the large number of smart people/science books that proclaim it to be so. 

A lot of evidence points not to conscious thought informing the brain, but the other way around. It is well documented that stimulation/damage of specific areas of the brain has measurable and predictable effects on conscious thought patterns. This indicates to me that what we refer to as conscious thought is a byproducts of bodily functions related to these "material" portions of the brain. 

I would say it is impossible to invalidate logic as a whole, just as it is impossible to disprove "science." Logic, at it's base, is the formalization of rational thought. If/when a more reliable method of reasoning becomes available, that becomes logic (and the old methods of reasoning are either adapted or abandoned). In that way, though, it is very possible for one method of logical reasoning to prove that some other method of logical reasoning is unreliable. Reductio ad Absurdum is an ancient technique often used for such purposes, and the history of logical reasoning is filled examples of old methods of logical reasoning giving way to more improved versions. 

Question assumes that: 1.) Not negotiating with terrorists is an actual policy the U.S. follows (it's not*) 

No, there is not a dichotomy between the two. While there may be portions of each attribute which are at odds, the general notion of 'individuality' may (and does) co-exist with the need for social interaction. To abuse a metaphor, let us pretend pursing activities which promote individualism is 'chocolate', and pursuing social activities is 'pizza'. While some people greatly prefer one or the other, generally people like both to some degree. Does desiring pizza preclude a person from also enjoying chocolate as well? Do people sometimes 'overindulge' on chocolate, and so want something more substantial for their next meal? Does enjoying late night clubbing with friends preclude a person from desiring some solo meditation the next morning? Does spending two years in voluntary isolation mean that one doesn't wish to engage in social activities? 

There is an important aspect to this issue which is not being addressed. Let us make the assumption that an unborn child is the equivalent of a living human being from the moment of conception. As such, they are entitled to all the rights that any living being are entitled to. Of course, the mother is also living human being, and also entitled to all the rights any living being is entitled to. In the United States (and internationally, as far as I am aware), it has been definitively upheld in courts that one's right to control of their own body outweighs another individual's needs(1). Even in cases of life and death, a legally competent person cannot be compelled to provide so much as a single ounce of blood. Bringing a child to full term requires much more than that, and as such, is reliant upon the mother being a willing donor. Without an active choice on the mother's behalf, the child has no more right to live in her womb than I do. The alternative is to allow the state to override an individual's right to their own body. Personally, I find any line between "you lose body autonomy when it comes to babies" and "you lose body autonomy when it comes to rich people" too easy to blur for my tastes. (1) $URL$ 

Correlation does not imply causation, i.e. the fact that Uber-wealthy do not worry about money does not mean that "worry about money" has an inverse relationship with wealth. (Sales of ice cream correlating with increased violent crime is another example). 

I say it's not that the universe acts according to "scientific laws," but rather that these laws are a tool for people to use to quantify how the universe works. In other words, the universe works how it works. Not according to any laws or conventions, but because "that's how it is." The fact that the observable universe is consistent allows us to create scientific laws/theories to describe (and predict) it's behavior, but there is no prescriptive power in these labels. Edit: I previously called Scientific Laws outdated terminology. Turns out I was incorrect. 

As the end of the day, there is only one existence we can be certain of. The one we're living now. I'd recommend living it like it's the only one, because if you're right at least you didn't hold back due to some arbitrary rules. If there is another life after? Bonus! 

There isn't a problem applying your assertion to a hypothetical situation in which your context is objectively true, but trying to filter people's actions in the the real world against it is problematic (since your assertion ISN'T objectively true here). Nevertheless, were you to have certain knowledge that a particular argument was fruitless, that does not mean everyone else has that same knowledge (or has evaluated that knowledge as completely true). Q1. One could claim atheism/theism based on subjective experience, and still also believe that there is no logical/philosophical argument to backup their position. I personally do not have a complete logistic/philosophical proof of gravity, but I can still argue that it'll be around when I wake up tomorrow based solely on my own subjective experience. Q2. Emotions may play a role, but there is also room for simple lack of compelling evidence to the contrary of your own personal experience. If you have had an out-of-body experience caused by trauma, where you spoke to DIETY you'd be justified in requiring at least some evidence to override your personal experience. Q3. No. Assuming a set of character qualities based on the answer to a single question, without further investigation/discussion, would be a logical failure on your part. Incredibly intelligent/knowledgeable/reasonable people believe dumb things sometimes, and I'd rate being atheist/theist in your hypothetical situation far from dumb. 

The answer is yes... and no. Moral theories are indeed arbitrary, in that there is no observable, universally correct morality in the universe. There is no factual, objective answer to whether stealing is morally "incorrect", et cetera. Moral theories are not arbitrary, however, once one takes into account preferred outcomes. There is a factual, objective answer to whether stealing is morally correct, if society (or even just an individual) has an agreed upon preference for civil order and fair trade for services/goods. Whether a society values civil order/fair trade is (somewhat) arbitrary. Once that goal is accepted, any moral choice may be measured as helpful, harmful, or neutral regarding that. 

If god(s) manifest in reality, the affects of those manifestations can be scientifically measured, studied, and be attributed. If god(s) do not manifest in reality, then they are scientifically indistinguishable from god(s) that do not exist at all. I cannot think of any religions promoting a deity having no impact upon reality, so for the majority of religions god(s) should be scientifically measurable, testable, and verifiable. The Bible actually includes instructions on doing just this... just turns out research is largely negative. 

If you do not have a positive belief in the existence of a deity (or deities), you are an atheist. Welcome to the club. As to your experience with New Atheists vs Apathetic Atheists, I believe there to be a sizable (but less vocal) third group aligned with your own general outlook, e.g.: 

In the OP, you are equating 'god' with 'sentient agent responsible for the creation of', and in that context the answer is definitely yes. Our relation to this AI would be similar to this (hypothetical) god's relation to us. However, I think 'creator' would be a more accurate label. Labeling us as 'gods' brings a lot of unrelated (and often inconsistent) baggage which is NOT reasonably justified based on the initial proposition. Creating a sentient, artificial intelligence has no relation to whether humanity is omniscient, omnipresent, omnibenevolent, or any of the other attributes commonly attached to 'god.' In all likelihood, any such AI we create would exceed humanity in those categories (e.g. ever try playing Jeopardy vs Wikipedia?). The label of 'god' truly sounds silly when the creation's capabilities exceed our own. It's hubris to pretend otherwise, and we all know where AI + human hubris leads. 

Ethics are inherently subjective, because there is no universal "end goal" to which all humans subscribe. Where we able to all decide upon a specific optimal state for humanity, then it would be possible to logically determine an action to be objectively "right." Actions which bring humanity closer to this desired state would be ethically correct, and those actions could be rated based on efficiency, cost, and risk to determine the most objectively correct action. Unfortunately, since we can't all agree that slavery is bad or that rising income inequity negatively impacts the poor, we are stuck in the land of subjectivity ethics. 

Yes. Logic is only as reliable as it's starting point. Every logical proposition is based up one or more premises. Depending on the reliability of these premises, logical processes can be used to 'prove' just about anything. For instance, let us pretend that I wish to prove that the universe is secretly controlled by bees. This would be difficult to logically prove only upon observable data. However, when I present a book titled "Everything within these pages is 100% true," (which happens to include a chapter on "How the bees control everything!"), it becomes trivial to logically prove my position. Based on the premise that my book is correct (I mean come on, look at the title), then it logically follows that bees do indeed control everything. And, as you may well know, the universe is included in "everything" so obviously we are already subject to the iron-mandibled rule of our busily buzzing overlords. And we didn't even know! 

I see this argument as a version the Straw Man Argument. The accusation: Person A is a "racist," i.e. they hold (and potentially act upon) unfavorable views concerning people XXX ethnic background. The rebuttal: Person A claims to associate with at least one member of XXX ethnic background on a regular basis. Their rebuttal reinterprets "racism" into being completely incapable of interacting with people of XXX ethnicity, which is an extreme exaggeration of the original accusation. It is well documented that general racial prejudices often do not translate to individuals encountered regularly. Of course, one might also be conveniently expanding the definition of "friend." 

In other words, science is all about using testing, experimentation, and observation to build models which we can use to make educated guesses for how the universe will act in the future (based on how it has been observed to act in the past). As such, there are plenty of things science will never tell us. Events that occurred before humankind began to rigorously test and record our observations of the world/universe will never be "proven" by science. Events which cannot be measured by scientific tools also cannot be proven (e.g. psychic abilities), although this can sometimes be mitigated by using available tools to measure the indirect effects of such "unmeasureable phenomenon." To use a specific example, the "big bang theory" only covers the expansion of matter as we have observed. While the scientific models may show that the rate of expansion we have observed is consistent with all matter rapidly expanding from a single point, that is not the same as science telling us that is what actually happened. Such conclusions fall into the realm of conjecture. Conversely, what CAN science tells us? Scientific models can be used to predict how matter and energy will act in the future, based upon known conditions and our observations on how it has acted in the past. Given your 'under ideal conditions' caveat, I would say science could give us 100% accurate information on the future behavior of the universe once we assemble a model of sufficient robustness. 

a special natural ability or aptitude (e.g. a talent for drawing) a capacity for achievement or success (e.g. young men of talent) 

I agree with your initial assertion ("small scale, non-voluntary democracy is unethical"), however I disagree with applying that to a citizen within an established democracy/socialist society. This would be analogous to being born into a community where all adults must pay a monthly fee for security services/grounds maintenance. You were not around when the initial agreement was decided, but you have benefited from the arrangement since your birth. When you come of age, that community is ethically correct to expect you to pay the fee as well. To not do so can be viewed as a rejection of the entire "social contract" for that community, and necessitate that you find another society in which to live. In other words, living within a society is an implicit agreement to obey that society's rules. This is a side effect of being mortal beings operating within societies that can last many generations. If a person lives within a democratic/socialist society and accepts benefits from that society in some way (roads, schools, police services, etc), they are obligated to fulfill other aspects of that social contract as well (taxes, obeying laws, etc). 

Ethically, changing historical events without being able to predict the results is clearly immoral. At it's core, this is risking the existence of every person in "this future" for a (potentially) better one. Without their consent. With no real ability to predict the long-term outcome. Another way to look at it is (to risk referencing TVTropes), "killing one man who did evil doesn't get rid of the circumstances and structure that put him in the position to do evil in the first place." You go back in time to kill Hitler, and when you return to the present you find the Soviet Union started World War II... this time, with nukes! 

The connection is a theological necessity to get from 'the universe has a cause' to . I have yet to find a compelling logical reasoning to support that jump, beyond biblical references and unsupported claims that it MUST be so. Ultimately, I find the claims that whatever cause was behind our universe must be a personal, sentient, omniscient being unconvincing. It's all well and good to hypothesize at what might have been, but people are notoriously bad at acknowledging where the facts stop and the guesswork starts. 

Is it even possible to skeptically analyze something that (at it's core) is a rejection of a non-evidence based assertion? Typically, the thing to be skeptical of is the positive assertion (i.e. "there is a god"). The rejection of an assertion due to a (perhaps perceived) lack of evidence is rationally the default position. You don't start off believing everything you're told until someone disproves it, otherwise you totally NEED to paypal me $100 right NOW or the world is going to end. I'm not even kidding! Quick, or it's all your fault! Really, though, you can find some skeptical discussions on "hard atheism" (e.g. "there is no god"), but that's pretty light work. Being an atheist myself, I have trouble even imagining what absolute proof that there is no god would consist of. There are so many definitions of "god" that ruling them all out is effectively impossible. 

Yes, the Internet exists. No, it does not exist in the form to which most people are accustom to thinking about it. The physical representations of the internet people tend to think about (webpages, e-mails, videos) are all illusion and simulation. Images on a screen, generated based electrical state of transistors in your computer, which is based on the electrical state of the transistors in some other computer halfway around the world. And that's what the Internet physically is: a bunch of electrical/magnetic/optical signals residing on storage media, within active memory, or in transit. So, this seemingly random batch electrical charges physically residing within YouTube's servers gets passed through a series of hardware and software interpreters which tells your computer screen to display a man singing about never giving up.