It is possible to breach a door using bullets, but a normal handgun is normally underpowered. Shotguns are suited for this task. The door isn't unlocked but partly broken so that it opens. $URL$ 

Original answer: Since the recent publication of the "success" video there have been several responses on different websites. Through them I'm actually now able to give a referenced answer myself. There are some people with technical expertise which note that it seems to be technical possible, and does not need to be a fake on technical grounds: Jamie Hyneman (Mythbusters): Thoughts on The Mechanics of Assisted Human Flight. Rhett Allain, Associate Professor of Physics at Southeastern Louisiana University: Analysis of the Human Birdwings However the following news and science/technology websites have reported it seems to be a fake either by themselves or by quoting experts: Fox News: Viral 'human bird wings' video fake, probably an ad, expert says Wired Science: Bird-Man’s Resume Doesn’t Check Out: ‘Nobody Knows Him’ Gizmodo: CGI Experts Say Flying Bird Man Is Fake (taken from John C's answer) Gizmodo: Man Flies Like a Bird Flapping His Own Wings Science on msnbc.com: 'Human bird' video flying high, but experts say it looks fake Gadget Review: Fake: Human Birds Wings (video) Apparently there are some clear hints about CGI techniques used for the video(s). Other things like missing load on the wings have been pointed out. Also the background story of the pilot does not check out. Some (in the above linked posts) assume that this is meant as a viral ad video for one of the companies which products were used by the project, like Nintendo. 

(This means they both block UVB (315–280 nm) completely.) Photoprotection by window glass, automobile glass, and sunglasses (research paper): 

The risk of sunburn through a glass window is, depending on the source, either heavily reduced or not existing compared to direct exposure to sunlight. In the first case you could still get a sunburn after a longer time. Because UVA is not blocked at the same time the use of sunscreen is still required in order to avoid skin damage like skin cancer. This is a real danger, because the warning effect of the sunburn is then missing or delayed. 

I've gotten an e-mail to this effect a couple of times now, mainly centering around the story behind the song "Amazing Grace". The basic idea is that old Negro spirituals were based on the black keys of the piano because slaves weren't permitted to touch the white keys. Amazing Grace was written by a former slaver, and the assertion is that he heard the tune from his slaves. This sounds like total BS. First off, there's no piano out on the cotton plantation, and the slaves' quarters were very unlikely to have had one either. Second, a house slave might be trained to play piano for the enjoyment of the household, but in that case, it seems equally unlikely that the tutor would only teach the student the black keys. Lastly, the black keys, when played in sequence, form a pentatonic scale (not the only one but the easiest one), and this scale is common not only in certain African tribal forms, but in numerous European and Asian cultures. Anyone have any proof or disproof of this thesis? 

First of all, efficient left-foot braking does typically require that you're not also on the clutch. In F1 cars, the clutch is controlled by either of two paddles under the "gear up" and "gear down" paddles, and so it's more natural to give the left foot responsibility for braking. As an aside, the average F1 steering wheel, with multiple electronic linkages to the transmission and powertrain, fuel injection system, brake balance system, front and rear wing adjustments, communications system, various LCD readouts including upshift and pit cues, and the fact that like everything in the cockpit it's custom-made for the driver out of the most lightweight materials, costs in the neighborhood of US$50k. With a clutch pedal on the floor, you typically have to press both clutch and brake at the same time as you're both slowing and downshifting for a corner. The GT and rally drivers, who start with production vehicles and can't make extensive control setup mods like paddle shifters, do put in aftermarket clutches and make very precise adjustments to the pedal throws, giving the clutch, brakes and accelerator the same throw length (short). The pedals are also placed very closely together, allowing drivers to use an "overlap" position of their feet on the pedals; press the outside of the right foot for gas, press the outside of the left foot for clutch, press the inside of either for brake. This in turn more or less allows the driver to use whatever foot's handy to brake, left or right. If they're off the accelerator and downshifting for a hairpin, right foot. If they're slowing for a chicane or a drift turn but still under power, left foot. In the average civilian vehicle, these adjustments aren't available; the pedals are spaced further apart (especially for large American clod-stompers), differently-shaped and differently-placed, and have different weights and throw lengths. Despite this, Rally Racing News recommends left-foot braking when driving a front-wheel drive car in a racing scenario. The basic idea in a FWD is that when both brake and accelerator are applied, the front wheels keep turning despite the braking, because they're under power, but the rear wheels slow, and so lose some of their traction, causing the rear end to kick out (oversteer; a hard thing to do in most American FWDs, which are strongly biased for understeer for safety reasons). In a rear-wheel-drive car, this effect is even more pronounced but for the opposite reason; the car slows, transferring weight to the front wheels, and with the rear wheels still under power from the accelerator they will lose traction, kicking out the rear end. This in fact makes RWD cars really sensitive to applying brakes, accelerator and steering wheel at the same time; the general strategy in a RWD is to brake before beginning to turn, shifting weight to the turning wheels, then turn and accelerate through the corner as you straighten out. Braking while turning hard will cause the rear tires to lose too much traction, putting the car sideways in the corner, and when you add accelerator to try to power out of it, the car will swap ends. 

Atoms in tooth enamel are not replaced. As a consequence, the C14 levels found in a person's tooth enamel can be used to estimate the year at which their teeth formed, due to the fact that atmospheric levels of C14 have decreased steadily since the cessation of above-ground nuclear bomb testing in 1964. Details can be found at the link below, along with information on the relative rates of turnover for other tissues. $URL$ Figure 9 (page 34) shows that some tissues turn over more slowly than others, and therefore retain more of the C14 from the person's early years. This demonstrates that the rate of turnover varies by tissue, and that there is not a single uniform rate of turnover that can be used to judge how quickly atoms are replaced. 

Human intelligence is probably still increasing There is no evidence that the genetic foundation of intelligence is eroding The essay in question dose not provide a solid reason to speculate that the genetic foundation of intelligence is eroding. 

Are other factors influencing the genetic component of intelligence? A central tenet of both Crabtree's essay and the popular science reporting on this topic is that modern (and future) humans lack the genetic foundation of intelligence that their ancestors had. Crabtree's "use it or lose it" model of mutation pressure does not capture all of the genetic processes that influence traits such as intelligence. For instance: Inbreeding depression: Loss-of-function mutations like those discussed by Crabtree tend to be masked by heterozygosity. Therefore, inbreeding can result in more individuals exhibiting these intellectual problems, as has been documented for populations such as Ashkenazi Jews (Canavan Disease) and North Indian Muslims. Over the past few centuries, homozygosity in the human population has probably decreased as a result of population growth, inter-continental migration, and urbanization; however, I cannot find measurements of this effect. Likewise, I cannot find any broad study of how these changes in homozygosity levels might affect the distribution of intellectual capabilities. If Crabtree is correct about how common these loss-of-function mutations are, then we might expect them to be common throughout the human population. Crabtree argued that the developmental genetics of the nervous system are such that loss-of-function intellectual deficiencies may be evident in heterozygous individuals, which would make inbreeding less important. Increasing heterozygosity has been proposed as a cause for the Flynn effect. Assortative mating: Charles Murray, in Coming Apart, has proposed that humans are increasingly mating with people of similar intelligence, which may greatly increase the variation of intelligence within the human population (meaning more very smart people and more very stupid people). 

The short answer is not really. The longer answer is that, while a silencer (aka suppressor) does dramatically reduce the report of a handgun, the sound of the pistol doesn't universally transform into the audio clip that has become a movie standard (some would say cliche). The Mythbusters tried this one as part of their "Sounds Bogus" episode dealing with movie audio versus real-world sounds. They called their results "plausible" due to the reduction in sound level, but did state that the sounds they recorded did not match the movie sounds. Here's the digest of that myth including what silencers really sound like on "defense-caliber" pistols. $URL$ The trademark "silenced pistol shot" sound in most movies is usually some variant on a suppressed .22 target pistol. That pistol is stereotypically common in the hands of close-in assassins (another movie myth; anyone who could get close enough to be lethal with a 22 has many better options) and therefore the sound it makes has become associated with all silenced pistols. 

Artificial banana flavor was derived from natural banana flavor; bananas, both Gros Michel and Cavendish, as well as other varieties including "wild" bananas, contain isoamyl acetate, amyl acetate and related compounds which result in their smell and taste. The synthesis of isoamyl acetate from other sources (namely the reaction of isopentanol aka amyl alcohol with acetic acid as found in vinegar; the acid deprotonates the alcohol to form an ester) allowed for the replication of banana flavoring on a mass-producible scale without the need for natural banana extracts; however, because it's only one such compound in the full palette of "banana oil", it produces a one-note flavor. That flavor is recognizable as banana, by taste and smell, but it was never meant to be an accurate reproduction of any one variety of banana; merely a cheap reproduction of the species in general. Other similar synthetics that have come to dominate use of the natural flavoring include methyl salicylate (the key ingredient of oil of wintergreen, and so close that hardly anybody bothers with the natural stuff anymore), and hydroxymethoxybenzaldehyde aka vanillin, used in place of natural vanilla extract in most brands of vanilla ice cream (and other flavors; it adds a creamier flavor to chocolate, for instance). Source: Dr. Derek Lowe, synthetic organic chemist, and FDA documentation on artificial food flavorings. 

Is human intelligence declining? No. Is the genetic foundation of human intelligence eroding? This has not been shown. Are other factors influencing the genetic component of intelligence? Probably. 

That paper also cites other studies reporting that there is no turnover of neuronal DNA and eye lens crystaline protiens. 

Is intelligence declining? No, human intelligence is not declining. In fact, it is increasing. This is actually stated in the article that inspired the news stories, which is publicly available: 

That being said, Crabtree missed some of the obvious, traditional arguments suggesting that selection on intelligence is decreasing. These would include the reduced variation in reproductive success (associated with greater survival past reproductive age) and the lack of correlation (or even anticorrelation) between the number of children that a person has and other traits that are predictive of intelligence. I can only speculate on why he did not make those arguments. To restate my conclusions: 

I think this hits the core points of our question. The only issue left to discuss is if Crabtrees' argument is at all reasonable. I think there is good reasons to believe that it is not reasonable, and I'm sure these are discussed by the published responses to his original essay. I see the following weaknesses: 

The Flynn Effect is discussed in Part II, Box I. Crabtree attributes increased scores on IQ tests to two factors: improved childhood environment, and cultural biases in the test: 

I suspect that his estimate of mutational target size is the upper bound for what is reasonable. He started by included every gene that could conceivably be said to be involved in intelligence (though he did moderate that assumption by focusing only on the fraction where the intellectual deficit has been shown to arise from loss-of-function). He also assumes that all "deleterious" mutations to these genes would decrease intelligence. Perhaps most importantly, he assumed that each gene had a major impact on intelligence, and that mutations had cumulative deleterious effects. While he did make a brief argument to justify these assumptions, his evidence is very indirect and his model conflicts with much of what we know about the typical functioning of biological systems. He seemed to assume that the only selection acting on these genes was for human-like intelligence, even after he described how these genes are found in non-human animals and these "Intellectual Deficiency" disorders often arise from the disruption of core physiological processes and include massive developmental abnormalities. He acknowledged the possibility of pleiotropy, but did not incorporate it into his calculations. He provided absolutely no evidence that the strength of selection on these traits has changed, just a bunch of hand-waving arguments about how difficult it was to be a hunter-gatherer and how easy it is to reproduce in modern society. The closest that he came to offering a plausible explanation for why selection on intelligence may be reduced was to reflect on how living in large societies must have increased selection on our immune system (which then reduces the effectiveness of selection on other traits). However, communicable disease is no longer a major selective pressure, as indicated by the CDC's charts of the cause of death. Indeed, the main causes of death for people in their reproductive prime (15-34) are accidents, homicide, and suicide -- all of which can be influenced by cognitive and emotional capabilities. If Crabtree thinks that throwing a spear is cognitively difficult, he should try driving a car. He emphasizes how ineffective natural selection can be on intellectual traits, but does not even assert that this has changed between prehistoric and modern populations. He never mentioned the immense expansion of the human population and the elimination of geographic structure in our modern population. Both of these factors increase the effectiveness of selection in a population. So even if the selection coefficient on cognitive traits has decreased, we could still expect to see the preservation of these traits, and possibly even additional evolution of these traits. Recent studies have actually measured this increase in the effectiveness of natural selection in humans. 

The numbers are correct. The definitions, and thus the argument, are not. As in both Avi's and Konrad's answers, the number of postnatal deaths and the number of abortions in this poster are correct, given the latest information on world population, mortality rate, and number of abortions. However, they were arrived at by ignoring the fact that the mortality rate, which is the number per hundred of deaths as defined by the WHO, does not include abortions, because an abortion is not a "death". It also, as both answers have said, does not include miscarriages, or the grey area of stillbirths (the definition varies by jurisdiction, with some measurements including them as miscarriages, others including them as postnatal mortalities, and still others differentiating them entirely). These four results - live birth, stillbirth, miscarriage or abortion - are the only possibilities for an implanted egg and a viable pregnancy. I cannot find a worldwide stillbirth rate, but the U.S. rate is one in 115 pregnancies[1]. With the U.S. pregnancy rate at an average of 105.5 per 1,000 women (so 10.55% of women are pregnant at any given time)[2], if we extrapolate these out to the world female population of 3.402 billion[3], the number of stillbirths annually is 3,402,096,414 * .1055 * .008696 = 3.12 million. That is a very low estimate considering that both the U.S. pregnancy rate (due to economic factors both positive and negative) and stillbirth rate (due mainly to healthcare) are relatively low compared to the rest of the world. The annual number of miscarriages worldwide, borrowing from Konrad's answer, is 135.97 million. For a fertilized egg, which for many pro-life advocates is where life begins, there is a fifth option; non-implantation, which is the case for up to one-half of all fertilized human eggs according to some estimates[4]. Given this estimate, the number of non-implantations annually can be as high as the total number of pregnancies itself. If the U.S. pregnancy rate were extrapolated to the world female population, then over a nine-month period, there would be on the order of 358 million non-implantations of a fertilized egg, which would become nonviable (die) and the woman would continue her monthly cycle. Pushed out to the full year, that's 478.5 million women per year who, in the eyes of those for whom life begins at fertilization, are murderers. Lastly, the OP's chart ignores medically-necessary abortions (because the position of most pro-life advocates is that there are no such situations, which is a position that is patently false given medical knowledge to date). A large contributor, though not the only one, is ectopic pregnancy (the egg implants in the fallopian tube instead of the uterine wall). That occurs at a rate of 19.7 per 1000 pregnancies[4], which if we extrapolate from the U.S. pregnancy rate of 10.55% of women and the total world female population of 3.4 billion, is 3402096414 * .1055 * .0197 ~= 7.1 million ectopic pregnancies annually worldwide (and likely more as the pregnancy rate I used is U.S.-specific and thought to be lower than the world average; unfortunately I can't find a good figure for overall world pregnancy rates). Ectopic pregnancies are 100% fatal for the embryo with or without treatment, and without medical treatment, a ruptured ectopic pregnancy is 100% fatal for the mother, so when an ectopic pregnancy is detected prior to rupture, the treatment is a drug-induced abortion using methotrexate, and if a rupture has occured, the fetus is removed as a natural consequence of repairing the damage. Either way, the insurance billing codes that document the medical procedures performed (and are the primary source of statistical data on such things) will include a code for a medical abortion. This is not the only such indication for a "therapeutic" abortion. Toxcemia/eclampsia calls for immediate delivery of the baby as soon as the mother is stable, whether the baby would be expected to survive or not. Jurisdictions differ as to when such a delivery, resulting in the death of the baby, is a live birth and infant mortality (resulting in filing of a birth and death certificate for the baby), or an abortion by preterm induction (in which case neither a birth certificate nor a death certificate would be issued). Miscarriages, placental abruptions, and other complications of pregnancy often do not result in the woman's body naturally expelling the pregnancy; these situations require medical intervention to "evacuate the pregnancy", and are indistinguishable in terms of the procedure from a surgical abortion of a viable pregnancy and so would include nearly identical procedural codes.