Without quite answering your question let us remember that propositional logic (or sentential logic) deals with the truth or falsity of propositions. Here we can think of a proposition as anything about which one can say or . The definition for synonymy that you give can be read: 

If this explanation is accurate then sure, you're correct. Correct in that the Lacanian notion of the subject does indeed appear to be relational. But a small note, I would not characterise Descartes' notion of the subject as atomic, instead I would say reflexive, self reflecting as you say. I see what you are trying to get at with atomic -- meaning unitary, indivisible, individual, self-contained, not reliant on another. But may I suggest that reflexivity works better? And yes, it would seem correct to position the Lacanian subject in opposition to the Cartesian one but wouldn't you say that Lacan gives us a psychological explanation whereas Descartes gives us a more philosophical one? 

In a word, no. I am going to take the most charitable version of your question. 1) I am presuming that mathematical entities are grounded somehow, and by reasoning you are referring to manipulating mathematical entities. The reason I'm making this presumption is because syllogistic logic says nothing about what's being reasoned about (the content of thought as it were, it could be people and attributes, it could be numbers and properties) so I presume you mean they are generated/given elsewhere. 2) Are there ways to reason about mathematical entities that exceed syllogistic logic? Very simply, yes. Notice that even though syllogistic logic says nothing about the content of thought it actually does make some assumptions. Let us call these assumptions operational or even epistemological assumptions. It assumes you can always give a true or false answer to the conclusions. It also assumes that even though the objects of cognition are unspecified they are discrete in nature. 3) So syllogistic logic fails to be able to talk about undefined notions like division by zero. It fails to be able to talk about unending procedures. It fails to be able to talk about the continuum rather than discrete objects/sets so it fails to be able to talk about the objects that are in Robinson's non-standard analysis and actual infinities and infinitesimals. I recommend Susan Haack's Philosophy of Logics to understand more. 

He doesn't come out and say it straight but we can guess at his definition for ontology of a theory, presumably something along the lines, With those definitions (which already draw a distinction for us) let us turn to the explanations so we can further make clear the distinction, at least from Quine's perspective. 

Like all systematic thinkers his goal is to explains things as he sees them. Insofar as that is anyone's goal that is his goal. But, what motivated him was to right the philosophical errors he felt that Kant committed. We could ask how successful he was in this project. I think it is fair to say that his prejudice that the world is essentially rational guided his thinking. Schopenhauer's main beef with Hegel I believe is that S. asserted that the world is inherently irrational. Neither viewpoint, of course, allows the world to reveal itself as it is, both viewpoints pre-judge the world. A technical primer for the Science of Logic is at nLab. Two episodes from a podcast concerning the Science of Logic are here and here, episodes 134 part 1 & 2 on The Partially Examined Life. 

As the commenters to your question have pointed out there are for the notion of Irony but not afaik for Coincidence. Irony has a specific meaning for philosophers. Socratic Irony is defined by the OED as “the dissimulation of ignorance practised by Socrates as a means of confuting an adversary”. What Socrates would do is play dumb to force his opponent to give a definition of the topic in question (Justice say) which he would then pick holes in. Wash. Rinse. Repeat. Until the opponent would throw their hands up and say, "Well, it looks like I don't actually know what justice is Socrates, why don't you tell me?" Fun times. Also, true story. A famous contemporary philosophical work by the American Richard Rorty is Contingency, Irony, Solidarity. In it he gives a definition: 

Under Mosaic Law it is either the fifth, sixth, or seventh commandment (depending on the numbering scheme) of the Decalogue that relates to unlawful killing. These are listed in Exodus and again in Deueteronomy (which means "Second reading of the Law"). Is there any chance you could quote your sources? I think this would be good practise in general. It is something I must learn discipline in myself. Your 'yes to life' seems to come from Twilight of the Idols: 

No it hasn't. Because one uncorroborated account which could well be fiction is not admissible as evidence. That's not how scholarship works. Besides, if you read the next paragraph starting “Solon marvelled at his words” you'll see that the priest says that of the cities Athens (Greece) and Sais (Egypt), 

Well according to this 1998 paper by Mark Textor it serves a confused purpose. According to Textor it is used by Kaplan as both a "demonstrative surrogate"[para 31] and an "operator on definite descriptions"[para 32]. I can't find a secondary reading on `dthat' that translates it into ordinary English. Sorry. Maybe reading dthat paper I linked to will help you. 

Regardless of what one thinks of McTaggart's conclusions about the unreality of time your analysis is correct! As you say, the A-series identifies the present. To reword, the A-series chooses or picks out a moment (or position as McTaggart says) in and marks that as the present moment. From there, relative to that present moment, the near past and near future and the distant past and distant future, are constructed. So let us call the A-series the relative conception of time. (the term subjective might also work but relative is probably better because it fits with relational theory in physics.) The B-series relies on the fact that (a bit further up the page). McTaggart characterises the distinctions of this class using the term permanent and the other class as not permanent. But let us go with calling the B-series the absolute conception of time. (The term objective might also work but as we're going with relative let's choose absolute.) This is why your use of standardised Gregorian dates is correct in your last three examples and why their absence is correct in your first three. I'm not sure why you are having difficulty in distinguishing the senses because you have distinguished them reliably and in the manner in which McTaggart has. 

Yes. Hume and Frege's Abstraction Principle: Reference and Invariance in Abstraction Principles It does exactly what it says on the tin. Given a set of things, pick some attribute common to all and use that to refer to the collection. Works for lots of things. You'd get things that are numerical that way Frege thought. Don't know about time and rules of logic though. Can you elaborate on those? do you mean the concept of time as an abstraction? Possibly abstracted from the idea of dimensionality and direction. Do you mean the rules of logic taken together? 

It is not my business here to give a complete explanation of the dichotomy even if I could, nor is it to give a complete reading† of this short dense work. I aim to suggest that your question cannot follow from a standard reading. That is not to dismiss your question in its entirety, only the framing of it which I believe to be inaccurate. Sincerely hope this helps. † I recommend this podcast on the topic. I've posted links to the Partially Examined Life podcast crew before because they base their shows on a close and, to my mind, faithful readings of the texts to hand. 

So there you have it. Though now you do don't you wish you didn't? If we take meaning to be synonymous with sense then we have the old dichotomy. To answer your question then, for Quine the difference between an ontological commitment and an ideological commitment is a distinction of reference versus sense. 

Can they not both be true without being equivalent? What I mean is, cannot both perspectives be simultaneously true? A-Theory is subjective time. The referred to event is relative to the moment of utterance, and that moment of utterance does not have a time-stamp. B-Theory is objective time. The referred to event is relative to a standardised calendar and chronology like the Gregorian calendar and our Ancient Egyptian/Greek 24 equinoctial hours and 60 * 60 sexagesimal minutes and seconds. I do not see how these perspectives are mutually incompatible frames of reference. They are complementary to my eyes. Yes we all live in our own present now (that is the convention) but we have agreed on an external impersonal time-frame also which doesn't eradicate the relativistic time-frame, does it? As to your question about using a technique like Turing Equivalence to map from one frame to the other. Unfortunately I don't think so in this case though I do think in general yours is a good idea. Though I have said that the frames are compatible and complementary they are not equivalent in that they do not share some underlying model. 

Hegel wrote two books on logic. His Science of Logic (1812–1816) and his Encyclopaedia Logic (1817). For Hegel logic is more like the ancient logos so it includes not only the formal arrangement of things but also the grounds of things, i.e. metaphysics. His Logic comes prior to his Phenomenology. Though more difficult and less of a go to text in the Anglo-American tradition it most definitely is the place to start. One understands how he arrived at his conception of the historical world-spirit by understanding his logic. One understands how he deals with phenomena by understanding his logic. To situate Hegel one needs to have a clear idea what H. was objecting to in Kant's work, but that is another days's work. 

It is being extra verbose in order to show that the relation is symmetric. Saeed would appear to be trying to capture semantic relations other than truth-functional relations -- as truth-functional relations are well studied. He is using [T]ruth and [F]alsity here to capture the notion of preservation (or not) of meaning across/between lexical/phrasal/sentential units. So let's take the phrases and . Both of these are propositions and if it is the case that an electrical fault has caused your printer to catch fire then both these propositions will be true. Propositions seem to be always of the form -- See here for a discussion of the copula -- Are they always cast in this form? In truth I am unsure :) Anyway, we cannot say or but we can say which is how the notion of [T]ruth / [F]alsity is being tied with the notion of synonymy. 

Nietzsche, The Birth of Tragedy, CAMBRIDGE TEXTS IN THE HISTORY OF PHILOSOPHY (2007), Translated RONALD SPEIRS, opening paragraph, 

So if you take Nothing as Emptiness, and Being as Fullness or Oneness which isn't too big a stretch of the imagination I would suggest the identifying of Emptiness with Oneness is not unprecedented. 

I think what the quote is trying to say is this. Imagine two people arguing about the moral status of vegetarianism and then someone else comes along who denies that vegetarianism is a moral issue in the first place. The rather obvious point that I believe Denton is trying to make here is that for people to become politically motivated about something they must perceive it to be a politically charged situation in the first place. Sound about right? 

Hans-Georg Moeller gives an exegesis of Luhmann in Luhmann Explained. You will definitely find a critical examination there. Be forewarned though, Moeller is an orthodox Luhmannian so he does not diverge from Luhmann in any substantive way. For what it's worth Law as a Social System uses the legal/illegal distinction. Religion as a Social System uses immanent/transcendent. Education uses pass/fail. And so on for Art, the Mass Media, Politics, the Economy... The binary code (or opposition) can be most usefully thought as the distinction that grounds (my word) a functionally differentiated social system. I think it may not even have to be a strict binary distinction but mark end-points in a continuum which gives us (in the case of Law as a Social System, for instance) legal, quasi-legal, illegal, and their variants. 

I leave it as an exercise to the reader to decide for themselves if Nietzsche's setting up of the notion of eternal return is incompatible with his observation that people are hypocrites and that murder is commonplace. 

Click here for a different translation to see the subtle differences. I think that a clear reading of the text does not support the framing and construction of your question. The Apollonian/Dionysian dichotomy has had reams devoted to it :) not least of which is Nietzsche's The Birth of Tragedy. As you know Apollo and Dionysus are mythological figures, sons of the Ancient Greek sky god Zeus, this makes them sons of the big cheese. These two figures have come to symbolise many different aspects of human nature but it is their relation to art and the artistic impulse and their interrelation that Nietzsche explores. This is what my edition, a Penguin Classic has to say, 

$URL$ This being Quine we have the typical distortion and abuse of normal language. For that reason, as ultimately pointless though it is, we must first try to understand what Quine means when he uses the phrases 'ontological commitments' and 'ideological commitments'. First of all Quine is speaking about the ontology of a theory and ideology of a theory. Or as he says: 

A compound phrase like is not a logical contradiction]($URL$ it is a contradiction-in-terms. In this case and are sub-terms. Combining the sub-terms gives a contradiction-in-terms. By the definition of the sub-terms -- that is to say, going by what it means for something to be a married thing and going by what it means for something to be a bachelor -- one can't have a married bachelor. If the meanings of the sub-terms of a compound term contradict each other then it is fair to say that the compound term is meaningless, one can talk about such things using natural language but one can never actually construct or instantiate such things in the “real world”. Another example would be spherical cubes. A logical contradiction a "logical incompatibility between two or more propositions". This is the given definition of a logical contradiction. None of the examples you gave are logical contradictions. But if you had given any examples of a logical contradiction we could be assured that they have one and only representation†, that of ⊥ (falsum). I think it is fair to say that a contradiction-in-terms is semantically meaningless. Let's analyse your assertions .. and your questions .. in light of this. Assuming we are not talking about fictional scenarios -- I could imagine some kind of Woody Allen surreal comedy playing with these kinds of entities :) -- none of through could articulate actual states of affairs. Something like does make a kind of sense. It could be answered with no. And this hinges on a fine distinction. Not because there happen to be no married bachelors at this point in time and/or in this particular place and/or in a certain way -- that is to say, that there could be but there happen in this instance not to be -- but because there could never be by virtue of the semantic meaninglessness of the compound term. Something like is more nonsensical because we're not merely speaking about existence now but sort of assuming the existence and asking for additional information. Valid response are both no and the question is meaningless. It could be answered like, “The answer is no but not because of anything to do with quirky facts about percentages and Maryland but because it doesn't even make sense to talk about married bachelors so the whole question is a quite meaningless.” and amount to the same kind of thing as . For answer is yes for the reasons given for . The answer to is a simple yes because that necessarily acknowledges the contradiction-in-terms. †