Barely related note: Check how different is that from the grammar changes in Thai language, suggested in 1942. 

I've never found any researches of this topic. So, can anyone please explain and/or point me on some researches about: 

Other languages. There are many dialects of Thai, and all they have dialectal forms of family member pronouns. And they do use them just the way I described above. So I suppose that many languages from Asian/Pacific region take similar approach for addressing strangers. I haven't checked specifically, however. 

There is a certain meaning, and a sentence constructed in a particular language, obviously, uses the linguistic tools (or instruments) of that language to convey the meaning. In English, the word order is a tool (one of many) to convey grammatical information. No other tool can replace its function. Hence, "John loves Mary" and "Mary loves John" convey two essentially different meanings (and "loves Mary John" conveys no meaning at all). In other languages, other tools are used. One of the most typical tools is case system. Using case markers, one can mark subject and object to make the sentence meaningful. If the case system is developed well enough, the word order (or another tool) can be more or less safely ignored, without losing the meaning. There are quite a few questions on this site that can shed the light on this phenomenon: 

Yes, there are some sources comparing Kriol to Torres Strait Creole/Broken. In the 'Handbook of Varieties of English' Vol 1 (Phonology), there is a chapter by Malcolm (2004) 'Australian creoles and Aboriginal English: phonetics and phonology'. You can read some of the chapter here on Google Books, p.656. And in 'Varieties of English' Vol 3 (The Pacific and Australasia), there is another chapter by Malcolm (2008) 'Australian creoles and Aboriginal English: morphology and syntax'. (Sorry, no online content for that one). These chapters together give a really good overview of the features of both creoles, and frame the discussion by topic rather than by creole, so there is plenty of comparison between them. Also, here is a link to a (quite dated) paper with some earlier comparisons between the two creoles, by Sandefur (1986). See pages 19-24. 

And you can see that in this, the mass/collective noun 'butter' is unmarked for the collective form but marked for the singulative formation, with distinct morphology from the plural formation and the 'replacement pattern'. In the example given above, and others typical of the tripartite system, for a noun like 'bell' the underlying form is a singular, with a morphologically complex plural, while the morphologically unmarked and thus underlying form of ‘butter’ is plural/collective/mass both grammatically and semantically. A singulative noun is typically a word that denotes an item that is singled out from a mass or group of similar items. Items that normally occur in pairs or larger numbers are expressed by nouns that are semantically and grammatically plural or collective and morphologically not overtly marked. For a noun like 'loincloth', with the 'replacement pattern', both forms a morphologically complex, and neither may be underlying. Of course, the semantic distinctions made by speakers of a particular language are crucial to determining how a noun is treated for number marking. This is discussed quite a bit in this paper by Dimmendaal on number marking and noun classification in Nilo-Saharan (2000) (access via an institution). He argues that that there is a continuum between 'object' and 'substance', with the end points of this continuum being universally distinguished (i.e. the most 'county' count nouns and the most 'massy' mass nouns), but with intermediate cases being "linguistically malleable" across languages. This is not just true for, say, Nilo-Saharan languages compared to Indo-European languages - it can be true for even very closely related languages, because there is an enormous amount of variation in how these systems work (particularly in the parts of Africa relevant to the Niger-Congo and Nilo-Saharan language groupings, where there are large amounts of linguistic transfer between languages which are geographically close but genetically distant). Dimmendaal also gives examples from some other languages which show structural similarities to the the singulative marking patterns in the tripartite systems of Nilo-Saharan, such as Russian gorox 'peas', gorošina 'pea'. In the Native American language Kiowa, nouns which are inherently singular or dual take a number suffix to mark plural, while other nouns which are inherently dual or plural ('bone', 'rib', 'wing') take a singulative marker. So, basically, mass nouns are 'marked', or indicated, by virtue of being morphologically unmarked but having a clear singulative counterpart, and unique noun morphology. The above points do not take into account the complex interactions between noun classifier systems and number marking in Nilo-Saharan languages, nor external ways of indicating the 'mass-ness' of a noun (the classificatory verbs discussed by @Daniel Briggs) - there are also many other ways to indicate this beyond the noun morphology. 

Nouns that do not decline They usually used to be proper nouns that later started to mean common terms (whisky, Champagne, Bourdeau, brandy, Euro). Note they have retained capitalization in English, but in Slavic languages they are regular words, unlike toponyms. There's no certain rule, and GG is assigned according to similar existing loanword nouns. For instance, most non-declining words borrowed from Romance languages are neuter due to their pronunciation (ending with or ). There are many exceptions, however: 

The answer would be, Definitely, Yes. The entire science of Etymology and Historical Linguistics is based on this very principle. Some linguists even consider the principle of regular changes to be a key, fundamental discovery of 19th century's Historical Linguistics. If you take a modern word and you need to know its origin, you always trace an regular, unbreakable chain of transitions this word underwent. But you can scientifically prove these transitions only if the whole set of words having a certain sound underwent exactly the same change, not only this single word. Each phoneme transition is considered uniform (regular) in a certain language on a certain period of time. These changes, being combined, can drive you straight to the etymological origin of a certain word. 

He then goes on to suggest that there might be a stronger correlation between more compounding and 'deeper' grammaticalization; the obsolescence of basic source lexemes for the grammaticalizing forms (the source lexemes typically being replaced by compounds) might actually encourage the partially grammaticalized versions to shed their lexical-like attributes, and allow behavioural restrictions to become more firmly established. There are other hints of similar observations around, but these sorts of things can be very difficult to tease out in the early (or mid-term) stages, and require a lot of data, so I think it will be some time before we know for sure whether some of these languages are becoming more agglutinating. Seeing as there is really no such thing as a purely isolating language, we also can't know for sure whether some of these languages are on their way to becoming more or less isolating - they might not be ready to move on to agglutinating if they're not done with the isolating stage! 

They are two different phenomenons. Portuguese. The first one is a regular adjective, inflected according to Grammatical Gender which governs adjective and verb inflections according to the associated noun. This is also confirmed by presence of plural forms: MASC/PL obrigados, FEM/PL obrigadas and diminutive forms MASC obrigadinho and FEM obrigadinha. Don't be confused with the fact that the actual noun or pronoun is omitted. Thai politeness particles are of a different nature. There is no noun/adjective/verb inflections in Thai whatsoever. Instead, the politeness particles, like ครับ , คะ only denote the social relationship between a speaker and a listener. For example, a Thai mother can address their kid with to indicate her power over a kid or to stress some request to be fulfilled, and at the same time a father may address his kid (usually, a young daughter) with to indicate his father's feelings. Also, in military is widely used, regardless of the gender. Furthermore, it can be even ครับผม , where ผม is a masculine 1st person pronoun ("I"). 

@hippietrail, re: your query about which language the documentation should actually begin in, it's generally thought that your work is most valid if all of the data are collected through the actual language you are documenting. This means that you can either essentially start out 'mute', and learn from scratch, or try to learn some of the language before you start the project. This is all well and good, but for languages that are under-documented (or undocumented), you would be lucky to find sufficient materials available to help you learn the language on your own, before going into the field. So, mostly, people will first learn the lingua franca of the area - if you plan to work on a small native language of Africa, the lingua franca might be Arabic, French, English, or a dominant native language like Kiswahili. And yes, in Australia, the lingua franca might be Kriol. Then, ideally, you'd gradually learn the language you are actually documenting, and use this to verify data you already have, and continue collecting more. In reality, this situation won't always work - it's far more time consuming for the linguist if it's necessary to get an extra language or two under your belt before getting down to the nuts and bolts of documentation, and funding might not always allow for those extra few months as a learner. Not all language documentation entails years spent working on the one language - sometimes an opportunity arises to just work on a language for a short time, or on a specific feature, and it's important to make the most of these opportunities because some documentation is still better than no documentation. In those situations, you might be more likely to end up working with educated speakers who are as fluent in English (or any given language) as you, and that's ok too, as long as you're aware of the possible pitfalls of the 'translation method'. 

As you see, the actor and the idea are essentially the same, but the linkage between them indicates the whole opposite message. Yet another example: 

If a stranger is certainly younger than you, use น้อง ; If they are in the age of your parents, use ลุง for males and ป้า for females. 

Step 3 Assign weights taken at Step 1 to the N-grams of Step 2. Step 4, computing the weight of the sentence of the training set It is a bit tricky because you have to invent a good mechanism of computing the weight of entire sentence here. Start with a plain multiplication, but get ready if depending on the nature of your training set, you will have to do a more sophisticated weight computation, for example, using unigrams and/or trigrams as well. Make sure that you gracefully handle zero values, here's why. Imagine your training set contains a greeting phrase like: 

In a way, yes. The thing about mass nouns is that the things they refer to are usually inherently plural/collective/inseparable, like flour, milk, dust, and grass. Those things are most commonly encountered or discussed as, well, masses of a given substance, rather than individual pieces of said substance. So, it would be somewhat unusual for a language to explicitly mark the 'mass' form of a mass noun, because that would suggest that 'a drop of milk' is the run-of-the mill, everyday way of talking about milk, while 'many drops of milk as one mass' needs to be explicitly indicated because your audience couldn't assume that's what you meant. In effect, you would end up with a similar system to the singular vs. plural marking that happens for count nouns, and it would erode an existing distinction between mass nouns and count nouns. So instead, what some languages do is mark the singulative form of a mass noun, which means basically that there is a marked form of the noun to indicate when it is a piece/part of the unmarked mass noun. In English, we can only do this in a roundabout way: a grain of rice vs. rice, but if we had a singulative marker, say *-op, we could just say *ricop and rice, in the same way as in Bari, you have lɛ-tat 'a drop of milk' and lɛ 'milk'. A system like this means that, although the mass form of the mass noun is unmarked, mass nouns have their own specific morphology as opposed to count nouns, so are easily distinguished from count nouns (unlike in English, where mass nouns don't take any special morphemes). Singulative marking is encountered as part of the tripartite number marking patterns found in many Nilo-Saharan and Niger-Congo languages. A tripartite number system exhibits three principles of number indication, namely pluralisation, singulativisation, and substitution of number morphemes, as discussed in this paper on Western Nilotic noun morphology by Storch (2007). Here is an example from Anywa (Anuak) from Reh 1996 but reproduced by Storch: 

P.S. Since you mentioned Russian, most Slavic languages have a rather complex possessive determiner agreement, depending on grammatic Person being used: 

Lexical tones and prosody peacefully co-exist in these languages. The speakers intuitively use only those pitch contours that do not overlap with the lexical tones. Even more, sometimes an exaggerated tone may serve as an intonation, and this is used in "ghetto talk". Tonal contours in normal speech Native speakers often dilute the lexical tones in day-by-day conversation. This phenomenon also becomes evident in situations when preserving tones is somewhat complicated: See this answer for how Chinese and Thai song writers differently deal with the situations when following melody contradict the lexical tones. An example from personal experience As an expat who lives in Thailand and studies Thai language, I tend to use the tones "properly", as they are taught in schools, unlike the natives who often "dilute" the tones. I'm often being told that my speech sounds more emotional than it should be. Trying to use less vivid tones solves the problem. An example Check the following video (YouTube). It's a trailer of a youth comedy "ATM: Er Rak Error". You will see many situations young people use slang, impolite expressions, and even expletives (to an extent it is allowed for use in movies rolled in theater and TV). Pay special attention to scenes when the young people talk to each other (when no boss around), and especially the final scene (at time mark 02:25). You will definitely notice extremely vivid tone contours for swear words.