I would take issue with the idea of human life as being an optimisation process - it models mankind as Homo Economicus - an idea that has been widely critiqued. The role of emotions is much wider than solving problems, they play a huge part in society and our lives. Emotions can be ends in themselves. Emotions are not particularly random. They in-fact push are behaviour in very specific directions (re. your question number 2: these directions have been selected for during human evolution). There are other sources of randomness and spontaneity that can be part of cognitive processes. Life is an on-going process. What points in time count as optima, what counts as transitions? It the utility function static, or does it change as we develop different goals and purposes? It's not clear that we reach, or even aim for, global optima (see 1.). Better optima, perhaps. What are these global optima, and for that matter... What is it that these utility functions are supposed to describe anyway? 

This sounds like we a quest for, and you'll have to excuse my vagueness here, the "first instance" of Dasein. One of Heidegger's students, Hans Jonas, discusses something that sounds similar in Phenomenon of Life Jonas talks about man's ability to form images and how this relates to man's ability to form an image of himself. He claims that this ability is a defining characteristic of humanity and cites cave paintings, such as those a Altamira, as the first evidence of humanity as distinct from the rest of life. Jonas' conception of "life" and Heidegger's "Being" are supported by very different arguments, but Jonas' claim that "life can only be known by life" and Heidegger's description of Dasein where it is "being in such a way that one has an understanding of Being" seem to share the same character. In summary, they both talk about something similar 

A epistemological variant of Homer's question about whether God could microwave a burito so hot He himself could not eat it, is about whether God could know what it is like not to know everything. Another variant concerns God's practical reason, and whether he can know what it is like to sin. I have another variant here... In his essay, "Is God a Mathematician: The Meaning of Metabolism", Jonas presents a similar argument concerning the limitations of mathematical physics. His notion of the mathematician God seems to be not unlike a Laplacian Demon, and he uses this God to attack a position held by his contemporaries - essentially that the cosmos is material and the physicists ontology is complete. Very roughly, he argues that the mathematician God would have no means to determine what is alive and what is not. There would be particles and forces, but no delineation of organisms as such. 

You are a naturalist and assign a very low probability (or even, a priori a 0) to statements like "there is a God". It is very common take naturalism as an a priori principle and there to assign a zero. You remain fully uncertain at 50% and not a proper naturalist, but at least you're not believing in anything. 

I've been thinking about catharsis (in the sense used in aesthetics) and I'm trying to feel out the edges of its accepted application. Trance music is often described using words such as "euphoric" and "exhilarating". Whilst these are a good description of the resultant emotional state many experience when listening to this kind of music, these words fall short of describing the devices employed by the artist in creating that state. A defining characteristic of trance music is a slow build up of tension, usually through gradual introduction of instrumental parts, increase of reverb, cut-off and other effects, and crescendo. These produce an increasingly full sound which eventually reaches a climax at which the tension is released. This release is achieved by a large discontinuous change, usually one which renews emphasis on the rhythmic aspects of the work. Where there is dancing, it continues with renewed energy. Unlike "euphoric" and "exhilarating", "catharsis" seems like it may capture the build up and release of tension I have described. Yet the Greek meaning, "purification", seems to imply it is the release of specifically negative emotions. In its (rather occasional) every-day usage I've only really heard it used in discussing drama or in reference to violence in films, video games, or defecation. It seems to me that the emotions evoked during the building-up parts of trance music are perhaps not negative enough to make the term "catharsis" appropriate. Furthermore, there seems to be some kind of notion that the emotions from which there is release must be pre-existing - that they are things you already feel deep down and the work simply gives a means by which they can be safely expressed. I'm not saying that this isn't true of trance music (far from it) but perhaps it excludes the use of catharsis to describe the building-up-and-release I have described above. So, to me, the question boils down to this: is any build of tension and subsequent release enough to warrant the label of catharsis? If one accepts the idea that trance music is cathartic, a number of other situations would seem to be included along with it, such as a child opening their Christmas presents after a number of restless nights with them sitting under the tree, getting that delivery from an online retailer that you were looking forward to, or finally meeting up with friends/family after a long journey. These are certainly quite mundane compared to the canonical examples (the downfall of Macbeth, vomiting &c). If one does not accept this idea, then is there a better word? I should probably emphasise that I'm asking about whether the "build up and release" device used by the creators of trance music makes use of catharsis, not whether a listener can find trance music cathartic (I'm sure they do!). 

A modern philosophical tradition that fits your description is Deep Ecology. The label is fairly new, but in various forms these ideas have been present in many philosophies, ideologies and counter-cultures. More modern philosophies tend to begin with the prefix Eco-, such as Ecocommunism, Ecofeminism, Ecosexuality and so forth. Some older examples are Anarcho-primitivism and Feral Subculture. And of course there is various "green" movements that would fit. Your story makes me think of Christopher McCandless and the moving film made about him 

Many people would disagree with this. There is some extra stuff here that is not part of the definition of ethics. Here is the OED definition (first one) 

Both these ideas existed before Einstein so it's quite hard to pin down. But he would not be able to explain conventional simultaneity in any way without already having a good understanding of relative simultaneity. After all, there wasn't much to explain about conventional simultaneity before relativity, it was just two things happening at the same time and "same time" was unambiguous. 

A sample that is taken that conforms to a probability model. For example, number of photons reaching my retina would realise a Poisson distributed variable. In neuroscience, there is a question concerning how we perform probabilistic reasoning: Where in the brain do we find the probability distributions that we use for this (the answer is we don't have them explicitly as that would need far too much brain). This has been a highly debated topic in recent years. In this case "realised" can be used to mean "represented by neurons or neural activation" (representation is itself is a highly overloaded term). 

Many matters in academia, such as who gets funding, what gets published and who gets employed are settled by a relatively small group of people. This applies quite broadly, from the arts to the sciences. In the case of funding where public money is being spent on projects, a small group of people are making a decision on behalf of the population at large. The power to make these decisions is granted by the people in a very indirect way, elected representatives choose bodies, which then use a rather complex system of panels to make decisions. There are checks and balances of course. But is this incredibly indirect representation of the population enough to make these panels legitimate? Are there other factors that legitimacy rests on? Perhaps institutions responsible for making these decisions and the systems they employ provide a source of legitimacy. Perhaps its only the case when their procedures are out in the open. Anyway, I'm struggling with this a bit, any suggestions would be welcome. 

Here is the story I've heard expressed by a number of scientists, statisticians, and at least one philosopher. It is certainly not the only interpretation available, but I consider it to be quite defensible. In it, Bayesian reasoning makes no claim to determining truth on its own, only to giving an all important "standard of evidence" to scientific field. The story goes roughly as follows: It's how it works: Bayesian reasoning is a good description of how judgements are made in science, in particular, it can be used to summarise most (if not all) statistical inferences. It is also consistent with classical logic. It's how it should work: The way we make inferences using statistics is pretty much correct (though we might be making tacit assumptions. The argument is then that these hidden assumptions are made clearer by using Bayesian reasoning.) and we can do it more formally: We can use mathematics to describe a fictional agent that does Bayesian inference, and allow it prior knowledge that accords with the standing assumptions of our field. We can then give it our data and see what conclusions it draws. As we have agreed on the agents prior knowledge, and agreed that it reasons correctly, then we should be agreed on the conclusions it makes. Basically, we make a model of how we think we should think and use it to check that we are thinking in that way. Clearly this requires one to accept the validity of the statistical model. That choice is up to you, just like it's up to you to decide if p<0.1 is actually meaningful in any application of classical statistics. As for how the agent actually combines probabilities once it has been given them a scientific community, that's just Bayes rule. Note: In actual practice, actually choosing a prior is generally avoided (as people can disagree), and people only report how a prior would change (likelihood ratios etc). Some do use explicit priors, but only in some rather specific domains 

The two ideas are obviously related genealogically, but this does not mean they mark out the same thing. Life and Being seem to be different things in general, but is Jonas' humanity, and Heidegger's Dasein the same? If so, does Dasein begin with the making of images? 

This is essentially what happened to Archimedes when he shouted "Eureka!". Archimedes is stuck on a problem, he can't think of a solution (rational). So he has a bath to relax (emotive) and this leads to a (rational) solution which he would otherwise have missed. This part of it is fine. But you should be very careful not to stretch the analogy too far: