One of the nice things about relativity is that it doesn't matter how fast you are traveling, only how fast you are traveling relative to something else. So what does that mean? 

Background: At least in the USA, there are a lot of people who believe that anthropogenic climate change is a hoax. One day an astronaut in the ISS is doing a live Q&A and taking pictures of the earth, and sees clouds forming a very clear message: 

I'm going to open this up to all levels of technology - I'm curious to see if someone can figure out how to do this with ancient technology, but this seems like it could be challenging to modern technology as well. 

Yeah, this bit is just pure science fiction. In short, you've got a made up substance that is not realistic at all. Given that it's made of handwavium, there's no way to tell what could be done to effectively avoid it - there's always a way for handwavium to get around whatever protections you can come up with. 

You need areas of the brain to be wired for specific senses. There's no way to get around this. Why? Memory. Pay attention to your senses for a minute. Look around you. Listen. How many things can you see? How many things can you feel? How many things can you hear? Unless you lack all of those senses, the answer is most likely "a lot of things." Do you recognize them? Unless you were recently kidnapped and put into an alien zoo, chances are you recognize most of the things you currently sense. How do you recognize them? Your brain has experienced them before, and is currently storing the information you need to let you recognize them. However, the information you need is different for each sense. For example, I currently have a plastic cup on my desk. In order for me to recognize that, my brain needs to readily access a number of key pieces of information - knowledge about color, reflectivity, transparency, what shapes look like, etc. Additionally, my brain has to know how to interpret the signals that are coming from my eyes. What about trying to identify it by touch? I have to know about smoothness, flexibility, hardness, what shapes feel like, etc. All of this information has to be stored somewhere. And it is, in the areas of your brain wired for specific senses. The reason why a person who loses a sense can devote more brainpower to their other senses is that the area of their brain devoted to the lost sense is no longer needed. If, after the brainpower gets devoted to other senses, the person were to have surgery restore that sense, they would have to relearn how to use that sense. So what about if you had an extra area of your brain that was devoted to interpreting senses, but not any specific one? This still wouldn't work very well unless you were to use it for a particular sense for a long time - it would be like an amateur coming up to a nuclear physicist and saying "I would like to help you, what can I do?" Now, there might be "go get me water" kinds of tasks that would be sufficiently common between the different senses, but for the most part it would be waiting around being useless. It is would be far more useful divide that area up between the senses for them to use permanently. One last thing to consider: what if your brain somehow duplicated the section of your brain for a particular sense? This isn't going to work either - if both copies receive the same signals, they'll both get the same result. What about if the signal was divided between the two copies? Well, how would your brain know how to divide the signal before it's been processed? Also, your brain isn't used to processing only a portion of the signal, so you'd likely get confused. Even if the signal was divided reasonably and then processed, the results would then have to be combined. Again, this will require a lot of extra brainpower that would have been better off being divided among your senses in the first place. In summary, it doesn't make sense for your brain to try to reserve power for flexible use of your senses - the significant overhead required isn't worth the small benefit you might gain from it. 

Basically, even the chance to observe their tech is worth giving them everything they want. The only thing they have to do is not use up their resources destroying us. 

Not very long A Metropolis consists of a lot of people in a small area. Unless we're talking about a science-fiction high-tech metropolis, they don't produce their own food, and they don't produce their own power. Otherwise, food is continually brought in from surrounding areas, and the power stations powering the city are somewhere nearby but outside of the city. So immediately, all electricity is gone. It's unlikely that many people will have enough non-perishable food (since refrigerators aren't running anymore) for more than a week or two. In order to survive, everyone will have to abandon the metropolis. With all roads outside of the city being gone, most vehicles will be useless and people will have to proceed on foot. Unfortunately, there's not going to be enough food for everyone in the surrounding areas unless the city was surrounded for miles and miles by orchards that did not disappear - for the amount of people that you can expect to have in a metropolis, it will be like a swarm of locusts leaving the city. Once everyone is sufficiently spread out, both through death and people getting farther from the city, people will have a chance to survive. A lot more people will die due to accidents, disease, and being unable to figure out how to survive in a low-tech situation, but chances are good that enough people will survive for the human race to continue. 

Settlement size will depend much more on how habitable your "habitable" world is and how much they need in order to bootstrap their society, than on what would be better for quick expansion. How fast a population can expand doesn't depend on how large your settlements are - it depends on how safe you can keep your people. A man and woman can have just as many children in a small settlement as they can in a large settlement as long as you have enough food for everyone and the ability to keep them safe. Habitability: How habitable is the new world? Does it already have plant life, a breathable atmosphere, seasons that don't get dangerously hot or cold, and no dangerous wildlife to worry about? If that's the case, then you could easily have small settlements similar to what happened early in the history of the U.S. This will allow for greater discovery and acquisition of resources. What about if the world isn't quite so ideal? The more dangerous the planet is, the more that people will want to stay together for efficiency of resource use and security. For example, if the planet is mostly safe but doesn't yet have enough oxygen for us to breathe without assistance, you'll need to have larger settlements due to the difficulty in building controlled-atmosphere living spaces. Tech needed: On the high-tech end of the spectrum, your settlers could have fabricators capable of mass to energy to mass conversion. The fabricators could consume any matter, use some of the energy produced to power themselves, and use the rest to produce whatever items the settlers need. The settlers won't need help from others, allowing them to spread out as much as they want. If their tech level is fairly close to ours, they're going to want to start out with large settlements. Unless they're trying to "go back to nature", it takes a lot of infrastructure in order to have a modern society. For example, think about what it takes to produce electronics - you need to be able to find metal ores, process those ores, acquire sources of silicon, find sources of some rare earth elements, be able to produce the chemicals necessary in the manufacturing processes, build cleanroom facilities, and then manufacture the electronics (and I'm sure I've glossed over some key parts of the process). And that's just one aspect of a modern society. They'll need large settlements working hard in order to build up their infrastructure. Summary: The easier it is to keep everyone safe, the more they can (and likely will) spread out. Finding a mate is likely not the biggest challenge the settlers will be facing. 

Now we have party A with 46% of the vote, party B with 31%, and party C with 18% of the vote. So now A wins seat 3, C has to win seat 2, and B gets seat 1. This means the candidate in district 2 definitely has an incentive to start their own party, rather than risk losing their seat just because they didn't do quite as well in their district as the other did in theirs. This will likely to lead to a proliferation of small parties, so a coalition scenario is all but inevitable. Also, I really can't say what this would do to the government - a system which rewards people backstabbing each other politically makes me think it will rapidly become very dysfunctional. 

Aside from those infected in the initial spread, very few people will be infected by the mutated strain. As others have mentioned, HIV is a blood-borne pathogen. One of the most relevant effects of this is that even if it can survive for a significant amount of time outside of the body, it doesn't have a good mechanism for getting outside the body. I mean, when was the last time you coughed up blood? Or sneezed blood? It doesn't happen very frequently. Also, even being able to survive outside the body does not mean that it would even be able to infect many people that way. Your body has a lot of defenses against bacteria and viruses, and HIV isn't used to dealing with them. It won't be in as high of concentrations when it is airborne, and oral sex is already low risk for transmitting HIV. Taking these two together, it's unlikely that many people would actually get infected. If you want you could, of course, handwave these issues away and say that it is as infectious as the common cold or the flu or measles or whatever you want. However, at that point you've changed the virus so much from what it currently is that there is no way for us to give you a good answer to your question - it would no longer be HIV, it would be a virus made of handwavium with unexplainable abilities. 

I doubt that life could evolve on such a planet, though it might be able to survive if it was put there. First of all, let's establish some basics - in order to have an orbital period of around 2.4 Earth years (~21/8.9) the planet needs to be about 1.8 times as far from the its sun as the Earth is from ours. In our solar system, that would be about halfway between Mars (1.5 AU) and the inner-most part of the asteroid belt (2.2 AU). With our sun the planet would probably be too cold, but if you say its sun is about 33% brighter than ours, the planet would be getting about the same amount of energy as Earth currently does. (Side note - I think an almost-tidally-locked planet that far away from its sun is stretching plausibility a little. The process happens fastest to planets that are much closer to their suns) So, if the planet is given about as much energy as the Earth gets, what does it look like? An oven on one side and a freezer on the other. With constant sunlight for almost 10 Earth years, temperatures are going to get very high on the day side. There will still be some liquid water but only because the air is so humid that it can't hold any more water. So any pools would have water temperatures above 100 degrees Celsius. There's no way for anything to reduce it's body temperature - everything is uniformly hot. The night side isn't much better. Without any sunlight for 10 Earth years, it's going to be frozen solid, so any oceans will end up covered in a thick sheet of ice. However, this will insulate the water below it, preventing the ocean from freezing solid. This makes the oceans potentially survivable, though the lack of sunlight prevents a good food chain from being established. Anything on land is going to die - all water is going to be frozen solid, and any plants would shatter as the water inside them froze. Hibernation isn't a viable for animals - body temperatures need to stay above freezing, and with how cold it would be they would still be spending a lot of energy simply staying warm. There's no way they would be able to store up enough energy ahead of time to survive. So what about the dawn and dusk areas? Here, the temperatures are not so extreme, so you might think that it would be a good place to live. Think about it though - on one side you've got a large mass of cold, dry air, and on the other side you've got a large mass of hot, moist air. That's a recipe for massive storms. Anything living here would be subject to constant thunderstorms and tornados. Unfortunately, that means that there's not enough sunlight for plants (even if they could avoid being torn out by the high wind-speeds). This planet is going to be very hostile to life. There's no way that life could evolve there - it would not have billions of years of evolution behind it to help it survive extreme conditions. Life would not have enough energy on the night side. Everything gets cooked on the day side. The dawn and dusk areas are perpetually storms, preventing anything from getting established. What if we turn down the sun a little? This could make the day side of the planet habitable - if the sun is providing just enough energy to keep the day side at a reasonable temperature, plants and animals could live there. Animals would always be gradually moving toward dawn. Plants would follow pretty much the same strategy as they do here - use wind and animals to spread their seeds, especially toward dawn where no plants are living yet (as it is just becoming newly habitable again). The night side is still (and even more so) uninhabitable. The temperatures are just too cold for anything to survive. The dawn and dusk area as still stormy. With temperatures being more moderate on the day side I believe the storms won't be as intense, but I'm not sure how different they would be. How would life evolve there? This is the hardest part. Ocean currents would have to be just right for millions and millions of years. As life was getting started and evolving, it would not have any capability of migrating on its own. It would have to rely on ocean currents to keep it in on the day side. However there's going to be warm and cold water mixing, just as there's warm and cold air mixing. This makes the ocean about as dangerous as the sky. It's going to cause ocean currents that pull warm water into the night side, and push cold water into the day side. Primitive life would have to stay away from both the dawn and the dusk sides if it hoped to survive and, as I said before, it has no way to do that on its own. So again, it is very unlikely that such a planet would be capable of developing life, but developed life could be put there and survive.