I suggest you go and read more of Kelly Starrets and Bret Contreras work. I had writen this for myself a while back and thought it could help you. 

So how is it possible that the compound exercise is going to get you bigger arms than the isolation exercise? It wont. As Berin L stated " it's not an either/or proposition". You must use both for bigger arms. Now in terms of time efficiency, compound would win if you used nearly identical stressors. One thing i want to clear up: Compounds will make you bigger simply because the main compounds (squats and deadlifts) work the legs. So the "biggness" will come from the legs. You will weight more because your legs weight more. 

Anterior pelvic tilt or ATP "could be due to a number of reasons such as increased erector spinae and hip flexor strength relative to gluteal and abdominal strength." Your main goal based on your question is to fix your excessive anterior pelvic tilt. To accomplish this you must address basic principals in the specified order. 

This article describes a way to have correct posture just using your body: $URL$ It is called the bracing sequence; To simplify the sequence I just think about it this way "the butt sets the posture but you cant walk with your but squeezed" so: 

what newbie gains are not: when you start working out you have 2 months to workout every day as hard as possible and eat all the food in the world because if you don't you will have wasted an opportunity window. what newbie gains are: you start with a 45 bar squat and add 15 lbs every week and in 12 weeks your are squatting 225 lbs. essentially newbie gains is the term for the fact that new trainees don't and shouldn't use a super complicated Russian program: newbie gains are in part due to quick strenght increse due to practice not muscle as bret contreras put it "In Neuromechanics of Human Movement, Roger Enoka (Enoka, 2008) lists eight potential neurological areas for non-hypertrophy related strength gains: Enhanced output from supraspinal centers as suggested by findings with imagined contractions Reduced coactivation of antagonist muscles Greater activation of agonist and synergist muscles Enhanced coupling of spinal interneurons that produces cross-education Changes in descending drive that reduce the bilateral deficit Shared input to motor neurons that increases motor unit synchronization Greater muscle activation (EMG) Heightened excitability and altered connections into motor neurons" "will I end up sacrificing any gains by doing low weight exercises such as dumbbell dead lifts with only about 12kg weights max on each hand" no. please dont use that as an excuse. just start lifting and try your best to get a bar or gym equipment 

Get back into your old "habit" (willpower literally works exactly like a muscle). Once you're there fine tune your workout. 

2.) Standing in a doorway with your palms facing forward with your arms at shoulder level lean forward. 

Nothing to be concerned with, that’s a normal compensation while doing planks. A couple things are going on here: 

By neutral they mean subtalar neutral. This is the position of the subtalar joint in which the foot is neither pronated nor supinated. When the hindfoot is neutral. Excessive or prolonged motion or lack of motion will cause various deformities and pathologies. Proper biomechanics allow human beings to walk, run, jump, and move freely without pain or dysfunction. A pair of shoes off the shelf cannot be "neutral" as the topography of everyones foot differs. In addition the density (hardness) of your shoe insert will vary based on your unique requirements. To attain this neutral position you must be assessed by a Podiatrist and have a custom orthotic (shoe insert) casted and created. 

NOTE: These are being provided to help you better understand what is happening. You MUST have this evaluated by your local PT and they will create your treatment plan accordingly. 

Training Effects on Muscle Fiber Type Aerobic (Endurance) Exercise Such as jogging, swimming, biking leads to increased: 

That being said there are much better exercise selections. Even just a basic sit to stand (a squat) is a much more challenging and functional exercise. 

A pound of fat lost from breast tissue is no different than a pound of fat anywhere else in your body. Females tend to accumulate fat around the hips, buttocks, and thighs while men have a larger intra-abdominal (visceral) fat mass. Diet and genetics also have major roles in determining the proportion and site of fat storage. Fertility hormones (leptin, oestrogen), ovarian function seem to mainly signal a general increase in lipogenesis and storage (in the predisposed areas mentioned above). Simply put if it was there before I see no reason why it would no longer return to that area. See if you're able to find supporting research. Use the search box at NIH. 

Abs + Upperbody simultaneously. That sounds like a job for "body-wieght" exercises. Bod-wieght exercises are exactly what they sound like. They use your body, for weight, instead of other external weights. To acheive the abs+upper at the same time, many of these exercises are done while hanging via a pull-up bar. Body-weight exercises are very tough, and you may actually have to do some other things for a while before you can manage to do body-weight efficiently. But here are some example exercises 

I like this question. If you're trying to create metrics for this, you should look up records - records of feats that measure the parameters you're looking for. For example if you found the record for bench press, you could consultant a physicist to see how much force,power, etc is required to complete the lift, and then figure out where you want your 95% percentile to be if that record is the 100% level. Here are the records fr wieght lifting $URL$ As for this 95% cuttoff. Maybe you shoudl base it on the worlds population. As in, it's the amount that no LESS than 5% of the worlds population could lift without the fatigue aspects you mentioned before. 

I haven't read on oxygenation, but have heard the term. I actually bought a heart-rate/pulse monitor watch about a week ago. It does NOT include the chestband thing, just wrist only taking over your heart-rate. Using it during a basic workout I notice more calories registering as burned, vs if someone calculated calories burned from the exercises I did. This is to be expected as calculating calories burned from the exercises you do can only take into account the the "work" (force/distance) you do or energy (power/time) expended by by using power (work/time). The best way to test the efficiency of these heart-rate monitors is to just get someone to measure it. I'm not sure if machines like the blood-pressure measurer at Walmart also give you your pulse rate, but that would be one way to measure. You could also compare by using the heart-rate indicators on a PreCor (elliptical) machine at a gym. Those machines take your age and weight as a way to approximate measurements, and they have handles to hold to check the rate. Start walking, check the rate on the PreCor, then the Watch. Speed up and get a second reading. The accuracy or Calories burned as measured by heart-rate on the watches is based on the number of times you "check in" with your heart-rate. Meaning if you check-in before the start of your workout with a 78, then it assumes you to be at 78 until you enter another reading. Thus, in a hour, even if you ran a mile, it won't show you burning a lot of calories. I'm not sure of the chestband types have constant monitoring, but if they do (again) a comparison with a PreCor measurement of calories burned would let you know if you have the accuracy of a more expensive machine 

Great question. No not necessary. Symptoms of a vestibular or balance function loss depend upon the degree of damage, if the damage occurred rapidly or slowly, if it’s one-sided or two-sided, and how long ago the damage occurred. A slow one-sided loss might not produce any symptoms. While a rapid loss could produce enough vertigo, vomiting, and nystagmus (eye jerking), to keep a person in bed for days. Most of the time, the symptoms slowly pass, allowing a person to return to normal activities. Ototoxicity can be temporary or permanent. Symptoms range from mild imbalance to total incapacitation. Two areas can be damaged or destroyed through ototoxicity: the hair cells within the inner ear, and the vestibulocochlear nerve that links the inner ear to the brain. When damage occurs, any degree and combination of hearing loss and balance disruption are possible depending upon the part(s) affected. Hair cells are located in both the cochlea and the vestibular areas of the inner ear (there are millions of these). They are composed of a cell body with a hair-like attachment. When these “hairs” are normally bent with sound vibrations or movement, they send electrical signals to the brain about hearing or balance function. In ototoxicity, these hairs can be damaged to the point that they no longer stand up, thus reducing the auditory and/or balance signals sent to the brain. 

EDIT Put very simply - yes the motion is very similar and they're both great exercises. The same "major" muscles are activated but at a different times and for different durations. You're teaching your muscles to activate correctly. It helps with balance, stability and improves overall movement quality. 

This is a very common question - so know you are definitely not alone. There are some easy exercises that you can do to get better at it. A lot of people actually just don’t get onto the ground for fear of getting stuck there.