I cannot find a reliable example of either. I really just want a practical everyday example of the choice of a preference utilitarian. Do preferences have weight? Is there some sort of "preference calculus"? For example, a son lying to his mother--wouldn't each preference cancel out? "[I]f we still need to compare the strength of different people’s preferences." Utilitarianism: objections If all else fails, what is a good resource that may provide examples? I'm fairly certain Practical Ethics by Peter Singer does not have the kind of examples I'm looking for. Perhaps preference utilitarianism is not meant for the micro-scale. Or rather, it is meant to be paired with deontology (in a two-tiered system) as espoused by Singer and Hare anyway: "as a moral philosopher, I am pretty confident that the best ethical theory is a combination of Kantianism with utilitarianism." (Hare 1993) 

Have you read Stay: A History of Suicide and the Philosophies Against It? Personally, I justify (or maybe I am rationalizing) to continue living though the deontology branch. This comes from Peter Singer's (preference utilitarian) Effective Altruism and what Thomas Pogge (a political philosopher) describes as the negative duty. 

Is his kind of utilitarianism not so "cut and dry" as can be labeled as one? Just the same as, "The lines of distinction between metaethics, normative ethics, and applied ethics are often blurry" (iep.utm.edu/ethics). This document uses both with "preference act utilitarian:" $URL$ Does it change when considering different ethics, such as animal rights or just ethics in general: 

Quine argues for a naturalized epistemology over traditional kinds. The implications of this move lead to pure descriptions that relinquishes all normativity. Is Quine's method of science as a "paradigm of inquiry" and commitment to empiricism in the pragmatic sense--ontological relativity--a form of eliminativism? Is a recipe for aprescriptive or anormative meaning and value even possible as Quine seems to suggest? 

Nietzsche consistently throughout his writings argues for a monological conception of art--art that does not seek "witnesses" or an audience. Not only did the episode with Wagner force Nietzsche to have "second thoughts" about art, but to "like anything at all after Wagner was a triumph." Cultural and social prejudices, phobias, and pressures pervert or stunt the aesthetic/creative processes according to Nietzsche--the genius should be truly for herself because the dominant authorities will sedate or even steal such energies, for their own purposes and, thereby, give a trifling notion of art's true value, which for Nietzsche lies in the very "transitions of life itself." Can art, especially today with the post-Hegelian "end of art" and Benjamin's "mechanical reproduction" theses, serve a thoroughly intimate function that leads a life of "courage without witnesses"? Can we say, for example, that rituals like fantasy-role playing or video games, which appear to be all about the artist as both creator and one's own work of art, are examples of what would qualify as monological art forms (and many other kinds), in Nietzsche's sense? 

The suggested solution is very similar to Whitehead's argument presented in Part I of Process and Reality and presupposed in the Theory of Extension in Part IV. If you recall from Aims of Education he holds that a line is a "moving point" while a "plane is a moving line." Along with von Neumann's work on mathematical rings, Whitehead relies on a continuous, point-free projective geometry of non-finite dimension. Whitehead's "extensa" or extensive structures are logically and metaphysically prior to time and space as topological relational systems (mathematically speaking, they may be seen as spatial, but this pertains to "spatial reasoning"). This allows for the openness in which "universal relativity" (not to be confused with Einstein's as only a single application) and "atomicity" are compatible. He writes: 

Does it mean that purity comes with the consequence of selflessness? That if one is clean and pure they must be selfless? 

Maybe it is for younger people, but what are better ways for adults? What is better for andragogy? Please put your answer in question form if you are a die hard. 

John Rawls and Robert Nozick may be an option. Although, they are political philosophers. This question relates to liberty vs equality. Here are some relevant links, unrelated to above: 

Or a link to somewhere that does. An audio recording of the orthoepy is ideal. I came to Kierkegaard, and don't trust youtube. Videolectures.net was searched; no results. How does one say other major philosophers such as Nietzsche, Kant...etc? 

Preface This is not an attempt to appeal to tradition. Rather, the purpose of this question can be attached with these words: general + curiosity. [If you feel that this question should be moved to a different SE site, please move it. I don't know how.] Brass Tacks What list like ethical code of ancient religions is similar to the Ten Commandments or the five/ eight precepts of Buddhism? Not for the content of the list; for the [simplicity/ conventionality--please help with the diction here]. Additionally, the difference between law and 'ethical code' lies in how each are followed (generally speaking). For example, the Code of Hammurabi is more of law. Laws are generally imposed, while ethics is more or less up the the individual. [Also, I think the tags need improvement or change.] 

A person needs to have knowledge about the problem, and A person needs to be aware of mental concepts to manipulate that knowledge to reach the conclusion. 

I'm re-writing this answer because it was down-voted despite being a very clear method of improving critical thought. So I'll try to make it more clear and less woo-sounding. The basic premise of the answer is that to reach a conclusion to a problem: 

Some searching for studies on Google Scholar will turn up any number of articles which suggest humans have evolved as a social species with cognitive faculties which make them better adapted to interact with other humans, and thrive in environments with positive social interaction. For instance, Herrmann, 2007 

The answer isn't in what you think, it's in what you do. How do you know you believe a keyboard is in front of you and produces letters when you type with it? It's because you interact with the keyboard as if that were true. Similarly, once you've come to know other objects based on certain criteria, you will interact with them based on your belief (understanding) of them. 

So from that it follows that the more knowledge one has about the problem and the more mental concepts one has to manipulate that knowledge the more effective their thinking will be. The original question seems to focus on the second point: which concepts can we use to improve our ability to think, whereas I'm taking an even higher look at the problem and stating that the more we know about something the easier it will be for us to solve problems in that domain. To use a concrete example, if someone enters the programming field and tries to start a junior position with no experience, they'll have no ability to solve problems within that field due to lack of knowledge and mental concepts. As they continue to learn knowledge of varying programming languages and mental concepts with which to use those programming languages, the quality of their ability to solve problems begins to improve. So at the highest level what this means is that if one wants a better ability think critically about something they need to spend more and more time learning about that thing, and how others have approached that thing with different constructs. Within that, if one wants to start looking into different mental constructs to improve their problem solving process, they can do so, but my answer actually encompasses that process. What I'm suggesting is that to think more critically one needs to actively pursue more mental concepts and knowledge. 

Therefore, Firstness, Secondness, and Thirdness may be analyzed in terms of quality, relation, and synthesis. The qualitative associated with the aesthetic provides a normative status and this is when Peirce is most pluralistic and finds affinities with Schelling’s System of Transcendental Idealism and philosophy of nature (contra Hegel). Relation involves any purposive activity, or action and reaction; what Peirce refers to as the “polar sense” as a re-working of St. Augustine’s notion of volition that Peirce viewed as narrow. Instead of the something like Descartes’ cogito or “cognitive faculty,” Peirce supplemented the enterprise of knowledge with “learning” or “acquisition” in a very similar vein as the Platonic Eros. Logic, unlike in Hegel, involves the norms of thinking or the task of realizing the ends for thinking. Where Hegel and Peirce find common ground, and this distinguishes him from other pragmatists, is that he does not find pluralism congenial. To this degree he agrees with the architectonic outlook of experience when he says, “life can have but one end.” 

The most selling and very powerful book on the Third Critique in American academia is Rudolf Makkreel, Imagination and Interpretation in Kant: The Hermeneutical Import of the Critique of Judgment---$URL$ Also, Phillip is correct and that piece of Cassirer's Kant's Life and Work, which is a very important source! 

Kant deals with these kinds of social relations primarily in the Critique of Judgment. If you look at sections 39 and 40 entitled "Of the Communicability of a Sensation," for example, you will see there he introduces the notion of the sensus communis, which is the basis of universal communicability. The is the relational power which makes all human cultural communication and interpretation possible. This grounds the community of persons, according to Kant, and serves as a required condition for the kingdom of ends imperative. I interpret this to mean that we feel each other through an equal or mutual relatedness prior to establishing rational or cognitive connectedness (i.e. social contracts). It is also how we feel, Kant states at the end of section 83, a "hidden aptitude within us for higher purposes." He then picks this theme up and develops it in the sections 82 and 83 on the methodology of teleological judgments when he discusses the difference between "technique and skill" and "culture. The latter is concerned with the culture of our moral powers to facilitate social communication, for the sake fulfilling our ultimate purposes beyond the order of nature. For us to establish a "collective self" we need to cultivate the self-discipline and skill to develop both are inclinations and interpretations, which are vital to the maintenance and growth of cultures. Kant refers to this as the cosmopolitan whole that gives humans a "predisposition for community." Community means a community of nations or states, for Kant, in the sense of international relations. A political and cultural order that mirrors the natural order. It is only when all the nations and peoples of the earth put their talents and skills together that culture may thrive! I suggest the following passage as a beginning point for what you may find interesting in Kant's lively thoughts on this very interesting topic that you raise: 

Mostly, I'm curious about the lasting impacts of classical philosophy, but in the name of brevity and specifics I'll confine my question to the influence classical Greek philosophy had on the next major Western civilization: Ancient Rome. What I wonder is, in what ways did Ancient Greek philosophy influence Ancient Rome, in terms of things like political philosophy, science, art, and religion? 

People can ultimately only be judged by the things they actually do, not the things they think. It's completely possible for a person to believe themselves to be good and think good thoughts, but in practice carry out selfish acts regularly. It's also possible for someone to think evil thoughts regularly, but to have a moral conscience which filters them out and promotes only good action. At the end of the day our relationship with other human beings and living things can only be subjectively judged by how we treat them in practice, not in theory So with that said I would argue that the only way you can label someone as 'good' or 'evil' is based on what they actually do, and nothing else. This means that 'good people that do bad things' and 'evil people that do good things' don't exist, rather there are only 'evil people who do evil things' and 'good people who do good things'. The reality of it, however, is not that cut and dry as everyone has capacity for good and evil, but my main point is that you can only judge a person by the output, and nothing else. 

Pseudo-science has been used. Also, if you want to personalize it you can refer to an "intellectual swindler." I have also heard "ideology" used in this sense with a negative connotation. Surely, any good positivist believes there are false sciencees that parade around as the real thing! 

The historical notion of success derives from the desire for fame which was an eschatological response to the loss and replacement of transcendence or the divine ground as the ultimate orientation of the soul. In Plato’s book X of the Republic there is the Myth of Er which recounts the destiny and drama of the soul as an account of rewards and punishments in the afterlife. This Greek version of success gets extended and Christianized through Boethius’ The Consolation of Philosophy and Dante’s Divine Comedy. With the apex of Thomas Aquinas’ philosophical theology we reach the immortality of the soul turned into the beatific vision and friendship with God. In mid-fifteenth century, Poggio Bracciolini introduced fame as a symbol for the triumph of a world-immanent soul who seeks salvation through remembrance beyond one's historical epoch, not in the eternal civitas Dei. Eric Voegelin states: “The intramundane afterlife of fame is replacing the life beyond. Salvation by fame, however, is precarious, just as is salvation by Grace; many are called, but few are the elect. The orientation within the world requires no less a theology of fall and redemption than does the transcendental orientation” (Religion and the Rise of Modernity, in volume 23 of The Collected Works of Eric Voegelin, 139). This speculation enters under the impact of the Reformation and competitive society. “By the nineteenth century the biological formula of the survival of the fittest has replaced the Renaissance speculation on the fortuna secunda et adversa, and the survival of the fittest implies the plebian assumption that he who survives is the better man. Poggio is still aware of the tension between fate and value; he is sensitive to the tragedy of history; and there is something alive in him of the Polybian shudder in the face of victory. In the later adoration of success the two dimensions of action, victory and value, are made to coincide and the flow of action becomes untragically progressive; the plebian victor does not like to see the shadow of fortuna; he wants to be the victor by his merit” (ibid., 139-40). Success is transformed from other-worldly to the secular intramundane in modernity; this is one of the consequences of embracing human mortality and finitude. It also enhances the alienation and estrangement, along with Angst of modern selves because they look to subjective immortality through others who seek the same thing. That the historians will tell the people about their great deeds and achievements and this should give further satisfaction for those willing to follow or connected to them in some inspirational way. Praise for military, literary, or entertainment greatness culminates into living in the hearts and minds of future generations. But like Polybius we will “shudder” in the reality that the people will forget or that just as we conquer a people today, the same demise will visit our people someday. Therefore, I see success more to do with the “adventure” of one’s existence along the rhythms of victory and defeat, fame and shame. This adventure also applies to cultures and can be interpreted aesthetically, religiously, morally, and so on. Civilizational advancement would not be enough to be persuaded by the spirit of progress alone. It lies more in the effort and tenacity one is able to achieve through intensity and the accretion of value as stablized in sets of harmonies conducive to its environments. This includes the consideration and integration of exclusive or negative relations (prehensions) and the inhibitive nature of disharmonies, including their potential stagnation and destructiveness for the organic society or (non-) social nexus. As Whitehead writes at the end of Science and Modern World: “But in nature the normal way in which trees flourish is by their association in a forest. Each tree may lose something of its individual perfection of growth, but they mutually assist each other in preserving the conditions for survival. The soil is preserved and shaded; and the microbes necessary for its fertility are neither scorched, nor frozen, nor washed away. A forest is the triumph of the organisation of mutually dependent species. Further a species of microbes which kills the forest, also exterminates itself. Again the two sexes exhibit the same advantage of differentiation. In the history of the world, the prize has not gone to those species which specialised in methods of violence, or even in defensive armour. In fact, nature began with producing animals encased in hard shells for defence against the ills of life. It also experimented in size. But smaller animals, without external armour, warm-blooded, sensitive, and alert, have cleared these monsters off the face of the earth. Also, the lions and tigers are not the successful species. There is something in the ready use of force which defeats its own object. Its main defect is that it bars coöperation. Every organism requires an environment of friends, partly to shield it from violent changes, and partly to supply it with its wants....The Gospel of Force is incompatible with a social life. By force, I mean antagonism in its most general sense. Almost equally dangerous is the Gospel of Uniformity. The differences between the nations and races of mankind are required to preserve the conditions under which higher development is possible. One main factor in the upward trend of animal life has been the power of wandering. Perhaps this is why the armour-plated monsters fared badly. They could not wander. Animals wander into new conditions. They have to adapt themselves or die. Mankind has wandered from the trees to the plains, from the plains to the seacoast, from climate to climate, from continent to continent, and from habit of life to habit of life. When man ceases to wander, he will cease to ascend in the scale of being. Physical wandering is still important, but greater still is the power of man’s spiritual adventures—adventures of thought, adventures of passionate feeling, adventures of aesthetic experience. A diversification among human communities is essential for the provision of the incentive and material for the Odyssey of the human spirit. Other nations of different habits are not enemies: they are godsends. Men require of their neighbours something sufficiently akin to be understood, something sufficiently different to provoke attention, and something great enough to command admiration. We must not expect, however, all the virtues. We should even be satisfied if there is something odd enough to be interesting.” (New York: The Free Press, 1967, 206-07).