With those five bits of information you can compare the performance of a road racer to a TT bike to a penny farthing to a velomobile to a MTB; on a hill, on the flat, on a descent, on a velodrome. Of course, those five variables won't tell you if the bike fits, or if it handles well, or if it has a way to carry your groceries and laptop and change of clothing, but as far as performance goes, that's all you need to know. A good bathroom scale will help you measure 2). Since you have a power meter, there are field test methods and protocols that will help you determine 3) and 4). 1) explores whether you can produce more power on one bike than another, because of positioning (for example, many riders find they produce lower power in a TT position than in a traditional road racing position) or crank length or gearing (for example, some riders find they produce less power on a single-speed than on a multi-geared bike). Finally, 5) measures losses in the drive train, such as in a fixed-gear or with an internally-geared hub like the Alfine. In general, measuring losses in the drive train can be expensive because you need a way to measure power at each end of the drive train. See Kyle and Berto here, for an example of a rig used to measure losses. A similar rig was used by Spicer here. However, if you have a crank-based power meter (and, if you're using an Alfine then I suspect you must), it is possible to use the crank-based power meter to measure power at one end of the drive train and then use "virtual elevation" methods to measure the power at the driving wheel. A detailed description of the protocol is long but a quick description is to climb the same hill on a calm day with different configurations. Since the hill is the same and the conditions are calm you know that the "virtual elevation" should match the true elevation profile of the hill; so if you can measure power at the crank then differences in observed VE must be the result of differences in losses in the drive train. 

In particular, notice that in accelerating from a stop, the rider hit a maximum pedal force of around 800 N, which is equivalent to just a bit more than the rider's weight (obviously, the rider must have been pulling up or bracing against the handlebars in order to do this). Notice, too, that the maximum power attained during this standing start acceleration was about 600 watts. Now turn your attention to the red dots. In this case, the rider was coasting along at about 30 km/h so the cadence, pedal force, and power all began at zero. Suddenly cadence jumped from zero to about 100 rpm, then maximized at around 130. Pedal force hit a peak at about 600 N (that is, about 75% of the maximum force during the standing start). The combination of pedal force and pedal speed produced a maximum power of around 1100 watts. The plot below shows the same points, keyed in the same black and red colors, with rpm and pedal force displayed on the axes. Since power is the product of pedal force and pedal speed, "isopower contours" appear as hyperbolas in the plot: four isopower contours are shown at 250, 500, 750, and 1000 watts. The points at which pedal force, power, and speed each attain their maximums are identified. 

We cannot know exactly unless Dowsett's team releases it, but we can make a reasonable estimate. The most important unknown is Dowsett's drag area, or CdA, so below I have calculated the power needed to average 52.937 km/h for various values of CdA, given the assumptions noted on the figure. Notably, rho is air density in the velodrome and a trackside observer provided the estimate of 1.16 kg/m^3; Dowsett is listed as 75 kg for his "official" weight so 85 kg is an estimate of the rider plus bike plus shoes plus helmet plus suit; eta is drive train efficiency and for fixed gear bikes with a good chainline losses tend to be around 2.5%; and the coefficient of rolling resistance for track tires on a smooth wooden velodrome surface will be in the range of .0025 to .003. Thus, if Dowsett's drag area were around 0.195 m^2, his average power would have had to have been about 400 watts. 

where rho is the air density in kg/m^3 and CdA is the drag area ("A" is the frontal area and "Cd" is the coefficient of drag; CdA is their product and can be thought of as the "equivalent" area of a cube held perpendicular to the direction of the wind with a face of area A). Finally, the power needed to overcome rolling resistance (which includes tires, tubes, and bearing friction) is 

There are two parts to your question, and two answers. The first part of your question is whether there are devices to moderate speed on descents. This is a common issue with tandem bikes (and occasionally with bikes designed for loaded touring). Many tandem-specific rear hubs have a threaded left side onto which can be mounted a "drag brake." Typically a drum brake, they can be adjusted for a slight amount of drag; the rim brakes are retained as the primary brake for stopping. The advantage of the drum brake is that it's away from the rim (since excessive heating at the rim can have dire consequences for tube or tire) and they have a high heat capacity. Although no longer manufactured, the venerable and venerated Arai Tandem Drum brake was an example of this. Your second question is about how one would estimate the drag demand on a bicycle. This is a well-understood, though perhaps less well-known, problem, and is discussed in Section 2 of Wilson and Papadopoulos' Bicycling Science. As you surmised, the potential energy component has to be offset by drag elsewhere: either by aero drag, braking, or rolling resistance. Terminal velocity is achieved at the point where the potential energy loss exactly balances the drag forces generated elsewhere. The coefficient of rolling resistance (Crr) happens to scale exactly like slope, so a change in slope of 1% is exactly like a change in the Crr of .01. Sadly, for this purpose, you won't much be able to rely on Crr for appreciable extra drag -- commonly, Crr ranges from about .004 to perhaps .01. Thus, although in a theoretical sense you must take rolling resistance into account, in a practical sense it dissipates too little energy to matter. Deflating tires to increase Crr on a twisty descent is not just insufficient, it's a bad idea. Aero drag is more easily manipulable but is also limited in efficacy. Drag area (typically denoted by the product of the frontal surface area, A, and the coefficient of aerodynamic drag, Cd) for a typical cyclist on a typical road bike will range from around .3 sq meters (roughly, 3 sq. ft) up to perhaps .5 sq meters or higher. Aerodynamic drag force varies with the square of airspeed (since the force varies with the square of airspeed, the power demanded to overcome that force varies with the cube of speed) so sitting up, unzipping a jacket, and widening your arms and legs can add some CdA; however, rarely more than ~ .2 sq meters. That leaves braking, i.e., the conversion of potential energy via kinetic means into heat, and the place for a drag brake as described above. 

Others have already discussed GPS and GPS-enabled phones, altimetric barometers, and inclinometers. Bubble inclinometers (such as the Skymounti shown elsewhere among the answers) can be affected by acclerations so to get the best readings you should be stationary. dGPS (differential GPS) is used in surveying instruments to measure grades, but these are generally not consumer-level devices, nor are they compact enough for bicycle use. Grades can also be measured, while stopped, with a long straightedge, a protractor, and a plumb line. Some phones and other devices (such as iPods and Wii controllers) have built-in multi-axis accelerometers that will report gradient information as you ride, but reports are that their precision can be affected by bumpy roads. The iBike line of bicycle computers use a combination of barometric, speed, and accelerometer sensors; reportedly, the gradient estimates can be quite good. That said, one of the most precise devices that can be used to determine road grade while on a bicycle is a well-calibrated power meter. Under favorable conditions, road grade can be extracted from speed and power data (if one knows or can measure a few other variables). For example, here is a comparison of the profile of the flat Moriarty, New Mexico, TT course on which the 40 km US national time trial record was set. The course is a straight out-and-back (that is, 20km out, a turn-around, and then 20km back for a total of 40km) and one of the flattest in the country, with only 30 meters of drop over 20km for an average gradient of .0015 (0.15%). The plot below shows three traces: a measurement of the gradient using a consumer-level GPS receiver in blue, and two traces (in red and green) derived from power meter measurements. The green line shows the reconstructed elevation profile on a day with unfavorable conditions, while the red line shows the reconstructed profile on a favorable day. Because this course is an out-and-back, the profiles before and after the 20km point should be mirror images, and at the end should match up at the same elevation. As can be seen, under favorable conditions the profile reconstructed from the power meter outperforms that from a GPS (though on an unfavorable day the profile is much worse). 

The take-away message is that cycling is an aerobic sport and (unless you ride a fixed gear or single-speed bike) even under maximum acceleration the strength demands are relatively moderate. See here and here for more discussion of the magnitude of forces concerned, muscle fiber type recruitment, and physiological characteristics of elite riders. Accordingly, the best "strength training" you can do to improve your cycling is to do your strength training on your bike. There are reasons why one might want to do weight-lifting or other "strength" training off the bike (for bone health, for appearance, for injury prevention, etc.) but as far as cycling is concerned do your strength training on the bike. 

The full answer depends exactly on the teams involved and the composition of the break but, in general, the key to understanding this isn't physics as much as it is game theory. In a race like the TdF, there are many separate competitions being run simultaneously: not just for the overall General Classification but also for stage wins, the (green) points jersey, the (polka dot) mountain jersey, the (highest ranked rider under age 25) white jersey, the team with the lowest cumulative time, and so on. Not every team has a GC hopeful, but every team has a goal or goals. If your goal is a stage win, or to get one of your riders a particular jersey, getting someone into the break can allow the rest of the team to shelter in the peloton, conserve their effort for the entire day, and prepare for the next day's stage. A more complicated case is when you do have a GC contender and also someone in the break. Depending on the composition of the break, your break rider can be threatening some other team's goal of a jersey. In that situation, you're playing a waiting game (a game of "chicken"), to force the threatened team to chase the break, while your team shelters in the peloton, conserving their effort for the entire day. Sometimes a GC-contending team will put a rider in an early break with a set plan to drop the rider out of the break later in the race to help the team's leader. It's like caching supplies farther up the road that they can draw upon if needed. Sometimes you have a GC contender but no one in the break, and the break composition threatens the secondary goal of another team. If so, you can wait until the other team starts to panic and initiates the chase, then shelter in the peloton, conserving your effort. Teams will always look at the riders of an early break to determine whether its composition fits their goals. If not, the team will chase early to absorb the break, then wait until a different, more acceptable, break forms; in which case they will allow the break to continue while they shelter in the peloton and wait for someone else to panic and initiate a chase. As the stages count down in one of the Grand Tours (the Tour de France, the Giro d'Italia, or the Vuelta a Espana), teams that still haven't yet won a stage become more and more desperate to get someone into an early break. There can be several re-shufflings of break compositions as the directeur sportifs try to get at least one rider into a stable break. That can be miserable for already tired riders as they accelerate again and again to claw back unsuitable breaks. There are 20 teams on the road simultaneously each with different goals and skill sets, with many different sub-competitions. In terms of n-person game theory, cycling allows (encourages) temporary coalitions, collusion (as when members of different teams in a break work together to stay away), side payments (not only of money but also of agreements not to contest a sprint or mountain point), prisoner dilemmas, bluffs, feints, and tops it off with reneging. Then they have to do it again the next day, remembering whether a particular team carries through with its promises. This is the reason why mass start bicycle racing is, from both a strategic and tactical perspective, so much more complex than sports that feature only two teams facing each other on a field.