Talk to manager about your doubts - ask why is he fired, honestly tell you don't see the reason. Protest his firing, if you strongly feel it's unjust. Ask for better conditions for him. Him having someone having his back speaks well of him, even if he is incompetent. You may give the manager a pause, a cause to rethink. If he pauses and then still goes with "fire him", then you know decision has serious reason and was made already. If the amount of work he was given seems unreasonable, verify that with other people. Ask them if they also think that. Tell to your / his boss that that's a bad move and it makes other people afraid that same will happen to them. Perhaps add "in light of talk about company going for sale people wonder how many staff we are to lose prior to acquisition". This is something that I honestly am hesitant to add, may hurt you and others if played wrong. Get your colleague to profess what he wants. You should know if he wants to stay or not. BEWARE! People almost always say they want to stay, while few months later, in new job, they almost always say they are better where they are now and staying would have been a bad move. How much of it is rationalizing and how much is truth, you may never know. In my cases they really seemed happier. Carefully weigh in that if you succeed and he stays, this will cause stress. He went through "termination warning" and had Damocles' sword above his neck. It's not gonna go away like that. So, your help doesn't stop on "him NOT getting fired". Consider it likely you'll end up diffusing several situations later on, where he (or management) over-interprets some words, actions. It's a large responsibility. 

These meetings, however organized, are important times where communication and review can be accomplished so that the project/presentation stays on track, on time, on budget, and on point with what needs to be done. This should reduce errors and wasted time. If you manager can't or won't prioritize the time in his/her schedule to have these meetings then let them know that you and he/she need to work on a communication process to make sure you are not wasting time, energy, and resources for the project/company. Most managers welcome this communication style and thinking. If all else fails, pull your manager aside in the middle of the day (each day) and have him look over and evaluate how you are doing and give some feedback so you do not waste the rest of the day focusing on something that may be removed in the end anyway. If you need to you can be straight to the point by saying the following: 

Verification on the surface may actually suffice - that is, you may have your answer after round of brief conversations in the kitchen or during company after-party. Informal setting, simple question, done. "do you think folks like X or Y would admit they have a problem or they don't know the answer? I was wondering lately how we as a team stand on ." "I think X dislikes admitting to not knowing for he believes that makes him look weak. Would you agree?" Later just distinguish if he agreed with "he has this problem" or "it makes one look weak". Changing their perception needs to start from putting "asking for help" and "getting their input" on same level. First has ramification of you being weaker (to some!), second (usually!) implies THEM BEING GOOD ENOUGH to be asked. I usually use both, so the message is clear for everybody around me, that I consider them same. After a while, if I ask somebody for help in X, everybody knows the guy is good with X. Feel free to also employ pre-reviews, especially if you guys do code reviews. Get one technically sound person to pre-review your code and ask what can be done better. Follow on his advice. Then get him to review that code. Guaranteed approve, most of the time. Changing their perception is about showing them the power coming from being liberated and not having to pretend to know it all. Focusing on real job, getting shit done, using THEIR knowledge for it without care if this makes you look weak. Freely admit that team makes you stronger. Thank for good idea here or (jokingly) for "being of use there with this nifty test trick". Is this about reputation? How often you ask? How often you are asked? How much time you spent on "your due" before asking? How much they do? If you ask series of questions without doing basic research, your reputation may take a hit among your peers (not to mention folks lower in hierarchy). If I'm unsure how difficult problem I'm facing, I sometimes do a round and ask (in passing, marking I'm after quick-and-incomplete-on-the-fly-answers). If most of my peers seem to have no inkling about the issue or all are pointing to local expert, I know it's not just me. If some had, I can see if I need to improve here. Which leads to... Have you ruled out rusted (while basic) skills? Perhaps it was an easy question? Recently a very mature junior (older guy, changed careers, very deep learner) told me about seniors in his new workplace. Despite Java 9 coming out and Java 8 being out there for years, they never bothered looking at it and they keep saying how difficult it is. When he coded few things with Java 8, three of them rushed to his screen to look. He slowed down, coded this again so they would see how he did this, proposed he could show something about it if they wanted and generally never made a fuss, but he told me that it was a somewhat bitter-sweet feeling. So, while from your story it doesn't seem to be the case... double-check it. Perhaps your question is generally perceived as easy material? I had a few times asked for things that were easy to find and few moments with Google would've answered me equally well as my unfortunate co-worker who had to spent several minutes with me. I was quite embarrassed later when I found how easy was to find this in Google. Happens to the best among us, I think. Don't get me wrong here. Nobody knows everything. Having rusted skills is a natural thing. But so is being perceived weak - especially by those, who see those skills as a must-have. If in your job, coding is perceived as primary skill, and your coding has rusted (cause you are an architect for instance and are rushed from meeting to meeting), this will change how you are perceived. Deservedly so - strictly on coding-meter you are weaker than you were. Now couple this with bussiness-as-usual and you're too busy to spot this and too busy to fix this. So you ask for help more, because you know others may help much faster than it will take you to re-discover how this or that worked... Similar loss of credibility follows if you deemed an out-of-comfort-zone question too time-consuming while it wasn't (not doing your due before asking). Summary 

So essentially, you are trying to play with fire here and "cheat" a firm into giving you a higher salary, correct? I would strongly recommend you do NOT try to play games, it WILL backfire on you and cost you dearly. Your best bet is to do either of the following: 

The reason you will lose in a counter offer situation (or counter counter offer) is because once Firm A knows you are looking, your life and job are about to become 10x harder as they will dump any meaningless or grunt level task on you. Firm B knows this as well (since it is common knowledge essentially), so they could retract their offer and say "We cannot compete with XYZ's offer, sorry". So you lose either way. The counter offer game is just a gimmick that will burn you and not either company. I would accept or decline the offer and not play a game with either firm. 

Let's start with a simple question: Is this about promotion? You mentioned cut-throat promotions right after this passage: 

If my friend is doing demanding work, I may not ask, despite him most likely having the answer, unless circumstances are really favourable. Bosses look for people who get the job done. If they get others help it's OK, as long as lower priority task doesn't pull folks who work on higher priorities. So... don't pull others to help if they do work more crucial and don't BE pulled to help while your task has priority... unless circumstances really show this is how it should be. Competition in IT EDITed after @Cantalope's comment: 

I won't give you warnings about risking your job and so on. Others have given aplenty, that's one. Two - I think you yourself know your work environment well enough to know what will be risky and what won't. I believe that software tester and software programmer who have real skills, will be hired. There's huge demand. 

Provide the most accurate incident information possible Maintain a professional image at all times Express your concerns and self in a factual and business motivated sense Show an appropriate level of emotional involvement and effect 

This way the time and companies are consolidated. You can also explain it at an interview if they ask (which they will most likely). Consolidating has 3 benefits over breaking it up: 

Overall If it was me, I would pass it up and say "Thanks, but no thanks." Promoting from within with minimal experience and seniority is a red flag in my mind. I have seen managers with less than 3 years in their field who imploded from not knowing the fundamentals. Consider the possibility that if you are not constrained by life commitments (e.g. financial obligations, personal obligations, etc) that you could just go for it and not have to worry if you need to find another job or demote yourself. It all depends on you, your abilities, and your situation and nobody knows that better than you. Any way you choose, I wish you the very best of luck and hope you go far in your career. 

Monitor yourself. Set simple rules when you would ask, when you won't. Keep priorities of the job in mind when asking or asked for help. Weigh in how often you ask / are asked, how much time you / others spend on helping. Compare it to your rivals if you're worried about them overtaking you. Do your due for problems before you ask for solutions / help. Phrase your questions so other know it. Double-check that it's not an easy question, perhaps test how much your peers would take to solve it. Don't mind the junior, his comment may come from simple excitement, that this mighty senior, whom he has enshrined, has things he doesn't know and perhaps can be reached in time. 

So, assuming it's (perhaps!) not just that junior who has this misconception; assuming your fears are about your promotion (will my boss think like this junior? will my other colleague fighting with me over promotion will tell the boss that I keep needing help in my tasks?); assuming you still want to ask for help (for reasons you do it now)... 

From personal experience, I have seen many people break the employment history up for the various owners to make their resume/CV look larger. However, you can consolidate it while still gaining a similar effect and put something such as: 

I would send them a polite letter (or e-mail) stating that you have accepted another job offer (don't go into more specifics than that) and appreciate their time and effort in trying procure a job for you. Let them know that it is just the best decision for you, your career, and family. Beyond that, there is no reason to do anything more or feel guilty. Job hunting is vicious and you should only be looking out for you and your family. They should understand and not have any hard feelings as offers can crop up out of nowhere. 

First, I would hardly say questioning one policy is befitting of the phrase "too much". Second, it seems that you are a manager of some sort from the phrases "my admin staff" and "my company" and "management team", so you already should have made a decision, the problem is your decision needs to be accepted by high level executives and if they agree then you have egg on your face and if they don't then you look like you wasted their time questioning your own choices. Third, it sounds like your company is a terrible place to work if a person who is not even getting paid yet has to complain about $20 and get an argument (you stated he was recently hired, but did not give specific time frames). Fourth, indoctrination of high level executives is not wise considering they should be free thinking and open minded to improve things (which should be why you hired him). Nonetheless, your company seems unable to handle any criticism about anything. If multiple people complain about the same thing then odds are there is a problem with that thing. The majority is usually right. Perhaps listening to this individual might be a good idea? Also, considering you are paying this guy in the high six figure salary range I am going to assume he's higher than you and will be in an executive position of some sort. If so, I would suggest you reread his resume and watch out for things such as "developed polices", "reviewed practices", "overhauled ...", "spearheaded ...", etc. This shows that he makes changes, so odds are was he was testing the waters to see what happens. Hiring someone for these position levels is not likely to be overturned over a simple policy misunderstanding, so don't think he is leaving anytime soon. Edit: Can you clarify his position because you have stated that he will be payed in the high six figure range (more than CFO's, COO's, etc) and yet he should not be questioning management? I make FAR FAR FAR less than 450k and I question management all the time. What exactly is a 450k employee doing at this company? Because something is not adding up in this story. If you can afford 450k then you can afford $20. Something is not right here. 

I would monitor HOW OFTEN I do this. Just in case. Per person whom you ask (this sometimes matters). You may want to also take a look at how often you do this compared to others. And - if there's a significant difference - why. I would first search/research/try my own ideas for 20 minutes (or a bit more if the problem is larger). I would phrase my question appropriately, so others would know I've done my due. I would ask on SO sometimes, rather than in the office. I would try to come with simple rules for myself: when to (NOT) ask. 

Steps to help him stay From all my experiences, as an employee and as an employer, a decision for firing is made well before the "termination warning is given". However since other answers focus on "can't help him", let me offer you precisely the steps to help him. Let me say also this: I tried them, and they didn't succeed, my colleague was still fired. He was given an extension though and his firing proceeded in a way that made the team know more about it. Some of us chose to look for other jobs. Good luck to you. 

A slightly more passive approach that does not immediately involve HR or Legal (incl. external lawyers) and gives you a chance to gather documentation is to delay your action on the task (not refuse it directly) and when the manager follows-up with you on it simply state: 

I mentioned these issues in a quick moment with one of my managers (my true manager is on vacation at the moment) and he said the company will reimburse my mileage or I can use one of the company's operation's department automobiles if I get approved by the insurance carrier and he said we will go over it tomorrow. I have 2 issues with this "solution": 

I have always wondered about this particular area of job hunting and never gave it any thought because I just took whatever came my way because I needed to move on, but with negotiating I essentially have 2 questions: 1) Since most companies do offers via phone (i.e. they notify you that they are offering you X position at Y rate with Z perks/benefits) and then give you a letter of offer later on (usually a couple of days after the phone call) how do you negotiate with the company? You do not technically have an offer beyond a verbal one (which is worthless). Can you even risk doing so (i.e. they might say anything but then just offer the second choice the job and decline the offer to you)? If they ask "Do you accept the position?" is it acceptable to say something to the effect of "I need a letter of offer first before making a decision"? 2) Is negotiating even worth it in the overall sense? By this I mean, is it worth even attempting to negotiate if you don't perfectly match the job description/are somewhat under qualified/new to the field/etc. especially when an employer may not even consider negotiating because he/she can just ask the second choice instead? This is what often prevents me from negotiating (i.e. I don't want to jeopardize my chances for the job nor start off on the wrong foot and be looked down upon). 

Let's verify if they do then If they do NOT, do you want to change that or do you want to move? If you want to change that, I'd recommend changing their perception (thanks @BrianD for idea). 

If you wish for the top, either be the pioneer or be the last guy on this tech - both give excellent money and stability (to an extent). Competition is somewhat strong. Still, you can easily measure company quality by the fact how often skills trample politics and vice versa. We are all human, so relying on "how pleasant other human seems to be" to judge them is wired in our nature, but it's getting work done that's worthwhile in many IT companies. An expert like you'll thrive in those that value skills - that's where you want to be. Of course... YOUR skills. So, consider your main area of expertise. Is it aligned with what is needed for your boss? Cause he will promote what he needs usually. Doesn't matter (usually!) how terrific you are with C# if you guys are in dire need of Java folks for new Most Important Project Of Them All. Feeling of being outside of your comfort zone gets to everybody, I think, you are not alone. Think positively, technologies are similar and getting more gets easier with time. This will never end, that's the job specifics, as I'm sure you know. Trust in yourself.