As long as you verify the centering you don't need to do separate dishing. You will need the centering gauge: $URL$ Do read the instructions and get comfortable making the centering adjustment. It's not difficult. Biggest thing to pay attention to is to SLOWLY lower the gauge into place. Happy Riding! (and Wheel Building!) 

To directly answer your question, yes, the Crank Bros Premium Cleat is the one you want. Per their webiste - compatibility: eggbeater, candy, smarty, acid, mallet ( $URL$ ) Some good FAQ on these from Crank Bros: $URL$ 

With (1) my concern would be the quality of the rim, mainly the braking surface and the weld, and the quality of the hub. The hub quality, especially at low speeds, is going to have the most impact on how "fast" a wheel is. Weight (spokes/rim mostly) will have some effect on climbing, but not much and with the big tires you are going to roll, I wouldn't have much concern here. My concern with (3) is primarily how well the wheel will hold true and round. Most folk will occasionally check trueness of the wheel, but ignore roundness. You can check both without a truing stand, but to check roundness you need to take off the rubber. If you're willing to check a couple of times after you've put some good miles on them you should be fine. My $0.02 is to look for wheels that have decent rims and good hubs and then give them care, especially during the first 1,000 miles or so. On a budget, I'd rather see you pick up some machine built wheels with good hubs then some hand built wheels with bad hubs. 

If there is any headwind, like in normal drafting, the front rider takes the brunt of it. The psychological "I'm still in the pack" effect. I can push myself to stay with a pack's pace, but once I drop behind it, it's much harder to keep going at the same pace and the gap quickly widens. Following the leader takes less mental power. Mental energy is very significant if often overlooked. Imagine being tired and having to drive home on a mix of winding roads, lots of turns, and some rural highways. It's much easier if you following someone going to the same place then if you have to make all the decisions. Likewise going up a hard grueling hill. You can just follow the line of the leader. 

Also, you may want to invest in some decent bike shorts and a good anti-chafe creme (I like 'Blue Steel Sports'). Some of the "issues with the tissues" will fade as you spend more time on the bike, but some won't unless you get a saddle that works for you. Don't settle...try different saddles until you find something that works for you. 

This sounds like a worn cassette. For most people, the middle gears are most used and thus have the most wear. I'm not in the camp that you replace the cassette every time you replace the chain, but it sounds like you are ready for a new one. 

At the shop we generally use a "normal" hacksaw blade. I'd go with finer blade (more teeth per inch) if there's an option. Go slow and smooth (long low pressure strokes) and keep the blade perpendicular to the bars. The tape will probably help but do take care removing the tape or you might cause the fray you're trying to avoid. There are special carbon cutting blades. We tried these and switched back to hacksaw. Happy Riding! 

Once you are already cramping, it's generally too late for electrolytes to have a great direct effect. Hydration on the other hand is often a cause of cramps and taking on fluids can provide fairly quick (couple of minutes) relief...and for some (myself include) absorbing fluids is faster if there are some electrolytes in the mix. Good article on cramping at Livestrong: $URL$ It suggests in a non-direct fashion that maintaining a diet with the right minerals will help prevent cramps in the first place...and this is where the banana comes in. Eat it before the cramps for best effect. Happy Riding! 

The full answer depends on where you are riding, how you are riding, and the conditions you are riding in. Windy, winding, hilly courses that you tackle on a road bike with some friends would have me leaning towards a less deep set of wheels. A flat calm straight triathlon course on a tri-bike I'd want more depth. With the wheels you are looking at, and the price range you are looking at, you aren't going to be getting into the newer shaped wheels (like the Zipp Firecrest and other similarly shaped wheels) that work especially well in cross winds...which means the depth will come into play if you are in a windy situation. My bottom line would be go with shallower wheels unless you have hard reason to go deep. The slight aero benefit of the deeper wheels will be outweighed by the greater versatility of the shallower ones. With the exception of the latest tech in wheels (Firecrest shape) my #1 criteria is hubs...a great hub on a so-so rim is much better than a so-so hub on a great rim...keep that in mind when making final decision. If possible, ride on a set of the wheels. Find a friend that has a set identical or similar to the ones you are thinking about and take them on a typical ride (not just a ten minute test). Also: I've been recommending folks to consider semi-carbon (carbon with alloy braking surface). These are a bit heavier, but not much and you won't have to change brake pads moving back and forth. Have fun, be safe. 

Short answer, no. SPD and SPD-SL are two completely different systems. Based on what you are asking to get out of the pedal and shoe combination however, going with the shoe you specified (or similar) and an SPD pedal like the following should cover your needs nicely. $URL$ Happy riding! 

Can't tell from the picture as it's not assembled to that point, but you should also make sure you have enough of a gap for the compression to be effective. Before you put on the top cap, the steer tube should be approx 5mm below whatever spacer, seal, etc that you have as the topmost element. If there is not enough space for complete you will get the symptom you describe (holds okay until you put sudden force to it and then it moves). Here's the gap I'm referring to: (via: $URL$ 

Unless there are cracks or heavy rust, you should be good. Pictures of the dings? If they are deep enough to cause metal fatigue, you might have an issue but I doubt you would call it a "ding" at that point. Happy Riding! 

If the BCD is the same size and the tooth count is the same there should be no problem at all. Take care to not strip the chainring bolts when reassembling. I generally tighten these in a "skip one" pattern, like you might when changing a wheel on a car. If you change tooth count you will have to retune the drive train, but usually this is pretty straight forward as long as the front derailleur can be adjusted correctly. 

Tighten your core; this will take most of the weight off the hands. The more aggressive position requires you to use more of your body. If you don't engage your core, your hands will adapt, but you won't be getting the most out of the position. It's worth noting that engaging the core will also make for a safer ride. You will have better control of the brakes as your hands will have more strength (and feeling) for the brakes and the shifters while at the same time your lower body will be more connected allowing you to control the bike much easier. This is something that you will have to think about as you ride for the first week or so, but will become natural quickly. I would also note that the "equipment" suggestions, while they may offer a bit of relief, generally only extend the problem. The exception is bike fit which is critical, if you haven't had a good bike fit, I'd recommend getting one from a Physical Therapist that specializes in bike fits. If "BikeFit" is available in your area, they are very good as well. 

Each of the two is comfortable for some, not so much for others. I occasionally turn a wrench in a shop that caters to Triathletes and by FAR the preference is the straighter bars (S-bars). Most of those that go with the J-bars are doing so with a conscious decision to exchange comfort for a bit more power (and while the Triathlon bike portion is similar to a TT, comfort biking plays a much bigger role as you still have to run once you finish the bike). The J-bars force your wrists into a position where they are under tension, you have to grip the bar even if just lightly. With the S-bar you can cut the length to where the palm of your hand is just resting on the end and can ride with very little tension in the arm; the (small) con with the S-bar is that you can't use as much upper-body when powering up a hill or going for a hard acceleration. Both of the pictures are of clip-ons and both share a couple weaknesses. These are designed to be added to a road bike and doing a Triathlon or TT fit on a road bike with clip-ons is going to be less than ideal. For other purposes, they do offer an additional position that you can ride, but they also take away a position; you can now ride with your forearms on the clip-ons, but you lose the position of having your hands on the straight portion of your drop-bar. Clip-ons also, generally, leave the shifting where it was, so if you are using the clip-ons for TT/Tri, you put yourself at a disadvantage of having to move your arm to shift. If you are looking at this for purposes of a Tri, I'd recommend holding off until you are ready to buy a Tri bike. Just ride your road bike in the mean time. You can actually get in a better aero position on a road bike by using your drops than you can by adding clip-ons. If you do go with clip-ons, as others have mentioned, get a good bike fit from someone with experience with TT/Tri fits.