Allied leaders met in three (well, four considering Potsdam) conferences to discuss the future after the war -- the Casablanca conference in 1943, the Tehran Conference in 1943, and Yalta Conference in 1945. However, looking at the map, these locations seem problematic. Tehran, being in Iran, seems (relatively?) easily accessible for Stalin, but how did Churchill and Roosevelt cross Europe (mostly controlled by axis), and parts of Asia to reach Tehran? Same question with Yalta, especially since Eastern Europe was being teared apart in 1945 by the approaching Red Army, and the retreating Nazi Army. How were the locations decided, and how did each of 3 nations ensure that the respective leaders could reach safely to and from the conference venues? 

Seikilos epitaph is a Greek song which is the oldest complete musical composition. It's dated to be from 200 BC - 100 AD, with first century AD being the more plausible guess. You can Google it to listen to many different versions. Also refer to the older musical compositions section of the same article which states that there are might a few other older compositions, but they are not complete or not proven to be older than Seikilos epitaph. Most notable of them being the Hurrian songs which are a collection of incomplete songs from around 1400 BC. (Or of course there is a remote possibility that the few inscriptions and writings that we have not yet deciphered actually turn out to be musical compositions, of all things) 

The course I took on Ottoman history was 2-3 years ago and relatively short, so please correct any and all inaccurate statements I make. Also, I want to emphasize that neither genocide nor ethnic cleansing is ever justified. EDIT: I want to emphasize that the Armenian genocide should not be equated with the other instances of ethnic cleansing mentioned below. The people who are ultimately responsible for the Armenian genocide are and always will be the people who orchestrated it and implemented it. There was no justifiable excuse for those actions. The number of mass killings and systematic race- and religion-based murders was, to the best of my knowledge, at that time unprecedented. The Armenian genocide cannot itself be considered a "population transfer" inasmuch as the vast majority of Armenians were brutally and unjustifiably killed, rather than displaced. What I was trying to ask is whether the Young Turk government used, in part, Russian expansionism as a rationalization for their atrocities. Russia conquering the Ottoman empire still would have been a better outcome than what actually happened, namely the Ottoman government senselessly and brutally murdering millions of its own citizens. Rationalizations rarely, if ever, amount to legitimate excuses or justifications of the actions in question, and I believe that this case is no different. /EDIT As I recall, after the Russian Empire's Caucasus War in the late 19th century, the Muslim Circassians were almost entirely displaced from the Caucasus, with the Ottoman Empire absorbing the majority of refugees. 1. Did the architects of the Armenian Genocide during World War I plan their actions in part as a reciprocal population transfer (i.e. to force Russia to absorb the Christian Armenians the same way Russia forced the Ottomans to absorb the Muslim Circassians)? I remember reading that during World War I, all Armenians, even those loyal to the Ottoman Empire, were under suspicion by the government for being a "fifth column" supporting Russia. This paranoia was exacerbated by the participation of Russian Armenians in the War in the Caucasus Front. The Armenian Genocide, by killing millions of people, vastly diminished the presence of Armenians in eastern Anatolia and caused their modern-day concentration in the Caucasus. This is the opposite of the effect of the Russian ethnic cleansing of the Circassians, which effectively removed the Circassians from the Caucasus and displaced them to Anatolia. Thus, combining the two events, it seems possible that it was another instance of reciprocal ethnic cleansing (euphemistically referred to as "population transfers") which occurred between the Ottoman Empire and its Christian neighbors (and former subjects) during the late 19th and early 20th centuries. 2. To what extent can the reciprocal ethnic cleansings between the Ottoman Empire and Greece and Bulgaria, respectively, be traced to Russian influence? I know that during this time period the Russian Empire wanted to project itself worldwide as the leader of all Orthodox Christians and all Slavic peoples, in part to justify their expansion at the expense of the Ottoman Empire. It is well established that imperial Russia was one of the most fervent supporters of the Greek independence movement, with Catherine the Great trying to install her grandson as the King of Greece, and if I remember correctly Russian intervention playing a decisive role in a crucial naval battle. Was the movement to oust Muslims from the newly independent Greece in part spurred on by imperial Russia wanting a client state more pliable to its claims of moral leadership of Orthodox Christians, which would have been undermined by a religiously diverse Greece? Also I remember reading that Bulgarian nationalism was relatively non-existent outside of intellectual circles, and that as a result the political impetus for Bulgarian independence came primarily from Russian expansionism and concomitant military and political support for Slavic nationalist movements. Was the reciprocal population transfer in Bulgaria also motivated by Russian desires for a more homogeneously Slavic and Orthodox Christian client state, i.e. so as to more effectively exert influence? 

It was a generic position similar to a Prime Minister, but mainly it is used to rulers of Maratha Empire which was seated at Pune, under the rule of Balaji Vishwanath and his successors until Bajirao II. The title existed from the start of Maratha Empire, but again, the title Peshwa is mainly used for the period from Balaji Vishwanath, i.e. 1713 - 1818. "Peshwai", as it's called, ended in 1818, when British annexed the region. A quick math tells me 1818-1713+1 = 106 years, if Peshwa is taken in the sense I described above. It was a complicated thing, as the history of the relations spanned across a century, and deserves a question of its own (and even that would be too broad for this site). Certainly it wasn't all friendly, especially since British annexed it in the end. This link explains how Balaji Vishwanath got the title of a Peshwa. What do you mean significance? Significance in which aspect? Even this is too broad to answer. 7.1. Same as above. 

This is only an extended comment. One (possibly unsatisfactory) reason is that WWII happened after WWI, and so the interwar period is now seen as a period of 20 years that led to an even greater conflict. Had WWII not happened, WWI would have been seen as a watershed event, one that led to the fall of Four great empires (Russia, Austria-Hungary, Germany and Ottoman). Another interesting point is that, WWI is still seen in the Eastern Europe as the fire that gave birth to new nations, and revived old (like Poland). So it also largely depends on who you ask. 

Strong European countries such as Great Britain, France, Spain, Portugal, Russia and other countries were expanding rapidly in the uncharted territories such as Africa, India, China, the Philippines, and Japan because they need to increase their trade and plunder natural resources from weak nations. The US was a late comer to this ever-intensifying competition and East Asian countries (China, the Philippines and Japan) were the only territories left for the US to compete with other European nations. China, through two Opium Wars, was weakened significantly and had to accept Western countries' power and influence, which led to the collapse of the Qing Dynasty. 

Even though other countries in East Asia were either opened or colonized by European nations (except for a few including Korea), Japan was one of the few countries (including Korea) that have never been opened by European countries. Japan was strategically very important to the US as it was the geographically closest to the US and it still remained closed without much influence by Western countries. The US had to force Japan to open up its border so that it could take a strategic position and use Japan's land and resources to improve its trade and economy. From Japan's perspective, Japan watched what happened in China and it could not risk weakening itself as China did through the wars. Japan needed Western technology and weaponry to defend itself. That's why Japan had to take the offer made by the US. Conclusion: