It wasn't simple to track time at night until the invention of mechanical clocks. Before that the breakpoint between days was sunrise (early Roman), solar midnight (later Roman), or sunset (Athenians, Jews) depending on the area and period. Also worth noting is that until mechanical clocks the length of hours would also vary from a day to the next, and time at night wasn't always counted the same way as during the day. The Roman time table that follows, for instance, highlights how days were split in 12 like today, while nights were split in 4 segments in practice - the latter corresponding to guard shifts. 

Okinoshima, a sacred Japanese island that just got World Heritage listing, is a place where men are expected to walk around naked that is off limits for women. Why are women not allowed on it? This article suggests that at least two other places, Mount Omine (Japan) and Sabarimala temple (India), ban women owing to "blood impurity" brought on by menstruation and childbirth. Might the reason for the ban on Okimoshima also be related to "blood impurity"? Might it be related to old Buddhist or Shinto traditions and attitudes towards women? Might it simply be related to the expectation of men to be walking around naked? Something else? 

I do not know of this incident. Check naval archives or with a librarian in naval archives. This does, however, seem highly likely. The castle itself would be a smoldering ruin (as it was almost entirely wood, designed in such a way to better absorb earthquakes). The stone/Earthwork, on the other hand, would be extremely resilient to artillery fire. Getting troops out of hastily dug positions using artillery fire alone is very difficult/in-effective. A modern position dug into pre-existing earthworks would be very difficult to shell and destroy. 

The German rocket program was a colossal waste of resources and helped the allies win world war two. It was tactically, strategically, and operationally insignificant at the cost of large resources that could have better been used elsewhere. 

Your thinking is overly binary. It is very possible, indeed likely, that it was likely a combination of the two plus a few other factors you are forgetting depending on place/time/occasion/society. Other factors in alcohol use: 

In the early middle ages or ancient times that might have been the case. But certainly not by the 19th or early 20th century - scientific/darwinist racism was in full swing by then. 17th century France had its Code Noir, and slave codes weren't unique to colonial France, so the quote you cite seems to give an unrealistic picture of attitudes at best. A few centuries earlier, Wikipedia's Racism entry also offers this quote by Ibn Khaldun, a 14th century Tunisian scholar, that probably better captures attitudes then and later: 

The two goals are actually related, in the sense that alchemists expected to achieve them by discovering and using the legendary philosopher's stone. It had a laundry list of properties: 

The main driver was China's open door policy, which started in 1978. Before that, China had no material commercial relationships with the US. The latter didn't even have diplomatic relationships with mainland China (they treated Taiwan as the legitimate China) until Nixon visited China in 1972. In the mid 1980s private sector began to be a thing again in some areas, and things quickly picked up from there - it naturally helped that the US was the world's largest consumer market and that China had a cheap workforce. Per the comments to your question there was already a trend to manufacture toys in Asia in the 60s and 70s, but the real inflection point occurred when production moved from Hong Kong (and Taiwan) to - much cheaper - China in the late 1980s. 

1400 A notable feature of this map is the English possession of Western France, which means that it's no later than 1453, when France took Bordeaux. Since in the Diplomacy game you color only the ownership of "supply centers" (represented by circles on the map, the larger industrial/population centres) this is consistent with France owning Paris, Rouen and Dauphine and the rest of the provinces being "unimportant" - the same with Wales, as it's not a "supply center" then it cannot have an owner and it being without color does not imply Wales being independent from England. Another feature is an unified Denmark, Sweden and Norway, which happened from 1397 as Kalmar Union. This year is also consistent with a Castile without Aragon, possession of Kiev by Poland-Lithuania and Bulgaria owned by Ottomans. The only liberty taken seems to be a bit overly unified Germany-Brandenburg. 

Yes, most men smoked For men born in USA between 1900 and 1930, about 80+% of them had been smoking at some point; and during 1920-1950 ~70% of them were current smokers.[1] This matches other countries - at ww1, for example, all soldiers generally received also a tobacco ration with the expectation that most of them will need it. For UK statistics, see [2]. At the very beginning of 1900ies very few women smoked, that's why the movie industry was used for product placement, among other advertising channels, to facilitate women smoking and thus 'double the market'. For some age cohorts, 40%-50% of women were smokers in the end - high compared to modern times, but less than contemporary men. Pipes instead of cigarettes While smoking as such was very common throughout the first half of the 20th century, the smoking of cigarettes become mainstream during that period - in 1900, only a tiny fraction of tobacco was consumed as cigarretes, while from 1945 cigarettes were absolutely dominant. [1] has illustrative graphs for these changes. [1] $URL$ [2] $URL$ 

There is additional sources, although I can't recall at the moment, about rich romans paying for their homes to be connected to the system so that they have running water in their homes. I believe aqueducts were generally public works (Defense and sanitation projects) local delivery to rich peoples homes could be a private endeavor as wealthy romans did pay a connection charge. 

One of the great things about economics is that, in a way, it is self regulating. If slavery was unprofitable then plantation owners would exit the business and stop investing capital in unproductive capital goods (slaves). Please take into account the source of this comment, a former slave and anti-slavery activist. Which is more likely? A biased commenter was attempting to disparage an industry for political purposes or that there was mass-insanity where business men would allocate capital in such a manner so they often died in debt and year after year would not make a profit.