Lets get the social aspects out the way - you can lead a horse to water and all that stuff.....: Hows your relationship - will he listen to you and is he prepared to take clearly well intended advice. Also does he believe he has a problem and does he want to fix it. If any of these answers is no there little you can do except ruin you friendship. Till hes ready, wait at the bottom of the hill for him, cut him plenty of slack and make sure you both enjoy the riding - if appropriate laugh with him, but never at him. After a night in hospital and metalwork keeping my wrist together, it took years for me to be able to ride a track with large drop off to the side - especially the right - comfortably, yet and off over the handlebars never phased me. After a big off you subconscious needs to be convinced you will not be hurt if it happens again, or it will not happen again, the only way it learns is through repetition without the consequences. You mate has learned hitting the front brake throws you over the bars, so his subconscious will not let him do it. Presuming hes ready to learn, the and hes is willing to learn from you - Look online for some videos - watch for the rubbish that is out there but you seem to know what you are looking for so should be all right there. Chose something he can currently ride comfortably, that you ride faster, with more control and/or more comfortable. Ideal would be a could of tight switchbacks that can only be ridden fast using the front brake to slow into them, yet back only braking merely means you have to go in slower. Safe run out if you don't make it is essential, bonus if its a lake or river that gets you wet or in front of a big crowd of onlookers who will give a good cheer at the screw ups.....The idea is to get something that is safe (physically safe as well mental and ego-safe). He needs to ride something that is not doing in his head, that his subconscious is going "bring it one, this is easy" while his conscious is think how to do it faster/better. If possible video you and him riding it on the first run and keep it for later. Point out where you are braking differently and ride it for a half day. Each time, both of you try to go faster/more controller/better. If you get bored or it gets too easy, find another spot just a little bit harder. The aim is ride technically easy ground perfectly before progressing to harder sections. At the end of the session, review the video of the first and last run over a beer.... Work out if you are going to mix this in with some rides, at the end of a ride is good, but make it really easy as your both tired. A special trip is well worth it. 

Beyond rebuilding the frame with a tapered headset, not practical. Effectively you need to fit an 1.5" OD tube into a 1.125" ID hole. This could theoretically be done by using a spacer and locating the taper part of the steerer under the frame. The effect would be raise the headset height and change the bikes geometry. The advantages of the tapered headset would be negated very quickly by the changed geometry, and the loss of stiffness and extra weight using a spacer would offset all the advantages of a tapered headset. i.e. The bike would be less stiff, heavier and have a poorer geometry. 

It looks to me that the bike is an entry level XC mountian bike. Not a great bike, at the right price tag, none the less suitable for off road use. I wouldn't take if off a 2 meter drops all day, but it should be OK over less than about 300mm (1 foot) and more if you know how to land. If you keep the wheels on the ground it will handle most tracks. Upgrading the fork to more travel will change the geometry. Too much is a bad thing, but 20mm or so should be OK. Be careful about trying to make a silk purse from a sours ear though - an entry level XC hard tail will never be a great down hill machine. Looking at the list of upgrades, it would be better to start with a bike closer to what you really want. As for breaking the bike etc - it will probably not fail catastrophically from normal riding, but it's not a 20kg downhill tank, and parts breakable if abused. Riding style and skill , as well as your weight, plays a part. A skilled rider controls the bike over the bumps and landings, and rides "lightly" and unskilled rider can land very "heavy" on the smallest bumps and jumps. Theres nothing wrong with a hard-tail for down hilling - not that many years ago people rode no suspension on what we now consider "Light" down hill tracks (I used to land 2 meter jumps with no suspension, ....memories... the early 90's, just like life, MTB's were so much simpler - 2 wheels, 18 gears, choice of steel or steel frames and one size nearly fits all..... ), Although this one would not be my choice, if it's all you have got, get out there and have fun. 

Personally I enjoy running as much as riding. If I could not carry the second bike I would ride one home, run back, ride the other home. It would take a bit longer and be a great workout....... Presuming 2 bikes @10km/h that is about 45-50 minutes (without prangs), or 30km/h (2*16minute) on bikes + 5 minute/km (40 minute) run - 1:15. 

Every rider has a different optimal cadence. You need to find yours. This will depend to some extent how you are feeling on the day ('Ohh that hurts' vs 'pain, what pain'). Most novice riders pedal too slowly, as they are not trained it feels 'wrong' and are not efficient at high cadence. If this is you, you optimal cadence may be faster than your most efficient, as its best to train yourself to pedal faster for future gains. The individuals balance of Cardio fitness vs Leg strength has to play a part. Here is a good article that briefly outlines some studies as to why the common recommendation of 80-90 is most efficient, but it does say 60-70 has lower oxygen cost. That would imply (my reasoning and personal experiance), if you are puffing hard up the hill, lower cadence is better, if you legs are hurting, higher cadence is better. 

If you need a special tool, you are probably doing it wrong. Originally the whole point of using a link is so you can service the chain without a chain tool, and there was no need to carry a chain breaker in the field because you could carry a spare link or two to repair a chain if needed. They could also make more money selling (one time use) links than tools - so it was a win win. Marketing guys have now worked out they can now make more money by selling special tools for the special links that don't need a special tool. I would invest in a chain breaker and not use links if you need a tool to undo the link. As far as getting links undone - they do need to clean and free of grit. Press the plates together with figures, and push the link pins towards each other. It will open easily with virtually no pressure. If you need to apply pressure, wiggle it around, till it pops open. If it won't release in 30 seconds, clean it some more. Sometimes the link is damaged or faulty, and won't easily open. In this case there various techniques (Pliers, point pliers, loop of wire around link pins and twist till they pop.) which may damage the link, but if you can't open with figures, its stuffed anyway, so go ahead with brute force and replace it. 

By far the most reliable way is a visit to the Local Bike shop, find a smaller one with lots of kids bikes and entry level bikes (They know about tight bidgets). It should take less than 5 minutes for them to give you a quick assessment of what needs to be done to make it safe, and most will happily do the assessment for free (especially given they will get a sales of at least 2 tires and tubes) Tires and tubes - replace. Wheels - remove from bike and check bearings, adjust if required. If noisy not really a safety issue, but if too loose it is. Check rims for wear from brake pads and big dents. Check spokes for tightness. Check where spokes go into rim for cracks. Ensure the QR levers are tight (They should leave a dent in your palm when you press down to do them up). Check wheels to ensure they are true (Wobble from side to side or up and down) - only a safety problem if the brakes cannot be adjusted tight enough. Brakes - Adjust so they are tight. Check pads for wear. Lube cables and replace if budget allows. Frayed rear brake is not a safety issue unless the tension side is frayed. Seat - check seat post is tight and seat bolted on to seat post. Steering / Handlebars - are all attachements tight (stem, handbars, brake levers and shifters). Do the handles bars turn freely and without play in the head. Bottom bracket/Pedels - do they spin freely and smoothly without play. Listen for creeks and grinding noises. Look for cracks and damage to the cranks. Frame - look for visible cracks - its steel so sudden failure is not likely. Go for a ride and jump up and down a few times, listen... Pick the bike up and drop it onto its wheels from about 300mm. Listen to the bike for rattles, squeaks etc. Some are normal, but it can give away a lot. Rear derailuer and shifters - not really a safety issue unless the chain jumps off and jams. , but do read up how to tune it. Make sure the chain stays on the cogs. 

For 1 by X, a medium cage has enough capacity (11-42 needs only 31). Refer here for details of compatibility between different drive line equipment. Using an 11 speed derailleur with a ratio of 1.1 vs 10 speed is 1.2, with a cable pull of 3.4mm, across 9 shifts, gives an error of 3mm. If you have have the derailleur perfect in the center, you are out by 1.5mm at the outer cogs, which is getting to be a little far out for my liking. Many say it works, but I have seen no one report back after the chain, cassette and cables are no longer new and shiny and in perfect working order. However, I have also heard and suspect it to be true, that the M8000 provides a better 10 speed 11-42 setup than a 10 Speed derailleur. Better alternates to the M8000 if you don't want to go to 11 speed are third party upgrades to your 10 speed derailleur, e.g. Rad Cage, Goatlink, or both. I looked at going 1x for my 3x10, and decided it was either go the whole hog and do it properly with 1x11 or stick with what I had. 

Adding an answer to summarize the the suggestions already made in comments. I had this problem with a pedal/show combination. My solution was to trim the sole where it interfered with the pedals. Initially I hesitated to do this to my nice new shoes, but subsequently never gave the missing blocks a second though. My other option was to install different pedals, which I had. I decided I wanted to have the pedals as they were usable for the quick trip to the corner store in my street shoes or a spin around the block with my preschool son.