There are so many variables that it is hard to answer this question. How much time did you spend freelancing? Are you free-lancing in the same field as full-time work? Is your freelancing experience more valuable to me than your full-time experience? Do you plan on continuing to freelance after we hire you? As a prospective employer, this does raise a potential red-flag for me. As the one paying you to work full-time, I expect to be your priority. When you have an alternative source of income, that competes more strongly for your priorities and time. You could potentially get the same experience with open-source or volunteer activities that would not be as much of a threat. 

IANAL, but I believe in some countries, you may have a legal problem. One of the things these employers are paying you for is your time. Even if the museum says they don't care if you search the web, etc. they are still paying for your time on premise. They did not give you permission to resell that time to someone else. The fact that they did not explicitly state that you can't work for someone else while sitting at your guard station doesn't mean that it is OK to do that. There could be implied restrictions in employment law in your country/city that you should investigate. How you discuss this with a new potential employer depends on what you choose to do. If you continue to work this way, it will be hard to explain to them how there is no risk that you would do the same while working for them. If you stop working this way, you could let them know that you didn't understand that this was inappropriate but when you did learn, you stopped doing it. Hopefully they will see that you are honest about your mistakes and that you did change your behavior. 

The answer depends on the situation and several factors, such as how important is the reply to you, is a delay in a reply beneficial to you etc. So in your instance where your expecting an important email you've been told to expect and haven't received, there could be a myriad of reasons as to why they haven't been able to send it to you on time. It's polite to give them an extra day and if you still haven't heard anything just send them a gentle reminder once it's 2 days late. They will then pick it up in the morning the following day and will hopefully be able to make it their priority. At the very least most people will go through their emails and send replies to those jobs they can't get round to that day. If the delay is advantageous for you then it's pretty straight forward, enjoy the delay. This could be if your waiting for a response to continue a piece of work and have more work than you can do that day, that's one less job off your list for today. The onus is on them to send a reply to you. It may get to the point where a late reply is becoming detrimental, in which case send a reminder requesting the email they are supposed to send you, or an explanation for the delay. 

Companies differ, but I think most companies view working at home as an reasonable option because they have the expectation that you have established a reliable working environment at home. You should be able to work a full day(whatever that means) without risk of technical issues or significant interruptions. So, while you are working in this cafe in Paris, how are you guaranteeing that you have a reliable internet connection, that the waiter isn't pushing you out because you've been holding a table for too long, that the mom with the screaming child won't interrupt your phone call? In a nutshell, most companies assume that your work at home environment is as "workable" as your office environment, but just happens to be in your home. 

Don't give criticism if you can't/won't give concrete examples for the co-worker to work on. It's not fair to the recipient to give vague negative feedback. If you don't feel those items are worth mentioning, then you should reconsider giving that negative feedback. 

Having their logo on your business card says nothing about the works you did and provides limited value to new clients. It may give the false impression that they are endorsing your skills and work Most companies have trademarked or copyrighted their logos, so without their permission you are not allowed to use the logos. Any company large enough to be worth having on your card probably does not want random people advertising the relationship. 

There's absolutely nothing wrong with applying for both positions. Just make it clear when applying for the second you've applied for the first and let them know the status of your application. As it stands now it's probably in your best interest to make the manager of the second lab aware of your first interview with the company. As they've emailed you giving you an update on the status of the position (working with HR) I'd send a reply back just clearly stating the situation. That way you're covered by having informed them as much as you can. 

If you think you lack the experience for the position then you're not going to get it. That's not the mindset you want to be going into an interview with. Just because you're out of school and not going to College doesn't mean you lack the education to be a software developer. Have you got any experience in the languages you are applying for or are you applying for entry level positions that don't expect you to know the language? This question makes a difference. If they don't expect you to know the language, then education isn't a massive factor in terms of the language. Your school grades will count but what will count more is how you think, do you have a logical approach to solutions, do you know any similar language? That's more important in a prospective entry level position where they are going to teach you. You need to show that you are receptive, eager to learn and most importantly, capable of learning. If you're going for a position where you are expected to know the language, again you don't have to have a college degree, but you will have to demonstrate command of the language. Do you have code samples you can show them? Build a portfolio, even a small one, of sample programs and code you've written. Have you worked on open source initiatives? Great, show them you've contributed; this is all experience. Not everything has to be about your school work for a school leaver. 

You are not going to get much traction with management if you present this as a problem of lost time at the beginning and end of the day. Unfortunately, they view that as your problem, not theirs. What you need to present to them is lost time while you are trying to work. For example, how long do you have to wait for a build to complete? Given the normal edit, compile, test, repeat cycle of development, that lost time will really start to add up. And that is impact to the product, not to you personally. If that doesn't wake them up to the problem, I would be concerned about the bigger picture. Just because there is some policy about machine turnover, that doesn't mean you can't get something done. Often those are in place to simplify machine management and to block people who want a new machine every 6 months. If there is a real problem, they should react. My company has a standard 3 year EOL policy which is built into the IT process plan. However, when I showed that my machine was running sluggishly during builds because of the number of apps I had to run, I had a memory upgrade from 8GB to 16 GB within 2 hours. You need to present real impact and get a manager involved. 

If you're moving because you're unhappy in your current position, exactly why you're unhappy should have been discussed between you and your manager before leaving and this is the last resort so there's little left to be said about it: 

The first thing I can say to you is be open and honest with all parties, it will make the whole process that much easier for everyone involved. It doesn't mean you have to tell them absolutely everything, for example I wouldn't tell company A that you would prefer to work for company B, but I would tell company B you have an offer on the table from company A who are expecting an answer the following day. If company B can give you an answer by Friday then great, you have the ideal situation. As @GarrisonNeely commented use the offer from company A at your interview to try and get the process speeded up. Assuming they also give you an offer you can then pick and choose at your leisure. But they may not be able to give you an offer in such a short time frame. They may have other candidates to interview at a later time or meetings to be held to consider candidates. In that case at best you may get an indication of when to expect an answer. If that is the situation come Friday you're in a difficult situation. If you ask for more time from company A you're pretty much telling them you're holding out for another job. It's at that point you would need to make a decision and either hold out for company B, in which case you can ask for more time from company A (just don't expect a favourable response) and then if it goes south put your hopes in company B. Or you can accept the job with company A and not let the hope of company B lead you on. You have a firm offer and that's better than a possible offer from a company you'd prefer to work for. 

Without knowing what your mistakes were and hearing the conversation, it is very hard for us to understand the context and get a read on your manager, but I would suggest you consider the your part in the whole situation. If you are really repeating silly mistakes after being told about them, that is a problem. While "amateur" may be a little blunt, it may also be very accurate. You need to take corrective action on your part to improve this. As a software development manager, I don't mind if my developers make a mistake or aren't on top of coding standards. I do mind if I tell them about it and explain what I expect and they do nothing to improve. I try to be very pleasant the first time we discuss the situation. However, the more often we have that same conversation, the less pleasant and more serious I get. My team is getting paid to be professional developers and if they can not do that or are not making legitimate attempts to address that, they won't be long for my team or likely the entire company. Introspection can be a valuable thing. You have to ask yourself if the substance of your manager's comments is accurate. If it is, you need to work on improving. If you believe it is not, then you need to work with him/her to get more detail on the expected results and understand why he/she doesn't believe you are accomplishing them. 

I'd make it polite and to the point, thanking them for the opportunities that they have offered you. Make sure to leave professionally. I find this a helpful template: 

As with most things in the professional world, honestly and politely. It seems you feel bad for the other firm for all the work they've put in trying to get you. My advise to you is stay detached in these situations; don't feel guilty about having to turn down the job no matter what they've done for you. You have to do what is right for you, just as the company will do what is right for it. You don't have to tell them you have another offer that is better if you don't want to. You can simply tell them that you no longer wish to pursue their offer. You can of course tell them you need more time to consider and put them off a little to make sure you definitely get the local job, and if that falls through go with the foreign one. But once you have the local job secured, just be straight up with the foreign company. Thank them for the offer but tell them after all considerations you've decided not to take their offer. They'll probably ask why and it's at that point you can either say "I'd prefer not to answer that." or "I've taken a different job more local to me.". Whichever you choose, remember not answering them is more preferable to lying to them. Just stay honest with them and you should be fine. 

I don't think you have any financial responsibility here, but you may have something at risk because of how you handled the first interaction. When you are working through a recruiter and they connect you with a company, you should not initiate your own communications with that company, even if it turns out you know an employee (as is your case). Most recruiters agreements state that if the company hires anyone brought to them by the recuiter, they owe the recruiter some payment. By initiating your own communication, you created an opening where the company could hire you and try to avoid paying the recruiter (cheating the recuiter out of his/her fee). While the agreement is between the two companies and not you, you are still part of the equation. If/when the recruiting company realizes they have worked with you before and how it turned out, they may refuse to work with you. You may still be able to work with other recruiters, but certainly you have risked being able to work with this recruiter. 

Since it appears he was involved in the R&D (the university project), you may have an IP ownership issue. As stated above, you need a lawyer for that, so don't rely on what we say. As far as involvement in the business, start with the truth. It may be a tough pill to swallow, but it will be easier now than a year or two later. If necessary, have a meeting of the entire team and have each member explain what value they would be bringing to the company. You may be able to use that opportunity to show how little he would be bringing and why he isn't a fit for the future work.