This is really a question of Language rather than Astronomy. The meaning of words is defined by their use. The IAU has proposed one way of using the word "planet", this group of scientists have proposed another. Anyone can propose a definition of any word. This group proposes that a "planet" is any astronomical body which 1) Does not have, and never has had sustained nuclear fusion in its core, and 2) Is large enough for gravity to pull it into an ellipsoidal shape. The intention of this definition is to make a planet defined entirely by "what" a body is, not by "where" it is. Under this definition the classic 8 planets, Ceres, Pluto, Charon, the Moon, the larger moons of Jupiter, Saturn Uranus and Neptune, Eris, Sedna, and the larger Kuiper belt objects would all be "planets" - about 100 known in total. The exoplanets would also be "planets" Asteroids (except Ceres), comets and other small solar system bodies are too small, and so would not be planets. The advantage of this definition is that the usually where something is located is not part of the definition of what it is. However, it contradicts several hundred years of use by defining the larger moons as planets. Unlike the 8 planet definition, this does not have the support of a large international body of astronomers (the IAU). If you wish to use this definition you are free to. I doubt that without the support of the IAU this definition is ever going to be widely used. Most people will either use the 8 planet definition or the 8+Pluto definition. 

All of them. If you sit on Earth then (in the many worlds interpretation) each quantum mechanical observation creates multiple universes, and there is a copy of "you" in each one. So if I were to ask, which universe will I be in tomorrow, the answer is "all of them" (except the ones in which I die) If I go into space, float around and come back I will come back in all of the universes. Because I have been moving (relative to Earth) there will be a slight clock discrepancy in all the universes. If I go into space, orbit a black hole, then come back. I will come back in all the universes (except for the ones that I die in). There will be a large discrepancy in clock time but that is irrelevant. I've not done any movie time-travel. It's just that my watch doesn't match the clocks on Earth. In the Copenhagen interpretation you come back in the one universe (with a certain probability that is close to 1). As the mathematics is identical, there is no experiment that can distinguish between different interpretations of QM. 

Little pieces of Halley's comet hit the Earth every spring. It's called the Eta Aquarid meteor shower, but I think you are thinking of something bigger. Dallas Abbot's paper notes that at the 533-540 point on the GISP2 ice core there are Sn-rich particles, Ni-rich particles and cosmic spherules. These she identifies as evidence of a minor cometary impact. The resolution of the GISP2 core is sufficient to place this impact in the late spring, consistent with the Eta Aquarid meteor shower, which is known to be produced by Halleys comet. Dallas notes that an increase in cometary dust in the atmosphere could partly explain the extreme weather events of 535-536, in combination with a minor volcanic eruption. Although there are other, competing hypotheses, and this is not considered to be settled science. 

No. The moon orbits the Earth at less than 405,000 km. The Earth orbits the sun at more than 147,100,000km. The orbits are stable over billions of years. The moon never comes less than 146,700,000km from the sun It is possible for the moon to pass in front of the sun, that is called a solar eclipse. 

There is no great contradiction. The offset of the tidal bulge is about 3 degrees. It is exaggerated in diagrams for clarity. The diagram is correct, but not to scale. This causes the tides to be slightly late. Imagine a person standing on the Earth of the diagram, with the moon directly overhead. The tidal bulge is on their left. The rotation of the Earth will take them towards the left (the moon is also orbiting but its motion is much slower), so a little later (12 min later) they will reach the maximum of the tide. The maximum is delayed by about 12 min. Actual flows of water around the coast are driven by this tidal bulge, but are complex effects of local topography. The actual flows of water are highly non-linear, including multiple locations at which there is no tide. 

The presence of these line shows the composition of the star's atmosphere. Measurement of the position of the lines allows for accurate measurement of the doppler shift of a star. A cool, red star which is stationary will have the Fraunhofer lines in the same position as a hot stationary blue star. The motion of the star is measured by the position of the fraunhofer lines, not the colour of the star. 

Sirius is the brightest "star" in the night sky, but not the brightest object in the sky in the early morning, at the time of writing. In autumn of 2015, Venus is a very bright in the early morning sky, and it outshines any star by several magnitudes of brightness. It is, perhaps, in comparison to Venus that you find that Sirius is "of very average brightness" On the night you mention, Venus would have appeared as a bright "star" near to the crescent moon, and visible even after sunrise. No other star or planet would have been visible after sunrise. Compared to the other stars, Sirius is exceptionally bright. However, at this time of the year it is close to the horizon (as seen from Delhi) which diminishes its apparent magnitude. Sirius will also appear to "twinkle" much more than Venus, and as of the time of writing, Venus will appear as clearly a "half disc" in a small telescope. Learn to follow the sky, with either a map, or stellarium so you can recognise the patterns made by the stars of the sky, then you can find a particular star, such as Sirius, much more easily and confidently. 

Comments formed into community wiki Satellites can and have been seen through telescopes. Possibly it is just a very small or faint satellite which requires a telescope to see and is too difficult to detect by the naked eye. The description of a "moderate speed in a straight line and eventually dimming out" sounds like every satellite. A piece of space junk is also possible. Lots of second stage boosters and other rocket parts floating around up there that are small enough that you would only notice them through a telescope You might be able to identify it by going to the Heavens Above site and providing your location, the date & time. 

No the mantle is also solid, although more plastic than the crust. There is a liquid core below the mantle 

The speed relative to Earth is greater than the speed of light. This is consistent with Relativity as the space between us and the distant galaxies has stretched. The speed is given by $$(\mathrm{Hubble\ constant}) \times (\mathrm{radius\ of\ the\ observable\ universe\ in\ Mpc})$$ Which, as noted by Pela in a comment, is roughly 3.3 times the speed of light. 

At 99% the sun will be reduced to a small sliver. There are simulations on the internet. It will become very notably darker. However, the sun is 400000 times brighter than the full moon, so 1% of the Sun is still 4000 times brighter than the Moon, and so no corona will be visible. You can still damage you eye looking at that sliver. Since the centre of totality is less than an hour's drive from Portland, if you have a car, and can get out early, you can see totality and the corona (weather permitting) 

Location of Geostationary satellites operating between 4-8 GHz in the same region of the sky as Ross 128 (yellow dot). Credit: Enriquez et al. (SETI Berkeley), $URL$ Your analysis of the location of a satellite, based on the geometry of satellite orbiting over the equator is not supported by this image. The observers did not claim to have received a SETI signal. Indeed if you look at their original report they note that "aliens" is at the bottom of their possible explanations. The signal looks different from typical satellite bursts. They hoped the signal was astronomical in nature so there may have been a little wishful thinking. So the most likely explanation is that we are observing multiple reflections from geostationary satellites transmitting on the 4-8 GHz band. All quotations from the press release from the planetary habitability observatory.