"Ancestor" and "descendant" are indeed the correct terms if there is a direct line of descent. Otherwise you would say that they are cognates. 

ἆρα is considered to be cognate with the interrogative particle in Baltic languages (Latvian ar, Lithuanian aȓ). Persian āyā does not have a known ancestor in Old or Middle Persian. In early New Persian it does occur, alongside ay اى with the same function. From the viewpoint of regular sound correspondence, any connection with ἆρα is quite out of the question. Persian -y- cannot derive from IE -*r-. 

"God helps them who help themselves" is a well-known proverb in English. Your second sentence ("I pity them who...") is correct English, though not perhaps the most usual way to say this. There is nothing wrong with "He with the hat knows her with the scarf" either. Both belong to an elevated (literary) style. 

The silent letters do not explain the difference in pronunciation. "Physic" and "physics" are mediaeval or renaissance borrowings from Latin physica. "Physique" is a recent (19th-century) borrowing from French retaining the French spelling and also the French pronunciation with a stressed final syllable. 

In linguistics we distinguish (usually) between descendants and borrowings. French chauve "bald" is a descendant of Latin calvus. French calvitie "baldness" is borrowed from Latin calvities. 

The standard work on Turkish etymology is Clauson's "Etymological dictionary of pre-thirteenth-century Turkish". 

“Armenian” is հայերեն for which the usual transliteration is hayeren. ր is a single-tap /r/, as opposed to the trilled ռ, transliterated as ṙ. 

You have had some good answers to your question, but I would like to expand on what you say about Vietnamese writing traditions. The Chinese-based chữ nôm had a very marginal existence in Vietnam, being used almost exclusively for poetry and for “women’s literature” (basically translations - or imitations - of Chinese novels by and for women). The main written language in Vietnam until well into the colonial period was Chinese. The Portuguese-based chữ quốc ngữ writing system was also very much marginal, even among the Jesuits who invented it, who also did most of their writing in Chinese, until it was adopted by the nationalist movement in the 20th century. 

I do not think that English has changed more than French since the 17th century. A more likely explanation is that the French passages in Henry V are in prose, while most of the English bits are in verse, and thus inevitably in a more elevated (if you like: more difficult) language. 

With Hebrew and Arabic it would only work if all the vowel signs are written out. Which normally they are not. 

In Arabic grammar this is called "'inna and its sisters". These encompass a set of particles that are followed by a noun in the accusative case, or by the accusative forms of suffixed pronouns. 

In classical Arabic in a verbal sentence (a sentence beginning with a verb) with implicit agent the verb will agree with this implicit agent in person, number and gender. For example: yaδhabūna ʼilā l-madīnati “they go (3rd plural masc.) to the town”. If there is an explicit agent the verb will agree with the agent in person and gender only; that is: it can only be in the 3rd person singular masculine or feminine. Thus: yaδhabu l-ʼawlādu ʼilā l-madīnati Literally: “he goes (3rd singular masc.) the boys to the town”. “The boys are going to the town”. 

The suffix *-isk- is Indo-European. It has offspring in Greek, Germanic, Baltic and Slavic, and also in Romance, where it seems to be borrowed from Germanic. 

In Mayrhofer’s little Sanskrit-Grammatik §140 there is a list of Sanskrit preverbs with their Greek equivalent, e.g. apa : apo; api : epi; pari : peri; pra : pro; prati : proti; upa : hypo. 

The word for “sugar” in virtually all languages goes back to Sanskrit śárkarā. From Sanskrit it developed into North-West Prakrit śakara, which was borrowed into Middle Persian as šakar, and then from Persian into Arabic as sukkar. The words in European languages all derive directly or indirectly from Arabic. 

Mayrhofer's first edition (KEWA) has definitions in both German and English. The much improved second edition (EWAia) is in German only. If you are serious about historical linguistics you need to know German. Both books are protected by copyright, but I suppose that you can find pirated electronic versions on some shady website. 

This question is actually more complicated, and more interesting, than indicated in the previous posts. Classical Arabic (al-ʻarabiyyatu l-fuṣḥā), as formulated by the grammarians from Sībawayh onwards, is based in the first instance on the language of the poetry of the pagan (jāhilī) period, in essence, a poetic koine combining elements of the various old Arabic dialects. The Qurʼān is in basically the same language, but with some particular morphological and syntactic features, and quite a large amount of specifically Qurʼānic vocabulary. Muslims believe that the Qurʼān is literally the word of God, that it is inimitable and that consequently men cannot, and indeed must not try to, imitate it. This means that the language of Arabic literature of the classical period is actually quite different from that of the Qurʼān.This is rather different from (for example) English writing of the post-reformation period in so far as this consciously emulates the language and diction of the English Bible. 

It is generally assumed that proto-Indo-European had a pitch accent, which survives in the notation of Classical Greek and of Vedic, but which has disappeared in Modern Greek as well as in Classical Sanskrit and the Middle and New Indo-Aryan languages. The IE pitch accent survives at least partially in Lithuanian. 

Nominal compounds are an inherited feature in Indo-European. Classical (i.e. post-Vedic) Sanskrit has lots of very long compounds rivalling anything in German. 

The insertion of a non-etymological /r/ after a nasal + stop cluster is very common in lots of different languages. Sumelic has already mentioned Spanish hombre. London does indeed come from Latin Londinium. This is not a "suggestion" but a generally accepted fact. Turkish Londra is a borrowing from Italian. The cited Breton form is borrowed from French. 

$URL$ This law has been reformulated (and generalised) by Klaus Beyer to the effect that words which in proto-Semitic had the vowels a…a in the tonic and pre-tonic syllables dissimilate these to e…a in Aramaic. For example, Arabic ʼamara “he commanded” corresponds to Syriac ʼemar “he said”. An interesting example of vowel dissimilation in French and English is discussed here: $URL$ 

Avestan āuuōiia “woe!” has seven (orthographic) vowels in succession. Avestan kāuuaiiasca “and evil rulers” has eight. (In both cases this is a one-to-one transliteration of the Avestan script, which is unfortunately not available in Unicode.) 

To be honest, I think this is a useless question. All IE languages have preserved certain features of the hypothetical parent language and have lost others. All IE languages need to be taken into account in reconstructing the proto-language. There is no objective way to determine which daughter languages have “best” preserved these features. For example, the hypothetical IE laryngeals are preserved as such only in Anatolian, but Anatolian has lost lots of other features which have been attributed to PIE. Or to stay with living languages: Russian has a very complex system of cases, but has lost all conjugated forms of the verb except the present indicative active. Modern Greek, on the other hand, has a pruned-down system of cases, but a very well preserved verbal system (active and middle voice, aorist vs imperfect, subjunctive etc.). Which has been “better” at preserving PIE features? 

As so often, Wikipedia is completely wrong about this. The Sanskrit name Rādhā cannot possibly be related to Persian rād “generous”. Indo-Iranian post-vocalic dh becomes y in Persian, not d. 

ق occurs in Arabic and Turkish/Mongolian loanwords. غ occurs in Arabic, Turko-Mongolian and a few words of Iranian (but usually not Persian) origin. Arabic was the official language in Islamic Iran for a long time and for this reason many place-names are used in an "official" Arabicised form, even if they are of Persian origin e.g. اصفهان for Persian spahān. The use of ذ in a few words of Iranian etymology is a somewhat complicated matter. You can read about it here: $URL$ pages 93 sqq. 

The classical Latin name for this plant is coccygia (it occurs once in Pliny); the Greek name is κοκκυγία (occurs once in a Byzantine dictionary) and *κοκκυγέα (an emendation in one passage in Theophrastes). None of these has an -r-. The Botanical name coggyrgia (sic, with -gg- and -r-) seems to have been coined by Scopoli in the 18th century. It is quite misguided to attempt to explain it as an ancient Greek dialect form. It is probably a mistake on the part of Scopoli. 

Sometimes there is an advantage in ambiguity. "Couple" means "about two", in the same way that "dozen" means "about twelve" and "score" means "about twenty". By contrast "two", "twelve" and "twenty" are exact quantities. 

First of all, “Modern Standard Arabic” is not "spoken in Egypt", or indeed in any country. It is used only for writing and for reading aloud from a written text. The spoken language in every Arab country is the local dialects. To your question: There is only one Arabic alphabet, but there are diacritics to indicate the non-Arabic sounds occurring in languages like Persian, Pashto, Urdu and other languages written with Arabic script. Occasionally these are also used to write Arabic dialects. But the basic battery of bare letters is the same in all Arabic-based writing systems. 

No, he will write the digits from left to right (the opposite of the direction of writing words) as: 123 or ۱۲۳. 

The word for ‘dog’ is *ḱuon, hence Skt śvā. The word for ‘young’ is *ken, Skt kanyā etc. The two stems cannot be related. 

The concept of “closeness” is actually rather problematic in linguistics. English and French are “close” in the sense that they share a large amount of common vocabulary, but in the sense of genetic relationship the Germanic language English and the Romance language French are only very distantly related, namely through proto-Indo-European. The Aramaic languages are traditionally divided (from about the 6th century BC onwards) into Eastern and Western Aramaic. Galilean Aramaic belongs to the Western branch and is thus genetically closest to the modern Western Aramaic languages still spoken (we hope, despite all the things that are happening in Syria) in just three villages: Maʿlūla, Baxʿa, and Jubbʿadīn. On the other hand, these modern Western Aramaic languages have been very heavily influenced by Arabic (with regards to vocabulary, but also phonology), unlike the language spoken in Galilee in the first century, which in terms of vocabulary is perhaps closer to less strongly arabicised languages like the Eastern Aramaic of Ṭūr ʿAbdīn in Southern Turkey. So, as I said, it all really depends on what you mean with “close”.