You immediately phone the English company that made the offer. You tell them that you don't want the job, and that you are officially withdrawing your consent to a background check. Then, you follow it up with an email, and request a confirming reply. Don't wait. Once it is started, you may not be able to stop the process. 

You have the right idea, but the wrong approach. Do tell her in person, rather than by email. But don't say it during the meeting (unless all else fails). Since there is only one person at issue here, talk to the individual in question privately. Explain that the team needs her to be focused and succinct in her turn during the daily standup, and explain why. Coach her, rather than criticize her. Do it individually and privately. If it continues, talk to her again and point out that it's still taking too long. You might offer to give her some training materials about Scrum, Standups, and her role in them. If none of that helps, then during the next meeting before anyone speaks, tell the group the concept of succinctness, and talking only about what others need to hear. If that still fails, the next time she starts to go off course, politely interrupt with something like "Excuse me a moment, but I think we're getting off track here. Please tell us only what others need to hear." As @JamesRyan wisely points out in his comment, you might choose to offer the opportunity for a follow-on discussion between the release manager and anyone else who wants to hear the rest of what she has to say. That way, not everyone has to use up their time. In my shop we called that a "Tag Along". (As a Scrum Master, you might need a bit more training on keeping the daily Standup on track?) 

It would really be awkward to decline such an event after it has already been planned, and folks have already accepted an invitation. Therefore, you should try to contact the person who is most likely to arrange such a party beforehand, and let them know you would rather not have one at all. I assume not everyone at your company receives a farewell party anyway. Something like this might work: "I'd really rather not have a farewell party. While I appreciate everyone's thoughtfulness, it would be very uncomfortable for me. I hope you will understand and respect my feelings." 

The counter to all that might be that you could be offered an attractive severance package if you offer to be part of the group being laid off at your company. But that's hard to know for sure, and a risky move. In general, I have found that you would be far better served by finding your next job, getting an offer and formal acceptance, then handing in your resignation and working out your notice period. 

You can put any source of learning in your resume - paid certificate courses, free courses, etc. Just be aware that the free courses will carry less weight in your resume than a course with a verifiable completion certificate, or a course at a university. Anyone can claim they took a free course. (As @LightnessRacesinOrbit correctly points out, anyone can claim to have taken a paid course, too. My assumption is that the paid courses have certificates of completion that are verifiable by a hiring company, where most free courses do not.) Don't load your resume up with dozens of these free courses. You don't want them to overwhelm the more valuable content. Try to include only courses relevant for the job at hand - courses that would be significant in the eyes of a hiring manager. And try to include only courses for which you actually gained some expertise that you could talk about if questioned. Avoid any courses which you just casually cruised through or for which you didn't actually learn anything - those could lead to embarrassing answers when questioned by an interviewer. 

In my experience, this sort of "business hospitality dinner" is very common. As far as being grateful, that's up to you. I work at a remote office in my company. Periodically, folks from the headquarters or other offices come by for a visit. There is always a dog-and-pony show or two, always a "lunch out with the visitors", and a dinner. In my office, I am expected to participate in the show, I am expected to join them for lunch, but it's optional to join them for dinner (unless I'm the primary person they are meeting with - then I'm expected to arrange the dinner, send invites to relevant folks, and join them). In general, if it fits in with my home life, I'll join them, enjoy the dinner, try to learn as much as I can, and build some political capital for the future. But, if it conflicts with my home life, then I'll graciously decline the invitation. Frankly, since my home life is becoming busier these days, I have fewer nights free to dine with work colleagues, so I decline more often than I have in the past - particularly when I don't have much notice. So far, at least in my company, there seem to be no adverse repercussions to that strategy. It's not a big deal. Yet every company is different, and the expectations may vary. If you aren't sure of your company's culture in this regard, perhaps you could discuss it with your peers and/or you boss. 

Unfortunately, this could be laziness on their part, or you may simply not fit the requirements of a position in Canada at this time. You will need to be prepared to hand in your notice if time starts to run out. 

Not in my experience, no. While I have worked with a few companies having a few of those attributes, over the years I've come to the conclusion that there is no standard workplace culture in the US. I've worked at many startups, and large multi-national corporations. I've worked in the retail, software, and financial sectors. I've worked in newer companies and companies that have been around for many years. No two of them are alike. I think what you are seeing can be ascribed to company culture rather than overall US workplace culture. If you browse around some of the questions about US companies here at workplace.stackexchange, I think you'll quickly see that there is a wide array of experiences represented. I know for me, I've worked at US companies with a wide variety of cultures. I've worked at companies where everyone felt like they were on the same page every day. Assistance was gladly given as a matter of course. I've worked at companies where everyone had a strong sense of what others were doing, how they were progressing, and where they were stalling. I've worked at a company where "out of the box thinking" was expected (almost demanded) of everyone, on a regular basis. I've worked at a few companies where folks ate together virtually every day, and one where everyone at the company ate at a particular restaurant together every single Friday. I suggest you consider the possibility that your particular company doesn't represent the vast entirety of the US Workplace. And I suggest that you try to slowly help your company's culture change to something you like more. It's rather difficult to enact change as a single individual in a large corporation (since that company's culture is usually born from the top), but if enough individuals work together, change can happen. Perhaps you can start by inviting some of your colleagues out to lunch. There you can talk about the company - what you like and what you don't like. And perhaps eating lunch together can become a regular thing among a growing group of friends. It's a start. 

Yes, most likely. In your company, since there are now two VPs and one Director, there is a clear difference, and probably a significance. For some reason, you are not quite at the same level as the other two VPs. That could be because the company wants you to earn your way into a VP title, or because you don't have the same span of authority as the other two VPs, because you aren't paid as much as the others, or for some other reason. In general, titles mean only what the specific company wants them to mean. Banks for example often have many, many VPs and Directors, and many levels of VPs and Directors. I've been a Manager, Director, VP - not necessarily in that order at several companies. Often, the actual work I performed was indistinguishable. Many times, companies will use titles to attract candidates (figuring some folks might want to work for them if they could get promoted to Director instead of Manager). Other times, companies will use titles to rank similar peers (The Senior VP is more important than the VP, who is more important than the Director, etc). Many times, companies use titles to set certain people into a higher or lower pay grade (I've seen that happen several times when a company distinguished between the titles Manager and Director, for example). 

It's not rude, but may be ineffective. While they may indeed keep your resume on file, and remember to refer to it if the same position opens up, it would make more sense for you to check periodically. That way, you'll know if the same position opens up, or if another similar position opens up that you might want to consider. 

No. Decide for yourself if you want to stick around due to the potential acquisition or not. If the former, be aware that rewards for sticking around aren't usually immediate. In every case I have experienced, you'd need to be there at least 6 months post-acquisition to get anything. Once you have decided then act accordingly. If you have decided not to stick around, then find your next job, give the appropriate notice, and leave. If you have decided to stay, then just keep it to yourself until you later decide to leave. Playing games like "Well I might stick around or might not." or "Well I might stick around because there may be a bonus later." are more likely to backfire than not. If I were your manager/CEO and you proposed that to me, I'd almost certainly tell you to leave now. 

I'm with your parents that you should remove all family endorsements from your LinkedIn account. But not because it will look fishy, or because it's "bad". Rather, you should remove them because they distract the reader from anything else on LinkedIn that might actually have some value. 

Ask the office manager (or whoever controls that office) what should be done about this unused office. It's not your job to decide. If they agree that it shouldn't be used, perhaps they can lock the door, remove the telephone, put up a sign, or simply tell the consultants not to use it. 

Find a quiet time that is handy for both you and manager B. Ask if he has a few minutes for a chat. Something like "Hey, boss. Can I get a few minutes of your time to talk privately?" should work. When you meet, be honest, and ask for what you need sincerely. Something like "I'm trying to understand my performance so far. I need your feedback so I can see what I'm doing right, what I'm doing wrong, and how I can make it all better." Then listen. Don't be defensive, don't try to point out counter-examples, just accept what is said. If some of it is confusing, ask for more specifics and examples. Ask if you can set up a time a week or so down the line to check in again and see if you are going in the right direction or not. Then try to go out and implement what you have heard. Keep notes, if you need, to use in your next check-in meeting. If you accept this all as constructive criticism, and use it as motivation to do better, you'll likely end up with a better internship experience. You'll learn more - about the job requirements, and hopefully more about yourself as well. [If, as you indicate, you only have a few weeks left, then time is of the essence here. The feedback from manager B would be useful even after the next 2 weeks. Talk to him today. You can either feel bad, feel sorry for yourself, and give up - or you can do something about it now.] 

It's okay by me. I think you are asking if you can get away with omitting your PhD. And most likely you can. But as I explained above, your secret could be revealed through a background check. 

Of course you can ask. It's possible that in spite of the fact that the company wants you full time, they may be willing to settle for three months. You can ask anything. And if you are really valuable, they may be willing to give you what you are looking for. The only way you will know is to ask. 

Just as you should never use your coworkers' salaries as the reason why you should get more, a recruiter should not use your potential coworkers' salaries as the reason why you should get less. What you are worth depends on you - not on what others make. Unfortunately, this happens often. It makes no sense to argue the point with the recruiter, or to try and dig up statistics, etc. You should tell the recruiter that you really don't want to know what others make but that you know what you are worth and the value you would bring to the company. You could choose to negotiate other parts of the offer package (benefits, vacation, bonuses, stock options, etc), or you could just concentrate on salary. And if the company doesn't want to meet the salary level that you feel you deserve, you move on in your job search and find a company that will. It doesn't matter why this company won't meet your salary demands if some other company can and will.