See the problem? You're fighting facts with opinions. Try defending yourself with facts. If those fail, try corroborated, backed-up facts. 

Since these employees are so enthusiastic, I would consider somehow making them partners in the business, on some terms that are mutually acceptable, with respect to you retaining an amount of control that you are comfortable with and such. Then they have a very good reason to be doing the extra work. In a sense, they are behaving like partners already: people who have a personal stake in making the business succeed and put in the time, the way business owners do. 

Not only is the "dislikes" category a bad idea, but so is its dual, "likes". Or rather, how it is labeled. Those are the things you know, part of your skill set. It can be assumed that the things you work with, you like. (If you don't, that's your problem.) Imagine if a carpenter/framer had that on his resume: 

You were in a parking lot fender-bender, in which police did not give you any ticket. You're not a professional driver. Your new full-time job has nothing to do with driving and your new employers are not interested in your driving record. You probably will not ever have another driving job. In summary: it doesn't matter. 

Whenever you're worried about creating some perception about yourself by asking a question, get someone else to ask it for you. Or make an anonymous phone call. Or just ask someone in the parking lot. "Hi, you work for Company X, right? What are the work hours like?" ("Why yes. In fact, I'm the CEO.") How did you find out about that company? Do you know anyone on the inside? Or do you know someone who knows someone on the inside? You can use your network to gather "intelligence" about that company. 

I won't go into much detail but in short, my PIP was extended by a month because my manager feels I am not there where he expects me to be. And most recently, I have been assigned to work on one of most crucial systems in our infrastructure which would need my expertise because I have been the only one who has worked exclusively on that system in the past since its in the language that I have experience with. Project is basically a rewrite of the system in another language that other team members are comfortable in. I will be working on one of components of the system alone & will be helping a senior developer along the way as well (he's working on different component of the system). As far as I remember, this rewrite was not going to happen for at least few months. One of the main concerns for me has been job hunt side by side. I have had 3 interviews so far and no concrete progress yet, so I don't think I will be able to score a job offer before PIP ends. I have sufficient savings to back myself up so I can resign without any fear of finances. In fact I have a resignation letter signed & ready right now in my bag. So, what would be the downside(s) / repercussion(s) of leaving while I have been assigned to a major rewrite? Moreover, my manager feels that this project will probably be crucial in deciding where I stand. 

I was initially put under performance improvement plan due a number of reasons outlined by my manager. I am nearing the end of my probation period in next few weeks & my manager told me that he wants to extend the probation period by 30 days. His reason was that I am still not there where he expects me to be so he wants to give me more time. Also, the change in contract would just be that it will say that it's a final warning. Let me say one thing here, I have been trying my best to work by book. Now, onto the main question, is this a red flag? Moreover I have couple of interviews lined up & I am planning to resign in a next couple of weeks since I can't really do job hunt while working full time & have substantial savings to last me at least 6 months. 

Even though in your postings you don't identify yourself as an employee of the company, somehow it is possible for someone to determine the connection between you and your company. The proof is that somebody has done that. It is not possible for you to say something and not represent your company to some extent. Fact is, you are an employee of that company, and this cannot be separated from you 100%. For instance, do you think you could make a statement, privately as yourself and not in an employee role, criticizing one of your company's customers? Regardless of your disclaimer about which "hat" you are wearing when making that statement, such a statement is connected to your role at the company. Anything controversial that you say could be bad for business, if there is a connection between you and your company. What if some person at some other company that your company does business with reads it and is put off by it, and then it influences their business decision affecting your company? People know your name, right? "Hey, look at this! Isn't that Bob Chatham from Acme, Inc? What a terrible thing to say; there is no way I'm giving Acme that discount any more on their next order of our Super Widgets." Consider using an alias for inflammatory political postings and that sort of thing, and go through an anonymizing proxy service if necessary. 

You cannot assume that your boss revealed anything. You could be the victim of a ruse perpetrated by the new employee, who is trying to find out who said all those things to the boss, which he could do by approaching each of the three of you and saying the same thing: "So I hear you think I'm ..." and monitoring the reaction. There are only three of you, so this is very easy. 

Clarification: this question vs technical debt This question has to do with me challenging long-standing beliefs about a product without committing career suicide. Rather than strictly be about dealing with technical debt, there is this: management suggests that perhaps the code is so complex that I can’t understand it, and posited the mistakes are by design; that the original developer is so meta, that what looks like mistakes are actually strokes of genius. Perhaps another reason this isn't quite about technical debt is that the difference between 'genius' code and technical debt is that management communicates that I'm not supposed to alter 'genius' code, and that 'genius' code isn't technical debt: it's the secret black magic. I wish management would think of it as technical debt. Instead they don't. Management isn't concerned with the time, cost, or money directly –– although that is some concern. 

Details Most of the time, I wouldn’t be nervous communicating this to management. Unfortunately a long line of piece-meal maintenance by people, some of whom had little development experience, who only “touched” the code long enough to add a patch here or there, then move on, has painted a picture to management over the years that the project is just one step away being production ready. That is woefully not the case. A short list of issues in the genius code I have come across in the ~1.5Gb code base are... 

TL;DR I inherited a project. Long story short, the code I am tasked to maintain is bad. So bad, in fact, the product is not only incomplete but non-functional and has been for years. How do I communicate to management, in a way that isn’t embarrassing to them, in a way that doesn’t make me look lazy or stupid, that a valuable product is in a dire state? 

The real solution here is to ask that person to stop using you as an employment reference. This cannot go on forever. The project on which you once worked together has receded into the past and is becoming less and less relevant; he has milked it for all the references it can possibly generate already. When will it be enough? When the project was 10 years ago? 15? 20? Employment references should be from the immediately previous employment, or maybe from the one before that, and no farther. Ideally, they should be people who are superior to the candidate, like direct managers or senior ones and who still work at that company and not coworkers. (A team lead is not a manager; just a coworker in a prominent position.) So in several ways, you're a weak reference: convince the guy that this is the case. It was long ago; none of you work at that company any more and have both had a number of jobs since (or perhaps at least you have) and you were never his manager. Consequently explain to him that it therefore looks bad to be using such "stale" reference, and raises red flag with prospective employers! (So, stop it already). It raises a red flag for a number of reasons one of which is simply the suspicion that you two are friends. If you use a reference from someone on a job that was many years ago, it looks like you are just buddies (why else would you still be in touch?), and buddies give good references, of course: to each other. (Modern analogy: search engine spammers, who create seemingly independent web pages that all point to each other in an attempt to fool page ranking algorithms.) Another red flag is that someone digging in the distant past for old references is probably doing that because he cannot get good recent references. He managed to get a good job once where he did okay, and that's all he has. None of the possible reasons for using this type of reference look any good, from just about any angle.