You can easily buy shift (Compressionless/Index compatible) housing and brake (conventional helical) housing in bulk -- most bike shops buy it by the roll (of about 40-50 meters). Note most housing is shift only or brake only, and you should never use shift only housing for brakes (it will break). With non-index shifting though, you should be able to get acceptable performance with using brake housing for shifting. Expect to pay 1-2 USD per meter in bulk. Note that there are housings that are suitable for both index shift and brake, such as some made by Nokon (but these are expensive; about 50 dollars/ meter). Ferrules you can also buy in bulk -- you can easily buy them in little tubs of 100 or so for a few cents a piece. Brake and shift cables will need to be bought individually (in the sense that you can't buy a roll of them and cut them yourself; you can obviously buy big lots of them at a discount). This is because you need to have the cable ends attached so that they can hook into the shifter/brake lever, and this needs to be done at manufacturing time. There are different varieties for different shifter and brake types. This is partially due to manufacturers, and also the different styles of the shifters/brakes. It's not a big deal -- no different really than needing a few different parts for working on a Honda than on a Ford, but you just need to know which ones you need. These days the shift+brake cable types are relatively standard (since Shimano/SRAM are the vast majority of drivetrains out there): Most non-flat bar bikes (e.g. drop bar road bikes) will use the same brake cable (A) in the figure below, and most flat bar bikes (many hybrids/ mountain bikes) will use (C) for their brakes. And most bikes will use (D) for their shifting. The people who need (B,E) would know a priori that they need them (since they spent a lot of money on their Campagnolo drivetrains). Note that many Shimano/SRAM cables are sold double ended -- one has the road end on it, the other has the mountain end. You just cut off the end you don't need and use it as you would if it only came with the proper end. 

That's a very hard area to patch properly (if its even possible), and I'd recommend putting a new tube in instead of trying to patch it. . I'd also check that the rim tape on the rim is intact and in good condition, cause otherwise if its busted, you're going to get another cut. Also, as pointed out by ChrisH in the comments, rough edges on the rim hole can also cause this problem (you can use a small file to smooth them out, if that is the case). 

Drop bars aren't for everyone and do require proper setup (as do all bikes) and acknowledgement of the geometry of the bike. In particular, racers will likely set their bike up differently than tourers will (e.g. higher bars than racers), where its primarily a comfort thing. If you like doing long rides with flat bars and bar ends, more power to you. But for most people, the same bike won't work well with drop bars and flat bars because changing the bar changes the riding geometry. 

Practice is pretty much all you can do. If you had regular SPD, they make two sided pedals, which solves some problems (this is probably what I'd use if I wasn't on Look [because I got the pedals for free...] already), but this may require changing your shoes (or Shimano SM-SH40 like adapters) and will require new pedals. I don't see the point in SPD-SL over SPD for most riders. There are SPD+SPD-SL compatible shoes though, but typically these aren't good for walking in, so if you have to walk a decent amount in the shoes, switching to SPD may be a good idea. In any case, you'll need to practice if you aren't used to clipless pedals. Note that the adapters for 3 hole to 2 hole will make it harder to walk, so if you choose to switch to regular SPD with a 2 sided pedal (or a 1 side platform, 1 side SPD which is OK for transitional periods but you do end up with the wrong side to some extent a decent amount of time). Also, are you racing, or did you just buy race pedals? If you're not racing, I don't see the point to owning the SPD-SL in the first place (much like owning a race bike for commuting). 

The problem is that if you're running a Shimano 600 system, you've probably got a 5 or 6 speed drivetrain and the lowest number of speeds on a modern brifter [integrated shift+brake lever] is 7 (the Shimano Tourney brifters are 7 speed). So you'd need either downtube shifters, bar end shifters, or stem shifters (all of which likely will operate in friction mode unless you can find a Shimano compatible one which matches the number of speeds you have with the cable pull matching Shimano). I believe the cable pull is the same as modern <9 speed Shimano rear derailleurs though. Campy and SRAM usually have different cable pull and they wont produce a brifter which is 5 or 6 speeds anyway so you're stuck with friction mode (generally, mixing manufacturers causes problems and requires pulleys to adjust for cable pull). Another option is (since you likely have downtube shifters) are Retroshifts, which are a way of taking your existing down tube / bar end shifters and attaching them to a brake lever. This removes the problem as well. 

Jamis's Quest Comp Femme (and other bikes in the Quest line) currently uses that style too, for a carbon composite fork: 

In general, when you see oddly shaped teeth or variations on a cassette/chainring, its there to facilitate shifting (such as Shimano Hyperglide, and ramps/pins you see on chainrings/cassettes; see this link for some examples). In this case, SRAM calls it their "Open Glide" technology. To quote them: "OpenGlide tooth ramping allows for faster chain transition between cog postions. We employ OG on the radical OG1090 cassette for sure and higher shift speeds." And here is a figure SRAM provides: The marketing blurb from Art's Cyclery says: "SRAM's open glide technology refers to the shift gates created by removing teeth at key spots on the cogs to facilitate fast, effortless shifting going up or down or under power." Whether it actually shifts better or not is a matter of debate, but a quick search says that generally not. I'd guess SRAM also found that to be the case, because they don't do this on cassettes in their current product line. 

The FC7900 crankset is from a 10 speed group. Nobody's going to stop you from doing this and having it work -- Zinn has done it and claims that it works. Manufacturers will will say otherwise claiming weaker FD springs or very slightly different chainring spacing. Since you already have the crankset, may as well put it in and try it if you want to use it. 

Sheldon Brown to the rescue: "Shimano uses the trademark "Hyperglide-C" to designate a system with an 11 tooth sprocket. The "C" stands for "compact". These systems are used with smaller-than-usual chainwheel sizes, or on bicycles that have a small drive wheel, or to achieve higher gears. Due to clearance problems, the cutaway between the splines on 11-tooth sprockets only goes halfway through the sprocket. The matching splines on Hyperglide-C bodies don't go all the way to the outer end of the body." To summarize: Hyperglide-C cassette on non-hyperglide C body gives wobbles (which you can correct with a 1 mm spacer). In the reverse case, you can remove some spacers from your cassette (if you have them) to get it to fit (though I'm not really sure when this case would practically occur). 

According to BikeRadar, "The battery unit as well as the wiring for XTR Di2 are identical components to the ones used in Shimano's electronic road groups. The battery can be mounted on a bottle cage, in a seat tube, frame and can even be contained within the steerer unit of certain forks (via the use of PRO's new Tharsis components)." 

Its not the end of the world if the valve core is bent -- I've run tubes for years with slightly bent valve cores. Note that at some point it may break (and you'd need to get a new tube then). The presta valve only lets out air when you press down on the valve core, which you can't do once you tighten down the nut (even if it doesn't sit flush with the rest of the valve and hits the stem at the angle, you can't push the nut down anyway to let out air). 

The first question is "is the handlebar actually bent?". Brake levers/shifters are just clamped onto the bar, and the clamp may have just slipped. It's not clear from the angle of the picture that the bar may be fine but the clamp on the brifter slipped. You can peel back the hood (back to front) and adjust the clamp if this is the case). If it is the case that the handlebar itself is actually bent (which I think is unlikely; if this was the case, the brifter would likely be toast), I'd just buy a new handlebar. The stress of bending the handlebar back may increase the likelihood of failure. Plus, handlebars are not very expensive or hard to replace. As for fixing scratches on shifters, you can buy just the name plate if you want, but if the shifters work fine I wouldn't bother. The part numbers are Shimano Y-6KD98030 and Y-6RR98030 for the ST-5600 levers (look for the exploded view of your shifters on Shimano's website). Then you can find the parts by searching the web for a few bucks. Finally, I'd give the whole bike a once over as if I was considering buying it used if anything else is wrong, for some peace of mind; there are a ton of questions on buying used bikes on this SE which you can look at for what to check. 

The front derailleur doesn't care what the rear derailleur is and vice versa. The front derailleur is matched with the front chainring sizes, number of chainrings, mounting type of the front derailleur (a property of the frame) and the front shifter. The rear derailleur is matched to the shifter (for indexing; the shifter is matched to the cassette), and the capacity required (which is dependent on the amount of chain slack it needs to absorb). The point of saying that is so that you can get someone to buy a new front derailleur unnecessarily. 

its feasible for some guy to come over and do the work on your bike quickly with a small bag of tools. Some of these things will be more convenient with a repair stand. With a slightly bigger bag of tools, they can: 

On a traditional square taper or Octalink (V1/V2) or ISIS system, the two crank arms never touch -- you're free to mix and match the two crank arms so long as they are both compatible with the bottom bracket's standard (e.g. you could have a Shimano right crank arm and a SRAM left crank arm on a standard square taper, if both crank arms are square taper). Note that Octalink V1 is not compatible with V2 and vice versa. Typically though, you don't just get one crank arm. If you have one thats worn off or damaged some how or whatever, your best bet is to either buy a whole new crankset, or go to a bike shop and see if they have a spare arm in their parts bin. [Obviously, you need to choose a crankset compatible with your frame/rest of setup to get the correct chainline and teeth counts and stuff, but that's not part of the question] 

You'll never be able to make a Pressfit bottom bracket work in this frame, or ISO threading expecting things like Hollowtech. As for shorter cranks, make sure you actually want them (and you're not looking for adjustments elsewhere); most people who aren't too far from average size will be fine with 165-175 mm cranks. 

Pretty much any 8 speed Shimano-compatible bar end shifter will work if you're running a Shimano drive train (If you're running SRAM, you'd obviously need a SRAM compatible one). Those will work, as will the ones from Microshift 8 speed among others. You'll need to re-run your cables, obviously, though. 

A quick google search for that rim suggests they aren't marketed as being tubeless ready (normally, this is a point of advertisement for a manufacturer). So, you're stuck with running tubes unless you try a Stan's no-tube kit (video; or similar) or ghetto tubeless (or the alternative method), but this is highly YMMV/at your own risk, and highly dependent on your rim+tire combo (not all rims and tires will work). Or get wheels which are tubeless compatible. Tubeless isn't cheap, but the advantages/disadvantages have been extolled extensively elsewhere on this SE and on the internet. As for punctures, you can make sure your tires are properly inflated, buy thicker/tougher inner tubes (thin tubes you buy may be under 1 mm thick; thicker tubes may be 4 mm or more, for thorn-proof tubes), run a sealant like Slime, and pick a tougher tire. 

Go to a doctor - this sounds dangerous. Anything you see on SE is not a substitute for professional medical advice and it sounds like you really need to see one. 

The Shimano Tech Doc for the Shimano BR-5700 (SI-8JC0A-002-00) says "Use the ST-5700/5703, BL-TT79 with the BR-5700. Do not use the BR-5700 in combination with previous STI levers for road riding or with the BL-R770/BL-R550 brake levers for flat handlebars, otherwise the braking performance provided will be much too strong". You can try it, but I don't think it should be recommended -- since brakes are the most important safety equipment on your bike, its not really a place where you should be experimenting against the manufacturer too much (if you value your face) IMO. You may be able to adjust the cable pull of the levers appropriately with a travel agent though. Some other things you can do are make sure your current brakes have good quality pads and are set up properly. Even a great brake will perform poorly if you don't do this. As for alternatives, try the SRAM Apex brakeset with the SRAM 500 brake levers. Alternatively, buy some silver calipers and (carefully) paint them black.