*a concise refutation of atomism:—St. Thomas Aquinas, In De caelo lib. 1 l. 9 n. 4 [97.], quoted in this answer to "Interpretation of the butterfly effect" **cf. Rankine's Outlines of the Science of Energetics 

Thomas Aquinas argued that it can only be held on faith that the universe is eternal or not, whereas, e.g., contra Simplicius, Philoponus argued that reason can demonstrate the non-eternity of the universe. 

There is more to the mnemonic than this. Apparently the consonants in the names allow one to reduce the corresponding syllogism to that of a simpler figure. Are there any references that overview how to fully use all that is packed into this very elaborate, well-thought-out mnemonic? 

DefinitionsScholastic terms:ens reale = "real being" (a being in the natural world)ens rationis = "being of reason" (which some consider a non ens or "non-being"); for an in-depth treatment of what entia rationis are, see John Poinsot (John of St. Thomas)'s Tractatus de Signis art. 1 ff.Descartes' terms:res cogitans = "thinking thing"res extensa = "extended thing" 

(cf. Thomist philosopher of science Charles de Koninck's "The Problem of Indeterminism," PDF pp. 366ff. of this or William A. Wallace, O.P.'s The Modeling of Nature (e-book) pp. 20ff.) This is not necessarily true: "If there is an acorn, there will be an oak tree." The converse is necessary, however, since all oak trees come from acorns: "If there is an oak tree, there will be an acorn." This is an example of necessitas ex suppositione (suppositional necessity) or ex finis ("necessity from the end" or "from the final result"). Now, does God's knowing this latter statement necessitate that all acorns become oak trees? Certainly not. Acorns are "free" to be eaten by squirrels, to rot, etc. Thus, St. Thomas et al. view the world as comprised of natures, which may or may not achieve their ends (e.g., becoming an oak tree, or not, in the example above); they do not believe in a mechanistic, absolutely deterministic universe—due, in part, to the problems that poses for the question of free will and the antinomies that follow from denying free will. In this sense, non-determinism could be said to be a prerequisite for free will. 

This ordering is based on the three degrees of abstraction, of which mathematics was the second. Boethius, following Aristotle, proposed that the "Speculative sciences may be divided into three kinds: physics, mathematics, and metaphysics:" 

taken from this answer to the question "What is the best order to read Aristotle in?" Thus, metaphysics comes last in the via inventionis (way of learning/discovery), although it comes first in the via resolutionis (resolutory way).* *On this distinction, see part 1, ch. 5, §D.1. of Benedict Ashley, O.P.'s The Way toward Wisdom, fn. 35: 

Expositio Posteriorum lib. 1 l. 41 n. 3…some sciences are purely mathematical, those, namely, which abstract according to reason from sensible matter, as geometry and arithmetic; but other sciences are intermediate, namely, those which apply mathematical principles to sensible matter, as optics applies the principles of geometry to the visual line, and harmony, i.e., music [acoustics], applies the principles of arithmetic to sensible sounds.… Super Boethium De Trinitate q. 5 a. 3 ad 6…there are three levels of sciences concerning natural and mathematical entities. Some are purely natural and treat of the properties of natural things as such, like physics, agriculture, and the like. Others are purely mathematical and treat of quantities absolutely, as geometry considers magnitude and arithmetic numbers. Still others are intermediate [the scientia media], and these apply mathematical principles to natural things; for instance, music [acoustics], astronomy, and the like. These sciences, however, have a closer affinity to mathematics, because in their thinking that which is physical is, as it were, material, whereas that which is mathematical is, as it were, formal. For example, music [acoustics] considers sounds, not inasmuch as they are sounds, but inasmuch as they are proportionable according to numbers; and the same holds in other sciences. Thus they demonstrate their conclusions concerning natural things, but by means of mathematics. … In II Physica lect. 3 n. 7 [164.]Those sciences are called intermediate sciences which take principles abstracted by the purely mathematical sciences and apply them to sensible matter. For example, perspective applies to the visual line those things which are demonstrated by geometry about the abstracted line; and harmony, that is music [acoustics], applies to sound those things which arithmetic considers about the proportions of numbers; and astronomy applies the consideration of geometry and arithmetic to the heavens and its parts. Summa theologica II-II q. 9 a. 2 ad 3As stated above (Question 1, Article 1), every cognitive habit regards formally the mean through which things are known, and materially, the things that are known through the mean. And since that which is formal, is of most account, it follows that those sciences which draw conclusions about physical matter from mathematical principles, are reckoned rather among the mathematical sciences, though, as to their matter they have more in common with physical sciences: and for this reason it is stated in Phys. ii, 2 that they are more akin to physics. 

Philosophical Physics The Institute for Advanced Physics's A Kid's Introduction to Physics (And Beyond) by Anthony Rizzi (purchase here) and associated video do an excellent job introducing philosophical physics (substance, accidents, matter, form, etc.) to children as young as 6 years old. Logic A 9 year old might be able to work through the first book on formal logic of Memoria Press's traditional logic and rhetoric series. 

It sounds like you're asking about scientific realism vs. structural realism, etc. This work treats that question well: 

The examples you give of cars and knives are strictly artifacts, not natural (or "birthed") things. Still, the final cause of making a car or knife is different from the final cause of the car or knife themselves. Also, another term for a final cause is "the cause of causes" (causa causarum) because if it were not the first cause in the order of generation, the efficient cause would have no end toward which to act, and agents only act toward one end. In ibid. l. 5, St. Thomas shows how the other three causes act because of or for the sake of the final cause: 

This doesn't work because "greater than 2" ≠ "2", or 2 ≯ 2. The form of the following syllogism is valid, but it shows how a false mathematical premise can lead to a true conclusion: 

Not necessarily. As I mentioned above, there "are plenty of 'theories of everything' already," and some of them positively exclude God. God, Who has free-will, freely created the universe; nothing necessitated Him to make the universe as He did. He could have created another completely different universe requiring completely different explanations to understand. Unlike among many of the Greek philosophers, who thought the universe is an emanation from or extension of God, the study of the universe (physics or cosmology in the broad sense) is distinct from the study of God (theology). 

(This answer incorporates parts of this answer and this forum post; cf. this post.) Courtesy GLeNotre's answer, here's: 

For Descartes, would the following analogy hold? res cogitans : res extensa :: ens rationis : ens reale Or did Descartes distinguish the terms res cogitans from ens rationis and res extensa from ens reale? 

Is     noumenon : phenomenon :: substance : accident     ? I realize the analogy isn't perfect: Aristotle thinks substances can be known, whereas Kant's noumena are unknowable Dingen an sich. But if Aristotle thinks substances are known by their accidents, why for Kant aren't noumena known from their corresponding phenomena? 

St. Thomas Aquinas gives the various senses of "being" in his commentary on Aristotle's Metaphysics 1003a–1003b22 [535.]: 

Thus, it doesn't seem traditional logic can handle mathematical reasoning. Didn't Aristotle, the medieval logicians, et al. realize this? Poincaré thought that mathematical induction consisted in an ∞ number of syllogisms. Is that true?(cf. Pierre Duhem's article contra Poincaré: "The Nature of Mathematical Reasoning" from "La nature du raisonnement mathématique," Revue de philosophie 21 (1912): 531-543.) 

Because modern physics is dominated by atomism.* Pierre Duhem's Energetics program,** which promoted a generalized thermodynamics from whose first-principles all physics sub-fields should derive, criticized the "Cartesian method" of unnecessarily bringing metaphysical constructs like atoms into physical theories. See his 

Pierre Duhem—a prominent physicist, philosopher of physics, and historian of medieval physics—discusses "physical law" (which he distinguishes from "physical theory") in his Aim & Structure of Physical Theory ch. 5 pp. 165ff (French original). Here are the subsections of that chapter: 

Of the medieval physicists who studied this question, it is hard to say which of their arguments is more "Aristotelian," as some physicists in circa the 13th and following centuries were influenced more by Averroes ("The Commentator") than others, or by the Nominalists more so than by the Thomists or Scotists, etc. In other words, there are several interpretations of Aristotle on this point. One popular interpretation is due to one of the greatest physicists of that era, Jean Buridan (1295-1358), rector of the University of Paris. He is known for his impetus theory, impetus being similar to what we would call momentum today (cf. John Philoponus, circa 6th cen., who held a similar theory). Moody's Dictionary of Scientific Biography entry on Buridan gives a good summary: 

Where does Aristotle or St. Thomas Aquinas say we know substances by means of their accidents? For example: To know the substance of an apple, I first have to sense its quantity and qualities: shape, color, size, weight, etc. 

Concepts are whereby (quo) we know, not what (quod) we know. Confusing the two is known as the "quo/quod fallacy." See this article for more information: "The Quo/Quod Fallacy in the Discussion of Realism" by the semiotician John Deely, which discusses how it is really a trichotomy: quo / quod / in quo. See also this book, which is about what "concept" is.