And, finally, if you recommended (which you do not state you did, but it's a fair enough guess) him because he is your friend and you wanted to him a favo(u)r, consider his a lesson learned. Sounds like you did neither the company who puts food on your table, nor yourself, a favo(u)r. 

automate your interactions with him as much as possible eventually, push him out of the nest and let him sink or swim non his own (to mix analogies). How long do you intend to carry him for otherwise ? 

Btw, not only is Python free, but the Community Edition of its best IDE, Pycharm, is free and licensed for commercial use, as verified by my question on a sister site. Perhaps, rather than rolling out your solution to everyone, they would agree to a controlled experiment, with a single installation, and you cloud measure it against the manual way, to prove the benefits? If they don't agree, would they agree to outsource the work to a company which you found? 

At the end of the day, it is up to senior management to decide. However, if, as you say, your boss is somewhat hands-off and unsolved, when he finally realizes that he has to do something, it will be normal human nature to act on his perceptions. Therefore, do not let yourself become Malcolm in the middle. When your colleague tells you to do something, ask him explicitly if he is telling you or advising you. With most people, that will be enough to cause him to ask off and say that he advising, at which point you thank him politely and say that you will take it into consideration. Personally, I would leave it at that, but YMMV, and you may want to explain why you disagree. You might see a win in that; I don't, but it's up to you. And, if you are too "delicate" to confront him with such a question, then you are not cut out for management. No offense intended, but I rose from the tranches and can assure you that it's a dog eat dog world in management, and the higher you rise, the eatier it becomes. Please see my final sentence. As it happens, I have been you boss, and after 10 minutes with each of you, I spent half a hour with the junior developer before deciding. Ponder that Thinking again, as to how to react when your colleague "tells you what to do", my first thought was 

I can't see anything wrong with that. It seems like the most sensible solution. I think that you have answered your own question. So, I think that you have already reached your own conclusion & are just looking for us to confirm your judgement. What are your alternatives? 

Go for it! If I were recruiting, you are exactly the sort of person I would want to hire. You are obviously interested, possibly passionate, about something that relates to your work. That can only be of benefit to the company. We all have to pay the rent, so we all heave to apply for jobs. But it is people like you who who can make a difference to a company. In my mind, you could be worth two or three "just doing it for the rent", employees. I would expect you to produce a constant stream of new ideas, which could be of great benefit to the company, and would expect to promote you before long. In fact, if you apply for a data entry post and provide such examples, I might consider hiring you for another post straight away. 

I would suggest finding a reason why you are too busy to help Brian with hosting any more, and spend some time teaching him how to do it himself, while explaining the financial benefits to him (he will be independent of you; won't have to wait until you have time to do it; you are giving him "mates rates", while he might be able to pass on more markup to customers). With a bit of luck, it's a win-win situation. 

I would like to know what you consider to be small & large. Without that, I feel that we can't really help After a few (cough) decades in real-time embedded development the biggest s/w development team I ever worked in was about 11, IIRC. Generally, it tends to be 7 or 8. Coincidentally, we got a new s/w manager recently & yesterday he announced a reorg saying that in future all s/w teams will have 4 to 7 members. I think that when it gets above 10, it gets to be unwieldy and naturally breaks down into sub-teams anyway. Are you talking about small projects, rather than teams? There are 8 of us on s/w development at the moment, but I have daily interactions with systems engineering, the project & the s/w architects, the firmware/hardware guys and the verification team. We are probably between 40 & 60 in total on the project - could that be what you are talking about? I am afraid that, much as I would like to help you, your question is not very clear. (posted as answer, rather than comment, due to length. I will update to a true answer if the OP clarifies) 

I am an embedded software developer and always wear a suit (through choice). For "dress down Friday", I eschew a tie and tell everyone that I feel as if I am walking around naked. People accept that it's just "my thing". My boss's "thing" is sci-fi T-shirts. The guy at the next desk collects tattoos and piercings. You are going to be "different" in some way, no matter what you do, so "you do your thing, and I'll do mine", and neither of us will be "screwing up" 

What sort of income does your side-gig give you? Could you live on it? If not, is it growing at such a rate that it will earn you enough to live on before your savings run out? If, tell the boss he has to pay like everyone else. Do not threaten to quit, but let him know that you are not afraid to be fired (and to seek compensation if you feel that you are unjustly fired). Just stick to your guns, and try asking the boss how he would feel if he were in your shoes. If you can't afford to go it alone, then you are pretty stuck, unless you can get outside investment, maybe from family/friends in return for a share of he business. But maybe you a re worrying about nothing; maybe the boss swill understand when you explain to him, so the first thing to do it to make it clear that you put a lot of work into your product and expect to be compensated. As a last resort, you might want to offer your current employer "mates rates". Who knows? They might find more & more functionality to add, bringing you more income and letting you grow your business. 

One very important rule at work is to always communicate problems as early as possible. If you are unable to work because of Mr. YNWIM, then your boss needs to know. And if you don't tell him, he will find out eventually and his reaction will be worse, the later he learns of the problem. 

Like the others, I don't see that you have anything to worry about. But, if you need something to put your mind at ease - which of you can show pay slips for those two years? That seems irrefutable, and should stop you worrying; although, again, there is almost certainty nothing to worry about. 

Good that you let go on the stylistic stuff. You can use a code beautifier, if necessary. IDEs like Eclipse let you define code styles & will then format the code for you. However, don't give ground on variable names, which ought to be meaningful enough for maintainability. I would recommend you to 

The last place I worked consistently told s that we were renewed two or three weeks after contract expiry. They lost a lot of good people that way, and could not seem to understand why. Not me, though, because ... Personally, I have never been concerned by the length of the contract (almost always 6 months). Before I start, I ask how long the project is expected to take. For renewals, I always look to how close the contract is to completion; especially my part of it. If my work is close to done, I look for a new project starting and ascertain whether I will be transferred to it. So, my last job went 6 months, 3 months (strange), 6 months, transfer to new project 4 months, project cancelled (over 100 people), one week's notice. But, enough about me - how does this correspond to you? Is your project drawing to a close, or is the deadline still a long way off? If the former, is there a project to which you can transfer? If so, start asking. If there seems to be work for you, and you have done a good job and there is work, expect to be renewed. If you think that they are messing you about, consider whether you want to stay with such a company. Btw, this question is almost 5 years old - so, wheat happened? 

In such circumstances, I reply "no, I do not know what you mean, please explain". If they are expecting you to do something for them, you could elaborate that to "no, I do not know what you mean, and I can't do X for you until I do. Could you please explain". If you are asking them for information to help you, but not them, you have more of a problem. I would suggest "no, I do no know what you mean. If you can't explain it, perhaps I should ask [boss]"? 

I just can't believe this! Swastika (in reverse), perhaps, but Hitler?! I believe, from experience (and decades of working overseas, on three continents), that Indians have no more concept of "face" than Germans do. In any case, "face" is a public thing - has anyone (have you) taken him to one side and explained "unter vier Augen"? That would seem the easy/correct way to handle it, and I would expect him to blush and invent an excuse to rush back to his hotel - it is highly unlikely that he is being evil or even insensitive, be almost certainly cannot understand that he he is doing something offensive. If he were European, I would suggest you to go to the police, rather than management. As he probably cannot be expect to understand what he is doing wrongly, someone (possibly you) needs to explain that that T-shirt goes back in his suitcase and stays there until he returns home. Wild guess - software? Automotive? Hidlesheim, maybe Stuttgart? 

That really only leave the option you suggest - accept the offer, move to the better city and start looking for work there. 

See here And, as to "this feels like him trying to establish himself as the de facto team leader". It doesn't "feel like" - it is. And the higher up the tree you climb, the more it is so. Ask yourself how high you want to climb. 

You might suggest a hardware solution. Way back in the days of Windows 3.1 (!), I bought a $5 gadget on eBay. It was two parts, one which plugged into the PC and one which you clipped onto your belt, etc. If the two got more than about 3 feet apart, the one connected to the PC would lock Windows. There are plenty of these around, I won't link to ebay as the links won't last, nor to AliExpress, where you will get them cheapest, in case your boss doesn't approve of that, but here is an example on Amazon. That one is pricey at $48, but you/your boss can do your own searching. Also, I don't like that it stores passwords - what if you mislay it? Personally, I would look for a< $10 device which will lock your PC when you move away, and which odes not store passwords. If your boss won't buy them for the department, ask if he objects to you buying and using one for yourself. If in doubt as to which, ask at $URL$ or $URL$ Of course, if you don't clip it to your clothing, you still have the same problem, but it helps to reduce the risk, if you do actually wear it.