Black Diamond did a study on this, and even after 24 hours of resting, there was still a noticeably increased load on the second fall. 

I have a pocket transit and on the back are a bunch of numbers. They can be seen in these images here, here, and here. What are these numbers used for? 

Basically, there are happy turtles and there are dead turtles and helmets should always be placed in the happy position. 

Based on the color of those chips, I would say that you were there less than a week if not sooner from when the beaver was chewing the tree down. The reason that I don't think its a porcupine, is because of the riparian setting and because porcupines usually chew much higher up on a tree. Fun fact, beaver's teeth never stop growing. 

Source People are far more dangerous than any wild animal, for comparison Yosemite, which has much better recorded statistics, the wild animals have been responsible for 6 deaths with half of those from Hantavirus carried by rodents compared to 44 homicides and 70 suicides Source page 575. In summary, theft/assault/rape/murder is rare on the Appalachian trail, at the same time incredibly horrific crimes have been committed against hikers. This doesn't mean that one should stay home (we are all going to die regardless) or to avoid people altogether but it does mean that one does need to be vigilant, and you can't assume that anyone has your best interests in heart. 

Obviously, the solution to this problem is to pack food that everyone enjoys eating. However, according to Murphy, this doesn't always happen. Also, sometimes the best tasting food is ruled out by weight/price/space constraints. So if you are on a backpacking trip with people who are complaining about and/or refusing to eat the food because of the taste/smell/texture/unfamiliarity, what do you do? 

I would say that the alternatives in the the answers to the linked question would be a better idea, but if you had to use a flare then there are a couple of things that could lessen but not eliminate the risk. 

This one is almost identical to the figure eight on a bight, with one crucial difference. When you get to the final step of the figure eight on a bight, instead of pushing the end of the bight through the loop you take another bight of the bight and push that through the loop, then flip the end of the first bight over the top. 

I believe that what you are referring to is called the "Texas Rope Trick". I hope that it's obvious that this is an incredibly risky idea and that you are better off just leaving the carabiner. 

I think the main reason for this is that the hunting styles are a lot different between the two. Archery hunters often don't wear orange and get very close to the their prey while gun hunters wear orange and are able to hunt at ranges of hundreds of yards. Combining those activities at the same time increase the risk of archery hunters being shot by gun hunters. It evens the playing field between the people who are currently hunting and keeps the archery hunters from getting irritated by all of the noise the gun hunters are making. Often archery seasons are much longer because the chances of success are much lower. 

So just by being adults and there being two of you, you have a reduced chance of being attacked. Just seeing a mountain lion is a rare occurrence. 

Source This is marketing by people who know that humans want to stand out in a crowd by being different and buying expensive/rare things, hence the black sheep label. See this advertisement that calls it Merion Black Sheep wool but doesn't say that it comes from black sheep. 

There is a story I have heard about climbers who confused "take" and "safe" and I am wondering if it has actually happened. The story goes like this, The climber is out of sight of the belayer and gets to a hard spot. The climber yells down "TAKE" 

Not exactly, if your sleeping pad gets wet and you lay your sleeping bag on top of it then your sleeping bag will get wet and that's not a good thing. Otherwise, your sleeping pad is preventing air from getting out, and that means its capable of keeping water out. On the other hand blowing into it will introduce moisture which can be a problem in cold conditions. 

One of my favorite things about backpacking is the absence of time constraints, you eat when hungry, sleep when tired and sort of track how much time is left until dark. Would there be any situations while backpacking where it would be detrimental to not have a means of telling time very precisely? 

Source As far as other evidence that would show that clipping to both loops can cause the carabiner to fail, I am unaware of any studies. However, there were/are a good number of climbers clipped to both, even with harnesses that had a belay loop, especially after the death of Todd Skinner whose worn belay loop failed. I don't know of any instances where people have died because a carabiner used to belay someone failed due to cross-loading. I think that if such an event were to become known, people would be pointing to it as a reason to use the belay loop to belay. The other reason to clip to both loops, is that it will make it much harder to belay in the PBUS style, as a belay device such as an ATC will be oriented horizontally instead of vertically. 

If someone where to fall through the ice on a lake or a pond, what would be some correct ways of rescuing them? This question is inspired mostly by this video, where one person gets too close to the melted part and falls through and some one comes to attempt a rescue and falls in, and so on, until 12 people end up in the water (Don't worry, nobody dies or is seriously injured). Barring the fact that no one should have been on that ice in the first place, how would you pull them out? 

As you can see, while it is light out, its going to be a while before the sun comes over the ridge and really starts warming things up. 

According to Wikipedia, a paddle is held by the person and an oar is connected to the boat in some manner, such as a rowlock. 

Instead of a knot, how about a shoelace buckle? Simply pull the laces through with the button pushed in, and then release and let it hold them. To take the shoes off, push the button and pull the laces through to create enough slack to remove. 

The problem with using a a stove inside a tent that is not designed for one, is that it will lack the fire retardation treatment on the canvas, and therefore be more liable to catch on fire. 

Source At the same time, I would say that the people back then had practice doing this, and most people today would not. Over longer distances I would expect the speed to decrease, simply because there are more moving parts to slow it down and you can only go as fast as the slowest person. On other thing, I was part of moving several hundred pounds of copier paper down one flight of stairs by passing them from person to person, and the other big limiter is the speed of the people on the ends of the chain. 

If one is out fishing and someone gets a fishhook stuck in them, what are the different techniques for removing it? 

After this the upper hand goes back to the top to restart. Two things to note, people will say that this is safer than the slip-slap-slide method, and they are usually right, but you have to watch the braking plane. Doing the PBUS style and yet having the lower/brake hand in front of the braking plane is dangerous as you have no friction. DON'T DO THIS 

Its always been cool to be climbing a mountain and look down, and realize that you are high enough that there are clouds below you. Here are some pictures from Wikipedia of what this looks like. 

Sometimes people rappel without a backup prussik, such as when canyoning and sometimes an auto block needs to be adjusted. In either of these situations, is there a way to stop yourself in the middle of the rappel? 

This article says that polypropylene is considered less risky for leaching compared to other types of plastic.. 

If one needed to hike out and then come back to a certain spot, how could one temporarily mark their trail so that it is easy to follow back to that exact spot when the route back is not obvious? This can be especially important in areas with dense tree cover or otherwise limited visibility. A couple of use cases would be by Search and Rescue personnel who want to mark what has been searched, or hunters who need to make multiple trips to take out game. In the case of game you need to come back to a much more specific point than can be found with map and compass. In either case, the trail being marked will only be needed temporarily and the marks should be removed afterwards. 

Source Emphasis mine. Why is the distance gained to windward so important in this type of situation? 

Skunk musk causes methemoglobin and Heinz body formation in vitro. As far as birds go, it is possible for them to get Heinz-body hemolytic anemia from ingesting crude oil but I found nothing on them being sprayed by skunks. 

The easiest is when the angle is exactly 90 degrees, as the the center is halfway between the two points. 

I have seen a lot of trail signs and one thing I noticed is that sometimes they have the distance from one point to another like, 

Source To illustrate this, consider the following drawing where you have taken a bearing with Points A and B in a straight line in relation to you. 

Every time I have slept in a snow cave, I have woken up to a ceiling that was noticeably lower than when I went to sleep. Is there a good rule of thumb for estimating how much lower it will get? Apparently its not just me that has noticed this phenomenon. There are stories from boy scouts who estimate the shrink at 10 inches, skiers in Alaska, people in Antartica, people in California, and climbers on the Grand Teton. 

Sometimes while navigating with map and compass, the advice is to aim off i.e. to aim either to the left or right of the intended destination, as opposed to straight for it. Why and when would one want to do this? 

Source So yes, it is possible for a dog to accomplish something like that. It is also worth pointing out that Bobbie the wonder dog had help, 

Some revolvers are single action and some are double action, what exactly is the difference between the two types? 

If it didn't move at all, then congratulations, you have found the North Star. Limitations: This works better the closer you are to the equator, and doesn't work at all at the poles. Also, as pointed out by @Anton Sherwood, the stars underneath the pole star (between it and the horizon) will move the wrong way. 

Mangroves no, because if you compare this map of the distribution of mangroves to this map of the distribution of alligators in the United States, 

Source So as you can see, hunting with semiautomatics has been going on for quite a long time. Further along in history, after World War 2 there were surplus M1 Garands and M1 Carbines which were semiautomatic and used for hunting. Then in 1964 Colt started selling AR-15 as sporting rifles (Source) and in 1977 the patent on the gas system expired, allowing more manufacturers to build them.(Source). In the 1990s companies started taking the carry handle off and instead putting a flat rail on top instead which in turn made it easier to use scopes. (Source) Today semiautomatics are very popular due to a number of factors. 

They won't wear out from age alone. It seems like the big sticking point to the author of the article was that the foam loses its padding over time, 

Inspired mostly by this answer, if I were to decide to buy a set of throwing knives for just for fun, what exactly should I be looking for? I do realize that throwing knives are not legal everywhere, but they are legal where I am at. Are there features that would make one set better than another? 

One alternative is to use animal calls. For instance, on a clear night an elk bugle call can be heard up to a mile away. There are also duck calls or push-to-call cow elk calls. These should not replace a whistle as an emergency signaling device, but as a way to hear where your team members are or signal back and forth without shouting they do work. One of the downsides of this is that in some places the use of animal calls is illegal, for instance in national parks in the United States. The other is that you may attract animals (this is what the calls are designed for), including predators and extra care should be taken during hunting seasons. 

Do bears, as opposed to defending cubs, being startled by humans, or trying to get into food, ever decide to prey on humans? As in stalk, kill and then eat them? 

I found a site that has a number of old climbing photographs from around that time and I think is your best option (that I could find). Historical Rock Climbing Images 1890s - 1930s There is also the Yorkshire Ramblers Journal which goes back all the way to 1899 and some of the articles have pictures. From that one call pull the names of the photographers and use that to run more Google searches to find more images. 

You don’t need a 160 meter rope just two 80 meter ropes joined with a knot. Or you could do it with one 80 meter climbing rope and another lighter retrieval line. If this is a situation where there is not going to be a second climber then at the anchor the first climber can pull the end of the rope all the way up through the quickdraws and toss it down. Then the belayer can tie a second 80 meter rope on for the climber to pull up and rappel on. 

Source If you don't have a immersion suit, do note that on page 20 of these recommendations for the Coast Guard, that any clothes are better than none and that only being partially immersed leads to much longer survival times. 

It looks like those the backpack comes in three sizes, Small, Medium and Large and what you are seeing is the volume for each size. 

I would say that it is going to depend on how steep the glacier is. If it is pretty flat, then you won't need the ice axe and crevasses are highly unlikely. This wouldn't be any harder than walking on a snowfield. If on the other hand the glacier is steep and parts of the glacier are moving at different speeds, then you will have to watch out for crevasses. Cracks do tend to from at the edge of glaciers especially at the top where they are called bergschrunds. The later in the year, the more melted out the cracks will be.