If you are talking about a wooden bucket, you'd want to keep it moist all the time. It will crack and leak when drying thoroughly. Incidentally, this will not be a problem, as it will go into the well several times per day. 

Some more points in addition mainly to @CharlieBrumbaugh's answer: Both in Central Europe (where I'm from) and traveling Canada I've only once in my life encountered a "visibly" and truly homeless person in the "outdoors" (actually just outside my home). All other encounters with homeless persons I personally had took place in cities and typically quite downtown. From that observation: I'd say the risk of confusion with homeless person would be maybe highest at a train station on the way home. The one point that would make me wary (both outdoors and in town) would be beer/alcohol smell. Other than that, a friendly grinning muddy backpacker saying "Hi" with happy muddy tired dogs would not rise a hobo impression with me. Hiking backpack and homeless person's backpack also typically look somewhat different, even if the hiker had to resort to plastic bags. If you want to make sure, let a GPS device dangle visibly from your shoulder strap ;-) 

If it is a more polluted area, try the method suggested by WedaPashi (cleanup activity with friends), or take a look at Let's Do It - a worldwide trash-collecting/volunteering action; find your country and contact the local organization. This also puts the issue in an other light (and on the world map), and it might get bigger media attention too, spread the awareness etc. 

Try starting a discussion on the couchsurfing page of the given Swedish region saying that you would like to do this or that type of trekking, for given period and difficulty, preferably include what gear would be needed; this way locals and nearby travelers may contact and join you, but beware: there is no warranty that the potential trekking partners would match your experience or expectations. Also, check out the local scout troops: if they have the rover/adult age category, you would most probably find people interested in trekking. 

A completely different factor that contributes to the surprise is that the view is often limited. You may only see what is going on in the neighbour valley when either the thunderstorm is coming over the ridge or you arrive at the ridge. In addition, you may be quite busy with watching where you step and what you do (not that you shouldn't have a look at the weather, but...). 

Thawing the moisture in the wood in addition to evaporating does take more energy, but actually not very much (44 kJ/mol vaporization enthalpy vs. 6 kJ/mol for thawing). 

Here's my central european (Cfb/Dfb climate: temperate or continental humid climate with warm summer, no dry season) take on the question: 

I'd say this depends much more on how wet the conditions are in general than just whether there's snow on the ground: when winter-camping in Manitoba, we trampled down the snow a bit and started campfires on top of that. It was usually easy to find birch and spruce wood that was reasonably dry (due to the very low temperatures the air is often very dry, and the climate is continental and quite sunny also in winter, and due to low population density it is easy to find suitable dead trees that have been dried by wind + sun). We used a bit of petroleum jelly/vaseline to light the fire. Petroleum jelly also comes handy for protecting the skin, so it is something we anyways had with us - and it was recommended to take enough have some left in case of needing to start a fire in an emergency situation. (Some people prepare cotton wool balls with petroleum jelly, otherwise you can put some on bark or on a bit of toilet paper or something the like.) If you have and the wind isn't too strong (build a windshade, e.g. from snow or use a sleeping pad) you can also light a candle and drip wax on/between your kindling. On the whole I found building campfires in Manitoban winter much easier than starting a campfire in winter in Germany (even without snow/at slightly > 0°C) when everything is very wet (also birch is much less common here). 

It might sound a bit odd and not-so-related to the question, but have you considered carrying a Kindle? I got used to carry mine along, wherever I go (bagpacking included). Advantages 

What I have found here on page 2 is that you are allowed to hunt with gun permit + up-to-date "hunting ticket", or with foreign hunting permit. On page 1 there is reference to a law saying that you may strike with your hunting gun or hunting bow if you clearly identified the game and the strike would not endanger the life of someone. The two may cover the case you are interested in. Here are the laws summarized. It says you need a holding permit for a hunting bow. Here it says that you can hunt with a bow in Hungary, but for big game (deer, wild boar etc.) the bow must be above 222,7 Newton pulling strength + appropriate arrows (whatever that means, I am not aware of the terms, sorry). Also says that crossbows are not allowed. Here mentions that you need an extra permit for hunting with bow or with hunting birds, above the average hunting permit. Disclaimer: I am not a hunter, I just speak Hungarian. I think the best would be to directly contact some hunting clubs or officials. Here are the addresses of the national + district level hunting administration organs. This is a list of hunting clubs. If you write them, try several addresses and don't expect a quick answer :) Hungarians (and generally the older people) are not so good English speakers, so it might take a time for them to react or to find someone to help you. 

About the dogs: Many people have commented already: some people are afraid of dogs, and typically more so of large dogs. And some are allergic to dogs. What I haven't seen so far in this thread is: lots of people are also totally inexperienced with dogs: I grew up in rural place, we always had dogs and so had our neighbours etc. After a gap due to studying and working in large cities, I'm now back living in a village and have a currently adolescent Greater Swiss. I'm now just learning that most of my friends and acquaintances that met during studies and as colleagues (and also their kids) don't have a clue how to approach a dog (no clue as in asking whether "is this a threatening gesture" when the dog was yawning). And most of them are very fond of the outdoors (in a town-folk manner). This got me thinking: 

Out of some wonder, the peanut butter in our area comes in plastic jars, meaning that it is lighter than a normal jar. I save these plastic jars during the year and use them later on hikes. Also, in the local grocery stores I can buy some dairy products which come in plastic buckets and boxes (like this one, this or this) - I save these for trips and hikes: they can be easily packed into each other, or I can fill them with other objects (berries I pick from the forest, socks or anything else) after they get empty. They also hold liquids quite well, although I use a plastic bag to be sure there would be no leaking. Also, in case they become redundant I am not so sorry to dispose them as if I would be for a tupperware box. 

There's not yet a good answer that asks for the reason the fingers, toes (and nose and ears) are cold, so let me add a few points: (I'm assuming around 0°C according to the question - of course, -40 °C is different). Here are a couple of reasons why your fingers and toes get cold in the first place: 

The German Wikipedia article on thermals is also quite nice (better than the English). In higher latitudes the sun shines closer to orthogonal on the sun side of a mountain face. Compared to a flat landscape more heat is transfered to the air immediately above the surface, and it starts flowing up. Not necessarily directly vertical, but if the soil/rock is comparably naked, it can first flow upwards along on the surface. These thermals cannot move as in a flat landscape, because in the shadows at the other side of the mountain/valley there is no sun, so the energy that drives the thermal is missing. The thermal will move to the "most favorable" spot. So compared to a flat landscape, you may get a more stable location of the upward current. It won't stop that easily and will reach further up. Of course, if there is (primarily horizontal) wind against the face of the mountain that is forced upwards as well as @Robert wrote and this may also contribute. The mountains also have typical places where warm and cold air meet. These are further typical locations for thunderstorms. So there are locations where thunderstorms form typically, but 

I often use Bikemap.net, not only for bike trails, but also for hikes: has really good maps and also nice route planning functions; you can save your maps to be available offline, and then track them on your smartphone. Or you can print the detailed maps, frame by frame. The Bikemap page took me to Wandermap.net which also seems to be useful, but I somehow got used to the first one. Not sure if these cover what you mean by "walking on sideways", but if uncertain about pavements on a route, you may always double check satellite recordings on google maps too. 

Plantago major is not only a rough plant with strong leaves which grows technically everywhere, but also a useful herb. Try to find bigger leaves, perhaps not from the strict proximity of the road. 

There are a lot of games out there ("team building" games, introductory ones, icebreakers etc.). This is just the first result of a google search. All games can be adapted to the size and age of the group, but using such games needs preparation in advance. Some people find such games a nuisance, others tend to enjoy them a lot - it really varies. A lot of (youth) organizations have game databases with all kind of searching parameters (size, age, purpose, environment etc.), for example there is this one for small children. I know others, but not in English, so... :( Besides the aforementioned common chores and "doing something hard" together I would mention introducing some sort of ritual. It can be as short as a few minutes, but it should include everyone in the team. Some examples: 

If you have a dry airflow available (some huts have stands where heated air goes through the shoes), that is of course faster. However, just leaving your boots stand does not lead to much air flow. With (news)paper, you can easily take out the moisture and put in a new, dry paper. That is actually the key: If you just stuff your boots with paper and leave the moist paper inside the boots, it won't help that much. Of course you'll get some moisture out next morning with the wet paper, but if you replace the paper a few times over the evening (like @ppl does with the towel), you can get even soaked boots dry till morning. 

(Started as comment but then I realized it's getting too long). Short version: quite in contrast to Monster's advise, I recommend to start with a splitting maul if possible, because the splitting maul features fewer possibilities to hurt yourself than axes and hatchets. If your wood is too soft for the maul, go for a large splitting axe instead. 

Disclaimer: I am from Romania, my answer is a bit tailored to this corner of the world. This issue is very common in Central/Eastern European countries and in the Balkans: not only the household dogs in villages, but stray ones (even in cities), and especially the shepherd dogs. Might be a bit repeating the other answers, but I really must point this out, as it has been the source of many accidents, attacks and (yet unsolved) disputes on law inforcements. Shepherd dogs are bread to be aggressive: whether assertive barking when turning the hundreds of sheep, giving alarm of an intruder or scaring away bears. The herds can be met literally anywhere (I met them near my hometown, or also at 2200 m altitude in the mountains), and if you approach them they most probably become aggressive. Methods of staying safe: 

One advantage I'm missing so far is that hiking boots also protect the ankles against the outside (not only against sprainng): from getting scratched by or hitting stones, wooden branches sticking up, or stuff like blackberry twines (which I find very bad as they scratch heavily over the front part of the ankle, particularly where that tendon is). Of course it is possible to hike safely on bare feet in these conditions, but it is going to be extremely slow compared to having a kind of boots that allows you to just forget these nuisances. (For the rest of the legs I find the scratching far less annoying) 

Side note: plausibility check for the scenario: You meant to say that your team comes across another team that just had an accident, right? You are not on your own in a crevasse area!? (Otherwise, rescue would probably tell you to anchor yourself and stay where you are and not move until they pick you off the glacier after the other guy is rescued...)