The primary advantages of silicon and copper based electronics are obviously size and cost first, but they also have the advantage of using electrical potentials which can switch at billions of times per second. It is a well known engineering fact about computers, that making the parts simpler and making them switch faster is far preferable to making them complex and trying to get each to perform multiple jobs at once (as far as computational speed and efficiency is concerned). However, non-electrical computers would be forced to create swiss-army-chainsaws of modules to save space and material, increasing both complexity and operating with water, heat or chemical processes that are far slower in applying their effects, especially without miniaturized components (which often require computers to design and produce themselves). Of course, one can assume light is the switching medium - the problem with light is, the only thing it can switch fast enough is materials sensitive to light and even then it produces microcurrents that require conductors to use. Piezoelectrics and other crystals can be used for this, but they are hard to work with without precision tools (although volcanic glass might allow a workaround). A possible way to make this happen would be to have computers develop over a much longer period of time than in our reality and make them based on light as the switching medium, traveling through glass channels, using glass and crystals as logic gates and hand-crafted arrays of piezoelectrics (pressurized through small pistons? or small enough for light pressure to matter?) or something like that for memory and output. I'm not sure how close to this you can get without metals, or how small, but computers are more of a mechanism than a specific device made of plastic, silicon and doping metals. But if we can make computers in Dwarf Fortress out of pressure plates, cattle and water, I guess it's just a matter of motivation in the end :P 

There is an Anime where an fantasy army invades Japan and more or less gets anhilated by modern weaponry. It's called Gate maybe you can get some ideas from there. 

I'll have a limited space like $1 km^3$ that have (through handwaving) more then three dimensions. But anyone entering it would perceive it as a three dimensional space. A little bit like this video, but more or less a flat version. This results in two people walking around the same tree in clockwise or anti clockwise direction would end up at different positions. What I would like to know is how big is my surface area on which I can walk at maximum inside the multidimensional space. My first guess was, if I have a $1 km^n$ hypercube and ignore height I would have a surface area of $1^{n-1} $. With an 4 dimensional example I would have a surface area of $1km^3$. Unfortunately this is a unit of volume. So my formula is missing something to get $km^2$. I would also assume that the result would be something greater than $1km^2$ 

That's a bit of an oversimplified view of civilization. If I understand your premise properly, you're talking about small tribes or nomads gathering together to found a town. Leadership is not dictatorship First of all, they would already have some form of leadership. Even tribes and small groups have de facto leaders, established either by consensus (people just seem to go to them for questions or guidance in daily matters and they have everyone's trust) or by heritage (the chief's offspring become chiefs in their own right and people are fine with it). While this resembles, in the modern political sense, a dictatorship, it is in practice very far from it. Dictatorships have and require a huge distance from the low rungs of society - town leadership is rarely that far removed, unless it is supported by a more powerful authority. In a mere town, what kind of dictatorship could you have? And if your concern is for the longterm implications of that model, there is nothing to indicate what the future political structure will be, either way. Pretty much every early civilization had de facto leaders in the local sense and grew within a strict monarchy. It was only millennia later that some form of official recognition of public will was established within political structures. Politics hasn't always worked the same Even this is oversimplification. Under ancient monarchies, the general will of the people was taken under consideration - monarchs and leaders who ignored it where considered unjust and where unliked, no matter their authority, power or the effects of their actions. Again, even after the need to reflect public opinion was established, it was a long long time until we had anything resembling modern democracy. The ancient greek and roman republics where heavily aristocratic and only the rich could really vote - 9/10 of the population had no say in anything. It was just a glorified lobbyistic monarchy. Nope Considering the above and how recent the notion of a "dictatorship" really is, I'd say no, it doesn't lead to any kind of dictatorship. It would be a long time before there was authority far removed from most people and it would probably be centuries or millennia until public representation was a clear ingredient in political systems in order to make ignoring it (a dictatorship) an ingredient as well. Overall, it's impossible to tell how a civilization will develop just by observing its early stages - especially when we have so few examples to work with. It could develop in all kinds of ways depending on events, contact with other cultures, social reforms, who knows. Scales The formation of democracy straight up is nearly impossible - there is a simple reason: the problem it solves has not been detected or defined yet. Until then, you have implicit and de facto leaders - that structure happens in small groups due to efficiency and division of labor; until it is proven to be ineffective (which in our civilization happened only a few centuries ago), it will be maintained to the bitter end. Also, your impression that a city can only be started by the initiative of one person, is in conflict with how communities and cities form in general. People aggregate to cooperate better - when there's more people, there's more hands to work and less work for everyone, because work and its yield don't scale linearly. That's why you get tribes in the first place. Often, cities spring up where resources are, because everyone goes there - they also emerge around mines, fields, factories etc. . It has to do with proximity and the efficiency of communities, not initiative. From an individual's point of view, cities just happen. 

I would assume a raising popularity of IaaS provider that will replicate your content over the howl system. Even small blogs that currently are hosted in private environments maybe want to migrate to bigger providers. We would maybe also see more toplevel domains that indicate the location, like .us.earth or .mars, .pluto and .sun. The underling protocols of the internet must change drastic as the application the end user uses must change in order to give him enough information what will happens if he clicks this link. Nobody wants to click a link in twitter and sitting there for hours until the site loads. I think log distance communication will feel more like in old days before telephone. There wont be any non local news with live broadcast from the place where something happens. Nobody can ask questions to the journalists at the place. Most likely the information will still be published as soon as it is available. But the livetcker would not be live anymore. 

I know this is a late answer but I think this needs to be added and I haven't really seen the other answer emphasize it (besides Envite's, indirectly). Recycling In Dune, there's little water so they make suits that recycle bodily fluids (sweat, urine) into drinkable water - they also have moisture farms (Luke Skywalker used to work in one on Tatooine, another desert planet). That's just one example. In real life we do this all the time - old metalworks get gathered and turned in for pennies and this contributes a lot to the availability of metals for industry. While recycling may not be a great way to save energy, it is a great way to make the most out of existing materials. At any point, you're going to have old technology around and old constructs, that can be refined into newer ones. The limiting factor is energy. Unless we're talking about a world without any energy (it can lack conventional fuel but it can't lack energy sources entirely), they can go through a time period of scarcity, as they adjust to different energy sources and recycle their old stuff into new stuff. This would of course raise the value of materials a great deal, but it can also depend on how efficient recycling is - if the techniques are developed adequately, it would be much like an unchanging supply of coinage, since the supply wouldn't grow or fade - the value of materials would be closer to the difficulty of recycling them versus their technological usefulness. Another effect would be a shift of research into transforming materials into one another. If you need an element and don't have it, you can work on forming it from others, shifting from scarcity of each material separately, to scarcity of material overall. You could have technology that creates rocks out of dirt or get sand out of stones to make glass. You could also find ways to use some of these materials as fuels - if you find some process that can turn uranium into plutonium efficiently (very implausible but it's just an example), you could then use it as fuel until it degrades and you can use it for something else. I know we're talking about all resources being gone, but you might still have waste from old reactors and you can still transmute other metals to uranium or whatever. 

How reliably would it work? I would assume that the network would be very reliably (on the higher layer). The question would not be if the message arrives, but when. However interference could delay a message for hours (or days?). What would the expected bandwidths be? I think we can build a network that has enough bandwidth, but I didn't found information on this. So the rest of my answer assumes we have enough bandwidth. Would using it be exorbitantly expensive? I think the network would be quite expensive. However not necessary for the end user. A system wide internet could be subsidized by government and content provider which want to sell there content to the users. That's what happens today in not so dense populated regions to get fast internet there. And how would it actually feel to use such a system? If the user access planetary (his current location) resources there won't be a difference from today. As soon as he actually uses the interplanetary network, however somethings most likely will change drastic. Entertainment Any online game that has real-time interaction won't work. You could still have something like racing against ghosts of other players, simple leaderboards or playing something like chess. Like in the time when you played chess via mail (not E-Mail). Instant Video wouldn't be so instant as long as it is not cached anywhere. Big players could maybe hold a copy of all there content in different datacenters around the system. However if you want to use a service that don't provide this, the question would not be "what should we watch (now)", but "what should we watch tomorrow". So you will request the content and watch it when it comes. If you have an abo for series they will start sending you a copy to watch offline as soon as it is released (maybe still DRM protected). Information News will be as today. You will still be notified but it will take longer. This could result in a trend back to traditional media. If you need to wait several hours for your information maybe you can wait an hour longer for verified information. Surfing the internet from link to link will not work. There could be an indicator how long it would take to load a Link. Is it a local resource or it is already cached. Often accessed sides will (as already today) be cached. But good caching will get much more important. Surfing will often result in I want to read this and that later. On the technical site requesting a Website would not only deliver the site but also other sites of the domain and other linked content directly. Communication We would not use messengers as much. There wont be any direct communication. We will go back to E-Mail, or something similar. Maybe we would write more and longer letters, like in the time where there was no telephone. Communication on websites should change to (in order to be still somehow use full). Forums will need to structure the communication better. You need to know which post related to which other in order to follow the discussion. Some websites will only used locally because the discussions are to fast to allow anyone from far away to participate. Other Sites could use some mechanism to counter this by showing posts only after a specific time they where posted (when the user pressed send, not the server received the post). 

I think that it's pretty clear that they would not only embrace technology, they would create new technology sometimes before humans and other races, despite the knack for it that, for example, dwarves have, or the motivation for it that humans have. Considering that, if we're going by the common portrayal here, in stories: 

If by this time you get a lot of overlap or a very low population size, especially if it's low compared to technological level, you have too little space. But at least you can work backwards from how large your world is and how many different habitats are available (don't forget planetary tilt and rotation) using some real numbers to help. 

I assume with static you mean you cant post or change things, but you will still get the latest info, like the mysterious disappearing of yourself in the local news. A way to archive this: Your smartphone is no ordenary smartphone, it has special designed OS and automatically generate a VPN to your cooperation instead of your normal access to the internet, you access it through the cooperation firewall. However your cooperation has the policy that posting is not allowed. Any HTTP request other then GET will be filtered. And maybe some other popular Sites. While this would not completely prevent the ability to influence the internet, it could be enough for your story. You would still appear in the logs, everything that uses get to transmit data will work (unless the firewall has some special rules to prevent this, because it is a relay good firewall), but that doesn't mean your character knows this or find such services. Some company also have the rules of no mails on holidays, which would prevent you from writing emails. Maybe after some time someone will notice that your character access the network, and starts communicating with him. Or he will be trapped forever. 

you get a substance that permeates the organism's body and the organism has control of it because it has control of the origin of it. The substance acts based on the directives of the organism, thus it can arbitrarily act or not act on certain kinds of matter, or more practically, certain chemical compounds in this case. Assuming the performance of magic depends on its origin, that could explain why affecting organic compounds is so much easier (because its shape or character is affected by how it's generated or contained) and the relative vagueness of what counts as an organic compound can be addressed by a similarity metric. In this case, a single carbon atom counts as an organic compound, but it is strongly dissimilar to the compounds in the shapeshifter's body, thus making pure carbon compounds difficult to absorb, while still allowing trace metals and other chemicals included in the body naturally to be included. Competence If the purpose of transformation is to alter the physical body, which is almost entirely organic (there are trace heavy elements and other non-organic parts of the body) then the owning organism can simply choose to expand the radius of the magical effect to other surrounding materials. How far it can extend this radius would be determined by its own competence in controlling the magic and how much magic it can control at once. In order to include clothes, it can just expand the effect to include them. If it is substantially easier to affect organic materials, that automatically makes taking jewelery, metallic weapons (even those with a lot of carbon impurities, mouldy rust or alloys that include carbon), coins etc. very difficult, but it means that a papyrus scroll or a cake would be easier to include. Mass The quantity of magic the user has available to them (which can be determined by how much they can contain within themselves or define the origin as a conduit with a specific capacity of magic flow, which effectively determines how much magic is usable at any one time - in the latter case, magic would require maintenance so if the organism loses consciousness, they transform back to a human or a default state or something very bad happens) determines the extent of the transformation. 

What would a typical user use such a network for? Well we talking about interplanetary internet so the user will (want) to use it for what we use it today. 

They could cultivate some kind of space animal. Those animals wander through the galaxy and the nomads would follow them. For more inspiration see Wikipedia. 

I think it depends of the initial defense of the wizards. If they posses the Chinese wall which is secured from the beginning, or know they will be attacked, they will probably win. If not and the caveman will lunch an surprise attack, 3,000 people is to few to survive. If the caveman raided the village at night when everybody sleeps, there would be almost no resistance. Most would be killed in sleep or while waking up. The next big part of people die while in panic. The rest dies fighting or fleeing unarmed before they get any weapons. Only a few would be able to arm themselves and effective fight back. To few. In the last scenario I assume the wizards have an open town design and almost no military facilities. Also normal people don't posses firearms. That what I would assume from an peaceful society. Additional from those 3000 people not all are able to defend themselves. They could be to young or to old. And if they have the correct age, they still cold be in a fitness state where they would be no match for an enemy. The caveman on the other side have 100 people per wizard in addition they will most likely die younger and all young and adult men and woman would be stronger and tougher. So for every wizard that can defend there town would be 120 or more attackers. I could image 20 to 50 people to fend of the initial attack, get some firearms and regroup. Even if they use there superior firepower to kill enough caveman so they will retreat, the wizards would be as good as dead. Most likely all children and older people are dead, without some luck all women also. That would be the end. The survivors would soon run out of essential stuff like weapons, food, fuel, medicine or something else. Higher advanced civilizations have an higher specialization of individual. It is not likely that the survivors will have the knowledge in all fields they need to keep on fighting the caveman. Eventually they will get hunt down by the caveman.