The title question asks if there is any science behind the graph and the short answer is "No, not really". This article is a justification of the graph by its creator. In it he states that the graph is his interpretation and approximation of the advancement of science through time (in Europe). It's used to support the author's "hypothesis" that Christianity was "the antithesis of science". He offers little but personal opinion to support the shape of the graph and even admits that its guesswork: 

In addition to Drux's fine answer, Napoleon's ability to evade the British was down to a number of factors but miscommunication by the British played a very large part. When Sir Sidney Smith was assigned to the Levant Squadron, he was also given a diplomatic mission by the British Cabinet. However, this additional role was not communicated to his superiors in the Mediterranean, Lord St Vincent and Lord Nelson. As a consequence, when he started direct communication with the Ottoman government (which was outside of his role as a naval Captain and inferior officer), they both took offence. Unfortunately, all three (Smith, Nelson & St Vincent), while very talented naval commanders, had family-sized egos to match. The same self-belief that made them great also made them unwilling to admit they might possibly be wrong. The result was that neither St Vincent or Nelson were inclined to aid Sir Sidney and, at the same time, they did all they could to try to control and confine his actions even though they were many hundreds of miles out of touch with what was happening in Egypt. [Ironically, Nelson himself was guilty of the same 'disobedience' to his orders when it came to his handling of affairs in southern Italy, which he justified by stating he was better placed to make the decisions]. Even when St Vincent returned to England and was replaced by Lord Keith, the quality of communication didn't improve all that much. When Sir Sidney finally arrived off Alexandria to take over the blockade from Sir Thomas Troubridge, he had just three ships, the 74-gun Tigre and Theseus and the 64-gun Lion. There were no frigates available as the few that were in the Mediterranean were assigned elsewhere. The Lion was taken to supplement the blockade of Malta, leaving Sir Sidney with just two British ships (and possibly a brig). Nelson had ordered Sir Sidney not to interact with the Turkish admirals and, therefore, the opportunity for a joint blockade was lost. As noted in Drux's answer, it would appear that Sir Sydney's eventual plan was to tempt Napoleon into sailing for home so he could be intercepted. To this end, the Theseus was sent to sail to the west while, on August 12th, Sir Sidney on the Tigre made for Cyprus to restock with water and provisions. The hope being that Napoleon would see that the blockade was apparently lifted and make sail - straight into the Theseus. Unfortunately for the British several things went wrong with the plan. Napoleon was much further advanced in his plans for returning than Smith believed and his small squadron was ready to sail before the Tigre could return (in fact, Napoleon reached France before the Tigre left Cyprus). When the Tigre arrived in Cyprus, they discovered that there were no provisions to be had and so they were significantly delayed in returning to Alexandria. In addition, the Theseus (which was out of contact with the Tigre) was also short of supplies and had made for Rhodes to replenish, where she too was delayed due to the island's Govenor being unwilling to assist. While at Cyprus, Sir Sidney sent a message to Lord Nelson to warn him that Napoleon might be attempting a return to France but this was sent on one of the returning storeships and it's unlikey that the letter would have reached Nelson in time to be useful. So when Napoleon set sail, neither of the blockading British warships was present. Some accounts mention a British corvette or brig being sighted covering Alexandria but it wouldn't have been a match for the French frigates carrying Napoleon. There is a belief that Lord Keith's squadron sighted the French vessels but apparently the frigates weren't recognised as French and were not, therefore, intercepted. It's entirely possible that Lord Keith's ships were unaware at the time that Napoleon was even at sea. 

I won't pretend that this is a comprehensive answer (or close to one) but I can offer some expenditure figures for Great Britain for the period 1803-1815. These are taken from The Foundations of British Maritime Ascendancy: Resources, Logistics and the State 1755-1815, Roger Morriss (Cambridge UP, 2011) which in turn took them from Abstract of British Historical Statistics, Mitchell & Dean (Cambridge, 1962). 

The figures are in Pounds Sterling and are gross government expenditure. The figure for the Army includes the Ordnance (and so includes some Navy expenditure). 'Civil' is civilian government expenditure while 'Debt' is the cost of servicing the country's debt. 

In answering the second question (i.e. "how far a cannon ball would continue bouncing/rolling on dry, level ground following the initial impact?"), the result will be maximized when looking at what was called "ricochet fire". 

The human respiratory rate varies by person (and is dependent on age, health and level of exercise). According to Wikipedia, the resting range for a healthly adult would be between 12 to 18 breaths per minute (i.e. a 50% difference from low to high). For the elderly, the upper range is 10 to 30 breaths per minute (i.e. a 200% difference). In addition, in order to measure any significant time period, you would need to stay in a resting state for the entire time while counting your breaths. It would be nearly impossible to use to measure the time taken to perform any strenuous activity because a) you breathing rate would vary and b) it would be difficult to keep a reliable track of the breaths taken. There's also the possibility that monitoring your own breathing rate would affect the rate (i.e. your attempts to keep your breathing steady might actually change the rate). So, ultimately, it would be difficult to form a reliable universal time measurement based on something that would vary so much. It might be useful for personal use to compare a couple of events of short duration but it wouldn't be much use to pass measurements from person to person. 

Not only is the quote not true, it's not even close to being true in 1814. At the time not only was the War of 1812 going on but also the Napoleonic Wars in Europe meant that European fleet strengths were at their highest (in purely numeric terms) levels in history. According to Jean Sutton's Lords of the East, between 1791 and 1832 the East India Company had around 450 ships in service (excluding warships). However, most of these were in service for only part of that time, so the actual number in service in 1812-15 was probably nearer 100-150. The East India Company's warships never amounted to more than a dozen or so vessels at any one time (and most of them were frigate sized or smaller). In comparison, the British Navy's fleet in the same period was nearly a thousand ships of all sizes. So just on that comparison alone, the East India Company is only about a fifth the size of the British Navy. If you add in the substantial French, Russian, Spanish, Dutch, Ottoman, US and Scandinavian fleets and the East India Company comes no where near to having " more ships than the combined fleets of all the nations of the world".