One can't order these hazards without being much more precise. What energy threshold do you regard as an earthquake? There is micro-sismicity over most of ther planet for most of the time. The area affected deceases as the magnitude gets larger. And what do you regard as the spatial extent? The slippage footprint, or the area suffering some event magnitude? (difficult to define). Likewise drought can be defined many different ways. Days without any rain? Days above a particular rain threshold? Days in which evapotranspiration exceeds precipitation? Days above a particular crop wilting point? Do you bring temperature into the equation? Moreover, in these days of climate change, falling water tables,and increasing frequency / intensity of El Nino, the area potentially affected by drought is evolving, so we need to be clear about the time period in our definition. The area potentially affected by hurricanes varies on each continent, and requires global climatic modelling to define. The oceanic area in which hurricanes can develop has been discussed previously in the Earth Science stack exchange, but the single most important factor is the area with a sea surface temperature of >27 deg C. This is also a variable in these times of climate change. 

In places like the Giant's causeway in Ireland (Antrim basalts) there are columnar basalt flows of 100 metres or more. I'm aware that the cooling mechanism is complex, but is there any rough and ready equation for estimating the cooling time of such a basalt flow? 

Diffusion is important, but much more important is the turbulent stirring from all manner of processes such as convective clouds, hurricanes, Hadley cells, frontal systems, jet streams, etc. This is more than enough to keep the atmosphere's component gasses well mixed. 

Pectens seem to have evolved from Chlamys in the late Eocene or early Oligocene. The coarseness and rib spacing of Vertipectens has been slowly evolving since the early and Mid-Miocene, so they have been around for at least 16 million years, maybe up to 20 million years. If you want to be precise you will need to read-up on the fine detail. Pectens are a classic case of 'ontogeny recapitulating phylogeny', and their identification is complicated by parallel and convergent evolution of different species. As fossils, they are quite common, and probably more useful as indicators of the palaeo-environment, than as age indicators. Where you find such fossils you will very likely find associated micro-fossils in the same rock, which are more diagnostic of age. 

Coral reefs will grow on any suitable substrate given the basic requirements of sunlight, temperature (optimally 23 to 29 deg C), nutrient availability, and turbidity from waves or current flow. In the deep ocean these conditions are almost invariably found on volcanic seamounts - hence your original perception. But as Ghost points out, there are no volcanoes in, near or under the Great Barrier Reef. In fact the nearest recent volcanism in Australia is in Western Victoria, nearly 2000 km from the GBR. 

As the previous answer made clear, tipping bucket raingauges incur errors related to tip increments, rainfall amount, intensity and duration - all for obvious reasons. Many raingauges, TB and otherwise, have funnel filters to stop clogging from leaves, dead lizards, etc. In the case of small rainfall events the wetting and clogging of the filter can cause huge errors. It's important to note that these errors are separate from, and subordinate to, the errors of wetting, splash, and micro-aeodynamic turbulence. These further errors typically amount to an undercatch of about 7%, or very much greater errors in the case of strong horizontal components of wind velocity. Also, the collection area of the TB raingauge is significant. TB rim diameters range from 10 cm to 50 cm with the former being highly inaccurate. Whatever the design of raingauge / pluviometer, it is best to calibrate it with a ground-level rim set in an anti-splash grid. 

Perhaps you are being misled by a rather narrow set of definitions. Many geologists are indeed specialists in a geological or related field. It is said that modern professional people have to learn one major new skill every 5 years or so, and one minor skill every year. That is certainly true in my experience. Talk to geologists and you will find that a large proportion have specialist skills such as hydrogeology, hydrology, climate change, climatology, oceanography, geomorphology, petrology, sedimentology, volcanology, and a host of other specialities. 

Rock 1 probably a limestone, but check the hardness. Rock 2 probably a sandstone, but impossible to be sure without more detailed examination. The white flecks in this case seem to be a weathering feature. In some sandstones there are grains of feldspar which weather to create white-ish grains, in which case it is most probably a variety called arkose. When you are checking out the rocks in an unfamiliar territory may I suggest three routine geologists habits. 

Temperature is certainly a factor, but it's not that simple. Actually a lot of water does sink into the Earth, mostly as meteoric circulation, but also as deposition of hydrous minerals, trapped pore water, and carried down towards the lower crust in the 'wet sediments' of subduction zones. The latter is the ultimate source of most volcanic water vapor. Of course, pressure increases with depth, and this pressure tends to close up any pores, fractures or fault cavities. So the deeper the water sinks, the less scope there is for water circulation. Also, the deeper the rock, the hotter it gets so it is likely that the tiny amount of water in deep circulation will be absorbed by water-rock interaction to yield a hydrous assemblage of minerals. If the water is heated to water vapour then it is easy for this vapour to move laterally, or upwards (higher porosity), but not so much downwards (little or no porosity). Finally there is the density factor. Water is less dense than rock so it tends to find its own level: gas at the top, then hydrocarbons (if any) further down, then freshwater, then saline water, then no fluid at all because there is no linked porosity for the fluid to occupy. 

Of course, any ultramafic rock will ultimately melt at about 2000 deg C, but long before that there will be some interesting phase transitions, possibly involving serpentine > talc > olivine + orthopyroxene. Various subtle changes occur in the rock during its original hydration from peridotite to serpentinite. There is high- and low-temperature serpentinite. Isotopic studies have shown that most exposed serpentinite exposed in outcrop has hydrated at ambient groundwater temperature. Consider what happens. The Ca from the clinopyroxene in the original peridotite ends up as Ca- or Ca-Mg- carbonates, of which much is lost or precipitated elsewhere. The Fe in the original orthopyroxene, clinopyroxene and olivine is either lost from the system or re-precipitates as a mesh-texture of goethite. Cr from the silicate phases is excluded from the serpentine crystal lattice and from the surface of chromite crystals leaving a zoned Magnetite-Chromite structure in previously homogeneous chromite crystals. Since these are inert and refractory, they should survive any subsequent dehydration process. Any Ni will probably survive within the serpentine lattice. Summing up, when the serpentine is metamorphosed and turns back into peridotite, look for zoned chromite, reduced Ca (as clinopyroxene), and either reduced Fe, or Fe as a relict ghost sieve structure. Depending upon local circumstances there may, or may not, be a slight loss of silica during the hydration-dehydration cycle. 

I am reading about the Samoan tsunami of 2009, in which several independent accounts by survivors said that the wave was 'hot'. They were running for their lives at the time, so were very remiss in failing to actually measure the water temperature. I'm leaning towards the explanation that the water seemed hot because of the adrenaline rush, but before jumping to conclusions, I'm also wondering if (a) there is any other record of a tsunami wave being hot, and (b) could the dissipation of kinetic energy be sufficient to raise the temperature by several degrees? FYI the earthquake that caused the tsunami was a magnitude 7.9, at shallow depth in the Tonga Trench subduction zone, about 300 km away. The wave was up to 16 metres high. 

If you want to stick to actual geological products rather that kitchen substitutes, you could demonstrate the properties of an extraordinary natural evaporite mineral, Mirabilite, Na2.SO4.10H2O. This is found in some of the East African salt lakes, amongst other places. Under dry conditions it dehydrates to a white powdery mineral, Thenardite. Under warm conditions it dissolves in its own water of crystallization. In some East African lakes, Mirabilite saturated water splashes on the beach by wave action, where it dries out as crystals. Then when it warms in the sun, it turns back to a liquid and drains back into the Lake. It's a phase change rather than a chemical change, but it gets across the message of cyclicity. 

Many reasons: First, the sea water does not have a uniform composition of dissolved metals. Second, if the nodule, either now or in the past, has been in proximity to an oceanic hydrothermal vent ('black smoker') then the source metal concentrations will have been dramatically different. Third, at thermodynamic equilibrium, each metal will have a different liquid-solid phase partition coefficient, and even slow precipitation isn't necessarily at thermodynamic equilibrium. Fourth, the Mn-nodule mineralogy may contain some proportion of clay with different adsorption capacities for different metals. Fifth, These nodules are lying on the sea bed, so it isn't just pure sea water that we are dealing with. There is also slowly circulating pore water from the underlying sediments. This pore water can have a huge range of composition derived from water-rock interaction, depending upon temperature-pressure history, pH/Eh, rock composition, depth of circulation and history of water-rock interaction. Finally, it is more than likely that microbial mediation is involved in metal oxide deposition at the liquid-solid interface (in which case all bets are off in respect of thermodynamic equilibrium), and almost anything can happen, depending upon microbial species, metabolism and micro-ecology. 

The conventional explanation for the Earth's magnetic field is that some combination of differential rotation and/or convection occurs in the Earth's outer core, primarily in molten iron-nickel (+ sulphur, hydrogen etc.), which acts as a kind of dynamo. Whilst we can't prove it by direct observation, this seems an eminently plausible mechanism. If this is true, then the heat of the core will eventually dissipate, resulting in freezing of the core and cessation of the Earth's magnetic field. The existing heat is partly primordial and partly radiogenic from the decay of U, Th and K, and will take many billions of years to dissipate. The georeactor hypothesis requires a critical mass of uranium at the centre of the Earth to start up and maintain a nuclear reaction. There are two reasons why this hypothesis is seldom taken seriously except by Herndon himself. Firstly, in order for uranium to reach criticality it has to be a very high concentration of uranium. There is no known concentration mechanism which could achieve this in the Earth's core, whereas there are many reasons to believe that the uranium would be dispersed or 'poisoned' by lead and other heavy metals. Whilst the pressure at the Earth's core would be immense, gravitational separation, i.e. density fractionation, would be almost non-existent. Secondly, if this hypothesis was correct we would expect to see a huge flux of anti-neutrinos in such detectors as the super Kamiokande. We don't. So I'm not losing any sleep at the prospect of the Earth losing it's magnetism within the next billion years.