This question is one which is required by a scholastic mindset, but is by no means required. Logic is a language of constraints, and this is what makes it uniquely unable to answer questions about entities for which there are no constraints. The best we can do logically, I think, is to construct (to borrow a CS term) an escape sequence which ejects the question from consideration. There is nothing conditional about an omnipotent being. An omnipotent being, by definition, is an entity who is all capable. Any proposition on the capabilities of such a being is true. If omnipotence implies omniscience, then we must then accept that any proposition on the state of that being must also be true. If we say, "god is capable of granting free will even with perfect foreknowledge," the proposition must be true. If we say, "god has granted free will with perfect foreknowledge," then the proposition must also be true. The converse of these propositions are also true. For a being that can perform all acts and possesses all states, all propositions must be true. If all propositions are true, the propositions are unconditional. Questions must have a condition. Therefore, if there is no condition, there is no question to be had. The question is simply illogical. It does not exist. It's not the answer that is word salad, it's the question. 

When you cannot predict your own character how could you predict another person's character? Would the ruler think in the same way you think? Did you think about the tiny creatures that live because of humans? Don't other creatures have the same right to live in this world as humans? Don't you know truth that the life-style of other countries can affect your country? You said you wish to live. Then you should think of an alternative. sacrificing your life is not a good solution. 

We see so many colors in this world. But we have opposites only for 'black' and 'white'. For our daily activities this is often helpful. One word represents presence of light (the totality of the whole spectrum of sunlight) and the other, absence of light. For adding darkness or giving lightness we use black or white. Since these two colors have a relation to our usual experience also there is no error in saying "'black' and 'white' are opposites to each other". But if we try to say the opposite of any other color we won't get such relation. So they have no opposite. To say the opposite of X, we should be able to 'stop' at a point on the line of thought for imagination. If you say only X, we can't 'stop' at any point to imagine. [i.e., when you say only 'color', we can create only a line of thought. But, if you say 'black', we stop there and fix that word.] You may verify what happens if you say like this in the situation mentioned above: 'X is a color'. The answer will be long sentences. So we can't say the opposite of X as a one-word answer. 

An appeal is, in basic terms, an argument of last resort. In philosophy, ideally, there is no appeal. Either the logic of your premises read out your conclusion or it does not. In a more etymological sense, an appeal is a call out for assistance from a higher power. The word comes from the the Latin appelltus, meaning to entreat. In a very basic sense, we can understand this to mean that an appeal is intended to offload the burden of proof for some argument to some external object. For instance, in the appeal to authority, the appellant (probably the wrong usage there) says, in essence, "if you can prove authority A wrong, then I am wrong." Or in an argument to pity, the appellant says, "to disprove my argument, you must reconcile it with my circumstances." So, in the wider world of rhetoric, an appeal is an argument which attempts to reverse the burden of proof by introducing a factor external to the debate, rather than relying on the logic of the premises. 

It is people's habit to name beautiful phenomena if it happens more or less frequently. Sunrise and sunset are two such phenomena. This naming is necessary to indicate (the time of) the presence and absence of the most important source of living things in each day's talk. People might have named these phenomena before the truth about the Sun is revealed. If we apply our science here, we might be compelled to use more words. And they would create inconvenience. 

I can't deny myself (the 'I' or the consciousness of being myself). Can you? If you say "Yes", you would never have asked your question. In other words, this question must be asked unconsciously. If you say "Yes" again, why can't you say the consciousness for asking this question is somewhere else? So.... One can deny everything except consciousness (though actually it is Pure consciousness). But there is a chance for denial of consciousness until that person meets a great Guru. In other words, if he says so, that means he has never met such a person. In short, I would say, if you try to weld the terms 'consciousness' and 'illusion' the latter burns completely without leaving out a sign of its 'particles'. Our sense organs will become useless after our death, so it cannot show you the 'real knowledge'. The real knowledge must be beyond all the knowledge acquired through our sense organs. 

Catch-22 refers to a logical dilemma in which both outcomes are either equal or undesirable, rendering it unsolvable. It's not circular logic, but a logical complication of the inevitable outcome(s) of a set of premises. 

In short, no. At least not under any falsifiable definition of an organism. When biologists refer to a superorganism or an extended phenotype, they aren't referring to a form of life, but the capacity of a species to propagate themselves. Human systems fail the sniff test for life as well. Societies and organizations cannot replicate themselves by way of copying genes. Nor can they conduct respiration, or synthesize proteins. Most importantly, they are not contiguous, which is an absolutely necessary characteristic of an organism. Another argument against is that the concept you refer to is self-insulating. It doesn't open itself up to criticism. Like Freudian psychoanalysis, any refusal to believe that one is an adherent to the proposed system could be dismissed as an "unawareness" of participation. I should add that this does not mean that superorganisms do not exist, but that the sense of the word is entirely non-biologic. It is social. Unless one can make concrete parallels between the biological functioning of living systems and the mechanisms of human society (that is, they function the same without any abstraction from the physical), then it is incorrect to refer to society as a living being. 

Often you feel sad because you have many desires to be fulfilled. Uneasiness of your body or mind can also make you sad. If you don't know the truth fully, it would also make you sad. Sometimes knowledge of the truth would be the villain. Fear of something would also make you sad. (All these are also a part of uneasiness of one's mind.) But the 'knowledge' of the Ultimate Truth or strong faith in God rubs off sadness. 

An actor should not bother about good and bad in this case. The reason behind his action may be his inability in acting. If he is a good actor his acting can influence the people in a better way even though it is a bad action. Though the titles are not the same, I have mentioned the main thing you asked as a second part of an answer to another question. In it I have mentioned the importance from individual's point of view as well as society's point of view. I have also explained it in the minutest level at the end of the answer. See: If all of us gonna die one day why should we care? 

Oedipus Rex is the earliest example I can think of. The Greeks constructed their plays around what Aristotle would call the "sudden reversal," but was and is more commonly known as the "crisis." This is the part of the play where some decision by the protagonist reverses their fortunes and brings about resolution. I refer to Oedipus because the crisis of the play is the shattering of the protagonist's illusion that he has defeated his fate. At the time, "krisis" merely meant the severance of two parts of the play before and after the judgement of the protagonist. Realize, however, that Aristotle's Poetics held up Oedipus as the archetypal play and formed the basis of Western theater up until the 15th century. So if one makes a careful study of theater during that period between about 300 BCE to about mid-Shakespeare, the crisis of the play more often literally means the loss of the protagonist's illusion of power over their own life. That is likely where the linkage between the two comes, since the two concepts were, historically, not held in proximity. 

I don't believe that a good philosopher might have claimed so. In other words, if he claimed so he cannot be regarded as a good philosopher. (If he invalidates good) Since this world is a mixture of good and evil he should take them together and advise to go beyond duality. Otherwise his followers might misunderstand him and give up all good deeds. If I mentioned the name of a particular philosopher only, the answer would be incomplete. See what Vedanta says. See this one also. 

Since laws of a country are formulated according to some philosophy, here you can rely only on laws; not on philosophy; especially because this is not fully related to ethics. [This answer is from a common man's point of view; never from a broad minded man's.] Since all people are not so generous, wise or like-minded as we think, while solving an issue like this, we should consider the mentality of the common men of that country. Otherwise it will lead to internal conflicts (emerged from envy) and will affect the refugees adversely (in future). In a family (for staying): How should we treat our guests (in a perfect family)?. See the story from the Mahabharata (given in bold letters) told by The Golden Mongoose. In a country (for living): What should a king do to avoid/deal gossips (even though it is about his own family)? In other words, what care should be taken while handling sensitive issues? The answer to these questions are given in the Ramayana. Though Rama had firm faith in his wife--Sita, he conducted a fire test and also renounced her...just to convince his subjects. Since your government couldn't accomplish their main duties to the public, at least for an apology, they should conduct a referendum and show their respect/responsibilities towards them. 

The answer to your question depends on what approach you're taking. Unfortunately, we over in the English department tend to ignore philosophical classifications and take up our own. Being that the qualia of the novel builds itself into a personal, introspective narrative, a literary critic (and I would have to agree, given the agreed set of terms in literary studies) would say that this is an existentialist novel. From a philosophical point of view, the novel is certainly absurdist. The only evolution of meaning within the narrative is the slow progression towards realizing the meaninglessness of the universe and the importance of human agency. Just realize that when studying literature, we classify things based on a quality. This novel is introspective. Or this novel explores themes pertaining to the individual. In philosophy, there is a classification of ideas. I suppose the take-away is that literature is a sub-study of aesthetics and will begin its approach with questions about the work's intrinsic value, whereas philosophy would approach the same work with the intent of questioning the validity of the author's ideas.