‘At that period, Vāseṭṭha, there was just one mass of water, and all was darkness, blinding darkness. Neither moon nor sun appeared, no constellations or stars appeared, night and day were not distinguished, nor months and fortnights, no years or seasons, and no male and female, beings being reckoned just as beings.827 And sooner or later, after a very long period of time, savoury earth828 spread itself over the waters where those beings were. It looked just like the skin that forms itself over hot milk as it cools. It was endowed with colour, smell and taste. It was the colour of fine ghee or butter, and it was very sweet, like pure wild honey. ‘Then some being of a greedy nature said: “I say, what can this be?” and tasted the savoury earth on its finger. In so doing, it became taken with the flavour, and craving arose in it.829 Then other beings, taking their cue from that one, also tasted the stuff with their fingers. They too were taken with the flavour, and craving arose in them. So they set to with their hands, breaking off pieces of the stuff in order to eat it. And [86] the result of this was that their self-luminance disappeared. And as a result of the disappearance of their self-luminance, the moon and the sun appeared, night and day were distinguished, months and fortnights appeared, and the year and its seasons. To that extent the world re-evolved. 

what is the effectiveness of removing triggers for temptations (food, entertainment etc ) ? i for example took apart the stationary (to avoid watch youtube videos for example for fun) computer i have but after some time i reassembled it if there wont be one attachment there would be others than even if less obvious attachments - can they be less bad ? monks try to avoid this triggers as well i believe (like asking woman to dress modest when visiting monasteries) so i guess it has its merits i wonder how much of a change to a practice this can make - would love to hear general thoughts on this subject 

I have ups and downs in my practice (time doing formal mediation - time being mindful in daily life - doing good stuff avoiding bad stuff etc) and also ups and downs in completely mundane issues as well being lazy not doing anything for days to do stuff for my own benefit than doing lots of stuff (washing the house - exercise etc) than back to nothing ) I had times in the past where i mediated every day (in retreat but also at home) and times i did stuff like exercise study stuff etc now im in a slump for a few months doing almost nothing - i wonder how is it explained kamma wise .... bad kamma from the past ? lazy kamma ? is there no way to prevent this ? again asking from a kamma point of view - how to make a steady practice and steady good mundane stuff can be great (do i need some tipping point of good vs bad kamma done in this specific lifetime) but more than that WHY it happens also : how effective is current life kamma compared to past live kamma ? and recent kamma (1-3 months) in comparison to kamma made before (3months -99 years) 

but surely the why leads directly to the answer, no? common sense. my teacher once said this: all religions have a version of the same basic rules (don't kill, don't steal, don't become intoxicated, etc). now why is that? it's because those activities cause turmoil and drama, which are obstacles to gaining clarity and equanimity. spiritual goals, like any goals, are reached more easily when you clear the path to them. the more barriers you have to climb, the longer it takes to reach your destination. causing upset in your family creates an obstacle, both inner and outer. the ruminations and unhappy thoughts you will have from it will distract you from your purpose, and you family may also try to turn you from it because they too are unhappy. better to spend the time cultivating patience and sensitivity to timing. then, when the proper conditions arrive to become a monk without causing suffering to yourself and others, your path will be easier and more focused. 

oh holy beans. I'm about to go radical here and diverge from the dalai lama's take, but I can't speak from someone else's perceptions, so here goes. a system based on ever-increasing gains from a finite thing is inherently unsustainable. and lookie! does it kinda seem I'm right? I'm fine with making a living (and more fine just living) but not with profit. because I would prefer to continue rather than dwindle from lack of food, water, and liveable weather, and prefer doing so among healthy people whose basic needs are met. the bible doesn't like profit either. it calls profit "usury." nutshell: profit is taking more than you give. profit is the essence of capitalism. you are looking to "capitalize" on what you encounter, to take from it to make yourself "bigger" if you will. my experience in Buddhism and related things is that there's no need to fret over abstract things that are basically the water you, little fishie, swim in right now. if you keep meditation, continue to refine your clear seeing of yourself and others, notice what happens when things are/aren't done, and how differences in doing/not doing get different results, notice how you feel after doing/skipping the things you do .... your views and habits will change to naturally reflect where you are at any given time. just as they change when you don't meditate, but in ways that are more random and that you may not even like. the only universe, the only sentient being, you can directly and fully perfect is you. and you are the system. whatever it is "you" are, that is what touches and changes every single part of our world, aka "the world," reality, life. as my teacher says, "just do your practice." people are all sorts of things. balance for living beings is a state change that suits conditions at the time (homeostasis). with clarity comes being more of what you are, be it student, statesman, horse trainer, layabout, kite maker, baby maker, musician, pizza guy. the title, like the name of a system, is just the moving form that contains a slice of life. as a living being you will naturally be happiest with things that support life rather than suck it dry. if capitalism furthers living, how is it against Buddhism? if it does not, how will it continue to exist? beings are expressions of life. with clarity life flourishes. systems support life or fail to. our awareness is what decides. 

Not a direct answer just some points about this : 1 - More crops are grown specifically to feed livestock than to feed humans so the move of people to a vegan diet will reduce the amount of crops needed (and yes animals are fed non-edible plant parts and feces "fish flour" ect but thats on top of the crops you grow - about "grass fed" first its a tiny tiny part of the meat in genral and even grass fed are fed crops- by piles of crops put in the fields - by feeding cattle in winter time - by feeding the cows a high calorie diet some months before slaughter ect) so if someone really cares for insects ect that's just another good reason to become vegan ! 2 . A good source on the buddhas diet is : $URL$ 3 . A good video about eating meat is "animals and the buddha" : $URL$ 4 . This is hard to explain in non-buddhist sites but here its simple : INTENTION to kill is key - a lot of the deaths in crops are not intended to be dont (some are but not all) unlike the deaths in the meat industry which are intended - so when you buy meat you pay for someone to kill you pay someone to cause some very bad karma So INTENTIONAL KILLING vs UNINTENDED KILLINGS ..... and knowing for sure that when you buy meat its going to cause intentional killing and yes its not like killing the animal yourself ... but still there is a difference - and this is another thing people should take into account 5 . i follow theravada buddhism so i talk from this point but i know there are vegetarian sects in mahayana buddhism - but maybe im wrong didnt research this - but my view in theravada is you can eat meat - but it is conducive to avoid eating meat completely and being vegan 6 . monks and lay people are very different and theres a different between a monk accepting meat and a lay person buying meat at the supermarket 

The 5 precepts are clear not to use drinks and drugs which lead to carelessness and the 5 precepts are really the basics of buddhsim - the precept relevant for us : I undertake the precept to refrain from intoxicating drinks and drugs which lead to carelessness. Surāmerayamajjapamādaṭṭhānā veramaṇī sikkhāpadaṃ samādiyāmi. drugs are really connected strongly to greed to attachment which is very anti-Buddhist buddhism is to not attach to aversions and greeds and by that to gain wisdom I understand hard experience in general can also lead to Buddhism - but for instance if you fall and break both legs and back and have huge amount of pain which somehow got you closer to buddhism maybe the pain will prevent you from advancing maybe the bad health will prevent you from advancing or advancing fast so it might be the same case with drugs that they have some benefits but in general the disadvantages are much higher .... especially for someone asking about this or anyone reading this which is already interested in buddhism ! so the plus in getting into buddhism is not there anyway - plus there is a very big chance people have the kamma to get into buddhism and if one event (fall/drugs/breathing/eating/scratching) wouldnt have happened than another one would happen that would lead them to buddhism