This question was put by me with the purpose of finding the answers that is more unanimous between philosopher of philosophy as well as philosophers and scientist of biology, physics, chemistry, maths, etc (if any others). I would say it was an effort to find a specific definition which if existed and made sense would make us all happy and enlightened for a moment. But, the more you answer, more questions do come up. And, it's the virtue of the matters in philosophy to be open ended in nature, no matter how much you fill in there is more to fill. This answer I am writing is not an answer but an amalgamation of my opinions with other agreeable and non-agreeable phrases, more like a mosaic of thoughts which may connect and contrast. Plus, I am not adding any sources as of now and will make edition to this answer as I progress. When I asked, "What is a philosophical definition of life?" I was commented by saying "I am not too specific" because SE is a forum which promotes one answer at the end of the day. So, I changed to "What is modern philosophical definition of life?" By, modern I mean what is the contemporary consensus we have reached upon to define life, based on the evidences from science (all fields). Before, we even find the we need to explain . Would you say the classical definition of life was . I think this might be more acceptable in religious context, but I think this definition has failed to gratify more people today than ever before. Or, in the modern context would you say, And, this doesn't simply apply to human but also to bacteria, because they do respond to several perturbations. Or even in more modern context would you say, And, yes it does apply to every life that is on earth. Or, mathematically would you say, But, other field of science can equally contrast it by asking, "Do numbers really exist?" While the scientific definitions between biology, chemistry, physics and maths may vary. But, science wraps all around life being described as a phenomenon emerging from the ordered and patterned influx and outflux of matter and energy, which can be read using the tools of biology, chemistry, physics, and maths alike. So, is this the modern philosophical definition, I don't' know. I would finally say, This is the answer I have settled for today. But, I think there is more to know about the life. What if the evidences we collect from mission on Mars and beyond our solar system totally changes our perspective of life. So, at the end I think there is a need to talk more about this question rather than just settling on one answer that looks too good. 

Is agentive activity included in every representation (intension)? If so the extension of every representation includes some information about the interactivity between the representing agent and the thing being represented. For example: iconic, visual concepts (what a dog looks like) presupposes the activity of visual perception; namely looking at a dog, paying attention to certain salient features, committing this to long term memory and so on. Or to put it another way, you can’t have information about some x, without some amount of interactivity (A1,A2,…,An) relating agent y to x. vis., [A1->n(x,y)]. Does this not imply that there is no such thing as objective knowledge? 

Looking for specific term to describe those ideas which are commonly held without proper justification or questioning? What about "putative"? 

If we apply Russell’s theory of (definite) descriptions (“On Denoting” 1905) to the sentence “God is subject to logic”, it can be analysed into a conjunction of the following three: 

One gets the distinct impression that consensus is anathema to philosophy. Eric Dietrich gives a good account of Philosophy’s antinomic character: $URL$ Also David Chalmers has had a crack at the whip, but I find it a tad pretentious and dishonest. And by that I mean, if you were going to be brutally honest about philosophical consensus, your conclusions would be very much like that of Wittgenstein’s: (4th paper under 2014) $URL$ 

To describe something you’re holding in your hand such as an ‘apparent’ apple as either “real” or “unreal” is a question of genuineness or authenticity. Either way you have a genuine apple or a genuine fake (representation). In this context you have useful information regarding affordances (J.J. Gibson) - a genuine apple is edible a fake one not. To describe “everything” (The universe as a whole) as either “real” or “unreal” seems to me like a categorical error. Statements like “we cannot prove that there is a reality”, smack of folly, since they suggest that there is a ‘standard reality’ by which you can differentiate. If there is no benchmark reality by which to make a comparison, then I’d say the concept has no extension. Also the existence of just about everything (apart from what is normative/conventional or artificial) is not contingent upon whether you have a conception/notion of it or not. Either way the [Real(apple) V –Real(apple)] makes pretty good [Real(cider) V –Real (cider)], which gets me [Real(soused) V –Real (soused)], or better yet {Realy[Real(soused)]} V –{Realy[Real (soused)]}! 

In general, there's been relatively little interaction between philosophy and psychology over the last several decades. This isn't just a matter of different questions and different methods, but also the institutional divisions and incentives — philosophy department hiring and tenure committees generally don't give much credit for publishing in psychology journals, and vice versa. However, there have been several particular interactions that you might find interesting. One is the "situationist critique" of virtue ethics, which points to experimental research in social psychology to challenge the existence of stable character or character traits. (Read more about this here.) Second is the "experimental philosophy" movement, which more or less explicitly borrows basic experimental methods from psychology to investigate how people respond to philosophical thought experiments. (Read more about this here.) Third is the field of cognitive science, which has often involved both psychologists and philosophers as primary researchers; some philosophers have also acted as outsider critics of cognitive science. (You can read a philosophical discussion of cognitive science here.) Fourth, and I think overlapping with cognitive science, a certain tradition of philosophy of mind has been heavily engaged with psychology and neuroscience research; I'm thinking especially of Patricia Churchland, Paul Churchland, and Daniel Dennett. In many of these particular interactions, philosophers have appealed to research or methods from psychology to produce critiques of other philosophers. I think cognitive science and the related tradition in philosophy of mind have generally been more collaborative, with philosophers influencing the empirical research; but often even here philosophers appeal to empirical research to criticize other philosophers. 

Here's how I explain it when I teach logic. Formal or mathematical logic uses mathematics to represent "good reasoning." These models are like maps: they can be extremely useful for certain purposes; but every useful map introduces simplifications, distortions, and omissions. A good map has simplifications, distortions, and omissions that make it more useful for its designated purpose. But there's no such thing as a universal, literally all-purpose map. For example, sentence logic or propositional logic — the formal system you learn when you first study logic — assumes truth-functionality and bivalence. Truth-functionality means that the truth value of a compound sentence (like "either p or q") depends only on the truth value of the component sentences ("p" and "q"). Bivalence means that every sentence is either true or false, and no sentence can be both. There's no "partly true" or "I'm not sure." Truth-functionality and bivalence are extremely useful for representing operators like "not," "and," and "or." But they do weird things to "if-then," and are simply incompatible with "p because q," "I would prefer that p," or "all humans are mortal; and Hypatia is human; therefore Hypatia is mortal." They also lead to the the "fact" that a contradiction implies anything; this isn't so much a "fact" as a distortion created by the simplifications involved in assuming truth-functionality and bivalence. Consider a subway map. The distances between station markers on the map don't correspond to distances between stations. When reading the map, we use conventions and prudence to avoid drawing incorrect inferences. In the same way, when using sentence logic, we should use conventions and prudence to avoid overinterpreting explosion or the weirdness of the material condition. Other formal systems use different assumptions, in order to do a better job of representing some of the things that sentence logic can't really represent. But they have simplifications, distortions, and omissions of their own. For example, paraconsistent logic does weird things to "or". This means that there is no one universal formal system. A street map isn't a great way to represent the organization of a subway system; and neither is a good way to represent where different species of birds live in the city. For three different tasks — navigating by bike, navigating by subway, and avian ecology — we need different maps. All of this is compatible with some kinds of realism about "good reasoning." If formal systems of logic are like maps, then actual good reasoning is like the city represented in the maps. The city is real, even if no one map can perfectly represent it in every aspect and we need to exercise "subjective" prudential judgment in order to correctly use any given map. In an analogous sense, you might say that reasoning can really be good or bad, even if no one formal system can perfectly represent it in every aspect and we need to exercise non-formal judgment in order to avoid overinterpreting the quirks of any particular formal system. 

I think this goes back as far as Russell and his theory of definite descriptions (“On Denoting” 1905) which in part tried to deal with non-existent entities and to preserve the law of the excluded middle (vis. statements about non-existent entities seem to be neither true of false). If you have a concept to which nothing existent corresponds then that concepts extension is said to be the null set. So the extension of the concepts ghost and werewolves are equivalent- they are both “non-differentiable” members of the same null set. 

If I told you the chair is rickety and unstable due to excessive weathering you would have something to work with regarding the ‘affordances’ (J.J.Gibson) of the chair; namely that you should be wary of sitting on it; using it as a shelf to place a weighty object; as an improvised ladder; a door stop, etc. Alternatively if I told you I’ve just finished applying a coat of clear exterior oil based varnish on it you would know not to touch or use it in the ways mentioned above. Again if I told you the chair is sturdy, clean and available for use, you could then appropriate it in the above mentioned ways. Now image if I told you the chair is physical. Precisely what difference does that make to any potential interactions you might have with the chair? None whatsoever. What difference would it make to assume consciousness is non-physical? - Basically the same; namely nothing. The physical/non-physical distinction is bogus. I’ve found P.W. Bridgman’s ‘operationalism’ (not a term he coined) to be helpful when thinking about such things: $URL$ 

Consider the following: S1: The assumption that “the chair has certain affordances (weathered, rickety, sturdy, available, etc.)” is a non-arbitrary subroutine in an operant or respondent activity (sitting, avoiding sitting, using as an improvised ladder/a shelf, hanging my coat, burning for heat, etc.) that couples an agent x to the (chair). S2: The assumption that “the patient has advanced artery disease” is a non-arbitrary subroutine in an operant or respondent activity (the administration of statin, nitro-glycerine, ACE inhibitors, advice about radical dietary changes, etc.) that couples the surgeon x to the (patient’s heart/cardiovascular system). S3: The assumption that “consciousness has the property P (physicality, non-physicality, non- localness, universally distributed, etc.)” is a non-arbitrary subroutine in an operant or respondent activity that couples an agent x to the (phenomena of consciousness). There’s obviously nothing controversial about S1 and S2. But, the glaring issue about S3 is precisely what ‘activity’ or ‘operation’ are we talking about here? What is it that you couldn’t actually do (and not just talk about doing) if you weren’t working with the assumption that “consciousness has whatever property P”?