Modern names are easy: grab a phone book. Libraries usually have copies of the local White Pages (I'm so old. Phone books and libraries.) But you can just flip through the index and find all kinds of names. When I need names from another country, I'll go to that country's Wikipedia page and look up something like $URL$ Grab some big political body, and pick a random first and last name, and you'll end up with a "typical" popular name from the last half decade or so. 

So the complexity of a rolling door, like a garage door, is that it must be broken into segments, with each segment being a "leak point" for any leaking air. The most possible configuration today would involve using air pressure to seal the gaps. Basically the rolling door would actually be rather loose around the guide rail, like a garage door. Each slat would have a bit of play to make it easy to roll up and roll down. In a vacuum, this door would simply operate like a garage door in atmosphere. Once the door was closed, however, air would be directed into the air lock. As pressure increases, the slats of the door would be "blown" into the door frame; gaskets along the edges of the slats would seal against the frame and each other. If you want a more secure joint, or something with more control, use magnets. This door still depends on internal pressure to keep the door closed, but uses electromagnets to properly align the slats during the low pressure phase of the door closing. I'd expect there to be a V shaped notch in the rail to "seat" the slat in the proper position. During vacuum operation, the slats only use the rails to keep them relatively in place as they are being rolled up or down. When it's time to seal the door, the slats are rolled down. Just before each slat rolls into it's "home" position (where the notches are), electromagnets are engaged. This pulls the slat into the "notch", ensuring that the slats remain seated in place. Again, gaskets are used to "seal" the slats against each other and the door frame. This has the benefit that no air leaks during the re-pressurization phase, as the doors are "held closed" by the magnets until the air pressure is great enough to do the job itself. Then the magnets can be shut down. Most early space vehicles today didn't run at 1ATM, so you could choose to run a thinner atmosphere mix. An aluminum or synthetic sheet, with ribs to provide structural support, might be "good enough" to keep in air pressure, instead of "slats" in above. Note that there are a TON of reasons why we now use 1ATM on our space vehicles, essentially involving mixing atmospheres while docking and the need to avoid "the bends" when transitioning to an Earth style environment. Your decision on if the added bulk to support a 1ATM Earth-like atmosphere is valid in your universe (as it was an assumption of your question.) Also, you COULD run your shuttlebay at 1/3 of an atmosphere (about the top of mount everest), if the shuttles themselves were fully pressurized and docked onto a pressurized port. This would protect from explosive decompression (the crew could survive the decompression) of ships and space suits while repairing the ship. There's a lot more engineering to think about doing this, however. If you don't mind the door being a bit ridiculous... you could use a large balloon, maybe. I'm not an engineer, but I imagine a large balloon, which can be pressurized to 2ATM. When it's time for the door to close, the balloon is inflated; it's slightly larger than the door it's sealing off, so the balloon "seats itself" against the door frame. Guide wires could be on tracks inside the frame to ensure the balloon actually seats against the door. Because there is vacuum on both sides of the balloon at this point, it would grow in both sides, seating itself against the round aperture. Once the seal was made, the cabin could then be pressurized. The balloon itself would use it's higher-than-ambient pressures to "seal" against the portal, which would protect the internal pressure from escaping into space. Because the balloon is higher-than-ambient pressure, internal pressures would not force the balloon out into space. I think this is a silly idea, but it might work. 

One thing to note is that along with Shell Theorem comes dealing with all your concentric shells and final (remaining) earth sphere. You would have to come up with a way to prevent them from colliding with each other (for whatever of many reasons) since air won't dampen the inner movement nearly enough. Such a collision could lead to mass destruction. If you could somehow stabilize your world in some kind of pillar lattice, it would still be brittle (how large would your pillars have to be to hold planetary scale spheres and not crush themselves under their own weight, short of unobtainium). IMO you'd be better off increasing surface area by creating structures which both rise in altitude and extend subterraneanly. Think something along the effect of a heat-sink on a computer's CPU. The heat-sink optimizes on surface area contact with air. Excavate large areas of land to create valleys and mountains of large incline. Essentially medium-scale terraform parts of your planet to increase surface area. It would look akin to a spiky ball or super fine-fringed honey dipper. 

You have portrayed your Lodge not only as the prevailing order, but as a house of peacekeepers whose purpose is in "helping the world and all its peoples". They also have free reign and hold no one sovereign to themselves. As to whether they are involved or passive with regards to external events you haven't made their nature apparent. To truly "control" (bad word) everyone and keep the peace everywhere they would also have to be everywhere. They do not bow to the rules of these places and seem to have the power to enforce their will even with resistance, which could of course be avoided with diplomatic lubrication. This can be resolved by having the equivalent of embassies in major locations for fast response time, a larger coverage and easier access to the state of affairs in many places. With this they should receive ample warning of impeding threat and could from these forward bases of operation dissuade or prevent altercations well in advance. By having an embassy everywhere they ensure a face of neutrality and can under this mask of neutrality target and deal with any single party which is a legitimate offender to "rules" without siding with that party's enemies. Their paring with otherworldly beings also differentiates them from their charges and passively separates them in a way that gives them further "superiority" and claim to declare oneself such a powerful peacekeeping entity. Should all these precautions fail and the hand is forced. The lodge would most likely seek a path that keeps closest to its ideals while still ensuring its survival. They have shown to be willing to take precarious, possibly risky decisions to achieve their ends. One would assume they could resort to drastic means. As to which "side" in an option of two. Most likely the one where they survive, if survival is more important than risking becoming something one doesn't wish to be. 

The importance of the moon in stabilizing the Earth's axis (obliquity) and hence its climate has been grossly overrated in the past. More recent research indicates (and calculates, models) that the stabilizing effect of the moon is actually rather small, that the stabilizing gyroscopic effect of Earth's rotation itself is much greater, and that any possible significant climate changes resulting from the absence of a large moon would rather be in the course of hundreds of millions of years, i.e. longer than present climate changes on Earth by other cause. See for instance: Obliquity variations of a moonless Earth (2011); by Barnes, Lissauer, Chambers; $URL$ 

What a fascinating topic! I am a very late-comer to this discussion, just signed up for this site today. There have been a few quality answers already, so just a few thoughts as a biologist with a keen interest in geology and astronomy. Forgive me if I am repeating some other comments. First of all, I think that the only thing we can say with near-certainty about an earthlike planet without axial tilt, is that there would be no real seasonality, as all others also noted. That's about it, other than that we cannot say things with as much certainty as some others suggest, for the following reasons, let me elaborate a bit further; Without axial tilt and its resulting strong seasonality, other factors would become (even) much more relevant in determining climate than they are now, in particular: 1) Solar insolation, determined by the type of star and proximity to it. I understand we are here assuming a similar sun and earth combination. 2) Certain large-scale characteristics of the earthlike planet, such as in particular magnetic field and rotational speed (day-length!). Again, I understand we assume earthlike here. 3) Atmospheric composition: we can see in our Earth's past that for instance varying CO2 levels had enormous impact on climates. Higher levels, warmer climates and globally more rainfall; lower levels, colder climates and globally less rainfall. 4) Distribution of land (continents) and sea (oceans), I mean both size and location of continents: obviously very great impact on local solar heating and hence also on winds and rainfall. 5) Mountain ranges: need I elaborate?! Tremendous impact on winds and rainfall. 6) Volcanism: in particular the amount of it, adding CO2, sulphur and many other elements to the atmosphere and biosphere. 7) Life itself: ecosystems, such as large forest areas, have an impact on their own local and even regional climate. For instance, the Amazon rainforest creates part of its own rainfall by a recycling of water. Summarizing, geographical/spatial differences would become much more determining for climates, by lack of temporal differences, other than day and night. Wind and rainfall would mainly be created by differential (solar) heating as a result of spatial differences, such as land-sea, high-low, north-south, ... Winds, which are mainly the results of these spatial heating (and resulting air pressure) differences, plus the Earth rotation, would still be blowing, such as the trade winds (though in a somewhat modified form), the equatorial rising airflows, the 'westerlies' and related winds resulting from colder sea / warmer land. So, yes, there would definitely still be wind, and those bringing rain. We know this, because a lot, if not most wind and rainfall of our present Earth are also caused by relatively short-term differences in heating. But typical seasonal winds, such as monsoons, would be absent. With regard to life and ecosystems: What I find remarkable is that the lushest life and the greatest biodiversity on Earth are found in regions with the least seasonality (tropical rainforests and related ecosystems)! Tropical rainforests are climatically defined as places where the day-night temperature differences are greater than the annual/seasonal differences. So, it is absolutely clear that life on Earth does not require an axial tilt and seasons, it is just adapted to it. At the same time, the equatorial regions also show us how important geographical differences are for creating ecosystems: at the same latitude in Africa and South America we find rainforests, wet and dry savannahs and even semi-arid places. Therefore, when creating your world, first create the continents and mountain ranges and then look at the major differences in temperature. That should give you an impression of prevailing winds, and rainfall. And with that, give you a start for your ecosystems. Success! And please let us know some results.