"Sick Body, Sick Brain," in Harper's New Monthly Magazine (December 1854) offers this brief account of the Strasbourg "dancing plague": 

"St. Vitus," in Chambers's Journal of Popular Literature (August 22, 1857) reports that ecclesiastical treatment of the mania was aggressive: 

It is unclear to me whether the reports citing the year 1418 and the year 1518 refer to the same events or to events that coincidentally occurred exactly 100 years apart. J.F.C. Hecker, The Epidemics of the Middle Ages (1844 translation of a work published in German in 1832) discusses the regimens recommended by Paracelsus (who visited Strasbourg in 1518) for treating two of the three varieties of the dancing sickness: 

I have performed some research and in fact it seems it was not very common, and if it was - being an unintentional result of mistakes or to make life simpler for officers. In comments I've shown an example. One of main characters of All Quiet on the Western Front by E. Remarque (Am Westen nichts neues), being a Polish from Poznań (Posen), named Stanisław Kaczyński, was spelled in the book Stanislaus Katczinsky (compare German Wikipedia), however now I've changed my mind and think it is a spelling error of the author. There is also another Pole in the book, Lewandowski, however there is nothing to change so it was more German-like. The authors of Polish webpages concerning subjects like Kulturkampf, Hakata or germanisation do not say there was intentional changing Polish names to German ones (it was performed for Jewish names, but it's another story). Of course, a fact that something is not told about, does not mean it does not exist. What is said above is rather concerning Posen. This blog is titled "A word from a Silesia-woman about her tiny Homeland". The linked entry the author excerpts a book by priest Jan Nowak A chronicle of the city of Tarnowskie Góry and the land. The oldest Silesia events in Bytom-Tarnowskie Góry. A story about first Polish mining, written in 1927. Then there goes a quote, however this dates 1743 (so earlier you expect): 

These Quangos are non-governmental organizations to which the government gives power and funding. Because these Quangos are non-governmental and somewhat autonomous, they can exert power against the will of the people and the people have very little recourse. These Quangos appear to be a failed experiment in autocracy, as the UK is in the process of defunding and eliminating many of them. There have also been accusations that the appointments to them are based more upon political patronage than qualifications, and they are very expensive for the services they provide. In his recollection of his time serving as head of the Metrication Quango, Jim Humble, appears to validate the 'metrication by force' hypothesis 

For his part, Hecker offers this rather cursory explanation of the rationale behind hiring musicians and sturdy dance partners as curative measures: 

Theories about the causes and cures of dancing mania John Waller, Dancing Plague: The Strange, True Story of an Extraordinary Illness (2009) argues that the Strasbourg dancers were exhibiting extreme penitent behavior: 

Hecker then points to an account (from before 1615) of authorities in Basel, Switzerland, "having commissioned several powerful men to dance [successively] with a girl who had the dancing mania, till she recovered from her disorder"—a process that took more than four weeks but resulted in the girl's eventual recovery, after she collapsed from exhaustion and was carried to a hospital. Presumably the theory was that if the treatment didn't kill you, it would cure you. I am not persuaded that "local physicians, who ruled out astrological and supernatural causes" (mentioned in the Wikipedia article) were responsible for the decision to hire musician and pace-setting dancers to wear out the afflicted—if, indeed, that tactic was adopted in the 1518 Strasbourg instance (which is not at all clear from Hecker's account). As noted above, Paracelsus (whom Hecker credits with opposing the prevailing theory that the dancers were possessed by demons or suffering from divine punishment) did not approve of encouraging the dancers to continue dancing. If the authorities accepted Paracelsus's opinion that dancing mania was a "natural disease," it is unclear why they did not adopt his recommended treatment of it as well. The other possibility is that the authorities did view the dancers' behavior as having a supernatural element, Paracelsus's opinion notwithstanding. If the authorities interpreted the dancing in an outbreak of dancing mania to be the result of demonic possession, it seems odd that they would have tried to expel the evil spirits by, in effect, pumping up the volume. But if they viewed the dancing as constituting either a punishment from God or an exercise in penance by the dancer, they might well have viewed its continuation as a form of purification and perhaps sought to hasten it along by keeping up the beat. 

Keeping the blockade could thus unite West more, which was not desired by Stalin. Please also note that in West Berlin there were not only civilians, but also military forces of USA, UK and France. Disallowing their supply could have been considered as an act -- not war maybe, but aggression. USA had the A-bomb and nobody was 100% sure if this won't be used again. This might explain why "three groups of U.S. strategic bombers" made so much fear. 

In Polish there are two words which can be translated to the same English "real socialism". The first, most commonly known, is "socrealizm", which in fact is "socialist realism", a trend in art (whatever "art" means). The second (the one you ask about) is "socjalizm realny". The Polish Wikipedia says the term was introduced in the USSR in 1970s. by propaganda. This 1970s. seems to be good beginning. The "real socialism" was created in the moment when it was clear that communism is no longer acceptable. First of all, consider the communist eras (since the end of WW2, as they are common in all Soviet Bloc): 

Perhaps the most interesting thing about Paracelsus's recommended intervention in cases of dancing mania is that he dismissed supernatural explanations of the disorder's cause—and yet his therapeutic methods of concentrated penitent thought, restraints, corporal punishment, and immersion in cold water have much in common with the priests' practices of praying, beating sufferers with sticks, and sloshing them with cold water, noted above. 

Hiring musician and dancers to exhaust the afflicted Robert Burton, The Anatomy of Melancholy (1621/1638) mentions that government officials would hire musicians to play music for people afflicted with dancing mania. In fact, Burton uses the present tense to describe this treatment: 

Almost the same is in the Coat of Arms, Colors and Anthem of the Republic of Poland, and State Seals Act: 

In Poland, where I live, there are also many streets that are named after fictional characters. Usually, this practice dates for about 30 years. The Winnie-the-Pooh St. in Warsaw (Ulica Kubusia Puchatka) dates 1950s. I can't find the source now, but I read that it was the first street in Poland to be named after a fictional character. There are now lots streets in Warsaw, in new districts, that are named after non existing or legendary persons. For example, in this region there are some streets after Henryk Sienkiewicz's characters: Jana Skrzetuskiego, Kmicica and Michała Wołodyjowskiego. Wernyhora is also not certainly authentic person. However, I've never found a street that was named after fictional eg. region, river etc. UPDATE There is a famous, semi-grotesque tv series, dated in 1980s., in fact anti-communist, but made with trick, so censorship allowed it, which is called "Alternatywy 4". This is some kind of wordplay, because the action takes place in residential building placed on the Alternative Street in Warsaw, building number 4. The address was fictional, but in 2006 the real building with the address Alternatywy 4 was erected in Warsaw (Google Maps). The building is modern-style, and does not however look similar in any way to the "original" one from the TV series. Probably some bars or cafes are named after places from fiction, where they were to exist, but I don't know any example of such practice for streets (but it does not mean there aren't any). 

The answer is quite simple. Freedom. In the United States individuals are free to choose whichever system they want to use, and the government does not yet have enough power to force them to use a different system. So the milk bottler that has been bottling his milk in gallons, half gallons, quarts, pints and half pints will continue to do so, because that is what he is tooled for, and that is also what his customers demand and understand. He has a considerable economic advantage to continue using the same units. We have a constitution that is supposed to limit the power of the government, and so far that has prevented a switch of units by fiat. In order to understand this answer, it is instructive to look at the metrication process in Britain. All it takes is a little research into this Britain's history with the metric system to see that this question is kind of based upon a false premise. I have found news articles lamenting the fact that Britain uses a mixture of imperial and metric units (Will British people ever think in metric? $URL$ I recall a time I was visiting one of my English friends from college. I sat down by him on the bed and my weight created a depression, pulling him toward me. He jumped up and exclaimed: "Good Lord, you must weigh 16 stone!". He was spot on by the way, that is almost exactly my weight. Ok, so now back to the history. Below is an excerpt from wikipedia on the Metrication of the U.K. ($URL$ 

Why did Wilhelm I (or Bismarck) decide to perform official Germany unification in France? In my opinion, if the ceremonial was to honour the Prussian king and be a tribute or allegiance to him, it should be held in Berlin/Potsdam (like cardinals honour new pope in Rome). Of course, capturing Paris in 1870 war was a spectacular event showing the Prussian dominance, however (as it seems) the French capital was not considered to be kept by the Prussians (or Germans) forever. I performed some research, however I couldn't find any detailed information, nor any trustworthy sources. 

Sources referring to older times I could find seem to look differently (this painting is by E. Percy Moran, painter who however lived in 19th/20th centuries, so this does not count as the oldest one): 

What would have been the result if the members of the Quango were elected officials, answerable to their constituents? Compare to the Metrication Process for the same time frame in the US. 

The USMB in the US reported that they were unable to bring about change because they lacked the Congressional mandate necessary to bring about national conversion. Translation: They did not have enough power to force the people to incur the costs of switching. It is clear that in both of these cases that the cost to switching to metric system was quite high, and individuals are unwilling to foot the costs unless it is by force. Indeed, it seems that they had a considerable economic advantage to staying with their existing systems. 

The main problem was, that Poland and USSR were not in the state of war. The Polish government believed that Soviets will stop the aggression and forbid Polish troops to fight against Russians. It was because of a non-aggression pact since the peace treaty of Riga in 1921. The Poland did not want to break this treaty. Every assistance requested by Polish government was to make Russians withdraw from Poland, not to make war against them. The British diplomacy failed (or did not take any actions, I can't remember), but it was not the only "success" of British diplomacy since militarization of the Rhineland. Later then, because the diplomatic relations between Polish 2nd Republic and USSR were not broken, the Sikorski-Mayski agreement could be made, and POWs from Russian part of Poland could go through Iran and Afghanistan to British India and Palestine to Egypt to fight Germans. The diplomatic relations were broken after the revealing of Katyń Massacre; allowing thus to Stalin make a puppet government in People Republic of Poland. For British government, the Polish one on exile was then not necessary because USSR was now one of the main Allies, much, much stronger than occupied Poland. And personal note... As I remember from (communistic) school, the Soviet action was named "intervention to protect working class and peasantry against German invasion". There we no photos of Soviet and German troops fraternising on the Polish territory, as "they were enemies". Officially, the USSR saved Polish people and was Germany's enemy since the very beginning (1939).