I'm trying to figure out if I can make a replacement part for an old pair of Marzocchi MX Pro 2003 forks. Its part of the rebound damping rod and is the metal bit in this photo on the top where the hex rod is sticking out. Does anyone have more info about this piece? 

Check the axle has not drifted over. You need some cone spanners and you can check. There should be the same amount on both sides where the axel fits into the dropout. Another point is the dishing of the wheel. Rear wheels are usually dished slightly over . If you have done some wheel truing lately or someone else has, make sure its not dished too far over. Check there isn't a small buckle in the wheel hitting at that point only. Another idea is to change down the size of your tyres as previously mentioned, or go for a slicker tyre. Short term solution to protect the frame is put some gaffer on it but to be honest your tyre shouldn't be rubbing, especially not on carbon. 

I've got some panniers to fix. I've bought some impact adhesive and I am working out which material to buy for the patches - will PVC ok ? or polyurethane or something else? Has to be waterproof and strong and preferable available in yellow! 

Last year I did my first double century, and have subsequently done a few centuries. Before that, I was primarily a short distance rider - perhaps I can provide some insight as to my Personal experience. First, and perhaps the most controversial, I didn't (and still don't) find it necessary to do a lot of long training rides in preparation. I find that if I stay in good shape and make my shorter rides count (i.e. push hard), I'll be just fine strength wise. I recommend at least one long ride before the event, just so you know what it feels like and are not surprised. Otherwise, I generally finish in the top 20% in centuries and rarely train distances greater than 30 miles (but my 30 miles are on hills pushing hard). The three things that I had to learn about distance riding were 1) moderating my pace and 2) keep fueled and 3) comfort matters. 1) Pace: If you are used to shorter rides, you know that you can get away with pushing hard. For a long ride, you should never push your legs to the point of feeling a burning sensation. In your training, practice climbing hills in an easier gear and spinning faster. Learn ways to push faster without necessarily pushing harder. 2) Fuel: You can get by with no or little food in a short ride, not so with a long one. Teach yourself to eat consistently while riding. Get yourself used to drinking something other than water (energy drink, chocolate milk, etc), and drink often. You want to be used to your favorite riding food before your long ride and have your stomach used to digesting food during a ride. I can't tell you how many riders fail due to an upset stomach when trying new foods for the first time during a ride. 3) Comfort: After a few hours in the saddle, especially on the second day, little things start to matter. Your hands hurt, your butt hurts, your back and shoulder hurts. Get good gloves, high quality padded shorts, and good bar tape - and break all these in before your ride. If you haven't already, get a professional bike fit - it will make a big difference on your knees. Do not underestimate how much mental drain the small aches and pains put on you. In reality, though, 200km in two days isn't really that far. Lots of people do more in a single day. Get out on your bike, ride hills, do sprints, and ride regularly and you should be just fine. 

I am planning a cycle tour that will pass through some areas where I know there will be plenty of access to food and some areas that will be away from food for a day or two. I am going to Turkey, Georgia, cycling down through Azerbaijan, Armenia and Iran. I envisage that food will be easily available in Turkey, Georgia especially in towns but less so in remoter parts of Iran as my route will go through some of the lesser populated areas. Any advice appreciated. 

I've got a 1x10 set up. Sometimes I have a problem with the chain falling off at the front. I've been reading that a clutch mech will help to prevent this. My mech is Deore long cage without clutch. What is the dis/advantages of a clutch mech vs a chain tensioner / chain guide? Bike is 2006 Specialized Rockhopper Pro. Chain is correct for chainring. Its not worn, nor the chainring etc. Chain line looks fine, but maybe this could be tweaked slightly. 

I've emailed a couple of bike shops about Surly bikes - One in Oakham and one down in Richmond. The one in Oakham seems to be understocked and the other one is not responding. The one in Richmond doesn't have the bikes in the store in my size and I believe it is the biggest distributer in the UK. How can I know if the bike will fit if I can't test one out when the bike is niche and shops don't often stock my size (XL 58+) 

Inside your rear wheel is what is called a free hub. It has a ratcheting mechanism that allows you to pedal backwards while conversely engaging when you pedal forward so to transfer pedal force to the wheel. I've been stuck on a trail more than once due to a free hub failing to engage. Unfortunately your free hub is generally not servicable. Depending on the quality of the wheel, it is sometimes cheaper to just buy a new wheel vs paying someone to re lace your existing one. Other than a broken chain, which would be obvious, I don't know of anything else that would cause your wheel not to move when you pedal forward. Cheers. 

Think about what is going on with shifting from a derailleur point of view, all you have to ultimately do is get the guide pulley in the correct place and the derailed arm straight. You can do this with a $20 dr. Some of the best shifting bikes I have had are cheap ones. However, what you are paying for is durability and weight, and they are often inverses. Generally the most durable shifter is the entry level of the high end line. After that, you are paying for less weight. That tends to make for a less durable product. Now, a good cassette and chain will make a difference as you go up in quality. Spend your money there instead. 

I wouldn't imagine it is normal for them to be over-tightened - what would be the point? However, its generally advised after buying a machine built bike / wheels to check that spokes / hubs haven't loosening after a breaking in period. This in in comparison with a hand built bike. 

Get a lighter mountain bike. You can then get some hybrid tyres if you want better rolling on the road, but you will still be able to do proper mountain biking if you wish. 

I need a tyre that is really durable, puncture resistance, folding, lightweight and good for rocky (sometimes loose) and dry terrain. I work as a guide in Georgia (Caucasus) and my tyres wear out too quickly. 

Tubus logo is a great rear rack and I used it on my touring bike with magura louise disk brakes for around 13,000m. More information and my experience on my websites at Cycle touring across Europe Caucasus to India The alternative would be to go for a seatpost mount or one of the other options mentioned here. 

There are so many different kinds of shorts available for mountain biking. I would like to get a pair that is: durable, can have padding shorts (either insert or worn under), stretchy and flexible material, doesn't make a huge amount of noise when I pedal, lightweight, quick drying. Usually I would wear just lycra but having done that last season and taken a couple of falls with no protection I'm looking for something a little more protective. There are so many kinds of shorts out there though how do I know what is purely fashion and what is function? and is it worth wearing anything but lycra for xc? 

When you pull your brake lever, it in turn pulls a cable that ultimately squeezes your brake pads - forcing them to make contact with your rim (see image below). You should first ensure the cable exists and is properly attached. Sometimes, the attachment bolt comes loose and the cable slides freely (your symptoms indicate such) When you release your brake lever, springs on the brake itself pulls back on the cable, causing your lever to return to its position. If you disconnect the cable shown in the image and squeeze your brake by hand (at the pads), it should return to its open position when released. If you pull on the cable with one hand and squeeze the brake lever with the other, you should feel the cable being pulled out of your hand holding it. Pulling on the cable should return the brake lever to its original (non squeezed) position. You can disconnect the working break to verify what 'good' feels like. Armed with this knowledge and a little bit of curiosity, you should be able to get to the root of your problem. 

I fit 5 beefy mtb bikes in the back of my small Nissan frontier without taking anything off. 7 can be done but you will have to remove the pedals, it is the only way. Also, alternate the directions the bikes face. Removing the seats will help as the handlebars will want to hit them. They will get scratched to heck, no matter how hard you try otherwise. Watch that nothing is near the stanctions. Your shifters will want to rub on the adjacent bikes frame. I wouldn't do it with new bikes ... but if they are already scratched, what's an extra rub mark? Steve J 

and I want to know if I can use v brakes with them. It looks like there is a thread to screw in some bosses, but I'm not 100% sure. 

Usually with old bikes like this - the drivetrain (chain, gears, cogs) can be rusted up. You can free these with WD40 to an extent. Inside the hubs may be corroded / rusted. If you can dismantle and regrease these it would help. The cables might be rusted inside- you can use WD40 again or replace them. Check for movement in the headset - check there isn't any knocking there- depending on how much use it has had it might need new bearing or at least a rebuild of the headset bearing. Check the tyres aren't perishing as the old ones tend to - you can see this by cracks in the surface which appear when you pinch the material. Check the spokes aren't loose. Hope that helps. You can also check for movement in the bottom bracket which may indicate needing a new one. 

I come from a mountain biking background but I've also done a lot of cycle touring but I chose to go with flat bars and bar-ends vs drop bars. I've also seen bikes that are designed for 'bike packing' such as the Salsa Fargo sporting drop bars. Recently I've done more road biking but I still don't fully understand the reasons behind drop bars. Can you tell me what the benefits area? 

I Designed wire and cable machines for about 10-years and a previous life and have indeed seen your setup many times as a system for maintaining tension on a cable; For that purpose it works great. If all you were trying to do was maintain chain tension at varying lengths, you would have something. But as Carel points out in the comments (and I've spent years testing this), You absolutely want the application pulley/gear to be as near the point of application as possible. Failing to do so will guarantee that your chain will walk up and down the cogs at will and will not shift when asked to. Your design would have to be modified such that the fixed pulley nearest the rear cogs would move in/out and forward/back as the gears change. Once you do that, you have something that looks very much like a modern derailleur (funny how that works). The truth is that a derailleur is a pretty elegant and simple approach that has been tested, proven, and improved over many years. Your best bet, in my opinion, is to play with the placement of a derailleur so that it is less in the way. 

If I read Google correctly, it isn't that a century necessarily means 100-years and a bike event borrowed from that. Instead, they are peers of one another. The Latin root, centum or centuria simply means 100. In a more generic sense, it can simply refer to any collection of 100 definition. Thus, a century in time is a collection of a common unit of time (year) and a century in biking is a collection commonly used units of distance (miles) or (km) for a metric century. The are both likely derived from the same Latin, not the later from the former. 

It might not be the disc brake. It might be that the hub is seized up from rust. You can check if it is the brake or not by loosening the caliper and spinning the wheel. If it spins freely it is the brake not the hub. If it is the hub you might need to get it regreased. Alternatively it might just be overtightened (although its not likely to tighten by itself in the shed). If it is the disc, check the alignment of the caliper and that the pistons inside are not pushed in too far, e.g. from putting on the brake where there is no disc in the caliper. you can take out the pads, prize apart the piston, put the pads bad in then pump the lever (with the wheel and rotor in place obvs). 

I've got a XC mtb which 1. I'm trying to cut the weight off , 2. I want a bit extra reach. I've got a longer road bike stem made by 'Deda' (I think Planet X)? and I was wondering if it will be strong enough for XC mountain biking use? 

This sounds like a stupid question however, I'm pretty sure I took these cranks off my current set up before. I wanted to ask if there is such a thing as a spacer on the bb axel ever that I might be missing? Shimano stronglight double crank. Square drive BB 68 shell. I'll have to check the axel. Usually I would presume that the crank axel is too short, but the space between the crank and chainstay is fine. 

So, if your kids are like most, they are going to be hard on bikes. They will jump off curbs, do wheelies, and likely toss them to the ground when they dismount. I recommend something that will take a bit of abuse. A bmx will take a beating but it is an awful commuter bike. Beach cruisers are not much better - and they won't take the abuse. I recommend a hard tail mountain bike for most kids. A hard tail is one with only suspension in the front. You will want to make a single change to it, put on some slick road tires. A slick tire mountain bike can be fast, I recently had one fly by me on a 100-mile ride (and I am pretty fast) A hard tail is a great choice because it is cheaper, lighter, and easier to maintain than one with suspension in the back as well. You can often find them for a good price used. They will accept all of the accessories that you mention. Whatever you do, don't buy one from a department store. A used quality bike will be much better than a brand new one from a box store any day of the week. You will need help finding a good one, quality varies a lot. Look for brands like specialized, giant, trek, Santa Cruz, though there are many others. Stop by your local bike shop and ask if they have one used, or bring in some ads from Craig's list. If you start by saying "I would like to get a bike and have you service it", they will be apt to help you more. Also, pinkbike.com is a good source for used bikes and parts. You can filter for bike types, location, price, etc. Expect to pay at least $250 for a used one, and that is bottom end. Process will go up from there. I hope that helps. Cheers