How they have concluded that there could b.e a subterranean ocean on Ceres is by Spectralscopy. Spectral Signature can be summarised to like this: 

So how the scientists would have concluded that there was water because of the water vapours in the atmosphere. It gives off a certain wavelength that could be compared the closest element that gives off the same wavelength which is water. Then the scientists would have used Galileo's magnetometer(an instrument which measures the strength and direction of magnetic fields) to conclude that there could be an ocean on the dwarf planet. The strength and response of the induced field would tell the scientists a rough estimate of the dwarf planet's sub surface which in return they could deduce the fact the there is a large amount of water present which equals an ocean. 

From these 2 sites: whitedwarf.org and imagine.gsfc.nasa.gov both states that stars less than 8 times the solar masses would eventually become a white a white dwarf. So, depending on the mass of the star, a white dwarf having 1.4 solar masses is possible. 

Yes you can find them anywhere on Earth. The thing is that by the time they reach the Earth's surface, these meteorites are very small, usually ranging from microscopic to dust sized particles. Searching How big does a meteor have to be to make it to the ground? 

Cosmic rays may impinge pressure on the statue, which will deteriorate its surface. Various electromagnetic rays (X-ray, Gamma rays and Infrared) can interact with the chemical elements of the statue. 

At the edge of black hole, matter and antimatter is created, while the matter escape, antimatter annihilate inside the black hole thus decreasing it mass. But due to immense gravitation pull, why the newly generated matter also get pulled into the black hole, since it will have very less velocity to escape ? 

According to the Friedmann equations big bang happened everywhere, but if we account for inflation theory, big bang did not happened everywhere. How ? Anyone please explain. Please see the video for reference. 

Black hole have different size eg intermediate mass black hole, supermassive black hole etc. Higher the mass of black hole, larger is the radius of event horizon. All black hole have infinite curvature of space-time at their centre (called singularity), but their ability to warps spacetime away from their respective centre large enough to not allow light to escape depends on their mass. 

According to theory of general relativity mass warps the spacetime. In black hole, its mass causes high curvature of spacetime (infinite curvature at its centre called singularity). When black hole evaporates,its mass decreases therefore its ability to wrap spacetime decreases and when it evaporates fully there will be no distortion of spacetime. So it will become normal space without zero/very less curvature of space time. 

As much as parallel universes go, there's a theory for this known as the Multiverse theory, part of the String theory. 

According to List of Common Misconceptions by Wikipedia, under the heading of astronomy, this line can be found: 

Now to address your point if we can ever know if a parallel universe exists exists. Opinion: Possible but unlikely. I don't think that we are close to achieving this. 

As you said it is easier to find meteorites in snow because it is white and contrasts with the usual colour of meteorites. It would be very hard to try and distinguish those small particles with the normal soil on Earth. As for finding one randomly in a concrete building... the chances are very low and it possibly would have done some noticeable damage to the building. A rather simple experiment to prove that yes you can find it anywhere on earth, follow this example. This is to search for micrometeorites. I have done this before and I found it to be particularly inefficient as it is rather wind in my area, but hey you might find it different. You can attempt to search for meteorites somewhere else but just don't expect to see large chunks of it lying around. 

Why only type -Ia supernovae are used as standard candle to calculate age of universe and why not type II, type Ib, type 1c ? 

Recently a galaxy A1689B11 was discovered, having an age of 11 billion years. How that age was determined ? News sources reported that some cutting edge technology with gravitational lensing was used. Can anyone explain the exact procedure ? $URL$ 

Black hole in the centre of our galaxy is not active (which means it is not feeding much matter) as compared to black holes in the centre of other galaxies. So it does not emit that much gamma rays as other supermassive black holes does but still emits some amount of gamma rays. Along with gamma rays cosmic rays are also emitted which are ward off by radiation pressure of our sun's heliosphere. 

Black hole don't allow anything to escape, if the matter/light is inside the event horizon (boundary which describes the point of no return). The emission radiation that is referred in the question is not within the event horizon, so it can escape. This is caused by friction within matter which is swirling in to the black hole. 

Flatness is caused by conservation of angular momentum. As solar system/galaxy collapses under its own gravity, its velocity increases to conserve the angular momentum. This high velocity leads to formation of disc shaped structure. The similar manner in which piece of dough becomes flat when it is rotated. 

As a star runs out of hydrogen fuel, the fusion slows, causing the gravity to overpower the outward force of pressure, thus contracting. Contraction of the star causes high temperature and pressure, to the extent that it is enough to fuse helium into carbon, then the energy released is stronger than the gravity, increasing the size of the star into a red giant. The following paragraph from an article explains this: 

The primary source of comets for our solar system comes from the Oort Cloud, a smaller amount coming from the Kuiper belt. The Oort cloud is thought to have originated from the remnants of a proto-planetary disk. This paragraph explains this better: 

Searching for the definition in dictionary.com you can find this under the word origin and history section: 

The amount of mass lost is more due to stellar wind, rather than to fusion. To answer your second question, the pressure will never overcome completely the force of gravity. When a star reaches the iron nickel stage of fusing, it'll stop, unable to go further. This causes a rapid contraction for either a star to go supernova (which is really tearing most of the star apart except for its core), or cool down to a black dwarf.