Several answers have addressed the numbers--you can build it. What nobody seems to have touched is what good is it? Bridges have an implicit assumption of gravity being normal to the bridge surface. What gravity you will encounter is parallel to the bridge, not normal to it. You have a strip of lalalaicanthearyouium to the stars that can only be climbed, not walked upon. If you're going to do something I would think it would have to be a ladder, not a bridge. (I'm ignoring the problem of a lack of fixed endpoints. In reality that's going to make it useless anyway.) 

Given modern day Earth the only hope of possibly pulling this off would be if there was a large (considerably bigger than anything we've ever flown) deep space rocket ready for launch. Strip it's cargo, replace it with nukes (and good luck disabling the safeties on enough boom for the job) and head out. The astronauts (if it wasn't manned they're in suits and laying on padding--it's a one-way mission anyway so the lack of a re-entry system is irrelevant and they need nothing but air, water and power) push the bombs in the right directions (they have to be spread apart to avoid fratricide) and hope it's a very, very solid rock as the required deflection is going to put an awful lot of stress on it and if it breaks up there's no hope of stopping it. Pak already showed we need 110 megatons for 5 days out assuming 100% efficiency, I would be amazed if we could get the intercept even two days out so we need 275mt and then 10x this for the efficiency of the crude use of them we are making. Given the most efficient bombs built we still need over 450 tons of bomb--that's a lot of rocket! 

You're going to have big problems with geological time scales: radiation. The human body produces .29 mSv/year on average. By itself, not a big deal. However, in a zero-energy state like would be required there will be no radiation repair. LD50 for a totally suspended human is 17,000 years even if the environment adds nothing. Divide this duration by 5 in a typical location. Of course you could have something with a lot more radiation resistance than the human body. Nothing in the mammals does more than twice as well as a human, though. The simpler organisms do better but by the time you're up to a few million years in a typical environment even the hardiest are dying. 

While the kill-the-civilians-as-a-distraction approach is a war crime I can see other uses for them in a special-forces role: 1) Team infiltrates a wooded park that's not too crowded. Member A dons some tough armor that isn't apparent, he's in the park on the outskirts of a crowd. Member B goes into the woods, transforms, runs out and grabs A who screams and releases some blood but due to the armor isn't actually hurt. After dinosaurs have "eaten" a few people don't you think the clamor for protection will be just about deafening? And there's sure to be more "victims" that simply use the dinosaur as a cover for dropping out of sight. 2) Sabotage. That oil refinery had reasonable defenses against human intruders. When they mug a worker and replace him with a T-rex, though, and he runs around breaking pipes you have a lot of damage. Lots of flammable hydrocarbons on the ground when someone pushes the button and a bunch of low-grade aerial fireworks get lobbed over the fence. (Simply tip the launchers so the average burst point is a few feet above the ground.) They couldn't get into things like the control center but they don't need to. 3) Infiltration. A pair of T-rexes can cross barriers that an unaided human could not. As with the oil refinery this means they can get past security and then do where they shouldn't be able to. (If you know nobody could have a ladder you'll consider a 6' razor-wire fence a pretty good barrier.) I'm thinking of areas that have high security surrounded by low security. 4) Infiltration over long distances. A T-rex team would have a lot longer self-supported travel distance than a human team and would be better at hunting without the use of firearms. 

This is basically the same question as about what keeps adventurers from taking over the kingdom, perhaps someone remembers more about it and can find it. You need three factors to keep them in check: 1) A culture of independence. You need cats for mercenaries, not dogs. You don't want a large group that would band together to take over a nation. 2) Loot. When the mercenaries eliminate a threat they get to keep the property of the monster they removed. 3) The wanted poster. Rulers must be reasonably friendly towards such mercenaries on their lands so long as they are well behaved, only killing bad things. Mercenaries that misbehave find their pictures on wanted posters all over the place, any other mercenaries that happen along are free to kill them and take their things and money. This situation will be stable so long as you don't get a large group banding together to actually take over. 

Just because it's sessile doesn't mean it can't defend itself. I have in mind as a starting point some jellyfish that have algae inside themselves--a symbiosis that in effect produces a photosynthesizing animal. Lets scale this way, way up. The adult form of the creature is immobile. Rather than a symbiosis with algae it's partner is some sort of plant. The plant is taproot-based, the root extends down through a channel in the host and into the ground. The photosynthetic organs (probably not leaves) grow behind a clear protective layer in the host. While the body of the creature is fixed it retains parts that can move--specifically, some sort of arm or pseudopod. The creature is hexagonal and has 7 such pseudopods--one on top which can deal with birds. The young are born mobile. When they're grown enough they leave home and find another creature to mate with--this bond is permanent, they take up residence touching their mate and eventually the touching faces grow together. If a youngster can't find a suitable location next to an existing creature they instead pick a suitable location to live and settle in there--they are now the sessile form that another youngster may choose to mate with. Creatures that are not on the edge of the collection retain only their upper limb and in practice this will lie unused for great periods of time (the birds know not to land there, there will be almost no need to actually defend itself) and become pretty much just energy production and storage. Since the creature grows by aggregation rather than straighforward growth there's no upper limit on it's size--it will expand until environmental or terrain limits stop it. 

Technitium-99M I hope someone can double-check my calculations here. First, it's radioactivity: $URL$ 5,200,000 Curies per gram. Based on some of the other answers above I'll figure a 1 milligram payload, thus 5,200 curies of Tc-99M Now, to convert that to a dose: $URL$ A 20 millicurie injection of Tc-99M gives about .6 rem. Thus our 1mg dose is 156,000 rem. A prompt radiation kill only needs about 5,000 rem, this means our material only needs to be 3% Tc-99M to meet your requirements--it can be mixed with something to make it more injectable. You could accomplish the same thing with Po-210 by using a larger dose (still well within the capacity of the e-mosquito) than was discussed above but it still has the problem of limited sources. Tc-99M, however, has many more sources due to the need for local production for medical procedures.