As mentioned in your question, quantum entanglement can't actually be used to send non-random information, as a result the only way to send things or information FTL is by using a warp drive (which still relies on theoretical negative energy that may not even exist). The warp drive is what you need to get FTL travel, but it is also the only way to do FTL communication, if you had another way you could probably use it for travel as well. It seems the only way to do communications FTL is going to be communication drones, but the drones would probably send their information in radio waves once they dropped out of FTL near their target. Intercepting communications or stopping them would be tricky, at FTL speeds intercepting anything would be nearly impossible, but once they have dropped out of FTL messages would probably be sent with radio waves, which would entail using the same methods we use today. In addition we know that the basic idea behind a warp drive doesn't break any laws like many other proposed FTL. We already know that space itself isn't limited to the speed of light, only matter and energy is. Galaxies sufficiently far away will never have their light reach us due to the expansion of space due to dark energy, to us they are effectively using a warp drive go FTL. Warp drives are dependent on whether we can harness negative energy, but we already suspect that the fabric of space has negative energy as dark energy, but that would probably be impossible to harness since it's evenly distributed. 

The mathematical answer to that question is that you can define a manifold without embedding it into an n-dimensional vector-space. But this may be a bit too mathematical, so I will elaborate. The usual example is to look at the circle: if you live inside the circle, you can go forward (or backward) as much as you like and you will never find a boundary. You will tell me: "Yes, but when I look at the circle from the outside, I can see that there are boundaries." The reason why you think that is that you are used to see every object inside our usual 3-dimensional world. But mathematically speaking, there is nothing stopping a ring to exist "on its own", without a 3-dimensional space around it. Let's go up by one dimension. Let's say you live on a sphere. You can go as far as you want forward, backward, left or right. Once again there are no boundaries. The boundaries only exist if you try to embed the sphere into our usual 3-dimensional world. [Note that you can replace the sphere with a more complicated example (like a torus, or the surface of the Klein bottle) if you like.] What happens if I add again an other dimension? Well now you have what is called a 3-sphere. If you go in the same direction long enough you will end up in the same spot. If you have ever played Portal, you can imagine what it is like: get a big room, place portals on the floor, on the ceiling and on every wall and you obtain almost the same thing. Why do I say almost? Well by doing so you are using the fact that there are walls. However, just like in the sphere or the circle example, mathematically speaking you can define such a geometry without any reference to an outside world. About the distance problem: It can be confusing to talk about distance in such a geometry ("I walked 200km and I end up in the same spot. How can I be both 200km away and in the same spot?"). But if you think about it, we already are doing this every day. Indeed we are living on a sphere: Earth. The good thing is that the Earth is big enough that as long as we don't move much, it doesn't really matters if the Earth is round or flat, and distances make sense. However if you walk far enough (ie. 45 000 km) you do end up in the same place. 

Let's start by assuming a superhuman that isn't limited by biology for obvious reasons. Then let's assume they also receive super toughness to make this work. Their super toughness scales with strength, so that if they are 10x stronger than a human a normal blow will only harm them 1/10 as much as it would harm a normal person. This is more of a tentative rule, if this is inadequate to avoid really anticlimactic solutions then I will totally change it. I'm also assuming other stuff like how many G's they can withstand before blacking out scale the same way. Now the obvious thing I need to know, is if they have something analogous to muscles generating force within their body, how do you calculate how fast they can run and jump? Obviously things don't just scale linearly, a man who can carry a few tons as much probably can't run supersonic, so clearly speed isn't linearly derived from strength. For the purposes of this I will not be considering crazily high end superhero's, nor superhero's barely above human level. I am asking about the consequences of superhuman strength ranging from a lifting a ton, to carrying 10 tons. (metric or imperial your pick). I am working on a setting that involves superhumans, and I want to be able to figure out what combat would actually look like, how fast they should actually be able to move and how high they could jump. By starting with their strength and working to figure out how other abilities are derived from that. I am also assuming that where it matters the super's reflexes are sped up, and their perception of time is slowed down when they are moving fast, so that they can use the resulting pseudo-super speed effectively in combat. The things I want an answer to cover are: Given a particular amount of super strength, from a minimum of lifting a ton to being able to lift 10 tons at maximum, how high will they be able to jump and how fast can they run and otherwise move? How would their movements apply to other movement situations, like moving inside buildings, for instance would you be able to run leaping from wall to wall. Also more generally, how does super strength influence movement capabilities? I can find dozens of sources talking about how super strong punches would work, but next to nothing covering basic extrapolations for movement. For instance, how much of a limiting factor is the strength of surrounding materials to super strength enhanced movement, how much does it limit your ability to jump or run at full strength? How plausible is it for someone with super strength to jump over buildings, or to get to the top of a skyscraper by wall jumping between it and another adjacent skyscraper? How does the ability to rapidly accelerate and decelerate influence melee other than just being able to hit harder? Suffice to say, I think mid tier super strength is probably way more versatile and just different than generally imagined. To be extra clear the only power that matters here is the super strength, (though it also comes with super toughness and somewhat faster reflexes as required secondary powers.) Everything else should just be be about the logical extensions of super strength, specifically how it affects movement. Bonus question: Given the massive force to mass ratio of these superhumans, they could certainly manage human powered flight through any number of means. Elaborate on a method you think would be particularly good. 

As pointed out by other answers, a big incentive to invent things is to make money, which would be problematic in the world that you describe. So how do you pay those inventors? Well one thing is that many thing that we pay today would be free, so people actually have a lot more money than today. I don't think however that people would be willing to give the same amount of money to things like kickstarter/patreon/charity/... as what they pay today. On way to force them into giving more money would be taxes. This already exists in some countries (cf. Wikipedia), where public broadcasters rely on tax-money for their funding (as opposed to ads). That however wouldn't necessarily suppress the existence of independent productions. For example in France a lot of movies are financed through what is called "l'avance sur recette" (sorry, I could not find a good reference in english). Basically a commission reviews the film project before-hand and tries to guess how much money it is going to make. They then give money, and if the film is actually successful enough, the commission gets its money back. [This is not exactly a loan since sometimes the money is never payed back.] You could adapt such a system by evaluating the movie depending on how much success it is going to have rather than how much money it is going to make. Here I have been talking about cultural stuff, but I guess you could adapt this to about anything. [Note that depending on where you live, the right-wing could think that all this is a really bad idea...] 

For this question I'm assuming a utterly infeasible technological breakthrough suddenly makes wormholes technology possible. However there is a major catch, the 2D "windows" as they're called don't allow through matter or gravitational pull. The "windows" can be opened for about a half a million USD. Once opened these portals stay open indefinitely unless closed. Opening a portal requires a large amount of energy, and the use of expensive and bulky machines on one end of the wormhole, with only a small machine and energy on par with a car battery required on the other end. The portals are flat windows that look like portals, however were you to walk up to one you would pass through it unaffected. The portals size can be as small as a millimeter or as large as 2,600 meters, any larger would require using multiple portal machines and linking them together. A portal can have any shape with the smallest definition being a millimeter, however portals are totally flat. Each side of the flat portal corresponds to a side of the other end of the portal. Each of the two connected portals must be the exact same shape and size. Portals will continue moving as the machine that created them was, at the moment it created the portal, other than controlling its initial motion you can't move portals except as detailed below. This means if the machine was orbiting the earth the portal will continue this motion, even though it isn't itself a object and has no mass. Portals also continue accelerating or decelerating as the machine was when it created it, however while portals can continue accelerating indefinitely they will slow acceleration such that they approach, but never reach the speed of light. A portal on earth will not slowly drift, since slight changes in planetary motion such as the lengthening of days is effectively counted as deceleration thus the portal undergoes the same slowing, this only holds true for motions that continue at the same rate of acceleration/deceleration as when the portal was created. The end of the portal which requires the expensive machinery to create can be kept linked to the machines so that it moves with them, however this means you can't use those machines to make further portals. Weapon note: To prevent the scenario of potential apocalyptic destruction, due to someone launching a portal through the sun. I have decided that a wormhole will collapse if more than about the equivalent of a kiloton of TNT worth of energy tries to pass through it in a second, though most energy that can pass through it in a second is equivalent to a ton of tnt. Since the portal only allows through at most a ton of tnt, any additional energy is reflected back when it hits the portal. This is still a lot of energy so it still has a lot of weapon potential. Keep in mind, as far as I know all energy would be in the form of photons. TLDR: It's a portal that only lets light through.Well actually other details of it are more complicated, so read the whole question before answering. What uses would be implemented for such a technology assuming it essentially appeared in our world overnight? The most obvious thing I can think of using it for is as a source of near infinite energy, you could get one end of the portal in an orbit much closer to the sun and use the energy to boil massive amounts of water (also may be useful for desalinization). Using it to allow faster than light communication is an obvious application as well (though given our current technology that's not super useful). 

I'm not sure if this is a complete answer but here is my 2-cent: The first thing to note is that the problem isn't really if a Man can grasp a 3-dimensional situation, but if he can deal with it better than an AI. That heavily depends on how advanced AI are. The second one is that you could have multiple men in one space fighter to deal with some shortcommings, a bit like un the B52. 

One idea is to have your world be a $3$-dimensional subset of a $4$-dimensional space. And your sun (or suns) are regular stars moving along the fourth spacial dimension. We can only see them when they cross our special $3$-dimensional space, and they are invisible otherwise. Since this is a bit complicated to describe, let us reduce this by one dimension, and imagine we want to build a $2$-dimensional world, that is a sheet-world. In this $2$-dimensional setting, planets and stars look like discs. We live on the surface of a disc which is big enough that is seems "almost" flat. What would an infinite world look like? Well basically you have one horizontal line that splits the world into two regions: above the line is the air, and below is the ground. Now what are the suns? Well they are balls (regular, 3-dimensional ones)! We usually cannot see them, but sometimes one crosses the sheet of paper that makes our world, and then we can see it. At first the intersection of the ball with the plane is a very small disc, which makes a nice sunrise (or 'sunswell'?). Then it becomes bigger until most of the ball has crossed the plane, and finally you get a sunset ('sunshrink'?). How and why there are seasons depends on how and why do the suns move, so it is entirely up to you. Maybe the suns stay on the same track and every morning you see the same sun? But there could also be a stream of suns that all follow the same path and every morning you see a new sun. Finally the movements of the suns could be very chaotic, so that some areas stay in the dark for ages before being once again habitable by human beings. If you want to get creative, you could also say that sometimes, suns do not cross our dimension above the ground, but below, melting the rocks around them: that is how volcanoes are made... You could also say that there are many other sheet-worlds: usually they are far away and we cannot see them, but sometimes two sheets come really close and strange things happen, like people and objects appearing or disappearing randomly (or on purpose) by switching sheets. 

Well as a given people will still have cryptography. To avoid punishment messages will be hidden using code words and the like, within larger messages that would appear to be about something else. Even if law enforcement had strong suspicion that a message contained a secret message, proving it would be difficult, and maintaining plausible deniability would be easy. Cryptography would have to be done such that it isn't definitely apparent as cryptography. This still isn't that significant, unless the legal system suddenly lowers the standards for a shadow of a doubt quite a lot, proving something is coded when it is intended to not appear to be would be nigh impossible. Cryptography would be pretty similar it would just be slightly inconvenienced. EDIT: What I mentioned is technically stenography not cryptography, anyway stenography will become widespread partially replacing cryptography. 

Now like good munchkins i'm sure you're all thinking of ways this can be exploited, however this system can't generate much in the way of new information. For instance if you try to get it to produce "a really good movie" or a video of a new mathematical proof it doesn't work unless you know the information already or you go through the details. Generally the AI can't create information that your own mind couldn't create in say a dream, the major difference is that the ai creates information so good it is totally indistinguishable from an actual video. 

A quick google search lets you find even more results. So in a sense, we already are hybrids. Note that is not just us: any two species have genes in common. There are two reasons for that: one is that we all share a common ancestor. The other is that horizontal gene transfer seems to be a thing. 

One way would be to use suction pads. The problem is that suction pads use air pressure in order to work, so they do not work in a vacuum. That means that you cannot attach a suction pad on the outside of a spaceship. However you can attach it inside, in order to create an airlock. Here is how it would work: 

Edit: The basic shape of the harpoons would be something close to umbrellas, which would open once inside the ship. The "inside" of the umbrella would at pressure zero thanks to the hole you just made, and the "outside" would be at room pressure. The ribs can also help to reinforce the harpoon, much as the barbs of real-life harpoons. Concerning the air lock, the things you deploy have something like a corona-shape. Two more things I did not mention: 

While something like a warp drive is a staple of ftl technology in sci-fi, I wonder how this sort of spatial warping would operate on a smaller scale on earth. The idea has occurred to me to have a character with gravity and antigravity powers try to warp distance. This distance warping wouldn't extend more than half a meter from the character's body at most, and at minimum would only be skin-tight. This special warping would bear some resemblance to a alcubierre warp drive, though based on answers I am now informed a natario drive is more plausible. This power can't used to reach anything approaching relativistic speeds, however I wonder how this would work as a form of superspeed. Another detail that needs to be covered is how it works when the character interacts with objects: What happens when the character tries to move a stationary or slow moving object? What about trying to move bullets and other objects that are fast in relation to the hero's actual speed, and are slow compared to the movement of them and other stuff in their warp bubble. (The hero is also a vampire which grants the required secondary powers) How exactly would something like a warp bubble work in a atmosphere at non-relativistic speeds? Could it avoid the collateral damage normal super-speed entails? How would this spatial warping affect the atmosphere that occupies the warped space? What would this power do when the character interacted with objects not in the field: both slow moving objects and stuff like bullets. What would such a power look and sound like, both to the user and bystanders (I'm assuming the hero has super fast perception and some degree of super senses to cope, and can already run ~400 mph without warping space, or otherwise using gravity control). Ultimately I'm really hoping this power will allow things like this scene (except with superspeed that isn't wildly inconsistent) Bonus Question: What other clever uses would you use a gravity control power for, other than the standard and obvious uses. Assume you have all the other powers mentioned as well: Super senses, super toughness/strength and a baseline speed around 400 mph, In addition assume an ability to increase perception speed to a nigh unlimited amounts. Super-reflexes also protect you by immediately ramping up perception speed in response to danger sensed by super senses, effectively one's subconscious is always perceiving things in slow-motion watching for danger. 

In Sci-fi, space fighters often look like exotic versions of fighter jets: wing shape is often different but the general shape is most of the time kept. However this seems unrealistic: the shape of fighter jets is almost always the same, because it is optimised for air-combat. In particular wings serve no purpose at all in space. What would a realistic space fighter look like? In terms of technology, I would like to stay as close as possible to what is possible today. 

This is a slight variant on the "Caribbean Island" theme. The problem with this is solution is that currents may bring to your island a random zombie. After 50 years spent far from the world, you are not prepared to deal with it. A possibly better solution is to find an island on a river. This has a few additional benefits: 

I'll assume that the time machine can be used multiple times: Step 1: Get some attention. Go to the pentagon, try to break the security and fail. This way some official people will hear what you have to say. Step 2: Threaten them: "In 4 hours a bomb is gonna explode at some precise place." This place will be heavily watched after this. Step 3: Send something from the future at this precise place and time. It can be anything, the important thing is that people see that an object has appeared out of thin air. From here on out, people should listen to you a lot more. 

In this setting I imagine the planet has about 4.2 atmospheres of pressure at sea level and 1.17 G's, this is not necessarily fixed and if other values would allow earthlike life and human civilization, and produce more interesting effects then feel free to solve for other gravity values and atmosphere pressures, but both values are higher than on earth. The planet in question is earthlike but larger with more gravity and a thicker atmosphere. Since a planet with a earthlike atmosphere, but higher atm's would have a higher partial pressure for oxygen and nitrogen, I think it could be reasonable for life to have evolved to deal with that so as to avoid toxicity from those elements. If the atmosphere just can't be plausibly similar to earths, but still allow earthlike life under these high pressures, assume it is different. As for the aviation technology most things are the same, but there isn't any computing and engines can't generate any more thrust than a muscle of the same size limited by realistic earth biology, because magically grown muscles are the only power source. This severely limits how much power an aircraft can have. Certain materials are cheap and easy to to produce in this setting such as spider silk and limpet teeth like materials, and rare and heavy elements are far more common on this planet. Other than muscle power the only other form of propulsion is rockets, but the rockets have to use magically generated explosions, as thus the rockets are more like nuclear Orion rockets than traditional ones, though the explosions can be smaller down to that of a large cannon. My question is, how would you expect aircraft and rockets to be different in this environment, with power limited to magically grown muscles (limited by biological realism, they're only grown and controlled via magic), and magical explosions, but more available rare materials, and different gravitational and atmospheric conditions?