we consistently see humans as products and part of this value-free, purposeless universe, as biological robots, like Alex Rosenberg2, and end up with an undisguised nihilism. It is not clear how we can free ourselves from what a dysteleological evolution imprinted in us. And even if that would be possible, evolution may still actively act against our "noble motives". we accept an unexplainable gap, which separates a fundamentally different human sphere of value, purpose and qualitative experience (like feelings, sound, color etc.) from the barren rest of the universe, only governed by purposeless mathematical laws3. Imho because of this gap, this is an absurd and incoherent view. But more importantly, it is pretty nihilistic too, because it severely alienates humanity from the rest of nature. 

But of course, accusations of prejudice can happen when the offending opinion has a basis in reality and may not be strictly irrational. This is still not like induction, because there a single counterexample refutes the inductively justified thesis. It could be compared to statistical reasoning. To really know somebody takes time. This makes people resort to shortcuts: they know something about the group the person belongs to and they apply this knowledge to the person to form their judgment in a short time. This judgement will be correct with a certain probability but can of course fail, because only in special cases groups are so homogeneous that it would work all the time. A similar method is applied by insurance companies, if they are not prohibited by law. 

If an all-knowing, “all-honest” being told us that we have libertarian free will and moral anti-realism is true, how can we make sense of it? Could we ever? Is there any way to better nail down, what libertarianism means – something more illuminating than the standard definition “libertarianism: indeterminism is true and necessary for free will and we also have free will” – which does not assume moral realism? Has there ever been a libertarian moral anti-realist philosopher? 

If it is not granted that Zeno was implicitly speaking about atomistic time and space here and instead used the “default” position, i.e. time and space being infinitely divisible – which he also implicitly assumed in his other three paradoxes 

But what if a mathematical crank actually came up with a correct method to square the circle with ruler and compass? Then mathematics would enter an unprecedented crisis. There would be an error in a proof, which thousands of professional mathematicians didn't notice, or an inconsistency in the axioms. The crank would be right and a mathematician would not be justified to still believe that squaring the circle is impossible. Similarly, by definition a philosphical argument whose conclusion contradicts reality cannot be sound. It just cannot, because soundness means the argument is valid and the premises are true. And since valid means that the conclusion is true if the premises are true, a sound argument must have a true conclusion. A philosophical argument contradicting reality (i.e. untrue conclusion) must be invalid (inferences are faulty) or the premises must be wrong. But philosophy wouldn't enter a crisis because of it. It's a common occurrence to which we are very used to. And there is lack of consensus in philosophy, anyway. It's not really that only a reductio ad absurdum in philosophy is problematic, it's that philosophy itself is problematic. Direct arguments are not better. Mathematics has an insanely good track record. Its proofs, whether direct or by reductio ad absurdum, are generally accepted because of this. Philosophy, on the other hand, has a bad track record. In fact, its track record is so bad, that few would dare to question empirical observations (though they obviously can be fallacious or misleading, too), just because they contradicted a philosophical argument. Of course this might perhaps change, maybe the track record of some parts of philosophy could get better. 

But does "destruction" (as you described it) make sense in this context? Probably not. The flaws were always there, just not discovered. And "destroyed" (in that sense) abstract objects are not necessarily "lost" (in the sense "all instances were destroyed"): We can still inform ourselves about Frege's naïve set theory. "Destroyed" theories might even still be "used" (if just as an example what can go wrong). If we really want to talk about the destruction of abstract objects, as you describe it (analogous to physical destruction), at a minimum, it would require change of an abstract object. But can we take change of abstract objects really serious? Sure, we talk about how chess changed over the centuries. But this seems to be just a manner of speech. In reality it says that people started to play a different version of chess. So it seems abstract objects cannot be destroyed in a way that is even remotely analogous to physical destruction. 

On the one hand, Aristotle is held in high regard by modern philosophers. For example, in the PhilPapers survey, Aristotle comes second after Hume in the list of "Non-living philosophers most identified with". Or take that snippet from Classical Philosophy by Peter Adamson: 

Values are subjective and humans wrongly believe that their claims or judgments involving values are objective. 

There are many, many simple arguments with strong conclusions that are accepted by the majority (>50%) of philosophers, for example Euthyphro's dilemma or the Third man argument. Then, many simple arguments with strong conclusions which are not accepted by the majority of philosophers, like Frank Jackson's knowledge argument against physicalism (is even rejected by Jackson himself) or John Searle's arguments against computationalism (not the Chinese room, the other arguments), are far from obviously fallacious and they surely do not contain a controversial premise, too. Consensus is another question. This is notoriously difficult to achieve in philosophy, but it happens. For example, there is consensus that self-interested rational action can lead to non-optimal outcomes for everybody, as proven by the prisoner's dilemma. Does this qualify as a strong conclusion? 

1 and showed that what we save in smoking related healthcare cost is not offset by increased healthcare cost for late life illnesses 

This “inner eye”, which enables a partial answer by analogy to the second question, doesn't produce its own SE, there aren't any “second-level qualia”. It works in an immediate way (so “inner eye” seems like a misnomer, actually). It is conceivable that the observation of the outer world could work in a way similar to how the “inner eye” informs us about our SEs – that is, immediately. How SEs are produced by the brain is unknown, yet if we're materialists, we probably easily accept that SEs might not be “good for anything”. On the other hand, proponents of any non-materialist philosophy of mind more likely want to say something about what SEs might enable us to do. So, did they? Are there any theories in this regard? 

Peter King cites Duns Scotus' presentation of the Modal Argument against self change (additions by him): 

In this case, the difference between weak and strong emergence would be clear-cut and “discrete”. Do cases of such strong emergence exist? Well, that's a controversial point. I would disagree with you, for example, about consciousness. There we have some serious hints that definition 2 really applies, because arguably a contradiction is involved in trying to explain something inherently subjective (conscious experience) by something inherently objective (the physical brain). But this is a matter of debate, because one person's proof by contradiction is another person's argument from ignorance. Still it is surely the case that the usual analogies don't work for consciousness. So if physicist Steven Weinberg says something like 

But now to your question. I want to add one point to Conifold's comprehensive answer, that has been missed: There are a few strong libertarians who try to deduce IP "rigorously" from natural rights principles. The results are metaphysical excesses quite uncommon in our time. Like this gentleman, Alexander Baker, who claims that we can homestead parts of an "intellectual space" (platonic realm?). There are also debates between him and Stephan Kinsella (and that's the reason why I mention him. Otherwise he would be too obscure). And another one, novelist and self-professed anarcho-capitalist J. Neil Schulman (the link is to an article which at least appeared in an academic journal): 

Interestingly, if all instances of an abstract object have been destroyed, we tend to use the word lost, not destroyed: