This isn't the sort of question you find citations for, but the essence of Western Civ. starts with the Greeks. Much of Greek history lies in its interactions with the Persians and other denizens of empires and kingdoms in Asia Minor, the Levant, and Mesopotamia, so going back over the history of these regions is of interest. The Civilizations in Egypt are also if interest for the same reasons. And in the end, Alexander conquered the Mideast and Persia and introduced a dose of Greekness into the mix. So Sumer is of interest to Western Civ since it sets the stage for the East/West interaction that the Greeks had. Other states farther off that did not interact with the Greeks are not considered much - India, the Far East, Africa. These are studied in their own courses. 

The Natives of the Americas advanced their civilizations well enough for the situation they were in. They developed from common stone-age tech level and had agriculture, cities, stone building and pyramid like structures. They developed societies that were comparable to those in remote parts of Europe in the age of the Pyramids, or better, by say 1200 AD. Then they ran out of time to develop on their own as the contact happened. So why the few thousand year gap? Having to walk across two continents and populate them might slow things down. Lacking any draft animals for meat and cartage sure did not help. Or it could be just luck, and if we "redid" the same trial the Europeans could be delayed and the Amerindians could be landing in Spain. 

Like most of the Western Allies, the French sent troops to fight the Bolsheviks in the Russian Civil War after WWI. The windows where any French government was friendly with any Russian government were fairly short. 

I found this entry on the website of the Australian National University,which tells the interesting story of Thomas Muir, a dissident we might call him today of the United Kingdom. Entry on Thomas Muir Sentenced to Transportation, he settled in Sydney. This is where the Otter arrived and he indeed planned his escape, but not only was he not a stowaway, he travelled in collusion with her captain, Ebenezer Dorr. 

I thought I'd turn my comment into a proper answer. My main source is Adrian Goldsworthy's The Complete Roman Army, a must-read/have for anybody who's interested in that topic, IMO. Originally, as @SJuan76 linked to, cavalry in the "Polybian" (i.e. pre-Marian reforms around 100 BC) Roman army was the charge of those who could even afford the cost of a horse and its and the riders equipment. These were the equites, who formed about 300 out of a legion of 4,200. The 300 were divided into 10 turmae and each of these was led by a decurion ("leader of 10"). Unfortunately, Polybius only stated that the cavalry fought with "Hellenistic style equipment" and assumes the reader knows what that means. The estimate is that these we close order units 

It may also go back to Johann Carl August Mutäus in the 18th century The term was also used derogatorily by people in other countries and was then warped, in light of German militarism and totalitarianism in the 20th century to Land der Richter und Henker (land of judges and executioners). The origins go back to enlightened, though still absolutist, monarchs like Frederick the Great. But it's also linked with the development of a Bildungsbürgertum, a bourgeois elite that saw education as a high goal. In this sense it took denken out of dichten und denken, focusing on its meaning of thinking and devising things. As @Michael Hardy wrote, this was supported by an excellent school and university system. It allowed the bourgeois to obtain high social standing through education instead of noble birth. However, lest this be thought as some great meritocracy 

Large sums of cash were actually the instrument of choice in many applications. It seems strange and unsafe today, but there was usually no alternative. Depending on the amount involved you very well might hire a team of guards to safeguard you and your money as you moved, and you would be keen on taking advantage of things like hotel or train safes so you could avoid carrying it on your person as much as possible. If you were transporting a truly staggering amount of money you might very well accomplish it by filling up a safe and then shipping the entire safe between locations. One duty that involved shipping and handling large sums of cash was payroll- paying the workers of a company. Each worker had to be paid in cash, so this meant carrying enough cash from the bank to the factory or job site to pay every worker their (typically) weekly or bi-weekly wages. Payroll was thus a dangerous job to do. Whether the money was carried, driven via a horse/coach, or moved on the train, those large sums of cash were favored targets of bandits and criminals. Payroll was commonly transported via train where practical. There was a special car on trains called the "express car" whose job was to transport highly valuable articles such as cash or gold, and the people who guarded these cars were called "expressmen". Many of the daring train robberies you read about were targeted at these specific cars- some heists actually succeeded in detaching and stealing the entire car, leaving the robbers plenty of time to loot it of valuables. One heist account I found online Another heist account I found online 

Fairly soon after Copernicus, once things like comets and the like were discovered the concept of crystal spheres was pretty much gone. By the time star clusters were found and galaxies discovered you had to figure that these were more distant than local stars. Newton's Law is another blow to any such idea. The final proof would be when the stellar parallax was measured, and found to be different for different stars. The position of stars were measured 6 months apart and some had shifted relative to others. This would not happen if all were at the same distance. SOURCE 

Wikipedia is not correct. In the Fall of 1863, after Meade sent troops West to match the one's Lee sent west to defeat the Army of the Cumberland at Chickamauga, Lee launched a third offensive campaign that ended in the battle of Bristoe Station. This was a defeat for Lee. After this, Lee retired behind the Rappahannock River but left a brigade north of the river in an entrenchment at Rappahannock Station. Meade's forces make a rapid attack and crushed the bridgehead, capturing most of the brigade. Lee had to retire behind the Rapidan River. 

The original astronomic concepts were that planets, stars, and the sun were small, close light sources. Being in heaven, they were perfect (aside from the moon, which was smudged due to closeness to this imperfect sphere). They were embedded in clear solid domes at varying distances. But in general, the idea that the heavens were made for us on Earth to look at persisted a long time. The overturning of these ideas, showing that some planets revolved around the sun or that moons existed around Jupiter upset this apple cart when the first telescopes were turned upward. So the crystal spheres had to go. But still, you could see these objects as smooth lights or globes to reflect light, thus 'perfect'. The discovery of spots on the sun hurt this idea of perfection, as did the discovery of mountains, plains, and geographic features like earth on the moon. So a mountain on the moon means the moon is another world like earth. Another blow for the idea that there is an essential division between Earth and "The Heavens". From Wiki, Planetary Science: 

That does not mean that any of them actually sat, never mind fought, on horseback. By this time the four-horned saddle also was around and Goldsworthy maintains that, contrary to some historians, this made up for the lack of stirrups when mounting charges or doing much of anything beyond harassment or skirmishing. However he doesn't explain why the Romans, who were extremely adaptable in all other military matters, then never raised the profile of their cavalry, even when their enemies used it to increasingly devastating effect. On a purely personal note, speaking as an equestrian myself, I think he is wrong here: the difference between having stirrups or not, regardless of the type of saddle, makes a huge difference in the effectiveness of a mounted soldier. Not just in the ability of the massive charge of the armoured knight from centuries later, but in the ability to be supported when shifting or leaning sideways and a four-horn saddle can restrict turning the upper body (such as the parting shot of mounted steppe archers). Of course, in late antiquity the Roman army was largely made up of foreign troops, many of them fully mounted, anyway. In summary, the Romans apparently never made the step, during professionalisation of their military, to also centralise the raising of horses and training them and the mounted soldiers. They left it to those who could afford it, whether their nobility or their allies. Italy isn't ideal for raising horses, but other parts of the Empire certainly were - e.g. Hispania, Cappadocia (which became the main source of horses during the Eastern Roman/Byzantine Empire). 

After a tragic series of events he ended up severely injured and maimed, made it to Spain and then France, where he died in poverty and obscurity. As the gist of your question is about this eventual fate, I'll quote it in full,from the website 

From WIKI - Basically, the English took the good ones, and kept them from recapturing the ones riven by slave revolt (Haiti). 

Since there is no reason for AntiSemitism in France to have died out because of the treaty of Versailles only to spring right back at the outbreak of WWII, the reasonable conclusion is that there were AntiSemitic cartoons as usual during the period, to reflect the known levels of AntiSemitism in France at the time. Not to single out France, as there was an amount of this feeling in all countries in this period. 

Of course, the US did not invent smear campaigns. Marcus Tullius Cicero's brother published a book about electioneering after his brother's Consular election over Catiline, which was notable for smearing Catiline with killing his brother-in-law for money, trying to assassinate the Consuls a few years earlier, and raping a Vestal Virgin. So it has a long history. 

This is from 1904 and probably is from another ship entirely, as the ship would be 60 years old. But on the other hand, a warship might be sold out of service and used for a long time in private hands. 

Unlike a city wall, that has people always around it to man and guard it, a free standing border wall tends to get stripped of manpower whenever the attention of the state building it falters. An unmanned wall isn't hard to get around, or over. I've even read that some believe the main task of these border fences is less to hold invaders out, than to keep raiders in. A raiding party can cross over easily enough alone, but when laden with loot and prisoners, the wall crossing back will take long enough that the mobile security force will catch them in the act and be able to capture the raiding force, or at least make them abandon their gains. 

This site: $URL$ contradicts your source, saying that the VT fuse was first "introduced" to the enemy by the U.S.S. Helena on January 5, 1943, resulting in the destruction of one plane. This phrase unambiguously identifies the first usage in combat- and given the similarity in circumstances it's possible that both your source and this source are referring to the same incident but one has gotten the date wrong. There are no in-line citations on this page, but the end notes cite: 

The Allies first knew the murders had taken place because the remaining prisoners at Stalg Luft III were informed that 50 of their 76 comrades had been killed attempting to escape. This seemed outrageously high to the prisoners. The prisoner's suspcions were further confirmed when they were delivered the cremated remains of their escaped comrades. These urns were normally supposed to have the place of cremation as well as the name of the person, but some urns did not have locations and some of the urns that did have names were inconsistent with the official story they were told. The circumstances they were given- that all 50 escapees were shot while running away after being ordered to stop- made little sense. These were men who fully expected not to make it back to neutral or allied territory (one of the primary aims of the escape attempt was to tie up German units who would otherwise be contributing to the war effort). Once the gig was up, they would be expected to surrender specifically to avoid being shot and killed. After the war captured documents had shown that Hitler had ordered the murder of a large number of prisoners as retaliation for the escape attempt. These orders were passed onto Himmler, who in turn passed orders onto the local Gestapo branches in the areas where the escapees were caught. This provided a paper trail that fingered many of the invidiuals involved with the murders. During the investigation, the Allies found eye-witnesses who could corroborate when and where the recaptured prisoners were last seen alive, and in some cases who they were last seen with. These hints were critical in finding the right people to interrogate. The big break in the case came when a captured Gestapo officer was caught in a lie during many difficult interrogations. He was pretending to be someone who he was not. Once caught, the Allies knew he must have knowledge of some of these events, and he ended up fingering other members of the Gestapo who had been involved. Armed with this knowledge the investigators could then track down these other individuals- some of whom were still in custody and others who were still in Germany or the surrounding countries- and in turn get more confessions. The Gestapo had issued many of its people with fake identities to use in the event that Germany lost the war, so a difficult part of this investigation was matching who they already had in custody with their true identities.