if you just want a semantic solution, you could have a big lake draining into a small lake, which later drains into the ocean. the locals might call the big lake a "sea" and the small lake a "lake", but a "sea" is by definition salty, which means the lake would be salty too. the connection between two would be a salty river. salty rivers on earth tend to be extremely rare, short and short lived (in geological time). but hey, they happen. 

it sounds like living humans are helpless against ghosts, but ghosts can fight each other. as such, ghosts would protect the living souls the way we protect children. similarly, i imagine ghosts would continue to own their property the same way that the elderly continue to own their property. they may not be able to physically stop you from taking it, but other living people will defend ghost's property rights to ensure their own property is not taken upon their death. if it is no more difficult to detect and punish soul theft than it is to detect and punish child abuse, then ghosts would probably be welcomed in polite society as well as any adult man. on the other hand, if detecting soul theft is much harder (e.g. because ghosts can walk thru walls), then ghosts might be banned from human settlements. even still, interaction would probably be peaceful. this answer assumes ghosts have normal human motivations. if you modified your question to suggest ghosts had an overwhelming hunger for souls, then the outcome would be quite different.... 

Suppose we have an Earthlike planet, with a rocky moon orbiting it. Under what conditions would dark lunar maria form on its surface, and would they always be on the side facing the planet? For Earth’s Moon, it appears that the maria face the Earth due to heat radiating from the molten Earth. How universal is this phenomenon? Does it depend on, for example: 

On Earth, nuclear weapons can wreak enormous damage to a country and for that reason, large-scale wars between nuclear powers don’t happen. But what would happen if humanity progressed just enough to the point where countries expanded into space? Now powerful countries have fleets of spaceships (not fantastically advanced; no faster than light travel, no freak handwavium weapons; just what we might conceivably have within a century or so). Humans live scattered across the solar system, and have nations somewhat independent of Earth. Would large-scale, territorial war again become common in this scenario? Would nuclear weapons fail to pose an effective MAD deterrent effect? For the sake of a specific scenario to work with, consider two space powers, The Selenation, and Arianaland. They are both fierce rivals, and maintain hundreds of space stations scattered across the solar system. They have no strictly-defined borders, but each is concentrated in one broad area of the solar system, and have a region of space that they vaguely regard as their “territory”. They have ground colonies on large moons and asteroids, but there is a roughly comparable distribution between the “rock-bound” population and the space population. The “rockies” aren’t trapped on the surface per se; they regard moving into space as about as big a deal as moving house from the city to the suburbs. Neither country is tied to Earth, which is ruled by a third country Lovatoland and is regarded as something of a backwater. There are countless smaller powers across the solar system, most of which have a small territory carved out in one corner or another. The technology level is not unrecognizable from what we have today. Their ships are about at the same level of what could be built in the movie Interstellar, only each country has more resources to build a greater quantity of them. Travel is still slow, and moving between stations within each country takes months—it’s common, especially among members of the military, but it’s considered a “big voyage” (like interstate travel in the US in the 19th century). There is substantial communication infrastructure, and the internet exists, but it’s somewhat balkanized due to the fact that it takes up to an hour for signals to make the jump between “clusters”. Would Arianaland and the Selenation be quick to go to war with one another? Would we see something similar to the perpetual battles between Britain and France in the 18th and 19th centuries, only played out in space instead of at sea? Would nuclear deterrence only be a passing phenomenon, from back when humanity was jammed together on the same planet? Since this might be seen as too broad, let’s say that the question is simply would large-scale territorial war be conceivable in this scenario? 

Satellites are not in the same orbit. But they are in the same plane. The orbits could be elliptical as much as you want, but they maintain a symmetry: The periapsis/apoapsis are directly opposite at each side of the star. This makes the two satellites maintain the same orbital velocities at the same time, and avoids being seen. Planets can also be slightly different in mass, but the orbits will have to be exactly the same size. I don't know a lot about orbital mechanics to determine if the two orbits will also precess in the same rate. If they do, the configuration can last indefinitely. Admittedly, this sort of system is very improbable to form in the nature. But I guess this is a very good chance to use the artistic license. 

So the alternative for you is to have your planet in a debris free zone, but give some incentives for the spacecrafts to go into a dangerous zone full of debris in another part of the system. 

Look at this breathtaking animation of Jupiter herding the asteroids: $URL$ I got an idea from this. Have a star larger/hotter than Sun, where your habitable planet is around 5-8 AU from the star. Have a gas giant closer to the star. And then have an inner planet collide with a rogue planet few 100,000 years ago. The gas giant will herd the debris so your planet will not be affected much. And oh, the rogue planet was crossing the planetary plane, so the debris is not a disk, but a big mass ball of dust, sand, and rocks around the star. 

Keep in mind that we need a policy for who goes in the bunker, not just case-by-case judgments for the example characters given in the question. We need to select among thousands of candidates, each one as idiosyncratic as the few examples given. If case-by-case judgment is really the best way to go, we need to know how to set up the vetting process to minimize cries of “bias!” and whatnot. If there is a reviewing panel, who gets to sit on it, and what rubric are they given? Do members of the panel themselves automatically get to go? We need a legitimate (it does not need to be fair, but must be at the least perceived as legitimate) system to sort out all the people like them, keeping in mind that there is limited space available. While no policy is perfect, we need one that will result in the most optimal outcome; for example, if we say “take your spouse at the time of the apocalypse”, do we let Rachael and Dianna get married right before the comet hits, with the cost of letting Lil’ Marco tag along (he “marries” Shifty Steve)? How do we account for relationships that might be just as essential for the psychological well-being of the survivors, but might not count as traditional “kin”? 

And maybe your spacecrafts need to go near the star to recharge like Rama, or there's a valuable mineral that could be mined in the asteroid field. 

If you are prepared to be less strict, there is a configuration that can mask two co-planar satellites from each other: 

Check this out: $URL$ HAL 9000 is an artificial intelligence. It is true that HAL has monitors to display things. But the "Interaction" part in GUI is verbal. Only when HAL breaks down and loses his verbal communication abilities does he need keyboard input, which Dr. Chandra performs. 

I'm going to more or less disagree with everyone here. I don't think the option of protoplanetary disk would work. If it's proto-planetary, planets are not yet formed or still in the stage of big ugly magma balls, incapable of hosting any life. When a planet gradually cools down and terraforms itself to be capable of hosting life, several billion years would have passed and the debris would have been cleared by the planets. You could have another planet in the system to have collided with a rogue planet recently (i.e. few million years in the past). That will give you a nice debris field. But it would mean that planet would be frequently and heavily bombarded with asteroids. It would not be suitable for life. If somehow you were able to have a debris field and have a thin debris free strip for the planet, the debris would not affect spacecrafts. Because they need not to fly in the planetary plane, they can fly out of it and get out of the system. 

This is an old question so I am surprised no one mentioned it, but what about individuals with large social networks versus individuals without large social networks? As society evolves to depend more and more upon how many social connections or “friends” one has, this is increasingly creating divisions and advantages between the “popular” and the “unpopular”. In a hyper-democratized medium like the internet and social media, those with more followers have proportionately more influence, and thus more power than those with fewer followers. In the future (and arguably now), this translates into real monetary and economic advantages too—just think about the term “professional networking“. The economic advantages conferred to the popular even extend to simple twitter and instagram followers—not too long ago, a clothing store called OnePiece made headlines by offering selective discounts to people based on how many social media followers they had. The idea was to gain goodwill among the “influences” of social media. To my knowledge, they are still doing that to this day. In some industries like modeling, having a large number of followers on one’s personal Instagram account has become a job prerequesite. A very interesting book that explores this concept is Extras by Scott Westerfeld. In this world, humans, in order to ration the use of resources (to preserve the environment), have established an economy where popularity is literally currency. Having more mentions (retweets, likes, followers, etc on social media in this universe) increases your social “face-rank” which determines the proportion of the community’s resources you are allotted. The idea is to encourage creative work and to place a premium on intellectual property and celebrity in a post-industrial society where “production” is no longer relevant to human happiness. 

if time and civilian casualties are non-issues, then siege is definitely the way to go. just start by using drone aircraft to kill anyone that leaves the city. then use drones to fire-bomb any gardens visible from the air. the city will starve to death within weeks, perhaps months if they are seriously over-provisioned. bombing the water and power infrastructure will accelerate the situation substantially. 

i don't think it would make any difference at all. a 30-40% strength advantage is absolutely devastating in 1-on-1 combat. 100-300% is simply overkill. women had very little political power until the "rule of law" took hold. after which, their relative physical strength was virtually irrelevant. 

since the transfer is "instantaneous" you could encode the information not in the bytes you send (as with normal networking protocols), but rather in the amount of time between bits. so, if you want to send the number 255, you wouldn't use a whole byte (8 bits) as with a normal internet packet. rather, you would send 1 bit exactly 255 nanoseconds after the preceding bit. your total realized bandwidth would be limited only by the precision of your clocks and your desired latency. for example, you could say "i will send 1 bit every 10 million nanoseconds. the value that bit represents is equal to the number of nanoseconds since the previous bit was sent". that protocol would give you a maximum 1-way latency of 10 milliseconds, and a minimum data transfer rate just under 300 bytes/second. doubling the maximum latency also doubles the effective transfer rate. more sophisticated protocols could be built on top of this one to negotiate the transfer rate on-the-fly, or to use short-code encoding to maximize thru-put by ensuring the most common data blocks have many leading zeros (so bits are sent faster). you might also want to limit the maximum block size to ensure the clocks stay in sync depending on relative clock drift. 

Side note: is included as a test case to test for bias. A good policy accounts for the fact that the people making the judgments are aware of their limited perspectives. For example, if a vetting panel is proposed as an answer, what happens if it is filled with so-called “old white men” who don’t see the value in bringing ? How might this affect the perception of the project pre-apocalypse? 

It’s the mid–late 20th century, and NATO and the Soviet bloc wipe each other out in a nuclear war while the southern hemisphere eats its popcorn. Dust fills the atmosphere and nuclear winter sets in; the ecosystem collapses. Which third world countries would be most likely to survive and why? If the answer is “zero”, how could the events of the nuclear war be changed so that at least one would survive? A country is considered to have “survived” if: 

They assign each city a “revenue” number, possibly scaled according to population, and the size of your economy is the sum of the value of all your cities. This is somewhat realistic because in postindustrial countries (i’m assuming from you saying the game is “sci-fi”), cities are vastly wealthier than rural areas. If you want to make the model slightly more sophisticated, you can multiply the value of your cities by trade between it and the other cities in a country, so a clever player can tank an opponent’s economy by blockading the links between the cities instead of conquering or destroying the cities themselves. However if conquest is something you want to have a lot of in your world, this is probably not the way to go, because physical territory is basically irrelevant here. In the real world, capturing a city is a gruesome and blood-drenched endeavor, and often results in the destruction of much of the prize itself. Scads of resistance movements throughout history have also proven that you don’t need to control cities to maintain a war machine. They tie the economy to the natural resources in the land (food, coal, oil, steel, etc.) and the economy is basically backed by the physical commodities within a country’s territory. This is hugely unrealistic (otherwise Venezuela would be one of the richest countries in the world!) but it has the upside of being simple for players to understand, and can be somewhat accurate if the main focus of your world is warfare, where the basic resources matter much more relative to higher-level goods than they normally would in a civilian economy. 

note: some of the jobs listed above are currently not low-skill positions (e.g. teacher). however, after the automation revolution they will be able to afford to hire a lot of low-skilled assistants (e.g. 1 assistant per child in a private school). similarly, low-skilled versions of the positions might become economically viable (e.g. low-skilled after-school tutors). everyone with a high-skill job will hire a team of low-skilled personal assistants. with automation driving the productivity of high-skilled jobs up, even the middle class will be able to afford a team of low-skilled assistants who understand their own personal taste. for example: 

1066~1440 CE before the normans conquered england in 1066-1072ce, the residents of england spoke a language called "old english", which is arguably more similar to modern german than modern english (e.g. Beowulf 700~1050ce). so, before 1066 you would have almost no chance of understanding anyone without significant study. after the normans conquered england, the conqueror's "old french" mixed with the commoner's "old english" to form a new simpler language we today call "english". that said, it took a few generations for the languages to mix, so in 1073 you would be just about as lost as 1065, but by 1300's things would start sounding familiar (e.g. the canterbury tales from 1386). still, without modern printing, dialects varied widely between towns, classes and generations. in fact, a typical uneducated serf would have a gruff german vocabulary you would consider rudimentary, while an "old money" noble conversation would sound closer to french and might actually include a few french or latin words. it wasn't until the printing press was invented in 1440 that the english language started to unify and stabilize into what we would recognize as "modern english" (e.g. asop's fables from 1484, typeface notwithstanding). so, listening to an educated person speak in 1450 london would be almost perfectly intelligible. you might need a few days to get used to their accent, word choice and world view, but the vocabulary and grammar would be perfectly serviceable to discuss most topics. futher reading: $URL$ side notes: you must keep in mind that the culture of pre-modern england was very different from today. on the one hand, without mass transportation, most people lived their entire lives within 40km of their home. with no dictionaries, they expected to have difficulty communicating with anyone who lived more than one village away. as such, they would probably be more adept at bridging the dialect gap than you. in a big city like london, you could probably find someone you could understand quickly. on the other hand, rural strangercide was much more common, and they might just kill you rather than try to figure out why you left your previous home (presumably not by choice...). at the very least, once the local lord determined you did not belong to any other lord, he would probably try to force you to work his land rather than accept the preposterous premise that your knowledge could be more valuable than your muscles. even today, you can see the upper/lower class french/german split in distinctions like a restaurant's "beef" (french bœuf) vs a farmer's "cow" (german kuh). or lower class german expressions like "blow up" vs upper class terminology such as "explode". 

When you have mutants committing crime, then you may also have other mutants trying to prevent those crimes. Give your Invisibles the ability to sense other Invisibles better than normal people. Most Invisibles will not be criminals, and there will also be those Invisibles who are ready to take a stand against the evil and corrupted of their own clan. The sensory ability need not to be perfect vision. Here are some ideas: 

No, I'm not telling you to plagiarize Alien (1979). But there are qualities you can duplicate: Much like the alien in the Alien, your alien will have to use stealth, speed, agility, and intelligence for its benefit. Tanks lack the stealth and the agility, compared to such a creature. You can add some drama with human overconfidence: soldiers operating the tanks underestimate the alien, probably taking it for a mere animal based on it's looks. BTW this is exactly what happens most of the time in Alien series: hunters becoming the hunted. Tanks will not be able to target a creature that rapidly zig-zags, even in a flat desert terrain. A swarm of tanks would have to take friendly fire if aliens are hastily jumping from one tank to another. Armor piercing biological weapons can be useful, such as the acidic blood from the alien. Alien will be able to pierce armor if it can rapidly accelerate small solid objects. Check how Mantis Shrimp attacks. If the alien can throw metal objects of considerable size fast enough, that's practically a bullet, and they may be able to pierce armor. If alien has a tail, they can use it as a whip to do considerable damage. The ends of a whip can travel at supersonic speeds. It may not be hard to achieve hypersonic speeds if the tail is long and the creatures are very strong. If the and of the tail is made of a really hard substance and very sharp, it might cut metal. Another form of biological weapon to use is poisonous gases. Make your alien produce something like Sarin gas. This can be effective even if the crew wears masks, because Sarin works even in very small concentrations. A leak in a mask, or an overconfident crew member not wearing a mask would be enough to generate a panic situation and make a sitting duck out of a tank. Combining a way to slightly pierce armor and then inject poisonous gas could be effective. Most of the time, the latches on top of tanks are thinner than the armour around the body, and intelligent aliens will quickly realize this. 

private property is generally simple. all people recognize the value of "i won't steal your stuff if you don't steal mine". conflict arises over shared resources (e.g. the air, the water, etc.). so, maybe the elves don't like the dragons flying over (and pooping on) their fields. maybe the dragons don't like the elves draining the rivers for irrigation. other resources can be seen as "shared". perhaps the elves view the forest as a "shared" resource they occasionally visit, but the dragons think they own the whole place. if either race could consistently control the land, then the dispute would end. but if the elves and dragons both regularly use the land with impunity, then it is de facto shared and conflict will continue. shared resource are particularly problematic when the two races use them in mutually exclusive ways. e.g. the elves want to clear land of trees to plant the crops they need, but the dragons want to grow trees which they need to build their nests. since both races view the land as a shared resource, and both races think they know the "right" way to use the land, conflict is likely to become intense.