It should be noted that the important number here, 1.7 km/s, is the orbital velocity near ground level on the Moon. It must not be confused with the Moon's escape velocity (the speed at which an object breaks away from orbit and keeps going away into space forever, never to return), which is higher. 

You cannot see the event horizon. That being said: A non-rotating black hole, free of external influences, has perfect spherical symmetry. All its properties are exactly the same in any direction, period. This is the Schwarzschild metric. $URL$ Even if it is electrically charged, if it's non-rotating, and free of external influences, it is still perfectly spherically symmetrical - this is the Reissner–Nordström metric. $URL$ As soon as it begins rotating, the black hole is no longer in perfect spherical symmetry. It acquires an ergosphere, which is shaped like a flattened ball. This is the Kerr metric. $URL$ 

I'm pretty sure the Milky Way is not purple. That's probably just a processing artifact. Go on Astrobin and search for "milky way" for a lot more examples - they tend to not look very purple usually. $URL$ 

Matter is the stuff you are made of. Antimatter is the same as matter in every way, looks the same, behaves the same, except its particles have electrical charges opposite to matter. E.g., our electrons are negatively charged, whereas a positron (an antimatter "electron") is positively charged. The positron is the "anti-particle" of the electron. When a particle meets its anti-particle, they "annihilate": the two particles disappear, and gamma photons are released carrying off their energy. For this reason, should a lump of matter touch a lump of antimatter, they would annihilate, and a giant explosion would result because of the huge energy released (E=mc^2). Matter and antimatter are definitely related: same thing, but with opposite signs. Twins, but opposites. It is not clear why, but it seems like there isn't that much antimatter out there, more like trace amounts. Definitely not as much as regular matter as far as we can tell. This is puzzling to physicists and cosmologists, because you'd expect the Big Bang to make roughly equal amounts of matter and antimatter. Scientists agree that the paradox of "excess matter" will advance physics even further once it's solved. 

The "advice" regarding the Moon filter is bogus. Be careful regarding what you hear on the Internet. The eye is certainly capable of adapting to various levels of brightness. Even with very large telescopes, the Moon filter is useless. All it does is reduce the brightness and contrast - the former is no big deal, but the latter is a major loss. You can never have enough contrast in a telescope. When the Moon is visible, there's no point in going through deep dark adaptation anyway, because the "faint fuzzies" are obscured by Moon's glare. When I watch the Moon, I do it from a fully illumined backyard, or even on the street under the street lights. In fact, this is the best way to observe this object - no filters, but have some ambient light around you. Your eyes will function at optimal parameters. Deep dark adaptation is only needed when observing faint nebulae and galaxies. But such objects can be observed in good conditions only when the Moon is below horizon. Let me make it clear: a filter, any filter, will not fix the problem you're having, because it does not address the root cause. Beware of most cases when the advice you receive is "use a filter". In 99% of cases, it's bogus. Many people own filters, but only a very small fraction know how to use them. In the vast, vast majority of cases you don't need any filters. Please steer clear of this superstition. It's a fad that vendors are more than happy to feed, because it makes them money. There are legitimate ways to use filters (in the rare cases when they're justified), but that would be the subject of a different discussion - those rare cases are related to certain techniques of increasing the apparent contrast in the image. A neutral density filter (a.k.a. "moon filter") always decreases apparent contrast. In this hobby, like in most other hobbies, a lot of people fixate on purchasing all sorts of accessories (in this case: filters), hoping to get extra performance, when all they need to do in reality is learn how to use the device / machine / etc (in this case: telescope) correctly. I see this tendency in all my other hobbies. It's unfortunate, and a huge money sink. Save the money and use it instead towards purchasing a better telescope, or better eyepieces, or a good sky atlas, or an observing chair, etc. 

Yes, they should. But do they, actually? That's the better question. To have any appreciable redshift, the speed of the object needs to be huge. That will be a very short implosion. Also, there aren't many mechanisms that can accelerate implosions that much. What I'm saying is - it's theoretically possible, but in practice you won't see it that often, if ever. 

Of course, for other scenarios, the Hale telescope employs secondary and tertiary mirrors - it depends on the particulars of the telescope, the instrumentation, the experiment or research you're doing, etc. One reason many of the large optical telescopes very often have at least a secondary mirror is that the architecture preferred in most of these cases is the Ritchey–Chrétien - chosen often for the largest professional telescopes because it eliminates coma, an aberration that is detrimental to astrometry (with coma, images of stars are not round, so it's hard to measure angular distances between them). You could use the primary mirror of such a telescope directly, sure, but being a concave hyperbolic mirror, it has strong aberrations of its own, and so requires the convex hyperbolic secondary (often a strong hyperbola, with a large eccentricity) to correct the aberrations. The Hale telescope pictured above has a parabolic primary, so using it directly is not a problem. Again, all of the above are not strict rules, just statistical observations. Some radio telescopes have instrumentation at prime focus simply because it's convenient for that particular case. Other radio telescopes have secondary mirrors. Again, it all depends on what you try to achieve. E.g., the Arecibo radio telescope could be used either in prime focus, or with a secondary mirror in a Gregorian configuration - here's the image with the prime focus instrumentation and the Gregorian mirror to the left: 

It should be noted that the entire Messier catalog can be observed in a relatively small telescope even in the city - and all Messier objects are DSOs. I've seen the Dumbbell Nebula (M27) and the Ring Nebula (M57) in 6" of aperture in a very light-polluted place (Silicon Valley). So, no, it's not that hard to observe DSOs. Of course, if the sky is dark and/or the aperture large, all DSOs look better. This is especially true of globular clusters, such as M13. They already look pretty spectacular in any aperture, even in a small scope - but the view is mind boggling in a very large dob. 

The observable universe and regular matter are different things. Regular matter is the stuff that you and I are made of. Besides regular matter, the Universe is made of dark matter and dark energy. According to some estimates, regular matter is indeed only a few percentage points of the "stuff" in the observable universe. Dark matter - it's not clear what it is, but it appears to be matter-like and it interacts gravitationally. It does not seem to interact in any other way; it could be shooting right now through your head and you wouldn't know it. It does not make clumps like regular matter, so it tends to stay in a diffuse state. That's all we know about it, everything else is speculation. Dark energy is something that drives and accelerates the expansion of the universe but doesn't seem to do anything else. It is not related to dark matter despite both being called "dark". That's all we know about it. The observable universe is the chunk of the Universe that we can see: regular matter, dark matter, dark energy, and the space in between. By definition, the observable universe is everything that we could (theoretically) observe or detect. It's basically everything within a radius of a few dozen billion light years measured from the chair you're sitting on. Anything placed further than that is outside the observable universe and by definition cannot be observed. Not only that, but it cannot influence us in any way whatsoever - if it could, it would be observable. 

Historically, gravitational compression was thought to be the main source of energy for the stars, before the discovery of nuclear physics. Helmholtz and Lord Kelvin proposed this hypothesis in the 1800s. The pressure-temperature relation of any gas was originally known as the Gay-Lussac law. Now we know it's just a particular case of more general phenomena (ideal gas law) tying together pressure, temperature, volume, and various kinds of energy. A spectacular application of the p-T relation is the so-called "fire piston" or "fire syringe", which can ignite small pieces of cotton or paper by just hitting a piston really hard (extremely strong compression = big temperature rise). Search Youtube for some videos like this one: $URL$ 

One thing that is certainly NOT a factor is the central obstruction. You'll often hear on the Internet how Cassegrain instruments, or other scopes with a large central obstruction (secondary mirror) are supposedly less "sharp" than scopes without a central obstruction, or ones with a very small obstruction. Yes, the obstruction does matter a little, but not to the extent that Internet mythology would have you believe. A Cassegrain instrument, with good optics, in perfect collimation, can be a superb telescope even at a 40% obstruction. It simply performs like a somewhat smaller instrument, that's all (the physics of the central obstruction are very complex, and would require an entirely different discussion on this forum to fully elucidate). 

The list could continue (and the full list is very long) but these arguments should suffice. You don't necessarily have to see something with your own eyes in order to know with certainty that it's there. In the case of Earth's revolution around the Sun, it was simply a matter of an overwhelming amount of evidence piling up in favor of it. Geocentrism simply doesn't make any sense whatsoever in modern science and space exploration. 

Look into eyepieces with a wider apparent field of view. A typical Plossl gives you about 50 degrees AFoV. But the view is more interesting, and the scope is easier to use, in a wider AFoV. As an example and a place to start, I've used the Explore Scientific 82 degree series, which provide 82 degrees of AFoV. Large objects like the Moon or some nebulae or clusters look spectacular in such a wide eyepiece. It's not mandatory that you strive for a bigger AFoV, but it can be worth it. Also, lenses such as the ES82 series could be used even with high end telescopes, if you ever decide to upgrade. 

As long as the object's angular size is bigger than the resolving power, it will appear bigger than a dot. That's all. In astronomy, we don't speak of an object's absolute size, we only speak of the angular size. But that should be enough. As soon as you have the angular size, and say the distance, then you could deduce the absolute size, it's a simple matter of trigonometry. 

That's called hydrostatic equilibrium. That's one of the main factors that distinguish a dwarf planet from a smaller random piece of rock out there. $URL$ "A dwarf planet is an object the size of a planet (a planetary-mass object) but that is neither a planet nor a moon or other natural satellite. More explicitly, the International Astronomical Union (IAU) defines a dwarf planet as a celestial body in direct orbit of the Sun that is massive enough for its shape to be controlled by gravity, but that unlike a planet has not cleared its orbit of other objects." There is no fixed size limit, because it depends on the composition. $URL$ "It had been thought that icy objects with a diameter larger than roughly 400 km are usually in hydrostatic equilibrium, whereas those smaller than that are not. Icy objects can achieve hydrostatic equilibrium at a smaller size than rocky objects. The smallest object that appears to have an equilibrium shape is the icy moon Mimas at 397 km, whereas the largest object known to have an obviously non-equilibrium shape is the rocky asteroid Pallas at 532 km (582×556×500±18 km). However, Mimas is not actually in hydrostatic equilibrium for its current rotation. The smallest body confirmed to be in hydrostatic equilibrium is the icy moon Rhea, at 1,528 km, whereas the largest body known to not be in hydrostatic equilibrium is the icy moon Iapetus, at 1,470 km." So the range of transition between hydrostatic equilibrium and non-equilibrium is between approx 400 and 1500 km diameter and depends on a number of factors such as composition. There is no simple formula. Dwarf planets are a good related topic, and I used them in the discussion, because many of them are above the limit of HE but close to it. But any cosmic body is subject to the same laws. Planets proper, moons, stars, etc - these all may be placed above or below the HE limit, depending mostly on size. E.g. the Earth is clearly above the HE limit. But probably all comets are below it. A rock sitting in the dirt below your feet is clearly below it. 

The absolute magnitude of Jupiter is at best +26 (give or take, depending on how you look at it). The absolute magnitude of the Sun is +4.8. There is a 21 magnitudes difference between them, or a ratio of 2.5 * 10^8 (250 million times brighter), which is huge. From a 10 parsec distance (basically in our galactic neighborhood, where most visible stars are), the Sun and Jupiter would be approx 0.5 arcsec from each other at best, which is a very tiny angular distance, and there would also be the mentioned 250 mil brightness ratio (or more). It would be very difficult to tell Jupiter from the glare of the Sun with current technology. At that distance, apparent magnitude and absolute magnitude are equal. So the Sun would be a +5 star (difficult to see with the naked eye, but doable in a dark sky), whereas Jupiter would be a +26 object, impossible to see except in a very large telescope (assuming it would be far from any star, which is NOT the case). TLDR: Even from not far away, Jupiter would be quickly overwhelmed by Sun's glare, and would be pretty weak anyway.