Joining the ranks of the EMP crowd I'd go with Explosively pumped Flux compression bombs. These work by generating and compressing a magnetic field using a power supply, a coil and some explosives. See the the wikipedia entry for a full description and description of how they work. The magic trick with most of these emp type weapons is the power supply but given we are talking 200 years into the future it is not unreasonable to assume that power storage (batteries) have got a lot better. Look how far we have come in the last 100 years and extrapolate forward. An explosively pumped flux generator is actually quite simple to build given a power supply and explosives. However it is single shot, quite small, and usable like a Molotov. The hardest bit to get hold of is probably the explosives to blow the coil. These would be used in a riot to disable the police vehicles and any electronic equipment on them. Cameras, Radios, movement assist devices. This might even completely immobilise them depending on how their armour works. 

TL;DR - As long as you sufficiently explain and relate the power levels of all your magic users, you'll be fine. To keep them just as important as the other users is going to be difficult, and it kind of comes down to how hard we hand wave physics. The problem as I see it is that plasma is an incredibly high energy state of matter. To turn additional matter into plasma would require the input of significant quantities of energy. If you make this too easy for him to do, he becomes unstoppable. If you make it too hard for him to do, he doesn't stack up to the other users. This balancing is not something I can necessarily tell you how to do exactly, but I can guess that it is going to depend largely on installing a sense of how much skill these people have. First, let's assume that Mr. Plasma's generation method consists primarily of pulling electrons out of local matter to create his source of plasma, and that how much he can store and control depends on how good he got. Day one, he might be able to ionize someone enough to guarantee that person gets shocked on the next doorknob they touch. Some time into his studies, with extraordinary focus, he could ignite a piece of paper at six feet with what effectively amounts to a small particle beam (but not control the subsequent fire). More study and practice yields the ability to create and hold a small light source. After two decades of constant use, he could have the ability to compress a large quantity of ionized matter into a small point, push it through the wall of a building, and release it, causing wild electrical transients (if electricity is a thing), chain lightning and fire. Also note that Mr. Plasma, after many years of study and practice, could actually wield something that looks suspiciously like a lightsaber. Major homage possibility here. As long as you take some time to develop each of the characters, and remain consistent in the way you relate power levels to each other, this is all totally workable, but will rely very heavily on your execution. 

Yes but... The problem would likely be the cost of shipping. Raw oil is very unlikely to be found on Mars to make the plastic with, so your down to synthetic and high energy processes to manufacture them locally, or shipping them in. It would likely be more helpful to a colony to have actual plants around, this would have the added bonus of filtering air as well. Though they would require water. These plants could be shipped to Mars as seeds to cut down on the weight requirement. Locally generated compost could be used for soil and presumably the colony will have some source of water or they are going to have trouble lasting very long. From the physiological point of view plants have been shown to have a therapeutic effect on astronauts. Don Pettit famously kept the blog of the astro zucchini while he was in orbit ( $URL$ ) I can see this idea helping, however there would have to be a significant advantage over say some clever 3D effect screens acting as windows to make it worth the extra cost. As they say in space travel every gram is expensive. 

Several issues with this idea. 1) The vast majority of the solar wind is composed of electrons and protons, with small amounts of helium, oxygen, and other heavy elements depending on if the solar wind is coming from coronal holes or contains a solar flare/CME. 2) The particles coming to the poles (through the length process of day-side reconection, tail transport, lobe compression, and night side reconnection) are not moving perpendicular to the magnetic field, they are moving along the field (parallel) so the only difference between charged motion is the gyro-orbit, which you would be hard pressed to separate in a meaningful way. 3) Aurora are actually caused by the night side reconnection releasing large amounts of stored energy into the poles. This is not a continuous process but occurs in spurts. In addition, most of the charged particles coming into the poles are electrons, further limiting the amount of oxygen you are going to be able to collect. Overall, even with only a small energy draw, there won't be enough charge separation to power a contraption such as this with just polar flux. You are also only going to collect a very small amount of oxygen and even less from other elements. Even if you removed the artificial magnetosphere and collected the solar wind directly there won't be enough to create an artificial atmosphere. 

The problem would be that they would be well inside the Roche limit. And would need to be well inside the Roche limit for a very long time for the tidal locking to occur. Tidal locking actually takes a very very long time to happen. The process it is thought to happen through is explained quite well in this wikipedia entry. That's with out taking into account the atmospheric drag of the second planet being inside the atmosphere of the first causing it to slow its orbit and then smash together reasonably quickly. To pull this off you would need some form of magic involved. As another small side, though the moon's orbital period and rotation are tidally locked we don't always see exactly the same chunk of it. It moves slightly and we get to see about 9% 1 more surface area than we would if it was completely locked to us. Unless the two planets were exactly locked together you would not be able to build a building across the gap as it would crack if there was even the smallest movement. 

Historians themselves are not particularly concerned with being neutral, so much as accurate and in depth. It might help to think of historians as exceptionally diligent writers of non-fiction, and they write and report on what they believe happened with what (hopefully) amounts to at least some journalistic integrity. This is the ideal case. All too frequently, however, people allow themselves to have their judgment colored by their feelings; this is when the academic community comes into play, and why it should be protected and encouraged in any free nation. When you say things like 'Hitler was insane' and 'John Wayne Gacey was a pervert', in a historical context it should be at the end of a paper containing research, or else the actual historians will pop up with 'citation required'. This process is self regulating - if someone makes a contentious statement, their professional reputation is on the line. If they don't have one of those to risk at the moment, they'd better be spot on, or else what they've done is posted the academic equivalent of an obnoxious YouTube comment - only this time their real name and credentials are written at the top. This is why peer review is a good thing. In your world, if what you want is neutral coverage, then you need free speech, freedom of the press, and an academic community willing and able to police itself - and take note that we don't necessarily always succeed on these points in the modern day. 

The downsides to this method: It takes quite a while to set up. You need to steal a map. It is very easy to end up with the mesh in a complete knot. I am not convinced it will always give you the correct answer. (But it seems close) 

I was going to post this as a comment on @Zibbobz's answer, however it kind of grew to being its own answer. If there was some local fauna which was kind of like kelp. With pockets of hydrogen gas to help hold it's self up. The plant would have evolved this to help them scatter their seeds or pollen over a very large area. When the dragon wants to go hunting it grabs hold of lots of these. Cuts them free of the ground and floats up, up and away. These plants will have evolved to have very stretchy gas sacks so they can reach higher altitudes. (a normal weather balloon can stretch four times its size during flight1) During the early phase of the flight the dragon takes many deep breaths to oxygenate its blood and then holds its breath once it passes out of the range where it can breath. Whales can hold their breath for up to 90 minutes. Once the dragon is high enough or the balloon/kelp pops it drops down in a very stream lined shape with its wings folded back. It is still holding its breath. Here it will break the sound barrier. The pray it is falling on will not see or hear it coming. The pray is going to have to give it a huge amount of energy. This has to feed a dragon after all. As the dragon needs to slow down it first goes from noes down to nose level then slowly expands its wings. Hopefully managing to glide out of the fall before it splatters its self into the ground. The highly flammable plants may be a problem with this plan. Maybe need to explain that the plants seeds can be activated by fire and thus why they are around fire breathing dragons. We are trying to deal with big dragons, some amount of hand waving is required to deal with the square/cubed law. 

I've thought long and hard about this question, and its requirements. I want to lead off with a couple of observations I've made. As far as the branching-timelines needing to end; this is really a non-requirement. The story will be told from the vantage point of a given person or group of persons. Prior to any interaction between two rewinders, there will have been a near infinite number of divergent timelines created by rewinders around the world, doing things as simple as un-dropping a contact lens. Since the entirety of the universe is rewound, leaving nothing changed otherwise, there is no reason for any special treatment - we need only be able to observe the interactions involving the people in the story, all of whom exist in every timeline where they didn't die yet. Sure, this leaves a complicated multiverse, but no one exists that can actually see across the boundaries - so it doesn't matter. What's more, if you change your mind later, you can write in someone who can pass through the boundaries. Less is more, here. As far as outside observers not being able to notice, you've essentially already written this mechanism as well as you need to. If you actually make the rewinder experience the rewind in real time or some (maybe selectable) multiple of real time, preventing them from manipulating anything during the rewind, there's nothing to notice. An adept rewinder could get skilled at watching his environment during the rewind and more or less seamlessly reenter the "new" situation. Now we need to tackle the requirements that really don't mesh well; it is desirable that no one can be forced to relive a situation, but we'd like for the rewinders to know or reasonably suspect when they've been rewound, and be able to do something about it. For them not to relive a situation, they must not perceive the situation recurring, but to detect a rewind, there has to be something that is perceptible to them. But everything has to rewind, and everyone has to follow the same rules. As such, I propose the following; 

We can use one of the many asteroid impact simulators around to estimate the damage for single impactors. I've used the one from Imperial Collage London We can enter different values here for the size of the incoming asteroids. As an example I picked a 500m object with a density of 10000 kg/m3 (higher than iron as you said they are heavier elements) impacting at 11.00 km/s (slow) at 45 Degrees to the ground (the average impact angle) and had it hit crystalline rock. The full result can be seen here: $URL$ The headline is a final crater diameter of 9.27 km from an impact energy of 3.93 x 10^19 Joules. 9.40 x 10^3MegaTons I would suggest playing with the numbers and seeing what kind of effects you get. It gives you different things at different distances from the target so have a play around with that setting. Multiple impacts will be required to deliver the amount of material you are suggesting unfortunately I couldn't find any thing on the dissipation rates of dust from the atmosphere which would be the limiting factor between impact events if you don't want to kill every one. Have fun with Armageddon 

Imagine if instead of Leif Ericson or Christopher Columbus finding humans, they had found (insert your favorite non-hominid humanoid here) with a similar technological development to the humans they did find. Would there be any real difference in the end result (in terms of colonization and genocide)? 

I would like a realistic evolutionary path for non-hominid humanoids, but evolution is extremely complex and varied, so I will narrow the question to examining how evolution might occur in felines to produce a humanoid. I would like to start with the Pseudaelurus (a prehistoric cat) and move to an upright walking, fingered and toed omnivore (cat's are obligate, "true", carnivores). I think I have a reasonable idea for how to evolve their diet (included below for reference), but I'm stuck trying to come up with a reason for hominid like fingers and toes and upright walking. My question is, what types of environmental/cultural/etc... changes could lead to a feline developing upright walking and hands capable of hominid like grasping? Evolution of Diet: Assuming the cats were native to a plains environment with ample hunting opportunities, an environmental shift (ocean's rising, tectonics, something else) could force the felines into a wooded environment with a much smaller number of prey. This would lead to adaptations for including fruits and other forest products into their diets. It would most likely also favor tree climbing adaptations like those seen in leopards.