I frankly think Mauro's answer is, if not wrong, then at least misleading. I think the set theory part of it is mostly fine (but irrelevant the OP's question), but I very strongly disagree with the idea that sets are merely special kinds of collections: rather, each set gives rise to the collection of its elements, but the set is not the collection and the collection is not the set. On the other hand, I think his analysis of what variables are is very misleading and possibly outright wrong. 

My actual position would be that the whole symbol discussion is a red-herring: variables are a concept auxiliary to the concepts of substitution and hypotheticals; variables are a part of language (hence symbolic in the sense of the given answers) only insofar as concepts are expressed and possibly learned in language. 

First, the meaning of a statement is not its truth value. Obviously whether the natural language sentence "it is red" is meaningful does not depend on whether the thing referred to by "it" is actually red. Similarly, a mathematical formula with a free variable like "x is red" can be meaningful even though it does not (and cannot) have a truth value (only propositions, i.e. formulas without free variables, can have truth values, although undecidable propositions also don't have truth values but are still meaningful). Whether "x is red" is meaningful depends on whether the type of x supports redness as a property it may or may not posses. This runs somewhat counter to the usual formulation of first-order logic that mathematicians use, in which formulas with free-variables are only auxiliary constructs on the way to formulating propositions, that is, formulas with no free variables, which are always meaningful and can be true or false when given semantics in the sense of model theory. However, ascribing such an auxiliary status to formulas with free variables is merely a mathematical convention, not a philosophical position. In particular, in other formal languages, like type theory or fragments of first-order logic, assertions with free variables play a fundamental role and must be considered meaningful for the mathematics to even get of the ground. Second, a statement with pronouns is only meaningful if the pronoun has a(n implicitly or explicitly) specified referent. Reference is the fundamental grammatical function of pronouns. Variables, on the other hand, do not have referents, they do not refer. To suggest that variables are like pronouns may misleadingly encourage the misconception that variables are the same thing as "unknowns" – they are not. Rather, they key function of variables (in logic, not programming) is not that they refer, but that they can be substituted for by other expressions (of the same type as the type of the variable). Thus, the "x" in the statement "x is red" can be substituted for by any expression of the same type as "x", to produce a new statement. This natural language example is a bit difficult to deal with, because the type of "x" is unspecified, hence is implicitly everything. This means that I can substitute anything for "x", e.g. "horse" for "x", or "unicorn", or "banana", or "two", or "Mauro" to get various other statements: "unicorn is red", "horse is red", "banana is red", "two is red", "Mauro is red". 

I do believe that a bit of background on Nietzsche's Human, All Too Human would make any interpretation of Thus Spoke Zarathustra richer. Allow me, then, to draw from my knowledge of the said book, aside from so-called authoritative commentaries on Thus Spoke Zarathustra, such as The Mask of Enlightenment by Stanley Rosen. Rosen used a translation different than yours: "those who do not know how to live, except by going under; for it is they who cross over." As I understand his interpretation, the people who "do now know how to live" are Zarathustra's disciples, hence Zarathustra loves them. You might ask as to why Zarathustra's disciples do not "know how" to live. The answer is that the reason why they came to Zarathustra in the first place, why they became his disciples, is to learn how to live authentically (as an ubermensch). Now, in your translation, the "down-goers" are the ones who went "down" under Zarathustra's teaching, under the patronage and guidance of Zarathustra. Since they benefit from the teachings of Zarathustra, they are the ones who may or might become the ubermensch of tomorrow, the "over-goers." While I agree with Rosen, I assert that there can be no single interpretation of Nietzsche, as Gregory Smith already asserted. Nietzsche himself wants to be interpreted multifariously. The reasons for these are: a)Nietzsche, as some degree, deliberately and consciously wants to be misunderstood; b) Being misunderstood will call for a closer examination of the work misunderstood; c) A closer examination will reveal the depth of profundity and the richness of the said work; d) Nietzsche, in his books, addressed different types of audience, yet believes that an advice to a type of audience may still be applicable to another. He is a bit of a subscriber to the thought that the author "does not matter" anymore after his books are published; e) Each person brings with him his own "lifeworld" in reading the text and the said "lifeworld" affects the way he reads the text, thus giving rise to valid, different interpretations. Now, in my own reading of that passage, I can recall Nietzsche's teaching in Human, All too Human that when one becomes ill or burdened or "fettered" in some way, he/she will compensate for it in another way. Nietzsche's own example is the blinds who develop a superb sense of hearing. When hearing is concerned, they then are superior to the rest of mankind. The same, I believe, is applicable to the "down-goers." Though in this case, "down-goer" must mean someone who is in the stage of the camel, extremely burdened, who, as a way of compensation, will increase his courage and will come later to throw off all that burdens him (lion) then create new values for himself (child.) The child is, obviously, the over-goer, for he went "over" that which afflicted him before. 

Nothing about variables has anything to do with the language being "formal" or "formalized", and even though I've expressed all of the above with literal symbols, variables themselves are not literal symbols, anymore than an actual tree is the literal word "tree". I don't think either Mauro's or jobermark's answers mean symbols in the sense of literal, written-on-the-page symbols; instead they seem to mean symbols as references to social experience, which is fine (though somewhat tautological I'd say) insofar as language itself is a social construct. But I take exception in the determination of what variables are by declaring that variables are symbols and then determining the ontology of symbols. This is because to declare variables are symbols is merely to declare that variables are a part of language, and to determine the ontology of symbols is to determine the ontology of language. But the ontology of variables itself does not get specifically determined (because there are many more symbols other than variables!) In other words, granting that language is made up of symbols, and that variables are symbols, it is important to say what kind of symbols variables actually are, i.e. what kind of social experiences variables refer to (if we buy the idea that social reference is the ontological status of symbols). I think they are much closer to common nouns than they are to pronouns, but the translation from logic to natural language is not direct. The reason the translation is indirect is that common nouns in natural language are almost always specific, that is, already substituted for. A better (but still poor) rendition of "unicorn is red" in natural language would be "Consider a (hypothetical) unicorn. This unicorn is red". Here the common noun (a variable) by its very nature comes with its type (unicorn) and remains unsubstituted for because of the introductory "Consider a (hypothetical) unicorn". Note that in the second clause "This unicorn is red", "this unicorn" can be understood to either act like a pronoun in that it has a referent, which is the "(hypothetical) unicorn" of the first clause, or better: it can be undestood as asserting that the variable "unicorn" in "this unicorn" is equal to the "(hypothetical) unicorn" you were being asked to consider earlier. If instead the introductory clause said "Consider Charlie the unicorn", then the variable "unicorn" is asserted equal to "Charlie the unicorn". The fact that Charlie the unicorn is not red but white has to do with the fact that the proper noun (phrase) "Charlie the unicorn" has a referent by which we can determine the truth of "This unicorn is red". 

Answers vary, depending on what school of thought the one responding adheres to. For accuracy, my answer would be a combination of both philosophy and psychology. It is one of the basic principles of psychology that the self is composed of the "conscious," "subconscious," and the "unconscious." As the name suggests, the conscious is the part of the mind that is, well, conscious. It is the "visible" part of the mind. The thoughts we think are flashed in the conscious part of the brain. It is the "captain" of the ship. The unconscious, on the other hand, is like the engine room. The unconscious is the storehouse of all our memories, even memories made in infancy (even in fetal stage). Within the unconscious, one can find the deepest drives that, though unknown to the conscious mind, subtly manifest themselves. There are many drives in the unconscious, but to summarize it, there's the "life instinct" and the "death instinct." The subconscious serve as a gatekeeper of the information from the conscious to the unconscious. It also serves as the gatekeeper of the unconscious drives. Now, our acts are actually sometimes dictated by the unconscious. Why? Some memories are too difficult, too painful to process for the conscious that the subconscious buries them to the unconscious. In the unconscious, they, too, join the battle of tugging the death instinct or the life instinct. It is the reason why we sometimes just feel a "natural connection" with things, animals, or food, or an irrational aversion to them. Now, the repressed memory would want to surface, but the conscious would not let them. One of the defense of the conscious (or the ego) is further repression, intellectualization, rationalization, sublimation, altruistic surrender, etc. Yet, we may not be fully aware that we are already doing sublimation or altruistic surrender or intellectualization. The ego does what it does to protect itself. Still, however, we may become aware of them through deep self-introspection or through psychoanalysis. Nietzsche believes that even though the self is continually changing, constant introspection will still allow us a deeper insight into ourselves. Furthermore, Nietzche believes that our actions are sometimes motivated by things which we have already forgotten about.