As far as I know, the notion of open set has been formulated after the notion of open interval in the real line. Was the goal of generalization to allow the definition to work in higher dimensions? 

In my opinion, you should understand it as admitting we can't know anything for sure. No matter how confident we are about the validity of some statements, theorems etc., we can never reach 100% certainty. You might say, well, why do we generally believe things are not certain instead of believing in them with no criticism or doubts - I guess that's just the way we were 'built'. We should ask another question - why me, you and most, if not all, other people tend to think confidence about validity of theorems in any science (biology, physics, and even mathematics that we may consider unfalsifiable) is unreachable? And then, why you asked this question even if you feel you can keep asking such questions forever, that's why you will never get the ultimate answer (and then ask the question if it's true there are no ultimate answers). 

At some point, I believe we should just accept the way we comprehend the world, take it as an axiom, without questioning it. The goal is to find that border that is generally accepted by all of us - you can always continue asking more 'but why' questions with regard to any topic, but we generally assume it's reasonable to stop at some point. Otherwise, you would spend your life on asking such questions which isn't a very efficient way of life. 

This sounds very general and very abstract. It makes me ask - how abstract a definition (axiom) can be, and still be "valid"? As far as I know, definitions are axioms in modern mathematics. Axioms are supposed to be obvious, taken as true without proof. Yet, some definitions (axioms) are better motivated than others. To remind my earlier point - I could just as well find a different generalization of Cauchy's continuous function, such that if a function was continuous according to Cauchy, then it would be continuous according to the new, different definition. It follows that mathematicians are still formulating new axioms, by creating generalizations of definitions such as those mentioned above. They can informally justify them, but not prove them (well, that's why they are called axioms). But somehow, some axioms (definitions) are more true than others. We're trying to measure the correctness of a definition by the strength of its motivation, justification, which are informal considerations anyway. In summary: How are generalizations created, justified and accepted? Could we have chosen different generalizations (I'm suggesting that we could). Is every generalization a creation of another axiom? Is there the only, ultimate, correct and valid generalization? 

To give another example, consider the definition of continuous function given by Cauchy. Function f is continuous at x, if for all ε > 0, there exists some δ > 0, such that if y is no further than δ from x, then f(y) is no further than ε from f(x). A more general definition used in topology is (X and Y are topological spaces): 

When generalizing from any notion A (in this example, open interval) to a notion B (here - open set), our goal is to ensure that if A is true, then B is true as well. So we want to define a generalization of open interval in such a way that if an interval is open, then it's an open set. Obviously, we don't require the converse to be true. Is it the only definition that qualifies as generalization of "open interval"? I could find some other definition of open set that would satisfy the condition that if something is an open interval, then it's an open set (remeber, the definiton of open set would be different here). What made mathematicians agree on this particular generalization? 

First, suppose what's happening when I say I don't understand something (let it be a proof of some mathematical theorem). What does it mean? Probably that I can't see all logical connections between given facts and statements, right?. And then it comes to me that eureka moment, when I finally 'get it'. What if I shouldn't understand it and I'm just fooling myself this proof or anything similar makes sense? Given some proof we were told is correct, we basically stop thinking about it once we feel we 'understand' it. Maybe we shouldn't think we 'understand' it, because it contains some major logical flaws and our initial intuition with regard to it (that we didn't understand it) was correct? In other words, when we don't understand something we feel we should, and it makes potential mistakes harder to spot, because we adjust our thinking process to arrive at the conclusion 'yes, this statement makes sense and is correct'. On the other hand, if we attempted to falsify every statement, we could never finish the process, because maybe we would never find any flaw in it. It all comes down to proving axioms, which is impossible (stating that it's impossible to prove an axiom is an axiom - it can't be anything else... quite circular thing though). In the end, we take it as an axiom that if a billion people find no flaw in a statement, then we could accept it as an axiom. 

A world without randomness presupposes many things and is impossible to assess, but assuming that the only thing that has changed is our knowledge that the world is not random we can then try to evaluate free will. So, what is free will? For the sake of argument, we can call it the ability of agents to make unimpeded choices. Obviously all choices are impeded to some extent by our experience, but we want to know whether randomness is what allows our choices. This is where the premise is obviously silly. Randomness has no logical connection to choice. Just because I make a calculated decision, one that is not random, would not inherently mean I did not make the decision. How can I make a particular choice, if my choice is random. Agency, is far more deep and controversial than a debate between randomness and determinism. For instance, what determines our actions are often well illustrated as not random, in fact in social science and psychology we often see the causation behind action, but that does not necessarily take away agency. For example, I may choose one job over another because of very concrete, non-random reasons like salary (a value shown by society), but that does not inherently mean I didn't make the choice unimpeded. If I randomly decided which job, I would not illustrate free will, all that happened was chance. Second, even if my choices are caused by non-random circumstance, that does not mean that circumstances do not create agency. Physical reactions may create a quality of agency as defined above that then follows non-random behaviors. Finally, we live in a world with more or less free will. For instance, a trafficked prostitute has more agency than a prostitute that is not trafficked (much of this is determined by the discourse of how states define women and prostitution). In the most meaningful way, one person can have less impeded choices than others, which illustrates, regardless of randomness or determinism, free will. 

I Second Chris Sunami, and I would like to add that everything we observe and do as humans is natural (additionally, setting up a dichotomy between what is natural and not only leads to strange forms of domination and humans inability to cope with environmental concerns). As Leslie Thiele and George Carlin, among many others, note, humans and their experiences are natural. "Human genetic adaptation and cultural development have mutually reinforced each other from time immemorial" (Thiele 1999, 11). Put another way, plastic bags are part of evolution and nature, as are fatherhood, morals, and contraceptives. Birth control and cultural mores are not man's triumph over nature nor separate from it, we are naturally created and what we create is natural. "Our sophisticated brains and rational capacities that challenge primitive drives are neither independent from our genes nor wholly antagonistic to them. Indeed, they are the consequence of the proper functioning of our genes" (Theile 199, 22). Fatherhood is as natural as blinking, motherhood, blue eyes, lions, tigers and bears. Now, if you are interested in discussing the nature of human, and not whether cultural features are natural, you may quickly observe that most things are not consistent across all societies. For instance, Karl Friedrich (1963) identifies only six basic traits of human and explains that they offer no systematic insight into how we order society. Thus, beyond forming communities, adaptability, experiencing oneself as self, communicating with others through language, and reason, human society has no other basic consistencies. We may use these basic traits to create fatherhood or not. Similarly, we stand on these basic traits to form motherhood, friendship, love, hot food, etc. In other words, fatherhood like motherhood and hot food, are not basic human traits, but nothing beyond these six could be considered basic or the nature of human. So identifying human nature provides little insight into whether our customs, culture and behavior are valid or natural. Nevertheless, if you deviate from Friedricks six characteristics of society, lets say you do not have a sense of yourself or communicate through language, you are only now acting, in some sense, against basic nature (but with time our view of basic nature could always change, and this would be natural). Furthermore, humans are genetically disposed to develop more complex brains, culture and moral understandings that "challenge unmediated drives" (Theile 1999, 15), which means searching for basic human factors does not tell us about what is man's natural condition nor will it help inform his normative stance. Finally, if someone attempts to say something about the nature of human primitiveness before society existed, they are describing a different species and misleading you. The article you cited mentions that agrarian settlements were the moment of social formation, but this is inaccurate as many nomadic tribes today and in the past had social aspects and fatherhood roles (see Timbuktu).