For a long time I've wanted to rent a draisine and ride it down an old abandoned railway. There's dozens of places in Scandinavia where one can do so. 

My Rohloff gearhub will only shift between gears 3 and 4 (I think; display long ceased to be readable, but it's two low gears). I tried adjusting the shifter cable tension but it makes no difference. When I disconnect the gearbox from the hub it still doesn't shift. 

You don't need such a repair service. There is a different, more practical solution: a loan bike. In The Netherlands, most bicycles are used by commuters, so expediting wouldn't work. However, there are also many places that rent bicycles. A good bike shop can simply have a couple of dozen bicycles on hand that they then loan out to a (regular) customer, so that they can still go to work, school, social outings, etc.. This is already common practice in The Netherlands. I believe there exist car garages that do the same, so I don't see why it would be any different for bicycles. If the bike shop is unwilling to loan you a bike, and you have the money, you can just rent a bike to cover the period you won't have access to your own. If it happens frequently, you can buy a secondary bicycle for the same purpose. 

The KMC website suggests using a MissingLink 7/8R 7.1mm (although others should work as well, as mikes points out). 

This lacing pattern is actually explicitly recommended by Shimano and Magura for rear disc hubs. Under braking, the leading spokes will be in tension, while under drive the trailing spokes will be in tension. The tension acts to straighten out the spokes, pushing the spokes on the other side of the flange outward from the flange centre line. I don't know if anyone has measured this effect, but I imagine it's negligible for most purposes. Nonetheless, according to Roger Musson, old-fashioned disc brake designs used to have very tight clearances between the caliper and the NDS spokes, so you would want the leading NDS spokes to be on the outside at the final cross to avoid contact with the caliper under braking. This is irrelevant to your wheel because it doesn't have disc brakes. Conversely, there's an argument that the DS spokes should be laced the opposite way around to avoid contact with the mech cage under drive load when on the biggest sprocket. This seems even more tenuous to me, given how small drive forces are in comparison with braking forces. Either way, it's consistent with what's observed on your wheel. I'm not sure how much merit any of these arguments have – would be nice to know if someone's measured it. But in any case, asymmetric lacing patterns have some favour among the big names in the industry, at least for disc brake set-ups. 

I have a bicycle with an internally geared hub (Rohloff). To tension the chain, I loosed the attachment of the rear wheel (dropouts), draw back the rear wheel, and tighten the attachment again. However, on one side, this mechanism is stuck. I've oiled it but it's still stuck. What can I try next? 

In a narrow bike lane, there is insufficient space for one bicycle to safely overtake another. Therefore, to overtake another bicycle, you should pass into the car lane when it is safe to do so, overtake there, and then pass back into the bicycle lane, again when it is safe to do so. Change lanes for the overtake maneuver — just like you would in a car. In my opinion, you should not need to ring your bell when you overtake, unless several cyclists are cyclist abreast and making it impossible for anybody to pass, but this is more likely on a bike path than on a bike lane. 

Whereas on the other side of my bicycle, it does. This leaves me with the choice of cycling with a loose chain, or cycling with a slightly less loose chain but a rear wheel that isn't straight. Not a great choice. How can I unstuck this mechanism? I've already tried to oil it. Edit: The thing on the left (with a thread visible) is stuck. It is supposed to be connected to the thing sticking out on the right, but regardless of how much I loosed the thing sticking out on the right, the thing on the left won't move. Sorry, I don't know the right terminology. 

It turns out the tyre wasn't fine; here it is 2000km later. The tyre has split in two places on one side, and the bond between the bead and the sidewall looks pretty compromised all the way around. Thankfully it didn't blow out while I was on the bike! 

I have a Kinesis Tripster ATR. The drive-side seat stay has a lug on it whose purpose I can't work out: 

I noticed after mounting some new tyres that part of the side wall, just above the bead, seems to have been damaged while I was fitting them (see photos below). These tyres were especially difficult to mount, even with the bead seated in the rim's bead well all the way around. So tight, in fact, that the only way to get the bead out of the well and seated under the bead hook was to pump it up to a much higher pressure than I would ride it with and wait for it to "ping" into place. I think it's this process that ended up causing the damage you can see in the photos. The tyres in question are these (folding version). Have I compromised my tyres, or should I not worry about it? 

Your mileage may vary here; if the filling comes off after riding, you might be looking at a new CSU if you want a complete fix. The fork will still work, of course, but a gap will allow dirt into the lower legs, which will effectively shorten the service interval on the fork. I've successfully repaired a nick in a Fox RP2 rear shock like this, and it's still going strong today. However, it didn't work so well on the stanchions of my TALAS 32, since the filling wouldn't stick for more than a couple of rides. 

I was trying to detach my handlebar, because lowering was insufficient to make my bicycle fit in my box. I detached the long screw going connecting two lids thereby fastening the stem-handlebar connection, but the lid of the left side is stuck: 

To expand on the different bicycles answer: The less trained person could ride a recumbent. With the same effort, riding a recumbent goes considerably faster. From people I know with recumbents, they regularly overtake racers even when they're not doing much work. The work/speed ratio is just a completely different story on a recumbent. 

I am researching into faired recumbents, bicycles or trikes, such as the Velomobile Quest or the Sunrider. I'm interested in cycling long distances as a daily commute and for touring, but have no interest in racing or mountain-biking. My current, upright bicycle (Koga Miyata) has a Rohloff gear and on my trips, I use both the smallest and the largest gear regularly. According to Rohloff, typical derailleurs do not have a higher gear range than the Rohloff Speedhub (which has 526%), although Wikipedia reports gear ranges up to 700% for derailleurs. Faired recumbents can be really heavy (45 kg for the Sunrider) and really fast (2% downhill, 100W, 63.8 km/h, but also 30% faster than racers when flat). Really fast means one wants to have a very high gear, but really heavy means one also wants a really small gear to make it up steep slopes. Considering that I'm already using the full 526% range on my current upright bicycle, I wonder; do heavy, faired recumbents need more gear range than upright bicycles? I love my Rohloff, but should one consider getting a higher gear range on a faired recumbent? 

It's difficult to say without seeing photos of the road layout. However, if the road itself continues round to the left, you should indicate right when you're leaving it. In general, you should think about the topology of the road, rather than its geometry. It doesn't matter that you're following a geometrically straight line; you're still leaving the road for a separate carriageway, and you need to signal this intention. The default assumption for someone crossing the road is that you'll continue along the carriageway you're already on. This said, of course, common sense should always prevail! Never do anything that feels dangerous (for you or for someone else). 

There may be others brands that use a similar design, but I think ISM is the best known. The idea is that most of your weight is supported on the frontal prongs, rather than the flat area at the back. They have a gap in the middle to avoid putting pressure on your perineum. For this reason they're especially popular among time triallists and triathletes because they allow you to rotate your pelvis forward more comfortably. They feel quite different to conventional saddles, mostly because of the extra width at the front, and will probably take some getting used to. The image came from this review. 

Not sure what to call it, but a couple of my wheels are missing the grippy washer thing that sits on the lock nut. They seem to be attached to the lock nut to begin with, but they just fall off after a while and get lost when swapping wheels. Can they be replaced? If so, where can I find the replacement part? With: