Sartre saw the answer in living authentically. Camus saw this as a confrontation with the absurd. Schopenhauer saw in experiencing the sublime a return to a more naturalistic state free of such concerns: $URL$ Buddhist practice is aimed squarely at the matter. You may already have written it off as a dogma, but it is a practice. Meditation is aimed at training us to be with things as they actual are, quietening the voice of distraction and triviality, and awakening fully to our existential situation 

Imagine if you could only measure the heat produced in an a.c. circuit, and had no way to know the current. P=I^2R You would only be able to get a positive quantity from an unobservable current that seemed to be able to 'unphysically' be positive & negative. In this analogy power is just like any quantum observable, like position. And the 'unphysical' bit gives an underlying variable, but in this case one which cannot be observed, e.g. a spacial distribution of probabilities. In an atom the observables are coupled together into an equation of state, the phase records angular momentum or spin. Spin can be up or down, in quantised amounts, but the spacial probability doesn't care which way it is facing, only the magnitude. The other example of complex numbers to describe space is the $URL$ Here the 'unphysical' part indicates instability 

The amended version of set theory yields a lot of paradoxes. For an overview see chapter III of $URL$ To expose only one of the most striking paradoxes (loc cit p. 253): Every day Scrooge McDuck earns 10 enumerated dollars and spends 1 enumerated dollar. If he always returns the smallest number then the set theoretic limit of the sequence of his possessions is the empty set because from every dollar we can say when it is spent. Although his wealth grows beyond all limits, after all he will become bankrupt. Certainly this will be considered as a paradox by every normal observer, but it is the foundation of naive as well as of modern set theory. It is required to defend the claim that all rational numbers can be enumerated. 

One of the epithets of the Buddha is 'teacher of the devas'. There are various accounts of Buddha teaching devas or gods, even Brahman the supreme being/ultimate reality. $URL$ This is a very different dynamic to Western thought, it is not arguing ontic priority, but saying there are insights in this practice for all beings. The bigger picture is, religion and philosophy are terms rooted in Greek thought. Why should we expect a really ancient practice that arose out of an even more ancient culture, to fit neatly into these categories? Consider $URL$ The concern of Buddhism is not with cosmology, or hierarchies of being, or who's book is best, or even who's account of how we got here is best. It is about suffering, the causes of suffering, that it is possible to live in a way that doesn't cause suffering, and how to do that. They are the Four Noble Truths. At core that is all Buddhism is. The poison arrow is in all beings, it is part of the nature of being an arising phenomenon. It's cessation, however that is achieved, for all beings, is Buddhism. Buddhism is compatible, in principle, with all religions and cosmologies. But it is not concerned with things outside the area that it addresses, just like eg. science with areas outside it's conxern. That lack of concern can be interpreted as dismissal, but it shouldn't be. Just like scientific method has no concern with phenomena outside of external observations - yet other areas of consideration exist, so Buddhism is not concerned with phenomena outside of internal observations especially those honed by meditation - but such areas do exist. They are just not important to it's context. Buddhism is about identifying what it is to be awake. What obscures our view of pur being in the world? How do we numb, or distance, or or go to sleep to our experiences? How can we turn that around, be aware, engaged, and awake? In this very moment we decide. Namaste. Edited to add: Please note the nature of faith as viewed in Buddhism $URL$ It is not unconditional, or unjustified, it does not require a leap from a standing start. But it does require going into the practice with faith in it, that this has seen others 'across the stream'. You might compare this to how science depends on us having faith in other scientists, and the community. But it must also go beyond the material, the practical, the explained, into something deeply and intrinsically personal. That is certainly not in the realm of science. 

In a letter to J. Hontheim Cantor wrote on 21 December 1893: "The time is not far, however, that my teaching will turn out to be a really exterminating weapon against all pantheism, positivism and materialism." Who can explain the meaning of this quote? 

Without science far less lives would have been possible. Of course all these will die again, but that cannot be blamed on science. Consider the development of mankind. Two thousand years ago there were about 200 million people. Now we are more than 7 billions. That would not have been possible without modern science in agriculture and medicine. It can be observed that always when the agricultural and medical technologies were improved, the population has grown (see the second diagram). Source de.Wikipedia. 

So, in this model which pictures defining human qualities as associated with regulation of reproduction, it is to be expected that issues around this have a variety of strong feelings and modes of enforcement around them in succesful societies, especially in eras before contraception. We can compare to wolves and meerkats which also have such regulation. Early Christianity certainly valued celibacy over marriage, and in many branches celibacy was essential to be a preist. Whereas in Judaism married life is considered to put someone closer to God, and is an essential precondition to becoming a rabbi. Buddhism views sex as essentially unsettling and distracting. In Hindu culture the path of a saddhu ascetic is usually taken by someone who has completed essential family duties like having children and passing on management of the family, but who wishes to pursue an entirely non-material life, giving up all sex, family, money and possesions, towards that. A lot of views basically, and cultural inheritances. And of course, ancient traditions generally have little capacity to adapt to the modern realities of contraception. Sex education is a different matter. Those who base their moral reasoning more on values will generally choose taboo-based approaches, including on other issues like drug law. Those who base their moral reasoning more on consequences will choose harm-minimisation approaches. All real societies have a mix of both. Religion and views on human nature and people's strengths and weaknesses are bound to shape where people advocate to be on the spectrum between positions. 

I know of two sorts of argument denying the existence of a soul, where the soul is believed to exist from the beginning of the fetus, given by God (or Gods) and persisting as an unchangeable entity determining the character and behaviour of the human (or perhaps animal too). The first counterargument is taken from physics: If the soul acts on the body, then there should be a re-action of the body on the soul possibly changing or destroying it. The second counterargument is taken from medicine: The character of the human can be changed dramatically by drugs, electrodes in the brain and other chemical or physical perturbations. Are there more counterarguments? 

Cantor devised set theory for application to reality but started from the divine wisdom of the hierarchy of infinities. My question is: What of Cantor's claims has become reality? What are practical applications of set theory? And what parts of transfinite set theory require the philosophical position of platonism? Here are some quotes which may help to familiarize with the stuff. In a letter to Hilbert he wrote about his plan of a paper on set theory and its applications: "The third part contains the applications of set theory to the natural sciences: physics, chemistry, mineralogy, botany, zoology, anthropology, biology, physiology, medicine etc. It is what Englishmen call 'natural philosophy'. In addition we have the so called 'humanities', which, in my opinion, have to be called natural sciences too, because also the 'mind' belongs to nature." [G. Cantor, letter to D. Hilbert (20 Sept 1912)] Cantor explained his impetus for devising set theory to Mittag-Leffler: "Further I am busy with scrutinizing the applications of set theory to the physiology of organisms. [...] I have been occupied for 14 years with these ideas of a closer exploration of the basic nature of all organic; they are the true reason why I have undertaken the painstaking and hardly rewarding business of investigating point sets, and all the time never lost sight of it, not for a moment. Further I am interested, purely theoretically, in the nature of the states and what belongs to them, because I have my opinions on that topic which later may become formulated mathematically; the striking impression that you perhaps may obtain will disappear, when you consider that also the state in some sense represents an organic being." [G. Cantor, letter to G. Mittag-Leffler (22 Sept 1884)] "By applied set theory I understand what usually is called physical science or cosmology. To this realm all so-called natural sciences are belonging, those concerning the anorganic as well as the organic world. [...] For mathematical physics the theory of types is particularly important because the latter theory is a powerful and sharp tool for the discovery and the intellectual construction of the so-called matter. Related to this is the applicability of the theory of types in chemistry. [...] Of very special interest seems to me the application of mathematical type theory on study and research in the realm of the organic." [G. Cantor, letter to G. Mittag-Leffler (18 Nov 1884)] "This has created my desire to replace the mechanical explanation of nature by a more complete one, which I would call in opposition to the former an 'organic' one." [G. Cantor, letter to W. Wundt (4 March 1883)] "The actual infinite in abstracto and in concreto, however, where I call it transfinitum, are not only subject of an extended number theory but also, as I hope to show, of an advanced natural science and physics." [G. Cantor, letter to I. Carbonnelle (28 Nov 1885)] Cantor says that he has no safer knowledge of anything in nature than of his transfinite set theory. "Therefore I am convinced that this theory one day will belong to the common property of objective science". [G. Cantor, letter to I. Jeiler (20 May 1888, Whitsun)] Finally Cantor devised transfinite set theory in order to defend Christian religion. "The time is not far, however, that my teaching will turn out to be a really exterminating weapon against all pantheism, positivism and materialism." [G. Cantor, letter to J. Hontheim (21 Dec 1893)] "The general set theory [...] definitely belongs to metaphysics. [...] and the fact that my presently written work is issued in mathematical journals does not modify the metaphysical contents and character of this work. [...] By me Christian philosophy is for the first time confronted with the true teachings of the infinite in its beginnings. [G. Cantor, letter to T. Esser (1/15 Feb 1896)] Concluding: "If one has recognized the truth of something, then one knows to be in possession of the truth and one feels [...] sort of duty, as far and as long as power reaches, to tell it to others." [G. Cantor, draft of a letter to A. Schmid (18 April 1887)] 

Science is not dependent on reductionism. Such narrow simplifications of science inevitably limit the scope for encountering wonder. 

Consider that many of the possibilities 'amount to to the same'. It is likr degenerate energy levels in a quantum system. Or states which increase entropy in a similar way - say you have a container half vacuum half gas and remove the divider; there are lots of states if you think of every atom as numbered and distinguishable, but are they? This thinking leads to Bose-Einstein statistics. Wheeler, who was the supervisor to Everett's Many Worlds interpretation of quauntum mechanics PhD thesis, pointed out the Achilles heel. Shannon entropy shows the link between information, energy, and available states. So if there are infinitely many branches, where is all the energy for the information in them coming from? There must be a limiting factor, perhaps at the particle scale (things only branch like this at the quantum scale, not above), or another interpretation entirely 

Some of the most prominent supporters of a recommendation of Adolf Hitler are: Eugen Fischer, Hans-Georg Gadamer, Martin Heidegger, Emanuel Hirsch, Wilhelm Pinder, Ferdinand Sauerbruch, Eberhard Schmidt, Friedrich Karl Schumann. A rather complete list of the signatories including many famous philosophers and mathematicians can be found here 

It is deemed irrational to pray by scientists because we do not believe that God, if existing, would dare to violate the laws of nature. It seems that he never did. This however would be necessary when hearing the prays and acting accordingly. Further history shows that praying is useless, for instance when people are in danger of being killed. On the Titanic probably more people have prayed then have been saved. In particular when two fighting parties pray for victory, it is hardly possible to hear both sides. However, you are right, that we cannot exclude the existence of one ore more Gods and we cannot finally exclude that they interfere with us. Therefore, when giving lectures about the infinity of a possible God, I always join Blaise Pascal in his advice: It is better to serve God on earth than to refuse it, because serving God (praying, visiting the church) is not much effort. If there is no God, the wasted effort is negligible. If however there is a God, then you gain or lose much in the life after life. I personally believe too little to act according to Pascal's advice, but everybody who feels like that should do. If you can believe in God this is certainly helpful, at least a psychological advantage, whether or not God(s) really exist(s). You may feel protected and able, like a well-prepared student feels better than an unprepared one when entering the exam. I would not recommend however to wear a spiked belt (with the spikes inside) as Pascal did himself in his later days. 

Causation is essentially a fiction we use to organise our experiences $URL$ Free will is a product of implicitly framing causation in terms of Mind (usually God's), usually creating a schism with the scientific world view, but is resolved by considering emergent properties of complex systems. There is no compulsion to derive explantions from simpler reductive layers, they are not neccessarily 'fundamental', but just part of the 'stack' of layers of organisation, with different dynamics but some interaction. Yogacara theology takes a stance aligned to this, that everything is mind, and subjective experience precedes any other kind, avoiding dualism. It rejects fundamental particles as having consciousness because they don't have subjective experiences, their reality is embedded in those, like Indra's Net. "somebody, something, must be imposing dynamic movement upon the universe" This is essentially $URL$ There are many physicists looking at what happened just before the Big Bang, so in that sense empirical answers may be possible. They can probably never address why there is anything instead of nothing, but that is really a mystics question, unlikely to have a rational answer. Another way of looking at your question, is the universe's future rather than it's past. Will the universe end in a 'heat death', a smear of hydrogen atoms at almost infinitely close to zero kelvin? Only if something interferes with that future, does 'nature' reject the static situation you describe. We currently have no reason to think so. But time will literally tell. 

Lying is a natural habit that is even common among intelligent animals. I have often observed that one among a group of sparrows eating my grass seed uttered a warning cry in order to make his buddies fly away and leaving the table to him alone. Apart from the reasons spelled out in the question a very important reason seems to me to spare other's feelings. If I met a contemporary who in my eyes is very ugly or stupid or is a loser I would never tell him or her this mercilessly but, if asked, try to address his or her merits. In my eyes this kind of lying is a moral obligation of every human. Philosophers rigorously forbidding the lie are unwordly (or they are like my sparrow to have the lie exclusively for themselves). I am not a notable philosopher but I hope the above is acceptable as a notable philosophical doctrin. (If you think otherwise: lie.)