Anti-seize compound exists to prevent galling, which according to Wikipedia is a problem with metal parts in sliding contact, particularly parts under high pressure with stationary or slow-speed contact. Some metals, such as aluminum and stainless steel, are more prone to galling than other materials, like hardened steel. Loctite make a brand of anti-seize compound, Loctite 37565, that is marketed as "Silver Anti-Seize", that they say is "fortified with graphite and metallic flake"; they don't say anything about the product actually containing silver, so I think "silver" is a marketing term. The metallic flake in it might well be aluminum (copper also seems to be popular). I couldn't tell you whether aluminum or "silver" anti-seize is better, but I do know from personal experience that if you're using stainless steel fasteners, any kind of anti-seize compound is much better than none. 

I have a racing-style bike from 1998 with 36-spoke wheels. My weight has fluctuated quite a bit since I bought the bike. Ever since my weight has gone above 95 kg / 209 lbs / 15 stone, I've been breaking spokes fairly frequently; perhaps five spokes over the last 800 km (500 miles). On a long ride, it's not uncommon for me to discover two broken spokes at the end of the ride, rather than one. The spokes always break on the freehub side of the rear wheel, of course. Because I rarely broke spokes when my weight was less than 90 kg / 200 lb / 14 stone, it seems as though my weight is the problem. If you're heavier than the average rider, weight might be your problem also. You could get sturdier wheels, or just learn to live with it. I've found that riding over large bumps like railroad tracks is a bad idea, so I try to walk the bike over large bumps now. If you're a do-it-yourselfer, replacing a spoke is a fairly simple repair. You'll need a chain whip, cassette tool, crescent wrench (an adjustable wrench big enough for the cassette tool), and a spoke wrench. I recommend keeping several spare spokes on hand; it seems I always discover the broken spokes when I want to ride on Sunday, when the bike shops are closed. I can replace a broken spoke and re-true the wheel in ten or fifteen minutes, now that I've had plenty of practice. 

I live in a rural area, and I am always looking for new roads. Most of the roads here have no shoulder, and there are some cliffs. The first thing that I do when I'm deciding whether a new road is too dangerous or not is to do a test-drive in a car. I look to see where there is a shoulder and where there isn't, I look for blind curves, I look at the pavement quality, and I look to see how much traffic there is. Next, I try riding the road when there isn't much traffic. For me, the most dangerous thing is a blind curve where there is no shoulder; around here, people in cars like to pass me illegally in the blind curve. The danger is that there will be a head-on collision between the car passing illegally and another car coming the other way; I don't want to be hit by the shrapnel. If there are blind curves and no shoulders, then the traffic must be light or I won't use that road. I would recommend that you have a look at your route in a car, and then try riding part of the route as a test when traffic is light, maybe early in the morning on Sunday. If riding part of the way doesn't seem too risky, then try riding the entire route the next weekend. If riding the entire route on early Sunday morning doesn't scare you, then try riding it early in the morning on a weekday. If that is OK, then try your plan of riding to work two or three times a week. I would also recommend that you find some local cyclists with more experience, and ask them about your route. Maybe they can recommend some alternatives around the most dangerous parts. Also be as safe as you can: wear bright colors and have flashing lights, use a mirror on your helmet, carry identification, and tell someone about your exact plans when you ride. 

Generally speaking, cyclocross bikes are intended to be raced both on and off roads. Because cyclocross bikes can be expected to hit roots, rocks, and other bumps of all sorts, presumably cyclocross bikes are built to be sturdier than road bikes, at the expense of being a bit heavier. I would expect the cyclocross bike to be more durable. Most road bikes are designed to be light, at the possible expense of durability; some makes and models are more durable than others, of course. Not having ever seen either of the two models you mentioned, I'd expect the cyclocross-style bike to be sturdier but slower, and the road bike to be faster but perhaps less durable. The cyclocross-style bike comes equipped with 35 mm tires, and the road-style bike with 25 mm tires, so the road-style bike is definitely likely to be faster. The rims should only need very infrequent replacing with both types of bikes, unless you really beat the bike up. Tires generally only need replacing when they wear down. You might need to replace spokes and true the wheel more often on the road bike, but once you learn how to do such simple repairs that won't be much of a concern. Especially for someone recently returned to bicycling, I'd recommend that you buy a bike from your locally-owned bike shop (not a department store or a big chain) rather than an online store. The local shop will do a much better job of helping you pick the best style, make, and model for you. The local shop should make sure that you get the right size, and adjust it to fit you correctly, which is very important. If you buy locally, you can test-ride the bike; personally I wouldn't want to buy a bike without riding it first, unless I'd tried my friend's bike of the same model or something. The local shop should set up the bike properly, and they should stand behind the sale and quickly correct any problems you might find. You might pay a bit more for the locally-purchased bike, but you're more likely to feel good about the purchase if you buy locally. 

I don't think that we would all agree on an answer to the question about whether it is ethical to have more than one bike; opinions vary. Many of us here on this web site have more than one bicycle, so I would say that in many parts of the world, owning more than one bicycle is common. Many of us joke that the correct number of bikes to own is n + 1, where n is the number currently owned, but we are kidding. Whether you need a second bike is a question that only you can answer. Some people only wish to own one bicycle, so they disguise a nice bicycle with a bad paint job to look like a low-quality bicycle. 

When I was 15 a friend and I somehow convinced our parents to allow us to go touring for a week; we were Boy Scouts and I'd read a book on touring. We mounted racks and panniers on our cheap bikes, strapped a relatively-heavy tent down, and headed off. We hadn't trained particularly, other than being typical kids of the pre-internet era who pedaled all over town all day in the summer. We probably averaged about 40 miles per day on our tour, and we had many memorable adventures that make me smile to think about them even now ;) Being middle-aged now, with a sedentary job, if I were to attempt a similar trip I'd have a much nicer touring bike and lighter gear, and I'd want to train for several months beforehand. It's one thing to be able to ride a bike loaded with 20 lbs of gear for many miles in a day, and it's another to be able to do that for several days in a row with only mild aches and pains. But you're not me; if you're younger and stronger, you might have no trouble just jumping on the bike and going. Also there's no rule about how far you must go in a day; personally I'd plan for about 50 miles per day on average (more on some days and zero on others), but if you and your friends want to just pedal lazily for two hours and then camp by the nearest swimming hole, then go ahead and do that. One thing that I can say definitively is that in order for touring to be fun, you have to want to do it. The idea of pedaling a bike for a week straight should sound wonderful; it should excite you and fire your imagination. The subject isn't often discussed here, but we hard-core bicyclists are a funny bunch. Just pedaling a bicycle, feeling the breeze in the face and leaning through curves, is fun for almost everyone able to do it. But pedaling hard or pedaling for a long time is painful. We hard-core bicyclists get a sort of runner's high, often attributed to endorphins, which is its own reward, and makes the pain worthwhile. Not everyone gets the same reward in the same proportion. That feeling, the many healthy benefits of the exercise, and the simple joy of riding (plus the desire for the respect of our riding peers, for those of us who ride in groups) is what motivates us to keep riding. If you're considering whether touring is right for you, you might try training for a month. Ride at least two or three days a week. Work up to riding at least two hours in a session; you might have to start easy, as little as fifteen or thirty minutes, to get your body used to it. (Padded bicycling shorts help a lot; don't wear anything under them, or you'll have trouble with chafing.) Push yourself, not so hard that you can barely talk, but enough that you feel like you've accomplished something afterwards. At the end of the month, if you feel like the training was worth it and you want to continue, then you'd probably enjoy touring. 

Tire sizing can be very confusing. The late, great Sheldon Brown has written a web page that does a magnificent job of answering your question. 

There is a liquid sold in hardware stores that is advertised as being a fast and easy way to make a rubbery coating for a tool handle: just dip the tool into the liquid and let it dry. In the US it's called "Plasti Dip". You might try that. Personally I think I'd just wrap the hooks tightly with two or three layers of electrical tape; the tape stays put better if you cut the tape with scissors rather than stretching the tape to break it. Electrical tape is sold in many colors these days, so you could match the color fairly closely if you or your significant other is picky about such things ;) 

The Park Tool Tension Meter measures tension on a spoke by deflecting part of the spoke, of course the part of the spoke that is spanned by the tension meter. You should use the scale that corresponds to the diameter of the spoke in the section of spoke that you're testing. That's probably closer to 1.8 mm than 2.0 mm. If you're not sure about the diameter in that section of spoke, you could buy or borrow a micrometer and measure the diameter of the spoke at several points spanned by the tension meter. If you really need an exact measurement of the spoke tension, then you could calibrate the meter for your spokes by hanging a known weight on a spoke (off the bicycle), giving you an exact tension, and then seeing what the tension meter says. However many tension meter users are only concerned with the tension of a spoke relative to the other spokes, in which case exact calibration is irrelevant. 

One of the functions of a rear dérailleur is to take up the chain slack when the rider changes to the smaller gears. The length of the derailleur limits how much slack it can take up, which puts a restriction on how big a gear can be on the rear cassette. This review says that 32 teeth is as large a gear as a Sora rear derailleur can handle, but it's possible that things were different the year Shimano made your derailleur. It might be possible for you to change your small chainring (in front) for a smaller one, but there are similar restrictions with the front derailleur: too small of a chainring will cause the chain to rub on the front derailleur cage. Your LBS should be able to help you determine if you can change gear sizes, and can order the parts for you also. I suspect that it won't be inexpensive or easy to put an easier gear ratio on your bike, and that the guy at the bike shop is right: training is the way to go. Personally, I had lots of trouble with hills after I moved to a hilly area, but I decided to embrace the challenge and take them on, and I'm glad that I did; I'm much stronger now, and I have a lot more fun cycling. Your mileage may vary of course. Good luck! 

There's always gaffer tape. Gaffer tape is similar to duct tape, and often confused with duct tape. For many uses, gaffer tape is a much superior product: it's cloth tape rather than plastic tape, so it tears much more easily while offering excellent strength, and it has a synthetic adhesive, so usually when the tape is peeled off there is no adhesive residue left behind. The downside of gaffer tape is that it costs much more than duct tape. For those in the US, Guitar Center stocks gaffer tape for about $10 and up. I probably wouldn't buy a roll just to strap a pump to a bike, but once I bought a roll I found all sorts of other uses for it, such as taping drawers shut when a toddler was visiting, where duct tape just wouldn't have been acceptable. As a bonus, gaffer-taping a mini-pump to the frame is consistent with The Rules, according to Rule 30, "when no C02 cannisters [sic] are available and your pockets are full of spare kit and energy gels." (I'm skeptical about the picture actually, because that looks like duct tape rather than gaffer tape.) 

Regarding your second question about exactly how worn a chain has to be before it skips on sprockets that are also worn, I don't believe that a nice clean engineering analysis is possible, because you would need a specific wear model for both the sprocket and the chain. There are far too many variables: alloy composition, heat treatment, and surface finish of the various parts; size distribution, composition, and amount of dirt particles; how often the chain was lubricated; and so on. Instead the industry has devised a practical rule-of-thumb measurement that works very well: the elongation percentage. @dafew's answer describes that well. On a personal note, let me add that chain skipping isn't the only danger of an elongated chain. Once I had a BSO with a badly-worn chain. I jumped on and started pedaling hard; the chain skipped and then caught, ripping several teeth off the cog, as I flew over the handlebars. I ended up with some impressive bruises and road rash on my forearms. As for why smaller cogs wear faster than larger cogs, consider a road bike with a 50-tooth front ring and an 11–32 cassette on the back. On the 11, every turn of the crank will use each tooth 4.5 times. On the 32, each turn of the crank will use each tooth 1.6 times. The smaller cogs wear faster because they rotate more often. 

I had the same problem when I was skiing: I needed to keep that part of my face warm, without the glasses or goggles fogging, when the weather was very cold and I was sweating. Eyeglasses inside goggles is a poor solution; the glasses tend to fog very quickly. My solution for skiing was to get contact lenses, and wear them under ski goggles. I have astigmatism, but to keep the expense of the contact lenses down I chose contact lenses that correct the near-sightedness, but not the astigmatism. That solution isn't perfect, but I can focus well enough in the middle distance that is so important for bicycling and skiing. Most importantly, the ski goggles stay mostly free of condensation, even with a balaclava. I suggest that you get ski goggles with prescription (vision-correcting) lenses, or wear contact lenses underneath ordinary ski goggles. Keep in mind that preventing condensation is more important than perfect vision correction. 

Don't do it, unless you're an athletic teenager! You haven't toughened your backside or your hands to endure riding for hours. Your lower back, which complements the legs, would develop incredible aches, as would your shoulders, which are used to keep your head up. The good news is that your knee would probably be fine, assuming that your pedals allow some "float" (right-to-left rotation). I assume that you have a quality bike that has been recently checked by a mechanic and fitted to you, because little things like the exact seat position matter for long rides. How much training you would realistically want to do prior to the event would depend upon your age and your state of fitness, but I'd suggest at least a month of riding three days a week. I've read lots of stories from people who have tried long-distance events with no preparation, and many of them survived, but they all said they wished they had prepared! You might be able to survive, but would it be an enjoyable experience? I doubt it... If the event is coming up soon, I'd recommend to skip it this year and start training for next year's event.