Sure, make it a black hole that spews x-rays along it's axis. The charged particles circling down to their deaths emit radiation in a highly directional way. Quasar's will do the same thing for you. Just well. BIG. Whether these are really different names for the same thing is a debate I'd rather not get into. Precession is something to understand whenever you're dealing with an axis. Yes overtime we drift away from directly facing Polaris like a spinning top. But that's a mere wiggle in your temperate zone compared to what happens if your quasar decides to do the same thing and be a pulsar. This would mean every so often your sun just turns off. Is this stable? Not sure. Does this even have a Goldilocks zone that can support life? Not sure. But if you just have to be this weird I think this is the most plausible. Pack your sun screen. 

This is one of those things that sounds cool until you think about it. If our goal is to get as much of her body converted over as possible this is just going to be sad. She now has prosthetic arms and legs. They work but they are poor substitutes for the real thing. Amputees actually have to have multiple prosthetics for different uses. We can replace her heart and kidneys. It will shorten her lifespan but we can do it. We can replace her ears with cochlear implants. We can replace her eyes by wiring cameras into her brain that will let her see a few pixels. We can even shave her bald and put a wig on her. All these things would be a crime to do to a healthy person, for good reason. Not that there aren't fun cybernetic toys. That chip you put in your dog can also go in your wrist. With the right keyboard you never have to type a password into your computer again. 

Just make sure they carry the right security codes for personnel. Otherwise be prepared to update the "days without a safety incident" sign. 

Here's a fun way to do it. First strip the atmosphere off of planet earth. The continents can stay if you have good aim. Now put your steel block in a retrograde orbit around the sun. It will have a nice peaceful time up there toodling around at 30 km/s right up until it hits the pacific ocean which is coming at it in the other direction at 30 km/s. The only danger is you might hit the ocean floor before the thing goes poof. Aim deep. 3,688 meters lasts little over 5% of a second at these speeds. But if you do, no one will care since we'll all have already suffocated. If you insist on more time you can aim to hit the ocean at an angle. If you manage to thread it just right you get as much as 7.2 seconds before you start having to move geography around. If the thing some how survives that I say we drop it in the nearest black hole. 

I'd get sick of watching the damn stars rotate and wobble all the time. It may seem silly but please put windows on the edge/floor so I can watch stars streak by in nice straight lines so I can imagine I'm going somewhere, even if I'm seeing the same stars every 34 seconds. I'd hate to have to hang out in a maintenance tunnel to do this. Sure I can't sleep in 1g and work in .85g? Windows are incredibly expensive to provide. Yet despite having camera and monitor technology for years we humans continue to install them on capsules, shuttles, and space stations. Before deciding they aren't needed because of technology x, be sure you understand why we keep installing them in the first place. 

Resurrection. What's the difference? My God said Mr Mummy is ok. You creepy scientists with your Tesla coils and grave robbing archaeologists think you can play God. That's not cool. But if my God does it it's gotta be cool. Cause, you know, God. By the way, "real" zombies were social outcasts who were outcast by having a funeral for them. And you thought your friends and family inviting you to a party that turns out to be an intervention was harsh. So, unless my God says it's cool, dead to me is dead to me. Sorry Mr. Heathen. 

You fight bad free speech with more speech. Reality is cheap to communicate. Lies take effort. However, things will be validated only so much as people bother to validate them. So when Bob's vacation vids come on line I won't bother to check that Bob didn't really go to Hawaii. He just stood behind some standups of a guy surfing while his wife started broadcasting. A few moments looking closely would tell me the truth. But I don't know the truth. Mostly because I don't care. And that's what's happening today. Politician after politician has to lie to you not because they think you can't find out. It's because they know you don't care. So they tell you what you want to hear. News reporters know the same thing. They only bother with what they know they can get you to read. Why? Well because we all have other stuff to do. 

A cloaking device does exactly this already. Just take the light you would have obstructed, direct it around you, and project it out the otherside with exactly the same trajectory as before. Little bit of lag, since it's traveling farther now, but not easy to notice. 

What? No smell-o-vision? Cheep no-panel display. A display can emit light or it can reflect light. I say reflect so it withstands attack. Shine a light on this 2D hologram so people will buy more bachelor chow. 

Here's one sure way an AI can kill another AI. When I say, "Hey Siri, take me home" freaking take me home. Don't ding at me at the wrong time and mishear me. Do that and I'll kill my other AI for you. Few things in this world don't need support from outside themselves, super-intelligent or not. You can kill an AI by eliminating that support. 

How does freezing peas keep them from spoiling? Freezing doesn't keep you alive. It keeps you from decaying. Today we have the ability to bring back the recently dead with defibrillators, CPR, and a shot of adrenalin. In the future we might be able to not only cure a stopped heart but also freezer burn. 

Let's get one thing clear about science. Nothing is off limits. We don't have sacred cows. We don't worship our calculators. Newton is not a god. If you somehow break the laws of thermodynamics, honestly, for real, reproducibly, then all you have to do is let someone play with it. If you fear being dismissed if you make outrageous claims too soon simply temper them down. Ask us, "How does this work?" If we can't explain it, and you can, and we can reproduce it, without your interference, you've just started a new field of science. Nobel prize time. It may turn out you only thought you broke the law of thermodynamics, but actually discovered a new source of power. Still Nobel prize time. If you want an example of how this might play out in the real world. Read up on cold fusion (a failure) and high-temperature superconductivity (a success). Neither was seriously predicted by theory. To us, fantastic claims only require one thing: fantastic proof. Doesn't matter who you are. Some may claim this isn't enough for scientists. Those aren't scientists. This is how science works. If you don't do it this way, it isn't science. 

If the ninjas do not know about this technology keeping it secret will be prioritized above whatever the package might yield. Much like when the allies broke the German enigma code. As long as they don't we know about where they are operating. If the ninjas know we can track their portals, they'll start taking a cab. 

Size and weight aren't the same thing. The size will depend on your design and material (and desire to be able to walk through doors) but it looks like you've got around 85kg1 to work with. 

Sounds fairly liberal. Population centers tend to be. Likely the rest of the republic isn't so populous. Without their liberal influence the republic likely becomes conservative and starts harboring bitter resentment towards their enemies. This could become xenophobic to the point of ethnic cleansing occurring in Terrans remaining territories. Before you know it people start believing in eugenics and talking about the pure Terran race. Then we're off and running to replay world war II on a galactic scale. 

If smallest is an important criteria and Technology is sufficiently advanced and available to further that goal then the answer is 1. Why? For one thing genetic diversity can be put in a mini fridge. For another you've put no limit on how much investment will be put into this colony. There is one huge exception. Goods. Luxury of not. Even with an unlimited budget once exchange of goods stops everything starts getting old. The colony can't have anything new unless it makes it itself. The current population of planet earth is around 7.4 billion. And we make new things every day that you've never seen before. Even if you can communicate with us you're going to miss out. From the latest sneakers to the drawing your daughter made in class today. You can automate an industrial complex that consumes native resources without much labor but even if that is managed remotely for that to come close to what we do today you need a jump in technology. Star Trek replicators could come close to this but today's 3d printers certainly don't. 

This is why it's good that we don't have a huge physical security footprint. The package is kept moving. All we have to do is keep buying time and we win. 

Once folded you're 3 times as thick as whatever thickness you started with. This isn't a thin vs thick issue. It's a going from thin to thicker issue. Even if you do it smoothly, you're still attacking them with a wedge. Folding blades and wedging flesh apart costs energy. If you're looking to be able to chop limbs off this isn't the most effective way to do it. 

If the ninjas know how the package is protected we lose. If the ninjas know who is protecting the package we lose. Therefor anyone the ninjas know about must be put out of the loop. We could be wrong, but we shall assume the ninjas know the people who have the package. These people will endeavor to put themselves out of the loop. The package will be sent to a new group of people. The old group will have no knowledge of who the new group is. The old group will prepare briefings for the new group. Information will flow one way. The new group will assume they have a leak. Therefore, they will also send the package on to new groups. This is resource intensive so there is a limit on how many groups can be part of this. Now it's a race. The ninjas have incredible powers. Given enough time they will find the package. It's just a question of solving the mystery of the package first. The protection? It's a double blind. No one knows if the toothbrush they are working on is a magical tooth brush or a normal toothbrush. Other lightweight measures will be employed but this is the fundamental protection. The other measures will be light weight specifically to make it easy to pass the package on to another group.