If chain file_get_contents -> mcrypt_encrypt -> mcrypt_decrypt -> file_put_contents doesn't work on PDF files (why shouldn't be), you can still treat it like a binary data, not text. Or, in more systematic way, use EncFS and create encrypted mount point and store documents there. 

I know that you are looking for GUI, but there is no GUI with magic button "SHOW ME WHO HACKED ME". This isn't TV, this is system administration. You need to use proper tools. For starters, you can block all outgoing communication its destination port is 80 via : 

I manage VMware ESXi 4.0 server running mix of Windows virtual machines. I've installed VMware vSphere CLI in hope to pause/resume virtual machine and copy its image to NFS datastore. I've got CLI up and running, I can list datastores, registered machines, configuration and etc, but when i try to start machine with: 

Digest from : Archive old versions of log files adding a daily extension like YYYYMMDD instead of simply adding a number. 

I had to upgrade Zimbra 5.0.11 on Debian Etch to Zimbra 6.0.6 on Debian Lenny. There were many problems, but in a nutshell: Upgrade started with install.sh wants Perl 5.10, but with this version ended on Perl error in the very beginning. The key is to downgrade perl to 5.8, which was in Debian Etch. Then start install.sh, ignore whining about prerequisities and continue with upgrade. Somewhere in the middle of upgrade it fails again, and now is mandatory to return Perl back to 5.10 and start this script: 

As in the laptop part, your VLC on server is bind to port 8082. Why 8082 and not 8081? 8081 is already taken by the SSH remote forward. Why we don't use transcode part as in first example? The video is already in the right format, so all we have to do is just stream it as-is. Testing. In both examples, you can test functionality by viewing streams via VLC. You can test your local stream: 

If you want powerful router, I would recommend Mikrotik ($URL$ It's not that easy to setup, since you have to know how subnetting, firewall and other related stuff works. But it will allow much better debugging of network in comparsion to DD-WRT (personal opinion!). And it fits to your use case, if providing of internet connection to bunch of flats in building is what you want to accomplish. I would every user (ethernet port) assign VLAN id - on switch port define PVID, which is default VLAN assigned to packet with no VLAN id. Port to router will be trunk of all VLANs and so the port on router. In router allow only connection between vlan and internet interface, so communication between users will be droped. And if some users would like to communicate between themselves (gaming, warezing) there is no problem to add rules to firewall. Last note about "two users communicates": You can merge them to one VLAN, so data will flow only thru switch, thus saving router upload bandwidth, OR they can stay in different VLANs and you will enable desired communication on firewall. Second approach allows better control, but consumes lot of router bandwidth, thus you should think about QoS. 

You can check content of the hard drive with . Actual destroying data with mentioned above or with . 

If you want to check filesize of every directory right in the root, you can use . It'll take quite a while. 

This will drop ALL communication no matter which process tried to start it. Then you can start playing with and to find, which process does the bad stuff on your precious machine: 

I used OSSEC HIDS. Basically, it checks file integrity (/etc/passwd,...) and parses log files (syslog, auth.log,...). It has usable web interface and email notification. But nothing special, I guess. Regards, Martin 

And my question is: what licence should I purchase in order to make CLI work? There won't be any change in number of CPUs, memory size or number of physical servers whatsoever. Thanks for answer in advance. Martin 

Computer sends HTTP request RouterOS destinates this packet to squid Squid sends HTTP request to webserver RouterOS destinates squid request again to squid -> loop 

Open the site in Firefox with enabled Firebug. It'll show you, on which file it hangs. For each file it shows dns resolve time and download time. Watch output and look for excessive load, memory consumption, etc. Enable harder logging of php (E_WARNING at least) and look into php error log Enable slow log in MySQL and look for slow SQL queries. 

I'll take the preparation of input aside and assume these inputs: Search log - one searched term on line, no repetition, something like this: 

Eventually found out myself. The Windows permissions are stored in "Extended attributes". The raw data of these attributes can be displayed by from Debian package : 

So you have two integer values and you want to grep lines which starts within this range. There are many ways how to do it (awk, sed,...) Sed example: 

Which will transcode video stream to FLV format with MPGA audio (MP3 is not available in my Ubuntu). Samplerate is somehow mandatory, it won't work without it. But you can choose smaller, like 22050. This will transcode video stream 'as is', so the scale is 1:1. You can append width and height parameters, or even scale parameter. Look into VLC documentation. Stream it from laptop. Now you have to make local stream, on which will server connect: 

You can use sticky bit on directory which affects ownership of newly created files and directories. And combine with umask, which will create new files with certain permissions. Update after comment: Group sticky bit on directory will overwrite group ownership of newly created files within this directory no matter in which group is user who creates this file. Umask can alter the permisions upon creation. Classic usage of this combination is when you have "public" directory where every user can create/update/delete every file. So users has to by in same group ("users") and group rights has to by "rw" for files and "rwx" for directories. In this case, you will set on the parent directory sticky bit for group and change the group to "users". Then you have to set umask in system thru which the files will be uploaded (FTP, Samba,...). This umask should create files with rights 660 and directories with rights 2770. Another usage - FTP. User has to have full access to files via FTP and yet Web server has to have read and even write access to some files. In this case you will set group sticky bit on document root of that web and change the group to www-data (for Apache). Than change access rights to 640 for files and 2750 for directories. For directories where www-data needs write access the rights will be 2770. In FTP server set umask to create files and directories with rights mention upon. Result? Uploaded files will have owner of given user, group www-data and least necessary rights. I'm not sure what is your use case exactly, but changing of owner shouldn't have to be necessary and I personally like to know who created that file (Owner can change it but how many users know how to do that?) 

First line is destination IP address. Second line is full information about rogue process. Third line is delimiter to optically divide huge output. These commands (at least and ) needs to be executed under root. When you clear your machine, you can delete the blocking command with: 

After this, directory ./input/ is stripped from files modified more then 10 days ago. This should be appliable on remote directory via SFTP. 

Just plain installation of IPtables is not enough. You have to setup your firewall, and that means you have to learn how firewall works. There is lot of guides and howtos about setting firewall and basic security tips on the internet. Same thing with SSH. Plain installation will allow you remote connection to server, but also it's recommended to make postinstallation setup. For example disable login for root user, allow connection only from specific IP address(es), etc. If your website exchanges confindetial information with users, HTTPS is also thing for consideration. This question is very general.. Regards, Martin 

Rsync protects date of creation. So you can rsync all files to your computer. Then run to select files older than 60 days and delete them. And upload them back via rsync. Or just delete them in destination. EDIT Result of rsync test on local directories: 

And few more. I would recommend to read this: $URL$ Syntax of Mikrotik is straight forward and it contains good pointing for beginner. 

Capture stream on server and restream it. Again, we use VLC to capture and stream. Usage is based on infrastructure scenario from early of this post. As I showed, VLC on laptop streams video on some port. This port has to be accesible from server. If you have public IP address of laptop, or NATed port, you can test it with telnet: 

Hmm seems to me, that admin.api.frapi is the "default", because it's in the highest position in directory. Try to rename file default to 000-default. More info: nginx walks thru sites-enabled alphabetically. If there is no virtual host config for desired hostname (given from HTTP request), nginx takes the first file. 

It depends on amount of traffic you want to shape. From your parameters of internet connection I assume that you work in a small company (up to 10 employees?). In this case, router, firewall and shaper could be one device, for example from Mikrotik. Or homemade linux configuration, which gives you extensibility for the future. Regards, Martin 

I would install ssh on the finished notebook and then boot the other one from livecd. LiveCD should contain ssh and rsync at least. Then save MBR from the first: 

DD of whole disc would take lot of time to save-copy-restore, since it'll copy blank place on disc. Be aware of the fact, that will replace your current partition layout and bootloader!! 

Capture video from webcam. I've never captured stream from locally attached webcam, but there are many examples how to do it via V4L, e.g: Webcam Setup. The only part which you should be interested is: 

About bad local curl - try to . If the server has problem with dns resolve of the domain, and php script is trying to download something from this url, that could be the slowing down place. But it doesn't explain "faster after reboot" Regards, Martin 

Access on test.example.com and test.example.com:10522 will be treated in the same VirtualHost and both will be seen as port 80. But it's not clear from your question if it is what you want to accomplish. Not even what operating system you use. And what do you mean with "10522 is another webserver"? EDIT AFTER CLARIFICATION OF ANSWER: There can be at least two ways how to do it in Apache 

I inherited non-activated Windows Server 2012 Standard. So I purchased retail version "OEM Win Svr Std 2012 R2 x64 CZ 1pk DVD 2CPU / 2VM" and tried to activate it with product key. With this key, I get an error "This key cannot be validated. Try a different one" (loosely translated, my system is Czech). And I am pretty sure, that I put in the right key. I cannot start validation over phone, command gives me only activation by key. Direct phone calls to Czech Microsoft gets me nowhere. At one occasion I got error "0x8007232b" which relates to $URL$ . As far as I understand, there could be broken KMS Client. I don't use activation via KMS Host in the infrastructure. Tried to google how to get rid of it, but didn't find out how. It isn't "Function", "Role" or software... Thanks for any help, Martin PS: Not that it should matter, but this system is virtual machine in KVM 

You do not have to delete lines in /var/log/*. These files contains logs of previous actions, not state informations. IP addresses 192.168.*.*, 10.*.*.*, 172.16.0.0 – 172.31.255.255 are called "private addresses" defined in RFC1918 to be used in private networks. 

Which is the first part of VLC command to connect to webcam. For more details follow the mentioned HOWTO. Especially look at "video group" part and correct device path to /dev/video and /dev/audio. Those can be different on your laptop. Transcode video to FLV. I personally use FLV, since it is less CPU demanding. Transcode string I use is this: