There are two reasonably-improvisable explosive materials that'd be useful in such an environment: ammonium nitrate/fuel oil aka ANFO (which is commonly known/understood in industry, but is considered a blasting compound as it isn't cap-sensitive, requiring a booster charge to set off) and urea nitrate (which is slightly harder to make and more sensitive than ANFO, but can be set off with a blasting cap). Of course, there's nothing wrong with using urea nitrate booster charges to set off an ANFO main charge. Detonators would be the main problem -- primary explosives/initiating compounds are much harder to make/more sensitive than even nitroglycerine (lead styphnate is extremely sensitive, mercuric fulminate requires handling mercury salts, and lead azide requires the preparation of some other azide salt, which is also quite toxic), and exploding bridgewire detonators aren't easy to reinvent or set off without the right machinery. You might be able to get away with a pyrotechnic ignitor (such as those used for airbags and model rocketry), though... 

While champion warfare was mentioned, it never was the method to determine a victor, merely a way to gain morale advantage before upcoming battle. As it stands, I don't find it quite plausible that no ruler will abuse reluctance of others to go to war. Politics were always a messy business, not a matter of chivalry. And if you are going to backstab a neighbour instead of honouring duel results, you are going do it in a way that puts you at advantage, without any lengthy wars. However, you have what would make it much more believable with some adjustment: the Empire. If mountains aren't quite high enough to prevent it dealing with any one kingdom, then all kingdoms could've entered a loose defensive confederation of sorts. Something like the Holy Roman Empire of their own, but without the Emperor. With a Diet for passing confederation-wide edicts and laws. Of course, still resolving conflicts with a duel wouldn't occur right from the start, there wouldn't be enough trust between participants yet. But it can be passed by the Diet later on as a way of resolving conflicts without being too detrimental to the overall defensive capability. And since now this is the will of all the kingdoms, not honouring the result of a conflict resolution would put make a lot of people angry with you, not just your victim. 

So, I'm working on building a state (kingdom to be more precise) as part of my world, and as part of that exercise I want there to be some contact between characters in said world and the legal system, so I need to define to at least some degree what that state's legal/governmental system is like, how it functions, and such. Furthermore, they'll need to be able to to reference at least some sort of written legal code or statute (and it will also help me ensure consistency, which is important when you're trying to present a world where due process is upheld). However, there are many aspects of a legal code or statute that are not obvious to a layperson, but are actually at least somewhat necessary for a society at even a Dark Ages level to function, never mind a higher level: 

This is actually more plausible than it seems. I remember reading an article (will try to find it later and add a link) dealing with modelling of a large fire in a certain modern city (can't recall which one exactly, but I think it was Moscow). The surprising result was, above a certain size/intensity, the fire was self-sustaining, with concrete burning and immense winds fanning those flames and spreading them over hundreds of meters. It had something to do with regular layout of buildings directing winds in a special way. Of course, that study was assuming the "candle" dropped was a medium-sized nuke, which isn't exactly what you were looking for. However, I find it quite plausible that, if you pick the point (or points) right (and modern computational resources can help you find the winning setup), you could start a similar self-sustaining fire on a smaller scale at first. Such a fire could grow to envelop few building blocks within an hour, which is fast enough to avoid being extinguished too soon. After that, regular firemen would be unable to do anything, while extraordinary measures will take some time to get approval — time that the fire will use to engulf the whole city (and millions of civilians trying to flee in panic won't help either). 

Simply kill every adult male of the other culture, along with any adult women that aren't capable of breeding (unless you don't care about spawning new units, in which case you should have the women be killed as well). Make sure you suppress the knowledge of any killings you do in step 1, if you encounter children that are aware of step 1, they need to go as well Now that you have access to a bunch of children, it's time to play INDOCTRINATION! Over the next few years, "educate" the children with the classic cult mixture of deception (you "saved" the children from their barbaric parents you didn't slaughter the child's parents...), isolation (your children should be sparsely thrown in with the children of Midwestern Empire, because you don't want to give the impression there are many members of the primitive tribe), induced dependence (the Midwestern Empire now has to take care of/educate the children instead of the actual parents), Additionally social shaming for not conforming to Midwestern Empire values (whatever they may be) should be strictly enforced. This way the children grow up to be brainwashed that the Midwestern Empire is THEIR culture that they are a part of. There should also be a social stigma against giving these primitive children guff so to speak. The better the children of the Midwestern Empire and the primitive tribes can get along, the primitive tribe will be assimilated without much dissent. 

Obviously, it depends on the way magic works, but we can ask a more generic question. Can a healer kill? Imagine a surgeon with a scalpel in his vic^W patient. Can he kill? Of course, it takes him a lot of precision and control not to kill. And if your healer can use his healing magic on his opponent, then, figuratively speaking, he has his scalpel in him already. Now all he needs is to twist it just the wrong way. 

Use a method similar to that used on some submarines: filling tanks with seawater when you need to go down (get heavier), and emptying them when you need to go up (get lighter). Just like with submarines, air is all around you, and in compressed form it has quite a high density of 870 kg/m^3, pretty close to that of water. Equipment for liquefying air appeared at the start of 20th century in our world, so it should be quite possible with your level of technology. So just have air tanks distributed around your ship, and fill them with liquid air when you need to compensate for mass loss. In a normal state you will probably want them about half-full, to allow for both gain and loss. 

Sewers still work the way they always did The DWV (drain-waste-vent) system in a high-rise building is actually quite similar to that found in a house -- it's simply bigger! The principles (gravity flow, mostly) that make a building's DWV system work scale quite beautifully with the size of the building. As to the sewers under the streets, you'll have separated sewers for sure in a city like this -- you simply have too much sanitary flow to afford spilling raw sewage due to rain-induced sewer overflow events. Your buildings will have roof drain systems that simply tie into downpipes to the storm drain system, while their DWV system ties into the sanitary sewers. Both of these systems will be underground rivers, basically -- at its most extreme, you get a "river atop a river" effect, with the storm drain system built atop the sanitary sewer system, and your streets built over the storm drains, with utility ducts/tunnels flanking them for other utilities. Pump up the pressure to get water to go where you want In order to get water to the tops of such high buildings, high-performance pumps are mandatory, both for fire suppression and domestic service. These superbuildings will have redundant fire pumps (due to the criticality of the service involved) feeding combination wet head sprinkler/wet standpipe systems (there is no other way to control a fire in an Earth-sized high-rise, never mind a Coruscant-sized one -- One Meridian Plaza and First Interstate Bank taught us that already), in addition to a pump dedicated to providing enough domestic water pressure to reach the top of the building. Pressure-reducing valves will be needed on each floor to prevent the high standpipe/vertical main pressures from reaching fixtures and damaging them, while the pumps themselves will need to achieve pressures likely into the thousands of PSI (such pressures are more typical for motive hydraulics than water service). Evening out hot and cold The square-cube law works in our favor here -- enlarging a building is beneficial from a thermal performance standpoint as the marginal heat loss goes down as you further increase size. However, the heating and cooling loads are going to be high, still. A high-performance, lightly glazed envelope (vs. the glazing-everywhere postmodern high-rise aesthetic) is going to be a necessity in these superbuildings, and they will likely be forced to rely on distributed ventilation in order to allow the structural design to prevent stack effects by placing air barriers between floors, with either mechanical floors feeding transfer media (steam, water, refrigerant) to air handlers in each compartment, or complete HVAC on a per-compartment basis. Domestic water heating will be handled the same way -- either by indirect tanks off the HVAC heat loops, or by per-compartment hot water heaters. Big power means big problems Last but not least, we have the electrical and communications infrastructure needed in such a megabuilding -- a medium voltage "trunk" with accompanying fiber optics will be run in a heavily firestopped vertical shaft in the building core along with the other building services, with dry-type transformers on each floor to provide low voltages for lighting, receptacles, and appliances. The fiber optics will feed distribution nodes on each floor (similar to a cable-TV hybrid fiber coaxial node, or a passive optical network switch for that matter, with primary voice service being provided via some type of Voice over IP setup). Redundant trunking may be provided for both power and communications in order to prevent a single failure from knocking out power or voice/data services to the whole building, while secondary systems may also be present for power (such as a low voltage auxiliary communications power system to play the role of the 48V central office batteries in a POTS system) and communications (a firefighter's telephone system will be needed as handheld radios are no good for a fire crew working in a highrise). In addition, key services (fire/life safety) will have their own backups for power and the likes (including dedicated generators or engine drives). 

Guinea pigs and slaves What do we have here? On the one hand, not very intelligent and dangerous to the civilians barbarians. I'm pretty sure that, despite all the civil rights' activists' efforts, those giants won't get equal rights to humans for many decades. Not only that, but their movement in cities would be heavily regulated, if not outright outlawed. And considering that even human slavery still encompasses millions of people, those giants would be used as cheaper and more efficient labour with no hesitation (especially in Russia). They would be lucky just to get enough to eat, never mind seeing any money. On the other hand, they clearly posses some "magic" in their bodies, that makes them not only survive, but invert the square-cubic law. That would make many biologists around the world very interested in dissecting and examining giants. Again, depending on a laboratory that captured a giant, they would be lucky to just survive and be fed.