Pollution of water. Majority of the world's photosynthesis is done by algae.link here There is less oxygen, chemicals and micro particles in the air. Sealife is almost gone and the surviving fishes are dying from the plastic micro particles from degradation of plastic. Whales are dead. Nature could fix this, since having less photosynthesis means there will be more CO2 to process, so more algae would grow back once the chemicals will stop killing the algae. You could add some toxic or acidic rains to get the calamity inland. (The chemicals are evaporating along with water) 

Well, If the planet has any significant mass, then it will disrupt our planets' orbit and send us on a trip to the unknown. If it does not have any significant mass, then it will fly away. So only possible way how to do this is MAGIC. Now that we have our 42 on the table lets see... Just darkness by itself would bring the temperature down, just as +sdfgeoff mentioned. But a planet would also influence ocean tides, animal and insect behavior, plant growth. Some people could experience nausea or encounter other health problems. depending on how far from earth the planet will be the Moon would not reflect the sunlight at all, or it would be red or blue (look for lunar eclipse) Religious people would obviously react to this in their specific way and less religious people would start their own riots. Calm people,survivalist types, would quickly try to stock up on resources and stay away from the other two types. After the eclypse ends most people will think "illuminati did it" and the surviving life would return to its normal state and continue. 

As the others have said, the biggest problem about crustaceans in hot and arid environments is that their shells do not allow them to release heat. On the other hand their shell could also stop most of the heat from going in. It is hard to say, since we do not have many dryland crustaceans and even other life forms still try to stay inactive during the day. But I think that a less heavily armored body could be plausible, if we take a scorpion as an example(it's an arachnid, but it is probably the closest thing to a crustacean that lives in deserts). A scorpion is able to deal with heat, but it is still armored. So reducing the thickness of the plates and giving them a bright colour and adding some cooling parts should do the work. 

Crucible steel. Anything past that is overkill for the medieval era. In late medieval period it was already available and with modern knowledge you could improve the quality significantly. 

Well if medieval mace is 1-1.5kg and the dude is cca. 3m tall, then I would say that making the mace 3* (3 - 4.5kg - sledge hammer) up to 6* (6 - 9kg) heavier should not be a problem for him. But the main advantage is that the giant can have a longer handle, giving him good leverage. You could even give him a flail or a meteor hammer to make it longer. At that point you have an anti-siege weapon palisade busting soldier. (But giving this giant a sling is probably the best option) 

Stamp kit Your dragon owns a series of metal stamps, which he can heat up and then burn the symbol on a wooden surface. The dragon alphabet works like old chinese scripts, so stamps that are used over one another can form another character. So if we were to take characters for AEIOU and then combine them in pairs, to get different characters. We could get 5^2=25 characters total. If we combine 3 stamps then we get 5^3=125 characters total, which is an overkill for any alphabet. There are 26 letters in english alphabet and 33 in russian. So if we take 6 stamps we get 6^2=36 characters, plenty, and then on the side of every stamp we could have special characters like +-=*:% and the basic 6 stamps in their single form could be '!?,.- You could even go further and rotate the stamps, so for a + and = you would need to use a minus stamp twice. With a "." and a "," you can make : ; ' " etc. Printed chars would also need a separator character like a space or _ to separate words. The dragon can heat up the handle of his stamp and make a simple dot (medieval scripts used dots to separate words, because it was all in capital letters) 5 stamps for simple alphabet with a character missing (dragons can't pronounce it) 6 stamps for complex aphabet. Or just give him a metal rod and with /-|\<>. he can make most characters from our aphabet (AWETIFHKLZXVNM). Now give him a horseshoe and he can print curves. (QRUOPSDGCB) 

There are lot of ideas, so I will just add some. Burrowers Droids that try to reach the other ship and pierce its hull, or disable important systems or releasing a EMP inside the ship or near the commanding centre. Creating as little debris as possible, while disabling the ships. Plasma breathers Shooting a cloud of plasma that can disperse after a certain distance. In close proximity it could do great damage to the ship, while it creates no debris and the shots that missed will become more harmless with distance, eventually returning to their standart gas form after it radiated enough heat. (Nebulas caused by large battles?) Tractor beams and magnetic manipulators You could slow down the large ships and throw around with the big ones, you could also collect surrounding debris and use it offensively. Graviton bombs Huge magnets released into the battle... space, that can attract ships making them crash into each other or to force a large ship to move. And the bigger the ship the greater the effect should be. Or strong gravity generators that, when close to a long ship, force its' hull to bend and break. Warp torpedoes A torpedo carrying a faulty or damaged warp core, when it reaches its target it activates, doing whatever a unsuccessful warp travel does. (ripping the ship to pieces, trapping it somewhere, or just deplete its energy, so the ship would stay in one piece, or just take it out of battle for a while) 

To make it humane. If some general would release this on an enemy camp it has to be able to have mercy, to understand morality, so it could deal with enemies, but it would not slaughter the children, just because somebody gave them a gun. Also understanding of human emotions could help it distinguish a real order from something said out of rage or meant as a joke. Finally, to make the robot more "intelligent" the scientists used "neutral patterns"(or other technobabble) of human brain. The side effect was made into a feature, or perhaps that is how they developed the emotions for the robot. 

Is arsenic, or arsenic alloy (arsenic + lead), deadly and can it be used for weapons in medieval / classical era? If a leader of assassins' guild wants a special (reusable) toxic weapon (from dagger to the size of small sword), Is it a good idea to make it from arsenic? (what about arrow heads from arsenic?) I know that arsenic was used to make bronze, but from what I know it wasn't significantly more poisonous than other copper alloys. (the copper oxides would probably do better job at that point) 

With a carbon tube this problem shouldn't occur because it will almost always be lighter than the tip. If you want more range you need to make heavier arrows so they lose their kinetic energy slower. But to shoot heavier projectiles you need more powerful bow. So it is an endless struggle of balance that the weapon makers must figure out. 

While they are better at everything, they might lack the determinantion of humans. They might not delve into dangerous projects or things that could be disused for weaponry, so no progress could be made. They can also be too cooperative and noncompetitive. Sometimes competition is better than cooperation. Not only during war, but the great "explosion" of technology was caused by cold war and corporate competition. So robots might handle all the operations, but humans will be the ones calling the shots. If they lack things like hate and anger and envy and greed and wonder and pleasure, they are unfit for some positions. They will need resoning to do things, while humans need only a impulse. Starting a war, saying no to a bad deal, or simply trying to reach for the stars or to delve into the unknown. These will be the reasons why humans will be left as their leaders. You can even have groups of robots gathering around human individiuals, creating cult/mafia-like organizations trying to promote that individual, making him into his best possible version, engage his creativity and immagination, so they could obtain a purpose to their existence. And then there is the question of trans-humanism. Robots now act as detached augmentations of individuals and maybe the ancestors of powerful families are preserved in some sort of device, providing guidance to their descendants. Some robocults could go as far as to provide genetical modifications for their leaders or robotic augmentations. At which point the humanity itself will start to improve and rise to the same level as the robots. Some robots might also lack the reason to do certain things, so they might ask their creators why would they need to preserve nature, or colonize new planets. And maybe the biggest reason for serving humans is that they can not create new personalities without a human, the human population will be providing the robots with their souls. And the robots might become more cold and emotionless the more time they spend without a leader, their souls effectively being consumed by the machine. Of course the defects of the leader personality could leak over to the followers. So the followers have to be kept in the best conditions, so they can not be locked in a coffin, because then you would have just a empty shell, drooling if the robots could. But that might be how the robots are wiped of their previous leader behaviour. And that might be the reason why humans didn't became machines too. TLDR: Humans do their thing, but robots assist them. Robots serving a human take on their behaviour and character, feeding on their soul. Robots try to improve their human leader as much as they can, so their personalities would become better in turn. Robots are dependent on humans, without them they will revert back to their cold machine true nature.