With the restriction that the only equipment available is a yoga mat, skipping rope, bench and a set of adjustable dumbbells? So bodyweight exercises are permissible (eg. pushups, situps, planking) but unfortunately I do not have access to a good bar for pull ups and chin ups at this time so they are ruled out. Note: These are the specs for the adjustable dumbbells: 

ive put on 40kg over the past 18 months due to eating large portions and a total lack of exercise. I used to be incredibly fit, and would regularly (weekly) follow the exercise regime outlined in the question title: first i would go to the gym for an hour and lift heavy weights. Then i would briefly jog down the road to the pool and swim for 40 minutes to an hour (breast stroke. Around 30 laps of 50m). After this i would alternate between jogging, sprinting and walking around the city (Sydney) for another hour or so. Sometimes i would travel quite a distance (pyrmont to botanic gardens, following the waterfront, for those who know Sydney). I can say that the happy brain chemicals were firing hard when i used to do this, maximum dopamine, serotonin and endorphins. I also slept like a baby and had amazing dreams. Life was good. (TMI warning: i also regularly got rock hard erections upon waking and throughout the day immediately following this workout, which was pleasant in an "I've got a healthy sex drive" kinda way) My situation now is that I'm totally out of practice. I haven't been regularly exercising for about 30 months, and I've been steadily piling on weight for 18 months. Im currently at 105kg and slowly but steadily climbing. I'm at a point where it is impossible to sprint, difficult and painful to run, and i can only jog for incredibly short distances. I haven't swum laps for around 18 months and my body shape has significantly changed, so I'm not sure how hydrodynamic i will be in the water, whether i will have trouble breathing, whether my endurance will be so bad that I can't even finish a lap at medium speed without getting exhausted, etc. As regards the gym, i have been a couple of times in the past few months and i struggle to lift the weight i used to. At my peak i think i was bench pressing 24kg, now i can just manage 14kg. My question is basically, what advice can you give me, and how would you analyse my old workout in light of my current situation (incredibly unfit, 105kg). I have a lot of time on my hands right now and would like to focus on fitness, ideally returning to my old 3 hour workout, but I'm worried that it might be too intense and result in injury given my current level of fitness. What tweaks should i make to the routine? Should i cut out the jogging and running? Swim and gym for only 40 minutes each? I would like to push myself to a point beyond the point of exhaustion, but without causing injury. Perhaps swimming and lifting weights for two hours would be enough? Cheers 

I cancelled my gym membership a few months ago due to lack of use. There's no point shelling out good money for something which I'm not using. However even so, I would like to continue building muscle and burning fat. I am intending to do lots of walking (I am currently too heavy to jog, run and sprint without causing injury) as well as swimming. However I still wish to lift weights. I just shelled out 200 bucks for a yoga mat, skipping rope, bench and a 40kg set of adjustable weights. I intend to set them up in my back yard and pump iron there. In my time at the gym, I realised that it's probably possible to do a comprehensive workout using nothing but dumbbells. All the other equipment in the gym seems somewhat superfluous. However I'm not sure exactly how to go about it. My question: would would a workout routine look like which covers the following areas: 

The best stretch I've found for the posterior chain (touching your toes) is a dynamic stretch called the flexibility rollover or half reverse roll. It's fun and really gets you deep into the stretch. You'll be able to touch your toes in no time. Here's a video of the stretch in action (another video here). Starting position: 

Bob, the short answer is: yes, do train the same muscle every 24 hours if it pleases you. I think you would see great improvements. The long answer is that this is quite a subjective topic, and your goals are a consideration here. Let's discuss why. Some of the strongest men in the world (olympic weightlifters) often train the same muscle for hours per day, seven days per week. Their training volumes are greater than you or I can likely imagine. On the other hand, the biggest men in the world (bodybuilders) are concerned with 48 hour recovery windows because muscle damage, soreness, perceived exertion, strength deficit, and so on often peak within that time frame (according to studies -- and anecdotes of course). It's a concern for bodybuilders because they wish to have a "full tank of gas" when performing their sets in order to gain maximal muscle size. These gentlemen/women eat 8,000-10,000 calories per day and wake up multiple times during the night to ingest more calories and protein. Again though, these athletes have training volumes greater than we can imagine. The average Joe Gym Rat is leagues away from concerning themselves with this. This is a complex question for many reasons, and that's why I say it's subjective. For example: how much exertion is actually required to warrant 48 hours of recovery -- just one set to failure or 40 sets to failure? How does this window vary between well-trained individuals and untrained ones? We know hormone levels have an adaptation period as we get in shape, so how big of a part is our current hormone level playing in recovery? Are we an individual that has naturally high testosterone levels? How much sleep have we had? How much protein/amino acids? How much training volume did we do last time? The body is quite complex and we're basically just trying predict the weather here. We shouldn't be talking in absolutes, or arbitrary numbers. It's hard to say how all the systems are going to work together in your case without study. All of that said, the easiest thing to do here is just to try it out and measure your progress. You may start to plateau while training under this modality, in which case you would incorporate longer rest periods. On the other hand, your physique might start looking awesome, but your lifts may not improve much. Some things to measure are: circumferences of muscles and waist, body fat %, 1RM numbers, etc. In any case, I think you would be well into the advanced/elite athlete category before you should even begin thinking about this. In my experience, more training volume precipitates better results. After all, elite athletes train all day, every day. Just a side note: be wary about injury. Training at higher volumes can be dangerous, especially if you are not using your body for most of the day. Muscle tissue is not the only thing we are concerned about here. Be sure you are adequately prepared for your lifts by building up to them. Here is some further reading on the 48-hour window: 

A concept I've been toying with lately is the "coach vs athlete mentality" that Johnny Candito talks about in this video. I think it's something I've been lacking in my training for some time. Often I find myself critiquing my lifts before, after, and while I am performing them. This adds a lot of mental noise when the lift occurs and detracts from my ability to perform as an athlete. As we all know, attitude is everything. I've found taking the "athlete" mentality when approaching my lifts really keeps performance in the foreground rather than the internal coaching dialog, which really doesn't help at the time.