"VIJJA -CARANA SAMPANO" is a quality of the Buddha. He says as He acts and He does what He says. Only a fully enlightened Buddha can keep to his word 100% all the time. So breaking a promise is not a lie, unless you had the intention of lying when you made the promise. In that case, you have already lied, even before breaking the promise. Lying to oneself is not technically possible as you always know what you are upto. Four conditions must be met to break this precept. i) The statement must be untrue. ii) There must be an intention to deceive. iii) An effort must be made to deceive. iv) The other person must know the meaning of what is expressed 

Kayanupassana(awareness of the body): the movements and postures. Vedananupassana(awareness of feelings): bodily and mental sensations of pain, happiness, calm, etc. Cittanupassana(awareness of the mind): thoughts that arise in the mind – of the past or future, good or bad; Dhammanupassana(awareness of phenomena): groups of mental and physical phenomena that are of specific interest to the meditator, including the mental states that cloud one’s awareness, the six senses by which one experiences reality, and many others 

Human realm is not the only realm of existence. There are 31 in total. Also, it doesn't say that earth is the only place in the universe where humans live. So the person could be born in another human realm or the closest thing to it. In any case, it's a purely hypothetical situation. I doubt that a meteoroid can destroy the earth in fraction of a second. Someone will probably have to instantly place the earth on the sun or in a black hole for such a thing to happen. 

It could actually be unskillful as you are strengthening your ignorance to think that such characters are real. 

The being must be alive. There must be knowledge that it is a living being There must be intention to cause its death Action must be taken to cause its death Death must result from such action 

Among the seven javana process, this is the seventh one.The second weakest of the javana cittas, - called upapajja-vedaniya kamma. 3. indefinitely effective kamma ( aparā-pariya-vedaniya kamma) 

In fact, the Buddha meditated everyday. All Arahaths meditate whenever they are not busy with teaching or day to day activities. But it is not to get rid of any defilements like ordinary beings. Instead, they attain a state called the Nirodha Samapatti. It's like going home after busy day at the office(the world of Sankhara). Nirodha Samapatti is a pleasant abiding. If I remember right, the Buddha attains the Jhanas after every sentence he speaks, when he gives a sermon. The Buddha's Daily Routine 

Any kind of sexual activity has the potential to give you a unfavorable birth, if it comes forward at the time of your death. Read more about how the mind works at the of death. However, engaging in unorthodox sexual activities usually requires a greater degree of lust and delusion. So the said methods can potentially cause stronger unwholesome Kamma. 

Buddham saranam gacchami - I go to the Buddha for refuge. Dhammam saranam gacchami - I go to the Dhamma for refuge. Sangham saranam gacchami.- I go to the Sangha for refuge. 

No, you are not breaking any rules(precepts) by saying 'no' to either of them. You are simply saying "I don't want your help". That doesn't break the 1st precept. Whether it is Vibhava tanha or not depends on the mind state at the time. If the intention is not to be a burden to the society or to your loved ones, it is not Tanha. Even monks are allowed to reject medicine in that case. 

The mind can be seen as having a gender. Usually being very emotional, afraid and capricious are seen as a qualities of a female mind. Of course both men & women can be like that. That's when you say a man with female qualities or a woman with male qualities. All Brahmas who have none of the above weaknesses are considered male, even though they don't have a physical gender. As far as dealing with transgender, you can simply treat them as trasgender. In practical situations, if they look like women in appearance, address them as women. If they look like men, address them as men, regardless of what they want to be called. Or simply avoid using gender references at all. 

"clear darkness with peace of mind" is an experience of Samadhi. It's neither Sothapanna nor Sakadagami. When you attain Sothapanna, it makes a permanent change in you. The self view, attachment to rites and rituals and doubt are removed permanently. It's not any kind of peaceful feeling that you get while meditating. Same goes for Sakadagami. When you attain it your craving towards sensual pleasure and aversion are permanently weakened regardless of if you are meditating or not. 

Here, the Buddha is saying that the mind as a process is luminous when there are no defilements. He never mentions anything about a lasting citta. It's the same Vinnana of the five aggregates which is conditioned. If being luminous is enough to assume that it is permanent, the bodies of the Abhassara Brahmas should be permanent too. Because they are said to be radiant. :) 

I would recommend you to listen to sermons and learn from a teacher rather than trying to learn from books. Because one can easily misinterpret what's in the texts. Try starting with this video wiki page. Also go through these Dhammapada videos. And here's a booklet on meditation. 

There are many hells, not one. They are actual realms where beings are born into, due to unwholesome Kamma. Hell-beings experience both physical pain and mental suffering. Hells are categorized into 4 types: 

When the mind takes Nibbana as the object, all experiencing cease. But when enlightened beings do day to day activities, Nibbana is not the object of the mind. They do feel pain since there is experiencing. But they do not suffer. Being conscious of the pain is different from suffering due to pain. 

Does a mango tree always give mangoes when fruiting? Or can it give apples as well? So if a mango tree always give mango fruits, should all the mangoes in the world come from one tree? Or can there be many mango trees? Laws of physics are formulated by observing and hypothesizing. There's no direct knowledge involved. If laws of physics are ultimate reality, why do they change with time? Hypotheses are clearly mind made. So is mathematics. ex: 1 is an agreement and 1 + 1 = 2 is a concept based on that agreement. 

"Compassion is characterized as promoting the aspect of allaying suffering. Its function resides in not [enduring] others' suffering. It is manifested as non-cruelty. Its proximate cause is to see helplessness in those overwhelmed by suffering. It succeeds when it makes cruelty subside, and it fails when it produces sorrow." -Visuddhimagga Compassion is a wholesome quality of the mind. It's not eliminated when one attains enlightenment. So when an Arahath's mind focuses on the suffering of a being, compassion arises naturally. Craving is what is eleminated when one attains enlightenment. Craving is of 3 kinds. 

Philosophical thoughts can come to the mind at anytime. You shouldn't get too excited about them as that can lead to complacency, ego and false self assessments. Simply note them rising and passing away. If you are not enlightened, you are not safe no matter how deep you feel or think. Don't focus much on love. Usually Patikulamanasikara meditation is recommended to people with lust issues. The details are in the Visuddhimagga. You can also do Silanussati and try to perfect your virtue. One suggestion is to stay in a forest monastery for a while, stay away from women and work on taming the mind. 

They leave the laylife within 7 days, not 24 hours. This is why Pacceka Buddhas go to live in the forest since there is no Sangha community. 

There's nobody in the current world. The current world is one of seeing, hearing, smelling, tasting, touching, thinking. Nibbana is devoid of any of those. 

'roots', also called hetu, are those conditions which through their presence determine the actual moral quality of a volitional act, and the consciousness and mental factors associated therewith, in other words, the quality of karma. There are 6 such roots, 3 karmically wholesome and 3 unwholesome roots, viz.,: greed, hate, delusion (lobha, dosa, moha), and greedlessness, hatelessness, undeludedness (alobha, adosa, amoha). Read more... 

Yes, if you stop doing vipassana short of attaining Sothapanna, your mind can fall back to an ordinary corrupted state again. 

Pin(Punya) and Kusal are both same. Pin means that which purifies the mind. Kusala means that which is born of wisdom or that which counters defilements. The good deeds that lead to birth in heavenly realms are called Wattagamini-Kusala and the good deeds that lead to Nibbana are called Viwattagamini-Kusala. Here's an explanation by ven. Nauyane Ariyadhamma Thera. 

life-continuum is Bhavanga-citta. It's the filler thought moment/moments between every 2 thoughts/experiences. It keeps you from dying when the senses cannot provide an object to the mind. When you are in dreamless sleep, your mind mostly has Bhavanga-cittas. It's the first thought moment in your life and the last thought moment of the previous life. It is a resultant thought moment, thus Karmicly neutral. For humans and above, it's always a result of good Karma. For hell-beings, it's a result of bad Karma. 

Wanting to become a degree holder is Bhava-tanha or craving to become. That craving is causing you to break the first precept. See how dependant origination is at play here. You can either look for insects that are already dead or tell your professor that you cannot kill as a Buddhist. 

Space is not unconditioned. Space is simply a derived element. In other words, it's merely the absence of matter. When matter arise, space perish, when matter perish, space arise. 

When he left the lay life, he didn't have any attainment(Nibbana) yet. Thinking to leave the lay life is called Nekkhamma Sankappa. It's a part of Samma Sankappa, the right thought of the noble eight fold path. Even ordinary people can get Nekkhamma thoughts from time to time. But those are often not strong enough to make them give up the lay life. The common understanding is that the Buddha attained all stages of enlightenment under the Bodhi tree on the same morning he became the Buddha. 

Venerable Maha Kassapa is not trusting the disciple. He's simply trying to make him better. But only the Buddha could definitely know if someone cannot be helped. Who would've thought that Angulimala and the demon Alavaka could be helped? 

Aversion is simply the disliking of an experience. When a person gets angry, sad or afraid, it is the craving to be rid of the experience that is going to lead to clinging. Not aversion itself. It is called Vibhava-tanha. Hence aversion isn't considered a direct cause of Samsara. 

No! Once you attain Nibbana, mission is accomplished. There are no more ambitions. So it is technically not possible. It's like getting the PhD vs getting the PhD with highest honors. But once you get it, it's done.