Turn the question around. How would you feel if management had made the decision without consulting the team? At least you have a voice in the decision. It sounds to me like they're saying "This stinks, but there's no way around it ... you folks work it out." The business decision (the BA requirement) has already been made; they're delegating the execution to the team, and that's not a bad thing. All that being said ... On a small team, if you're doing scrum -- or really following any kind of agile process -- the product owner and developers typically fulfill the role traditionally performed by a business analyst. Sometimes the product owner takes the lead in the analysis process, sometimes it's the developers. A BA can certainly add value -- especially if you're starting to get serious about acceptance testing -- but for small teams and especially early in the process a BA is typically perceived as overkill. So one possible argument is that, in the process you're trying to follow, you can perform that function with the people/roles you already have. Building on @gbjbaanb's answer, you could potentially rotate the BA responsibilities between team members; it certainly can't hurt to ask if that would be acceptable. You never know, one of the devs might decide they like the BA work ... but even if not that approach of shared responsibility and cross-training is (IMHO) consistent with the spirit of agile. Has management explained / justified the need for a BA? (You don't specify.) It may be due to some external constraint e.g. a customer is demanding it. Or maybe the BA is supposed to be assigned to a different project. (You don't specify.) Maybe management feels you're overstaffed -- I'm not saying that's true, but it's not uncommon for a team to spend, say, 25% of its time on support activity without anyone outside of the team being aware of it. All you can do here is attempt to quantify the impact of "taking away" a developer e.g. "that would delay the implementation of the data feed to payroll by a month, and the feed to accounts receivable by two months". It does sound like knowledge is highly compartmentalized within your organization. IMHO that's a problem in and of itself, because of the bus factor risk. But it's going to make it difficult to do agile effectively. My suggestion: communicate, communicate, communicate. Find out where the BA requirement comes from. Explain the impact it will have on your team's productivity. Explain the bus factor risk. Have the team suggest/discuss alternative solutions; anything the team would be willing to live with, propose that to management. 

Context switching is costly. If you have a schedule that pushes you to switch focus between very different types of work, this can be (at the very least) exhausting; Usually, it is the equivalent of being distracted all the time. Consider: 

When you have work-related tasks that you cannot do because of other work-related tasks, notify your manager. It is his job to ensure your tasks do not conflict with each other (i.e. "manage" your tasks). This means, if you have two (or more) managers asking for your time, have them fight it out between themselves. When the second request comes in, tell the manager you will be able to get to it only after he confirms with your first manager (and lets you know), or after he tells you the responsibility for the first task not getting done, will be his. 

The important parts: write it down while it's fresh, share it with involved people, store it (in such a way that it is indexable/findable easy). If there is big controversy in a decision (half the team wants it one way and half another way) then also write down a note on the controversy and what was decided. 

Requirements, no matter how informal, should never be a conversation (but something persistent and verifiable). 

You are not asking for more than your equal peers. Just because the company considers you in a pool of equally qualified people, doesn't mean their evaluation is correct (simply present the same arguments you would present if their fair formula was not there). 

I don't know what your situation is, but if somebody told me I would have to work 12 hour days to meet a deadline I didn't (personally) make a commitment to, I would respond by brushing up my CV and starting to look elsewhere. There are twothree things to realize about planned overtime: 

I had an interview this morning which lasted several hours. First I met with several of the IT managers, one of whom I would presumably end up working for if I was hired. Then an hour with someone from HR. Then a half hour with the development and data architects, and another hour with several technical staffers. What is the recommended protocol for thank-you notes in this scenario? I've read you should respond mainly to the "lead" interviewer (typically the hiring manager) with a courtesy note to HR. But everyone -- in particular, all of the managers -- asked me questions ... there wasn't a clear "leader", and I'm pretty sure they're all peers. My guess is I should write a note to each of the technical managers and probably the HR representative as well. In writing to the technical managers, I should ask them to forward my thanks to their team members. 

There are already several excellent answers. I would add not to forget non-monetary compensation. The company may offer excellent medical benefits, or excellent training / continuing educational benefits. You may be able to rearrange your schedule to a four-day work week, and/or work from home, etc. Even if the hiring manager doesn't have much leeway in terms of monetary compensation, s/he may be able to offer you additional paid time off in lieu of additional pay. But here again, you need to be prepared to negotiate ... so you need to find out what's typical in your field and in your area (given your level of experience) ... and of course you need to think about what (if anything) you would be willing to accept as a substitute for monetary compensation. I find it's good to ask about these types of things anyway, as it helps give me a sense of the organizational culture. 

I think your boss is looking for constructive feedback. He needs to know what went wrong (if any) in your experience with the company, so he can prevent other employees leaving for similar reasons. That is, yes, you probably should give your boss the real reasons you are leaving. 

This will push a possible employer to offer you (or similar), if you are leaving because you dislike your current position, and if they think you are content in your current position, but they want to convince you to change anyway. When an employer states a figure first (i.e., they mention a figure first), it is the opposite: they expect you to ask for . Normally, in any (future) salary negotiation, the party that specifies a figure first, is at a disadvantage. 

If the deadline was something you committed to without external pressure, the best way is probably to state you overcommitted, learned from it and will commit to less on your next deadline. If the deadline was established by your manager/boss (without taking your input into account) then you should raise a couple of alarms and point out most of the problem appears from overtime itself: "I work beyond normal hours quite regularly (often continue at home after dinner) " - as a client I wouldn't want a product/service that is done on "after-hours work quality". The fact you have to do overtime on your project is a sign of poor management/planning. "occasionally I finish working on something but don't "Send" or finish [...] because I get too tired" - typically, work when you are exhausted is exceptionally lacking in quality. When I did overtime (I am a consultant now, so it doesn't happen anymore), I used to have situations when I would work on a problem for an entire evening (4hrs+ after work), then give up, come back the next morning and solve the same problem in 10 minutes. 

Decline the offer. Explain to the recruiter that you are declining the offer because the company reneged on the original job offer by offering a lower salary, also lower than market, without any justification or explanation. Mention (in a completely neutral tone) that you interviewed for the job in part because of the salary offered and are not going to work for a company that seems to have pulled a bait and switch. Do not sound at all emotional, angry, or irritated when you say this. Just state that they didn't meet your salary requirement, and didn't even meet their own offer. Without an explanation or reason, that's not acceptable to you. 

For purposes of this answer, I'm assuming that you've provided correct and complete information and that there are no significant factors that you're not aware of. That is, that the technicians are in fact available -- they're working, have no other commitments, and could do the job if they were scheduled. And that your understanding of the rationale for not booking the technicians is correct -- the supervisor is trying to game the accounting so that revenue is booked in a later quarter. Yes, you are being asked to lie. When a customer asks you if a technician is available, they are asking whether the technician is working, not assigned to do anything else, and could do the job if assigned it. They're not asking about whether they can help your supervisor game your company's accounting. In the sense the customer is asking, they are available. You are being asked to tell the customers they aren't even though they are. The test of whether you're being asked to lie is simple -- would telling the whole truth accomplish the same thing as saying what you're asking to say? And here, it's clearly not. Now, the next question is how big of a deal this is. And to know that, you have to know what the supervisor is trying to accomplish. On the less awful side, they may just be trying to reduce the company's tax obligations by realizing income in a later quarter. On the more awful side, they may be trying to shift income to a quarter in which they are eligible for bonuses and away from one where they're not. This hurts the company because it means they'll have fewer technicians available next month and will likely produce less total revenue and they'll pay out undeserved bonuses. Also, this puts stress on employees like you, which hurts the company. But the most important thing is this: People are entitled to get satisfaction from their work and know that they are doing right by the people they interact with. It sounds like your supervisor doesn't think you deserve this because you have not been given sufficient information to know that you are doing this or, worse, are being asked to harm your customers and company so someone's numbers can be inflated. What you should do about it depends a lot on how much you care about things like this and what other options you have. 

You can't. What you can (and definitely shoud do) is make a written risk assessment and make sure your bosses read it. In it, describe the security risks, what (reasonable/affordable) actions can be taken to mitigate each risk, and what is the cost of not taking said action. Example: 

It is not rude. Regarding professionalism, this depends a lot on the position, your responsibilities and the project you are working on. In some cases it may be OK (or even expected), in some it may be unprofessional. 

If they are unrealistic, you will miss them. That said, it is possible that the deadlines are considered reachable by your manager (as in "not unrealistic") considering you will do overtime (see below). 

If you didn't write it down, you haven't taken a decision about it before. This means that everybody will (maybe) remember something of it and have an opinion - not a business decision (because the decision wasn't formalized / written down). 

It kind-of does matter (not because anyone else gets to decide what you should do, but because you may decide to reschedule); if you can afford to cancel your personal appointment, offer to do so (preferably notifying your manager that you will take your time off, later). If you cannot reschedule/cancel your time (or simply do not want to), point it out ("I'm sorry but I cannot be in office this afternoon - I had notified X of this yesterday through email and he said it was OK"). 

Yes, it is probably true. That said, it is also a red herring: Agreeing on your salary should not be done between yourself and their fair formula, but depending on other things (job responsibility, experience, market conditions etc); if the salary you need is not within their margins, they either have to go above their margins, or you could/should leave.