By looking at the recent literature on the question, I see neither a consensus or a definitive answer on the extent of the snowball earth. Since the Neoproterozoic Snowball Earth event is more recent, there seem to be more evidences available and therefore more relevant research on this event than the 2.1 BY one - and will consider in the following only the latest event. This paper suggest that the ice cover was likely global but some open water would have persisted in equatorial regions where complex life would have been able to survive during the glaciation. This other paper suggest that glaciogenic sequences (sedimentary rocks containing sediments deposited by glacier actions, for modern analog non-consolidated examples see till or moraine) in high latitudes (North) contains fragments of carbonates which was likely formed near the equatorial zone and somewhat transported by glacier action. This yet another paper modeled how glaciation likely reach the equator, where this paper suggest that open sea must exists. Other papers suggested that once a significant part of the Earth was covered by glaciers, albedo effect significantly cooled the planet until some kind of massive volcanic eruption interrupted the cycle. The only consensus I figure is that it most likely happened (a late Proterozoic Snowball Earth Event) but it still remain to be seen if a thick cover of ice 'a la Encalade' covered the Earth at one time or another, or not. 

This paper is quite old - but is relevant nevertheless. A more recent paper review the physics of lightning in this review paper, titled 'The Physics of lightning' by Dwyer and Uman (2014). They present the various steps implied when a lightning form, illustrated by this illustration (Figure 1): 

I found the paper you initially referred to here: $URL$ based on the hyperlink by the xkcd webpage you referred $URL$ The full reference for this paper is: Oetzel, G. N. (1968), Computation of the diameter of a lightning return stroke, J. Geophys. Res., 73(6), 1889–1896, doi:10.1029/JB073i006p01889. In the abstract: 

The core: aforementioned literature refer to the component of the actual lightning as a 'current carrying core' surrounded by a corona sheath. The sheath is what appear to be 1 to 10 m in diameter, where the actual 'electricity channel' is centimeter wide; so this core as the centimeter wide channel is the electron pathway. 

Basically, there is several stages when a lightning strike. There is the stepped leader component, that somewhat lead the way for the exchanges that will follow. In the figure, we notice the positive and negative signs (+ / -) and how they change position depending on the discharge. The stepped leader can be followed by return strikes and so on. In this paper they mention diameters for the stepped leader, which may appear to be much larger than the return stroke, such as in the range of one to ten meter in diameter: 

It may be possible at the scale of a single watershed to do a prediction model on the probable schedule of a dry down - or a restricted land unit, because a lot of drilling and geophysical all around surveys would be necessary to know the ground properties, the storage properties. Also a couple of monitoring station (discharge) at higher stream order segments would be required. Rain meters stations too. Moisture would be monitored in representative ground units. But this would apply locally, and be hardly exportable at a larger scale, in my opinion. I would go with this statement of yours: 

These are qanats, a type of antique drainage system common in arid climate regions of the Middle East, particularly in Iran (as mentioned by @Spencer @Winwaed). Some of those are still in use for storage because of lower underground temperature or to access the underground water. In the picture posted by OP, it further make sense since the underground channels follow linear paths near, around and crossing the small stream, thus providing a remote access to water. Here is an oblique picture showing the qanats of Bam in Iran (Higher resolution available at the source here). 

Dry down is mainly dependent on the speed where a local water storage would be depleted, considering those components extracted from the simplified water balance equation 

Rainfall is mainly from monsoon. Monsoon rain is not regular (and therefore unreliable for planning long term with rain as an only source of water). For instance ,distribution, amount and timing varies. High temperatures during the monsoon season imply high potential evapotranspiration so a greater proportion of the rainfall is evaporated rather than infiltrated to be available for crop growth Rain when it occurs is quite intense, with often a low infiltration rate and flow away instead of recharging ground moisture Insufficient rain during winter to compensate 

This work intend to consolidate climate data series from 79 stations in North Africa and the Middle East, between the 19th century to present day. Distribution of the stations are shown in Figure 1: 

I resolved the following based on your input: $z = (T_s)(k/q)$ for the granite case, where $75 = (3)(k/0.04)$ where $k = 1$ so based on this site here, typical granite thermal conductivity is in the range of 1.7 to 4 $W/m K$. We could say your site is special with $k=1$ maybe local conditions.. Let's test the Esker gravel, where the aforementioned site propose $k=0.7$ for a typical value for gravel. Let's see your model $188 = (3)(k/0.04)$ where $k = 2.5$ to balance the equation here you need a value of $k$ that is larger, can't be local factors explaining that. So how to approach this ? 

I would say yes, as all input / output and potential changes in the storage need to be taken into account to calculate the balance, and ultimately the moment of depletion of the reservoir and thus the beginning of the dry-down. Antecedent conditions are of an utmost importance when estimating a dry down moment.If the storage was relatively empty prior to a rain event, it could take a lot of input to recharge it, this without neglecting the other factors. To translate as an example, a huge rain event when the reservoir was empty prior to the event could recharge the reservoir and provide some surface runoff. A similar rain event when the reservoir was half-full prior would recharge for a while and then flood the area because of the important water excess. This is dependent on the climatic zone (ex Köppen classification), say a warm and dry desert region will have a quite different balance than a polar region, because various input sources and different underground geophysical properties. Yet, within each regions, much variability will be encountered locally, depending on 

Overall, your equation to resolve the depth is quite simple and do not take into account a lot of factors, and some important parameters which are generalized /estimated broadly weaken your results. 

Michel, B. & Ramseier, R. O. Classification of river and lake ice Canadian Geotechnical Journal, 1971, 8, 36-45 The following is a reference on the matter in my opinion: Shumskii, Petr Aleksandrovich. Principles of structural glaciology: the petrography of fresh-water ice as a method of glaciological investigation. Dover Publications, 1964. 

ice grain can grow quite large. This paper discusses the matter of ice classification for lakes and river. Fig. 1 display a flow chart on possible paths for ice formation - I would interpret that the ice formation followed the left path, from fresh water, to calm water toward plate-ice, followed by undisturbed growth to ice sheet, and ice cover. To cite how the primary ice would form on the pond (Michel and Ramseier, 1971) : 

Since it is not known at this stage what measures were implemented for each building in regard with eventual flood situations, it does not make sense to purposely exclude the buildings from the flood zone until some kind of general database with that info is built and put into context in your system. Even-more, a lot could happen in a potential flood zone when an extreme event occurs, regardless of the prevention plan by various owners and city management. A risk management model with proper risk probabilities, potential damages and monetary values would eventually be required to better represent the up-to-date context of the site. 

It is true that major glacial activity occurred repeatedly during the Pleistocene east of the Hudson Bay (eg: Laurentidian Ice Sheet sweeping again and again), but yet the Chicxulub impact was subject to many factors of erosion as well since its formation near the K-T boundary. Still these kind of surveys indicate the nature of the material in the crust - so even if several glaciations impacted the Nastapoka arc area, there would be some kind of patterns still present indicating heavy metals (Chondrite or anything typical of an impact, iron or circular metamorphism). To conclude, unless other surveys suggests an alternative interpretation path in the future, few evidences strongly support the theory of an ancient impact at Nastapoka. 

Therefore, irrigation and other means to store and distribute water should be used in the long term to efficiently use the water input, in regard with the potential use for water. 

Time is important: older permafrost can be very deep, especially in areas such as in Siberia, Yukon/Alaska where the effect of glacier was limited, thus exposing the ground to cold conditions for long time. Some areas in the Canadian archipelago are in excess of 1 km deep, and more than 500 m is not uncommon, largely depending on local and time conditions. Yet, huge discrepancies in permafrost depth can be found between western Canada/AK, eastern Canada, Northern Europe and Siberia, given a constant latitude, and therefore isolation and thus comparable aspect. As an example at Svalbard (78N), permafrost depth was reported to be less than 400 m, while regional depth in the central canadian archipelago north of Baffin Island is more than 500 m (for 73 - 75 N) and 1500 m in northern Siberia (which is at a lower latitude than Svalbard). To get back to your question, aspect (or solar radiation input) is pretty much uniform for a given latitude - but in this case, for the same latitude, permafrost depth vary. On the other hand, material type vary locally. If wetlands, mosses and vegetation will contribute to cool the ground, enabling deeper permafrost in those areas. Areas were there is a lot of snow (snowbanks) will have a warmer permafrost compared to crests nearby. Lakes change how heat can be extracted from the ground (latent heat effect) so permafrost will be thin under a lake compared to around the lake (lake being a type of material in the context of your question). Desert ? Rock outcrop ? Each type of environment behave in a certain way regarding heat extraction and ultimately heat exchanges, which have a lot to do with the nature of the surface.. 

But - this is by using photography - yet the core of the lightning at the center (the core) seem to be a few centimeter in diameter: 

the soil temperature $T_s$ cannot be fixed. It should vary a lot depending on your environment, and also even in a single environment you could have variations when considering other factors such as the moisture, the slope, the albedo, the snow conditions, the vegetation (eg: n-factors) the heat flux at 0.04 is usually a regional estimation. While not impossible, I found this value low. In the Appalachians (Chic-Chocs) values where estimated to be around $2 W/m^2$ You need better estimations for $k$ for this this to work 

This picture was taken in what seem to be a small pond, of very calm water. It seem that in ideal conditions, implying but not limited to : 

One challenge they had was an amount of incomplete records in the available dataset during that studied lapse. Table 1 and 2 show the name and location of the sources for the datasets, which could be useful for you to get started if your research need recent (2008-2018) records Further they provided as supplemental material their raw datasets used in their research here, as used in their paper (-> 2008). 

This type of statement is having no place in a scientific paper, as this is poorly opinionated based on nothing of substance (Clearly, dramatic, Climate Alarmist) and does not prove much, except that the contribution is not scientific. Fifth of less importance. the formatting is very poor, which is not helping with the credibility of authors - not that it is very hard to prepare nice and efficient looking reports these days. In a few words, poor communication (in this case, this paper) is not helpful to convince colleagues of alternative ideas (or any ideas). Sixth until this work reach the stage of being published by an independent peer reviewed medium, I don't see how this could even begin to be a 'threat' to current climate science. 

One recent (actual) example that come to mind is the sea level rising. Here we see that since the early satellite measurements in 1993, sea level rise was about 8 cm. On the same page, less reliable gauges indicated a coastal sea level rise of 20 cm between 1870 and the late 1990. Some Islands are particularly vulnerable to sea level changes, in regard with fresh water supplies, soils and shore degradation following storms and strong high tides, etc. Marshall Island (~2 m), Maldives (~1 m) are examples of emplacements with very low mean ground level. It is really a question of time before these places become unlivable. While these are small islands, other populous places are quite vulnerable to similar situations such as Bangladesh. 

but I cannot find any related full work from the authors on the matter. As a comparison, in this case, a short, simplified article was prepared as a companion for a full paper. The former is useful for news agencies and general public, and the latter for interested peers. Second, references are poor. Data sources are cited, from government or agencies FTP sites, which is probably legit (I did not verify the linked data in great detail). GAST dataset are publicly available, as the freedom to publish possible misinterpretation in a proper peer reviewed journal, which remain to be done for the authors actual work. Third, there is no real methodology. The abridged paper is presenting results and interpretations, but there is no real method. Fourth, p17