If this stat exists in any form it would be done by Football Outsiders or KC Joyner's team. I am a regular on both of their sites and it doesn't exist in your form. Is your stat relevant? I am not sure because of the problems outlined above. I think the first step is maybe getting 50-100 games and break down the yards after contact for WRs based on field metrics. For example split them into 0-5 yards, 6-15 yards, 16-25 yards, and 25+ yards. Also you are going to have to do something about TDs. If Randy Moss jumps up for a 50 yard bomb and catches it at the 5 yard line with two defenders hanging on him, he shoves one down, and walks in the end zone... he gets 5 yards? 

The quarterback may throw the ball in any way he likes as long as he uses his arm(s). Whatever way he decides to throw the ball - underhand, granny-style, basketball shot-style, in between his legs, whatever - they are all treated exactly the same. If he throws it underhand forward, that is perfectly legal. If the receiver drops this the ball it is dead, incomplete pass. Now let's go ahead and add two other examples that we are seeing a lot now. 1) Can a quarterback throw overhand backwards? The answer is still the same. Any ball thrown overhand, underhand or whatever backwards is all the same. The difference on a backwards pass is that the throw isn't actually a throw, it is treated the same as a hand-off. Meaning if dropped it is a live ball. Also for stats purposes if a QB throws the ball backwards 20 yards across the field to a WR, it is not a passing attempt, it is a rush attempt by the WR. Several times this year in the NFL I have seen scorers count these overhand backwards passes as passing yards/receiving yards and watched them get changed to rush attempts. 2) Some coaches have (IMO) used the passing rules to manipulate fumble risks and passing/receiving stats for their team. In your basic spread formations you have several variations of motion or jet sweeps. It has become the trend for the QB to use a pop pass in these cases instead of a hand-off. The pop pass is simply the QB releasing the ball in the air with two hands right in front of him. If you actually slow down most pop passes the ball indeed travels backwards but in real time looks to be even or the same. The reason the ball travels backwards is because as QB receives the ball in a gun formation he is going backwards (even if it is slightly). So when jet receiver drops this pass/hand-off it is ruled an incompletion. When he catches it it should be statted as a completion for however many yards the WR gets running. This allows a QB/WR to rack up stats against "slower" competition while proving no skill set. (I watched tape on a kid this year with 1200 yards receiving at the high school level - which if you don't know is excellent. 500+ of the yards where on jet sweeps. Still 700 yards is great and he is a great prospect but very very deceiving.) 

Most high school associations and little leagues prohibit them too. I think LL allows them though. It is a no brainer to make the pitcher take it off. I really don't see it as a distraction or safety issue, it is just making a clear line on fairness. The batting glove is simply a foreign object in the glove. It doesn't help the player and can only be used for harm. Players could use it to scuff ball or whatever. Also I want to note that there is a rule that explicitly states that a pitcher may only rub the ball with his bare hands. As an umpire I probably would wait to let the other coach complain if the kids were under 16 - but it has been 15 years since I umped that age. If over I would ask pitcher to remove during warm-ups and do it all the time. Most of the time they just left it on from hitting and don't care at all. Note: Your title indicates the question being around fielders too. They can wear batting gloves. Batting gloves cannot contain foreign substances on them. What is a foreign substance? Something that you wouldn't innately find on a baseball diamond. 

This is a really interesting question. At the youth level I used to love implementing things to get touches to my bigs. I felt that if they are out there blocking they should get glory too. That was mostly taken away 10-15 years ago with weight limits on ball carriers. At the high school and college levels they have put in rules to eliminate a lot of the line pulls and fumblerooski plays. (See Nebraska 1984(?) for the perfect example) This year Arkansas had an offensive tackle that threw for a touchdown. That might be your answer for the last trick play for an offensive lineman. In the NFL there are a variety of reasons that this doesn't happen mainly the reward vs risk. But you have to also think how hard defensive lineman get off the ball in the NFL. You don't want a 325 pound player wobbling into your QB trying to get a handoff. Injury, turnover, really bad play risk. I have watched I would say more than 95% of the NFL games over the past 15 years and I can't remember one offensive lineman even getting a carry or throwing a pass. Some things I do remember related: 

Yes they are allowed as long as they are clear. One of the things that officials go through are safety classes. Part of that is dealing with head/back/neck injuries. If something happened a referee or medic would not take your helmet off. Therefore they would need to see your eyes clearly and be able to run basic tests. Clear is perfectly fine. If you were looking for clear with a slight color tint I would specifically ask the league president of your league - email him - but as a young athlete I would make sure it was purely clear so I didn't have an AWAY referee make me take it off. 

If the pitcher signaled the pitch then the hitter would see - that is your answer. Whether the pitcher, catcher, or coach decides ultimately on what gets pitched is really up to the coach. I caught for years and always called my games. When my backup came in the coach called some. Also the coaches will decide if the pitcher can waive them or the catcher out. I have had pitchers waive me off and be taken out the next chance. Generally until you get into the MLB level you don't want your pitchers putting so much thought on pitches. They should be worrying about throwing the pitches right - whatever is called. The catcher has more insight into the hitter because he is right next to him and can see his reaction to different pitches. 

The examples above are just examples. How extreme you get with them is dependent on how cheap the player is playing and the crowd you are playing with. Rules I live by (and the first we were taught at referee school): 

Bounce refers to dribbling a basketball. Re-bounce would mean to dribble again but it is not English so it would have no meaning. Rebound is actually a word used when a ball or anything hits a hard object and deflects somewhere else. This isn't just a basketball term. The connection with the date, is using a sports analogy. It is a rebound date because you missed on your other date/relationship but got another date quickly, just like if you missed your shot and got a rebound.