Therefore, in this context, ‘sankhara’ also refers to physical or material things, as found in the Pali terms ‘kaya sankhara’ (which is defined in MN 44 as the ‘in & out breathing’) & ‘aayu sankhara’ (defined in MN 43 as the ‘vitality’ or ‘life force’ of the physical body that remains when the mind is unconscious). 

Reincarnation is not related to enlightenment. Further, reincarnation does not exist. The only real "re-birth" is the rebirth of thoughts of egoism. 

While the world can never be perfect, a morally uncorrupted world is described in many places in the Pali suttas, including simply as the Six-Directions & the respective duties/relationship obligations expounded within. A departure from the kammic lawfulness of the Six Directions is a corruption (rather than something "progressive"). 

SN 22.59 is the 2nd sermon. Buddha taught each aggregate is subject to disease or illness (ābādhāya). SN 12.2 & MN 9. The 2nd condition of dependent origination, affected/polluted by ignorance/ asava/ hindrances, is the kaya-sankhara (MN 44; in & out breathing), which in turn conditions the elements of the physical body (rupa). Thus, ignorance includes the anusaya/asava/hindrance (MN 9; AN 10.61) of ill-will (AN 7.11) and this causes the breathing (kaya-sankhara) to be agitated, which causes the nama-rupa (mind-body) to be agitated. Meditators that experience all-kaya (stage 3 in MN 118) understand how the unwholesome mind (nama-kaya) causes the breath-kaya and rupa-kaya to become agitated & stressed. Thus suttas such as SN 12.25 explain how kaya-sankhara (in & out breathing), affected by ignorance, cause kaya-cetana (bodily-intention). D.O. -> ignorance/asava -> ignorant kaya-sankhara -> ignorant consciousness -> ignorant nama-rupa -> ignorant contact (avijjā­samphas­sa­jena) -> ignorant kamma 

Relax your facial muscles & take an out-breath or let go of some out-breathes. In your efforts to anchor awareness, it sounds like you are suppressing the (mental) tension stored in your physical body (which will arise into your awareness if meditating). Balance your effort. At regular intervals, take your foot off the accelerator; ease off the throttle. 

This is a mistranslation. It should be 'body fabricator'. The body fabricator is defined in MN 44 as the in & out breathing. The breathing is the body fabricator because when the breathing is calm, the body is calm; if the breathing is agitated, the body is stressed.; if the breathing is unhealthy, the body is unhealthy. If the breathing ends, the body dies. If the breathing starts, the body lives. This calming the breathing is achieved by having a quiet non-attached mind, which unifies itself with the breathing. 

My impression is Jataka are about the Bodhisatta. Regardless, the Buddha did not speak the Jataka, which are universally acknowledged to be belated texts. They were possibly commissioned under King Ashoka, who wanted to spread Buddhism. Ultimately, being stories for children, the Jataka probably contributed strongly to the materialism of reincarnation that now dominates much of Buddhism and resulted in the demise of Buddhism in India (since Buddhism became largely indistinguishable from Hinduism). Obviously, it is every difficult to argue the Bodhisatta in the Jataka was not an Atman (Same-Soul) reincarnated over many lifetimes. For the true meaning of "past lives", which is "past abodes ("pubbe nivasa"), I recommend to study SN 22.79 very carefully. A wise person would ask questions about SN 22.79. Because you are Indian, you should understand the words "nivasa" ("homes") & "jati" ("caste"; "identity") do not mean "past lives". 

This sounds really caught up in all kinds of cravings for spiritual attainments. If this 'craving' is dropped, the path the Buddha taught, which is the abandonment of craving (rather than mental gymnastics & magical formulas) might be learned. Samatha & vipassana are natural fruits of the properly established or collected mind - aka samadhi. The Buddha taught: 

This chain should be held distinct from dependent origination (as explained below). In this chain, contact-feeling-perception are inseparable and will always arise together (refer to MN 43 quoted below). Vitakka (thinking) is optional however to undertake ordinary life & social activities, a Buddha, for example, must think. Therefore, thinking (vitakka) can be included in sutta that mention feeling & perception. The above said, different teachings in the Pali suttas use names approximating this chain, such as: 

Therefore, all Buddhists do not agree the Dalai Lama being an incarnation of the Bodhisattva Avalokiteshvara. 

What is meant above by "vipassana cannot be taught" is that it arises naturally from concentration, as explained below: 

Modern Buddhism refers to 'magga-phala-nibbana'. 'Magga' is 'path', 'phala' is 'fruition'; 'Nibbana' is final outcome. To quote an opinion: 

The word 'Buddha' means 'Enlightened'. It is the Buddha that is the light of the world. Buddhism states there can be only one Original Buddha in a world-system (MN 115). Jesus was a new light for Judah but not for the world. Jesus brought light to the violent tribal hypocritical religion of Judaism but Buddha (obviously; probably) brought light to Jesus. When Jesus came to Judah and taught new teachings, which were different to Judaism, such as: (i) forgiveness, (ii) non-violence, (iii) showing the other cheek, (iv) non-hatred, (v) universal love & mercy, (vi) deeds before faith; (vii) God is love, (viii) celibacy, (ix) wandering like a monk, (x) not thirsting again (xi) liberation from the world, (xii) a kingdom not of this world, (xiii) eternal life (not experiencing death), etc, these new teachings obviously came from Buddhism because they have no source in the pre-Babylonian-exile Old Testament. All of these teachings have direct parallels in Buddhism, including the idea that 'God (Brahma) is love', which the Buddha taught to Brahmans in the Tevijja Sutta. The Buddha revolutionized the ancient spiritual world, such as the famous Hindu book called the Bhagavad Gita (300BC), which is about Krishna, who is very similar to Jesus, being a human incarnation of god. Although the Bhagavad Gita refers to god & its theistic, its more profound principles are very similar to Buddhism (such as giving up craving & attachment). The Buddha did not 'give up his life' for 'sheep' because the Buddha taught: (i) to not sacrifice one's life for another (Dhp 166); and (ii) he was the teacher of gods & humans (rather than animals or 'sheep'). Unlike Jesus, the Buddha forbade the practise of miracles for the religious conversion of others (DN 11). Unlike Jesus, a Buddha must live the whole term of his natural life as a demonstration of his virtue, i.e., his social harmony. Unlike Jesus, the Buddha did not wander around picking fights with the religious establishment. The fact that Jesus (supposedly) violently died on the cross & was (supposedly) killed by Jews resulted in a religion that perpetuated violence and engaged in revenge killing against Jews for 2,000 years, which ultimately influenced the 'Holocaust'. This cycle of revenge was not one-sided, with (wealthy) Jews also plotting for hundreds of years to destroy Christianity. In short, the (supposed) sacrifice of Jesus has not really brought peace to the world but the opposite. Where as practitioners of the Buddha's noble path are peaceful & don't engage in conflict with other religions. The Buddha called himself the 'Spiritual Friend' or 'Noble Friend' because he showed people a path for individual freedom that was self-reliant. The Buddha said: 

We should meditate upon all ending of life, including the termination of the aggregates conventionally called 'me' & 'you'. For example, meditation upon death should also be done towards cute little children. As for being "thankful", this is morally inappropriate and shows the mind is unable to truly let go and enter into the Emptiness of impermanence. Being "thankful" is similar to wanting to drink champagne at a funeral. This said, meditating on the death of a friend is not selfish. It is reality. The scriptures instruct: 

It appears you have wrong faith. Right faith in Buddhism is jhana is a supernormal state attained by extremely Noble & Virtuous Individuals, such as the Noble Sangha, who put supernormal effort & sacrifice into their practise. It sounds like your want for jhana is due to internet or consumerist advertising. Jhana is not like going to the department store to buy a fancy I-Phone or believing in Jesus for Eternal Life. 

'Hell' is 'suffering', 'pain', 'unhappiness', 'torment' &/or 'torture'. 'Hell' is described as undesirable unpleasant feelings, as follows: 

The word 'kamma' means 'intentional action' and has no explicit relationship to ideas of reincarnation. The teachings attributed to the Buddha say: 

From the perspective of the old Pali scriptures, I am not aware of anywhere that states: "It is more difficult to achieve nibbana in the a godly realm than in the human realm". For example, AN 4.123 describes Nirvana ("unbound") in the god realms. I think the answer to this common view is based in the type of 'godly' realm. A most common godly realm in the Pali scriptures are higher meditation states (jhana), as described in AN 4.123. However, there are godly realms that equate to luxurious wealthy lifestyles of sensual pleasures (e.g. MN 37). It is possibly this godly realm called The Sensuous World (kama-loka) that makes it difficult to achieve Nibbana. 

Each of the three levels of practise can be used to address such issues. On the moral level, the Buddha taught members of a family should cultivate four qualities: 

Another explanation of this phenomena is these monks are engaged in false speech however they believe the false speech will benefit the audience because the audience is so dense that the audience are blind to everything but material things. 

I suppose it means when all craving ends, life becomes totally meaningless thus you decide to die (like the silent Buddhas who entered into a mountain & were never seen again in MN 116) or you decide to join the Sangha to help other monks & people attain enlightenment. 

This can only be a metaphor or teaching principle. It cannot be literally or materially true, otherwise stories like Noah's Ark in the Bible would be true. 

The Buddha did not teach about an "endless liberation". However, the Buddha did teach a permanent liberation of mind during the finite lifetime of a mind is possible. 

Helping parents engages the mind in the moral 'right view' of knowing what has been received as benefaction (gift; sacrifice) from one's parents & one's resultant reciprocal obligations (good actions to be performed). This is called 'katannukatavedi' ('gratitude'), namely, 'what others do for me; what I must do in return'. The Pali scriptures state: 

AN 8.36 is for puthujjana (ordinary people), who have cravings & lusts for worldly pleasures, power & status. It is bribing puthujjana with promises of worldly rewards if they do good, as stated: 

If we examine Vajrayana writings, such as Tantra in Tibet (by Dalai Lama), we will find many Hindu concepts used such a 'tantra', 'yoga' & 'mantra' which are not characteristic of older Buddhism. For example, in his 1st sermon, the Buddha used the word 'yoga' in a negative sense, where he said to not be 'devoted to' or 'bound to' sensuality or self-mortification. In short, Mahayana arose to create a broader variety of teachings to appeal to a broader audience & often adapted Hindu methods & ideas. That is why Mahayana is the 'Great Vehicle'. 'Maha' does not mean 'better' but means 'broader'. 

In Pali Buddhism, the ability to rationalize, analyse & concentrate are other functions of other kinds of mentality (called 'mano', 'nama', 'sankhara khandha', etc). Each of these mental functions, be they consciousness ('vinnana'), intellect ('mano') or mental intention ('sankhara khandha'), can operate without ego or self ('atta'). 'Ego' or 'self' is a natural instinctual yet ignorant idea the mind imputes upon conscious experience & mental activity. (If interested, read more here). In Buddhism, what 'we' are is a product of the mind's accumulated & conditioned intentions & thinking (sankhara khandha) & thus 'what we are' is essentially unrelated to consciousness itself (even though what 'we' are are thoughts about what the mind is conscious of). In short, we are what we 'think' we are. What we think we are is called 'bhava' ('becoming' or 'existence') in Buddhism. To quote: 

The problem described here is all within the mind of your friend. The Sigalovada Sutta explains, in our lives, we will encounter 'true friends' & 'false friends'. The Sigalovada Sutta describes in detail the characteristics of 'true friends' & 'false friends'. The method of escape is two-fold: 

The Pali scriptures, particularly MN 117, state any teaching that infers reincarnation is only a teaching that supports the practise of morality but not liberation; that such a teaching is polluted (by asava; defilements), is not 'noble' & results in attachment/acquisition (upadhi), as follows: 

All things, whether conditioned or unconditioned, are dhammas ('phenomena') & elements (dhatu). All things mentioned in Buddhism, whether conditioned or conditioned, are sense objects experienceable by the mind, i.e., 'ayatana' (refer to Sabba Sutta. Note: the translation should be 'mind objects' rather than 'ideas', so to include Nibbana). Conditioned things are sankhara; conditioned elements are sankhata dhatu. The unconditoned element/Nibbana is asankhata dhatu or visankhara. Only conditioned things (sankhara) are impermanent. Nibbana, the unconditioned, is permanent. 

If final cessation occurs, the living & present mind will always be unified with seeing the true nature of conditioned reality (i.e., impermanence, unsatisfactoriness & not-self) & also always be unified with the permanent, satisfactory, not-self & unconditioned Nibbana (perfect peace). As the Dhammapada states: 

The word 'dharma' is not exclusive to Buddhism. All Indian religions are forms of 'dharma'. The Buddha-Dhamma ('dharma of the Buddha') is a "benevolent gift" thus is given free. To quote: 

5. ‘Sankhara’ as the ‘mental concocting’. There are many passages about how ‘sankhara’ is the greatest suffering & about how Nibbana is the stilling of ‘sankhara’. Since a Buddha must think (in order to teach) & is comprised of five undefiled pure five aggregates, the term ‘sankhara’ is these passages does not refer to ‘sankhara’ as ‘conditioned things’ or the ‘sankhara aggregate’. Sankhara, here, also probably does not refer to ‘sankhara’ as ‘conditioners’ since Buddhas still have breathing, feeling, perception & thought. Therefore, ‘sankhkara’ here must refer to the mind being ‘conditioned’, ‘concocted’, ‘stirred up’ & ‘polluted’ by greed, hatred & delusion, i.e., uncontrolled disturbing mental proliferating. Some relevant well-known passages are below: 

My answer: The word 'kaya' means 'group' or 'collection'. The word 'death' or 'marana' means the death of 'a being' ('satta'), which is a 'self-view', as stated in SN 23.2, SN 5.10 and SN 12.2. For example, if a person gets drunk on alcohol, the body (rupa) & mind (nama) are made up of a certain & specific collection of aggregates & elements, such as alcohol in the blood & happy feelings & uninhibited thoughts. The drunk person or aggregates identifies with being drunk & dances & sings: "I am so happy. I love alcohol". But when the alcohol wears off; this is the ending of the 'kaya' ('body'). This is 'death' of that state of 'being' or 'identity'. The next day, the person or aggregates have a very bad headache from drinking alcohol and regret they drank alcohol. Here, a new 'being' ('satta' - illusion of self) takes birth in hell (suffering) because of the kamma of drinking alcohol. Therefore, "break-up of the body after death" means the break-up of one collection of aggregates & the arising of another collection of aggregates, which also results in the death of a self-identity and birth of a new self-identity. The is why the suttas say: "In laying down one body & taking up another body is blameworthy". This is a knowable visible here & now and non-materialistic discernment.