Two space elevators. Three if you want to send three-phase. (though given the distances, AC is probably a very terrible idea, speed-of-light and all.) Imagine if you needed to get several gigawatts into Manhattan. You use the Queensboro Bridge as one conductor, and the Brooklyn Bridge as the other. No railroads, an insulation zone for a safe transition, the structure is the conductor. Get it? You can energize each space elevator at several megavolts compared to each other, and half that compared to earth. Insulate the daylights out of the anchorage. Do not run a railway up to the space elevator, require people come the last 10km in rubber-tired vehicles. As they cross the large insulating apron, they will bias up to the couple of megavolts, without realizing it. Just like a lineman can work on high tension lines with the power on, if he only contacts one of them at a time. There is basically nothing special about the space elevators, except their structures are electrically bonded to assure they carry electricity well. The reason not to do it with one space elevator is the voltage needed would be rather high, needing considerable insulation separating the two "wires". This would make it much more difficult to use the structure itself as both conductors, making it necessary to carry one conductor and insulation as useless deadweight. Any insulation failure could create an arc which could damage and sever the space elevator. Use two space elevators and you do an end-run around these problems. This isn't a death ray Almost any other form of energy transmission would be very damaging if it were abused. Not this. There isn't really a way to weaponize it. ** ** as a power transmission method. This says nothing about any vulnerabilitie of space elevators in general. 

I disagree with the sentiment. There are lots of Earth-like worlds, and even with our very limited viewport into nearby systems, we're starting to make a catalog of where to aim the Ark ships. However, the scientists say Earth has about an 8 billion year window of habitability for life. It took until halfway through it for intelligent life to evolve. If somebody pushes the reset button, it may not have time to evolve again. Aside from the expectation that conditions will deteriorate in the later parts of that window... there are also an infinite number of things that could happen in 5 billion years: asteroid strike, nuclear war, android uprising, hyperspace by-pass, you name it. The vulnerability is huge. So yes. Intelligent life is rare, and precious if you like intelligent life. Destroying a species would be a huge waste. Humans are, after all, inherently reasonable, and managed to have extinction quantities of nuclear weapons for 60 years without blowing ourselves up. Whatever issue the aliens have, they should be able to get us in line with a TED talk. If that just can't work, and I find it impossible to believe that it can't, then they either enslave humanity or "bomb it back to the stone age". But the mere threat of this will certainly do the job. 

Recovery would be much faster than you think Find a pre-1986 car, drive down to the computer museum. Start up the Altair, Imsai or Digital Group box, and start it normally: toggle in a bootstrap loader. Toggle in means setting a memory address on the 16 address switches, then setting a data value on the 8 data switches, and hitting "WRITE", then autostepping to the next memory location, rinse wash repeat. A bootstrap loader is an extremely short, ~100 byte program that can input data from some other I/O device, like a paper tape reader. 

Not realistically. It's much easier to go supersonic through air than water. Now since you said "train", I presume you are talking about some sort of fixed guideway. And here's the point that laid the passenger railroads to ruin -- Airplanes don't need a roadway. When you have starship-level energy sources, it becomes a simple matter to have an airplane that is somewhat more ICBM than airplane, and flies to an appropriate spot where it ballistically blasts out of atmo' and then controls a re-entry in some way, possibly with engine thrust. There's just no reason to drill through thick, sticky water. Doing so will make a LOT A LOT of heat, which could also cause problems for the ecosystem. 

Robots can frame a house, but they can't grow a 2x4. Ultimately there is going to be some sort of resource constraint. Compassion is still a thing. Even moreso because it's cheaper. No matter how things are shaken up, a significant amount of resources will be used to help the needy. This will happen via charity and government entitlements. In fact, the automation of this will allow this to be greatly expanded. Homelessness will cease to exist (at least insofar as those willing to be helped) as housing stocks are quickly grown by robot labor. It's a lot easier to feed the poor quality food when harvesting quality food is automated, as is the delivery and cooking. A lot of why they grow high mechanization low-nutritional-value foods like corn and soybeans is that healthier foods require much more hand labor. Which is good, because human-only work will only become more expensive, including medicine. Ending the new epidemics caused by low quality foods, like obesity, diabetes, kidney issues, heart disease etc. will be important to the society remaining solvent. Capitalism is still a thing too. There will still be plenty of people using (their) robots to create wealth that is their own wealth. I'm quite sure robber-barons will still exist. I think they will find it difficult to monopolize in quite the same ways. Disillusion and communism is still a thing too. There will be plenty who refuse to engage the capital economy which is their birthright and "how we do things here", and choose instead to hate and blame. They will read Karl Marx and complain about the system and intentionally refuse to thrive on general principle. Some of them will start revolutions. In short: The human condition is still a thing. 

A dredge Park the dredge over some sandy bottom and pump. Sand slurry can be carried some distance. Deposit the wet sand on the rocks. Water runs off, combat engineers grade it to suit. Wind and wave action will eventually restore the shore. 

They already did. And THIS happened. We are already living in the end product of time traveler meddling. It didn't go so well, so they stopped doing it. Mostly. As for why it isn't widely known, please - be my guest. Start telling people. 

Cover it up with something else... Something scary Do you really know what's going on at the Hanford Site? Supposedly all the riverside reactors are shutdown with all the auxiliary buildings torn down. But there are still vast complexes, many underground (e.g. the 200 and 300 areas) and tens of thousands of people who work there. They are supposedly all engaged in cleanup. But if you look at the numbers, the cleanup of Hanford alone is expected to cost 3-4 times the entire cost of the Manhattan Project, yes, adjusted for inflation. Look it up. And we all shrug "well, nuclear cleanup is mysterious and scary so naturally it must be very expensive" and we're all OK with that. But think of the size of the thing it could be a cover for... Someting gosh, like a Manhattan Project... And just as Hanford was located there for ready access to hydroelectric power, whatever is going on there also has that same access. The government has plenty of suitable sites Mind you, that's just Hanford. Same applies to other Manhattan Project and Cold War sites like Los Alamos, Oak Ridge, Savannah River (or for that matter Livermore). Lawrence Berkeley Lab is still a DoE lab but no longer does secret work and is conspicuously open (you can walk right onto campus)... but even so, it's a baby Black Mesa. What is under that mountain? Explore it sometime and compare its size to Oak Ridge or Hanford. Those are the real Black Mesa's. How about others like the NSA's massive data processing complex in Tooele. It was surveiling the American public and they told it to "knock it off". Suddenly a huge amount of surveillence and data processing capacity is freed up... And it's still being expanded! Nature abhors a vacuum... Somebody's doing something with that. Get on Google Earth history mode and compare the parking lots pre- and post-Snowden. How about those decommissioned aircraft carriers sitting at the very busy Newport News and Bremerton facilities? I'll grant you, people would notice a buzz of new activity at sleepy Mount Weather or the Cheyenne Mountain. But what about the Greenbrier? It's an active hotel and people come and go all the time. Or the aircraft parking lot in Tucson. What if thaey're parked on the roof? How many basement levels does the Pentagon have? You could hide a large operation in any of those places, and the traffic needed to support a city would be masked by the normal activities in the area. Would anyone really notice if food and materiél to support a secret city of 20,000 was daily shipped into the UC Berkeley/LBL complex? They already support like 60,000. 

The space vessel doesn't stand a chance of preserving normal atmospheric pressure inside its fragile hull. The only way this works is if they slowly pressurized the spaceship to equal the water pressure (30 feet ~= 1 atmosphere of pressure, so 100 atmospheres of pressure) -- in a way that didn't harm the crew. It helps to be breathing pure oxygen and not nitrogen (of course, oxygen at 100 atmospheres pressure is a real fire hazard!) The humans don't need to stay at 1 atmosphere of pressure. Sudden transitions are bad, but humans can adapt to changing pressures. That is how diving works. The trick is managing the transition between 1 atmosphere and much higher pressures. If they are equipped for space EVA, they possess SCBA equipment, and it may be possible to adapt it for 100 atmospheres. If that's the case, they can take their sweet time getting to the sub! Regardless, if the spaceship is pressure-equalized with the ocean, it may be as simple as opening a door (preferably on the bottom) and swim to the sub. Do this when the sub is right alongside, obviously. It's not a problem getting people in and out of the sub at depth, they all have airlocks, not least for Kursk style evacuation. The hard part is coming back to 1 atmosphere of pressure, as we presume will be inside the submarine (which is built for the external pressure). Doing this is well-understood, but can be a very long, slow recuperation that must be done inside a controlled-pressure vessel. Which a submarine airlock is. Again it helps to have been breathing pure oxygen for awhile. If the sub has enough notice, they can send out divers to aid in the evac. Some submarines are especially equipped to move large numbers of divers in and out, so if there's time to dispatch the right sub, this can go easier still. 

Religions are built on social networks. Not belief systems. Running a social network which is formless, is hard. Most of them put a "form" around it, and that's the set of religious beliefs. The belief systems are the form which the bonds take, but if the form is rendered obsolete, the network will simply take a different form. Case in point, the start of Star Trek: Into Darkness, here. 

Could you come over here? When selecting camp, choose geological formations that make it easy for the combat engineers to scrape down to bedrock. Or the sappers drive sheet piling which forces the snakes to the surface. At that point, your classic Valve video-game engineer/Combine/Aperture Science turrets make short work of them. You would use rounds correct for penetrating armor instead of humans. The amount of titanium armor possible on a 3" diameter machine won't present a problem. 

Electronic detection is so good that battle experience has shown camouflage is a complete waste of paint. However, friendly-fire incidents are a huge damn deal, and there have been combat days where they fragged more of their own than the enemy did. So they painted all their tanks PINK and that ended the problem. Honor may also factor into it; for whatever reason it may be morally reprehensible to them to "false-flag", even making their markings low-vis to exploit ordinary battlefield confusion/fog of war. It is a matter of battlefield honor that their units are clearly marked. 

If you're using hard science, the problem is metals are elements and it's rather difficult to change elements into something else. If you're not using hard science, then you can insert whatever physics won't rankle the audience too badly. It may suffice to make the metals unusable. For instance one hard-science angle is that some metals will suffer induced radiation from bombs or use in reactors or reactor accidents. So you'd get a (largely valid) moral panic about metals making people sick; and the decay products may weaken the metal or attract corrosion. It doesn't need to be neutrons and radiation specifically, it can be any Applied Phlebotinium from your own world's sci-fi future. Maybe two interstellar powers were fighting a planet-hopping war and poisoned the planet's metals with Noobiton rays, or it was once an FTL waypoint and FTL drives do this. Who knows, who cares, life just is that way. They won't miss it, they've never experienced usable metals. It might be interesting if your society was just starting to discover the science that explains it. 

Right idea, wrong stuff. And you don't need to fission it, in fact you really don't want to, because that opens so many cans of worms, among them the government really, really, really not liking you having fissile material. Decay heat will suffice. Take Caesium-137. Please. No seriously, it's the wrong stuff for your 1000-year goal because it has only a 30 year half-life. We just have a lot of it. The most ready source of useful material is spent nuclear fuel. Given your design intent, you want a half-life of 5000 years +. There are no fission products (split atoms) with half-lives between 100 and 210,000 years. There are plenty among actinides: uranium which did not split, but absorbed neutrons, becoming heavier. Berklium-247, Pu240, stuff like that. There are plenty in the casks out back of your local nuclear reactor. Things with 5000+ year half lives are essential. The problem is if your pile is heavily contaminated with things with shorter half-lives, like that overabundant Cs137, your pile will sharply cool off over the 1000 years. That's why just using the casks won't work. The actinides with the 4000-20,000 year half lives would give the best performance per mass. (Not that mass is a problem). But the government may be ketchy about you having actinides -- as many are (or will decay into) things which are fissile. And things with such short half lives make an effective "dirty bomb". So I would go a different direction. I would focus on the fission products with >210,000 year half-lives. Propagationwise they're inert. They're lethargic enough not to make a very good dirty bomb. The mass needed is very much larger, but that's not a huge problem for a building. The heat output will drop less than 1% over the 1000 years. Do keep in mind that heat output and radiation output go hand-in-hand. That is another reason I prefer low-energy bulky material. It helps if the radiation is alpha or beta, which is easily shielded, but it may not be economical to separate isotopes which only decay that way. Another option, though I dislike the idea of birthing more radioactive material, is to radiologically activate a common element via neutron bombardment or other means. I haven't pored through the isotope charts to see if this will create anything suitable. The risk is of the material picking up one too many neutrons, and becoming a contaminant. Which particular fission products end up in the mix? That will be a function of the source material (which I presume to be spent nuclear fuel) and its origins, reactor type, but mostly, of the production engineering needed to isolate a workable mix of isotopes. Such engineering tends to be full of surprises (Los Alamos couldn't imagine gaseous diffusion would be as workable as it was.) So you'll assay a sample set of spent fuel, say. Then you'll look at several hundred chemical separation processes to extract a usable blend of isotopes. Money is a factor, you're looking for the most efficient way to extract an acceptable set of isotopes.* Which processes make sense depend on your source material, obviously.