Some disambiguation is in order - a Jupiter Brain is the size of a Jupiter, whereas a matrioshka brain is meant to be the size of a smallish star. A red dwarf star contains as much mass as about 80 Jupiters, and is much more energetic. The matrioshka brain is so named because of nested Dyson-type spheres, like the Russian nesting dolls. If you could build it the way it was intended, it would have as many layers as it could until another outer layer couldn't extract energy from the waste heat. In terms of material expense and work done, it would be untold orders of magnitude more expensive than a Jupiter Brain. Because of signal propogation, a highly optimized Jupiter Brain should be able to simulate smaller (still very large) things much much faster than a matrioshka brain, but a matrioshka brain could iterate through unimaginably vast simulations in impossibly high detail. With decent communications, the two would complement each other quite nicely, like the interplay between a high end computer workstation and a massively integrated database farm. Now to actually answer your question - these interplanetary mega structures are so powerful, and so expensive, and so dangerous, that they can't really be built until it becomes necessary to build them. Even now human governments prioritize the spending on life-saving electronic traffic controls based on how many people have died at a particular location, and how frequently it occurs. If it is infrequent enough, the controls aren't installed, regardless of a recent fatality. Once it does become necessary, there won't really be a price tag anymore, and it's uses (whatever they are) will be evident. 

A mechanical solution would not solve the problem of tissue damage caused by steep acceleration gradients without actually addressing the mechanism of tissue damage directly. The baffles solutions solves the fuel sloshing problem by dispersing the momentum of a fluid onto a solid plate, and it mostly does that so that the fuel pump intake or level measurement doesn't become uncovered unexpectedly. Also, at eight pounds a gallon, if you let that slosh at full speed on a dead stop, the tank itself has to be a lot more robust to not buckle under the dynamic forces. Even if the brain could have survived having the baffles installed, which is unlikely, the baffle would only serve to become the thing causing the tissue damage. Worse, if the acceleration was applied along the direction the baffle was oriented, it would cause a very high cutting force to be applied to the edge of the baffle. The key problem is that brains are complex, and human brains are more complex than many other kinds. It abstracts to an electrical signaling network, but it does that with complicated chemical interactions and ion exchange. Ultimately the problem you're trying to solve comes down to protecting the paths supplying oxygen and nutrients, and preventing the signal paths from being interrupted. Helmets work by providing a space in which the head can float a bit, pushing around a cushion. Accelerating the helmet also accelerates the head, but any steep changes hopefully get rounded out by the padding. An internal solution would either have to mimic that, or simply make the brain more durable somehow. One solution is to backup frequently and rewrite after an incident; this is used in the setting of the webcomic Schlock Mercenary. An alternative is to simply avoid the problem by other efforts using remote access, รก la Ghost in the Shell or Surrogates. 

If parallax and stellar spectra give them clues into what they're looking at, I'm betting they would prove it with radar. The sun is a whole eight light minutes away, and I'm betting your screen system is much closer than that. Without much equipment, they should be able to generate a tight beam radar pulse, and then register a consistent return pulse anywhere they point it at the sky. Of course it is possible that the sphere can completely absorb an energetic photon pulse and generate no detectable return, in which case my next experiment requires hitting the thing with brick on a rocket and seeing what happens. 

It bears having a written answer that fusion reactors absolutely cannot synthesize heavy isotopes, if the synthesis can only happen during fission. That is to say, some heavy isotopes can be made by using a fusion reactor for neutron bombardment, like Cobalt-60, but other things like Cesium 137 can only be effectively produced by fission of uranium. That being said, keeping large piles of heavy isotopes around is generally not a great idea. Cesium 137 is only industrially useful when you need to bathe something like a warship in enough energy to take an x-ray of its hull, but Cobalt 60 is actually better at that, and more stable. Cs-137 also reacts easily forming water soluble salts that your body can transport, making it deadly to consume, but useful in radiation therapy. If you really have an easy time of all of this nuclear power stuff, I'll tell you where you might still see fission, and that's as a black-start power source, because it usually takes power to make power. Black-start is the ability of a generating station to bring itself back online and place itself on the grid without that grid currently being energized. Currently not a lot of stations actually have this ability, and you may or may not have personally experienced slightly longer power outages because of this. What happens is that the stations that CAN black start have to power up to bootstrap adjacent stations until all the stations are ready to restore power to all the loads that will get turned back on, and it's a real pain when something like the Great Northeast Blackout happens. Obviously, this point simply may not apply to your given level of technology. Maybe you have unobtainium batteries that can kick over a fusion generator; but if you don't, and if your shielding is good, it is entirely possible to build a fission reactor that can be started entirely by hand, with only a limited amount of power for instrumentation. Also, terrifyingly, reactors have been built this way in the past, with varying degrees of bad results, and the general consensus is that we should try not to do that again. 

Rewinders experience a profound sense of deja vu when in the vicinity of another rewinder. This feeling waxes and wanes based on proximity. Physical contact with another rewinder provides a sense of sureness that this other person is a rewinder. Any two rewinders activated in the same timeline cancel each other out. As a logical consequence of (4), all rewinders are familiar with lurching to a halt mid-rewind and generally consider it a loss of focus on their part. The cancellation halt is somewhat disorienting, and at your option somewhat painful. 

War is hell, unmitigated. All too often, people overlook the end result of the things that they believe to be true and necessary. Confront your players with the necessary consequences of the things their society believes. For generations, society has held the belief that goblins and orcs are fundamentally evil, devoid of the free will and kindness humans are capable of. To this end, the kind, free willed humans have been hunting them down and killing them for as long as anyone can remember. The things most people are running into at this point aren't raiding war-bands in their own eyes. They're resistance fighters, and they're here to end your imperialist hegemony or die trying. Maybe they are evil - now. Things will happen in your world based on what people hold to be true. The world is a big, big place. Somebody, somewhere in this place, is an orc/goblin sympathizer. They would have to operate carefully - if they rock the boat too hard, they'll be lynched by the same bands of 'adventurers' that take to the orc 'lairs' in search of the last vestiges of that society's belongings. The resistance will make an effort to hide and protect these people and their history, so that maybe one day, when the story gets told, the colonizers don't get to pat themselves on the back for a job well done. Don't forget that you get to set the tone. The themes you are touching on are inherently an exploration of race in a fantasy setting. Game designers for years have known that the easiest way to keep this light was to introduce monsters - it's harder to draw parallels to the stories of indigenous peoples when the things coming after you explicitly worship a knowable, evil deity, without exception. You have the wonderful problem that the audience for your worldbuilding is sitting directly in front of you, playing with your creation. Read the room, and make sure everyone is having fun. 

TL;DR - For this one, you'll need to define hard limits on what these people can and cannot manipulate, and I think the breakpoints will be around bond energy and kinetic energy. Honestly? I think you were better off using the phases. The Gas phase guy would be most capable of starting and controlling fires. Plasma comes out to a kind of electrical thing. Liquid and solid are pretty self explanatory from there. Except for the whole magic thing, if you want hard-science, people controlling classical elements has some problems - since fire is an ongoing process with multiple possible constituents, things get weird. I mean, what is this guy, a Gasoline mage? Rant over - Now let's see what we can do to make this happen. Each of these classical types have certain recognizable patterns. Liquids bond poorly, solids bond well, gas (very generally speaking) isn't bonded at all, and fire is a self-sustaining chemical reaction consisting of the ongoing decomposition of other material into flammable gasses. In order to have any hard science basis for a classical elemental magic scenario, these people have to be able to recognize, manipulate, and/or create these arbitrary patterns. The Earth guy can arbitrarily reshape the bonds of existing solid without breaking them. Water guy can arbitrarily manipulate forces inside a liquid to cause it to take different shapes. Air guy isn't so much different than water guy, but he can only do it to gases - if you need a reason, then all I can offer is that Water guy can't track the gases fast enough to manipulate the particles, and Air guy can't summon enough force to change the bonds of solids and liquids. Perhaps Earth guy can only control bonds he is physically touching through other solid matter, and can't get a lock on anything that is moving. Now we have to design the fire guy. This is harder, but we're already handwaving the fact that these people are doing impossible things. In that case, I offer that Fire users can only detect and manipulate hot particles - that is, particles that are free to move and contain relatively large quantities of kinetic energy. In order for this guy to not just be Air guy, there must exist some point of exclusion. On this point, I suggest that perhaps Air guy cannot find and use gas particles above a certain energy threshold. The Fire guy must then also not be able to use anything heavier than hot combustible gases that are already burning, or risk just being Uber Air guy - this may or may not be desirable in your work. Minor edit: I just looked back over this and realized that this creates a spectrum, involving how much force a person can bring to bear on a particle and its bonds, and how fast that particle can be moving and still be manipulated. If you want, now, all magic users are basically Molecule Man with varying degrees of skill and power, and creating the ability for mages to use multiple classical elements. 

Meta enhancments Skeletal upgrades -Adding musculature has the problem that there is an upper limit to the amount of stress the human skeleton can withstand. Healing nanobots don't necessarily prevent stress fractures, so I propose skeletal enhancements become relatively commonplace. Maybe not Wolverine style unbreakable, but more durable in general. Lactic acid management - Not my idea. But if you can't afford the fake muscles, why not be able to work out without feeling the burn? Turning off this negative feedback does create problems in a few hours of strenuous exercise, but with the right combination of other nanomachinery this is manageable nearly indefinitely. Pain management and rehabilitation - Pain signals are quantifiable, and they can be turned off. As part of the healing modifications, nanotech can detect and isolate pain signals, analyze the root cause of the situation, and start work towards repair and rehabilitation. Fractured tibia? "Oh, my, would you look at that. I'll catch up to you guys in a bit." Self-cleaning - Water is a precious commodity, and hygiene is a must. These both become more important as population density increases. Nanomachinery could be used to handle and discreetly remove excess skin oils and dirt periodically throughout the day and as a mechanical antibiotic that destroys undesirable microbes. Dentistry becomes obsolete, and showers become something you do only in response to a run in the mud. 

Pictured above is something that is going to be central to your chiromancers whether you know it yet or not. With your notes as given, allowing a small air gap to exist between the valent chiros and the azoth upon emission creates a situation where an alkahest can be paired right at the front of the thing, and the projectile has absolutely no chance of striking the azoth and causing damage. Given this layout, there is absolutely zero reaction from the back end, and if it is mounted correctly, it can impart significant thrust to almost anything with surprisingly few problems. Though not really working that way, one can imagine mounting them as anti-gravity units, but their pulsing nature would require careful timing control on the part of the chiromancer controlling it, or laying out the system. If you used several and tuned them correctly, this could enable personal flight, and do it well enough to put you in orbit. Of course, the flight applications - or any power output, really - depend on the conversion rate of the azoth turning blood into kinetic energy. The raw energy to make a 100 kilo person fly at 10 meters per second is contained within about 29 Nolan Ryan 108 MPH fastballs. Momentum is conserved but depends on mass, so while I can't really describe the collision physics of your projectiles, I can say that each firing should impart a roughly equal amount of kinetic energy, and if this thing is a useful weapon, then containing it like this should be able to extert significant thrust, probably enough to (eventually) put a person into orbit depending on the conversion rate. So maybe give that some consideration when asking yourself how that works, and remember it's magic - sometimes someone can use something three hundred percent more efficient than it should be, because he's just that darn good. But take another look at the core layout, and consider the implications of its shape. Chiromancers are going to keep these things on hand for several reasons. This thing is not only a thruster. If you open the end of the container, it is a cannon. If you manipulate the the core object to give you a handle, it is a very, very serious hammer. If you make the core object very wide indeed, it is a shield. If you turn it inside out and make the core object very long, flat and thin, it becomes a wildly sharp and virtually weightless sword with a gun in the pommel that can readily absorb valent projectiles. The engineering implications depend on exactly how advanced your civilization is, but it shouldn't take them long to figure out that core chiral objects attached to flywheels make the very best clutches for engaging rotating loads. I can't imagine a better clutch than one that simply ceases to exist when it is disengaged. Also, the ability of a chiromancer to link outputs (size, frequency, overall kinetic energy) to inputs from the physical world can create some very, very cool things. Imagine a chiral core drive sequencer that runs a thousand or so of the pictured core drives in a very carefully managed output of thrust that depends on angle and velocity. That, my friend, is an airship. More specifically, it is a 'hammership'. You have my permission to use that. See, I didn't really invent any of this stuff. You told me the rules, and I told you what that means. This stuff just exists in your world. If you want to get really very detailed, I could ask so, so many more questions. What materials are chirally conductive? Are there insulators? A chemist might be able to build a chiral semiconductor for you to enable direction control and switching, depending on how the conduction mechanism works. I hope to see you post more regarding this. You've clearly given it quite some thought, and I found myself fascinated.