In ancient Athens, once a person was convicted of a crime, the prosecutor and the defendant both had the opportunity to propose a just sentence, with the jury to vote on which to take. In theory, the prosecutor would not propose a sentence too harsh, and the defendant would not propose a sentence too light, because of the danger of pushing the jury towards the opposition's option. In the case of Socrates' trial, however, the prosecutor opted for the flamboyant gesture of asking for death, hoping to force Socrates into proposing some humiliatingly large penalty in fear of his life. Socrates equally abused the system by counter-proposing that the appropriate penalty for his "crime" was to be given free meals --at public expense --for the rest of his life! This was obviously a reward, not a punishment (reflecting Socrates' contention that his actions were a public good, not a public harm). Even though his friends quickly strong-armed him into proposing a more reasonable penalty, his clear lack of contrition pushed the jury into opting for an option that the prosecutor had probably never dreamed would actually be selected --execution. 

I would say the answer to the first question is a clear "yes." Not only can we view, historically, religious beliefs and rituals as precursors to early scientific beliefs and practices, we can also note that many historical figures, from the ancient Egyptian priests to Descartes, have made scientific advances that have grown out of their religious beliefs. For the second question, the answer clearly depends on your own religious beliefs. The most general, neutral evidence for religion having its own, ongoing legitimacy, aside from any historical scientific benefits, is exactly as you mentioned --that many smart, educated people continue as believers. 

Of course ...provided only that you define intelligence as agreeing with a particular set of moral laws! The problem is that there are many intelligent people alive today in the world who disagree vehemently around various judgments of morality. If human beings can't even agree among themselves, the possibility of further agreement with a wholly alien mind becomes a matter of wishful thinking. A better question would be whether there is some general standard of morality that theoretically rules all things, regardless of intelligence. I would personally argue in the affirmative, but that's far from an universal or uncontroversial opinion. 

Ironically, it can be harder to think original thoughts without being steeped in the history of philosophy. Older philosophers' concepts have often become so deeply embedded in our collective worldviews, that unless you go back to the source, it might never even occur to you that you could think a different way. To put it another way, you can tell how great a philosopher is by counting how many people have found it important to refute what he (or she) said. It's comparatively rare for a philosopher to expound at length about agreeing with a prior philosopher --new work is generally phrased as an improvement at best, and more often as a refutation and replacement. As far as history in general, we all benefit from studying it (not just philosophers), because the past tells us quite a lot about the present and the future. 

John Mbiti's seminal work "African Religions and Philosophy" is focused largely around oral philosophical traditions in Africa, although it has been criticized both for being insufficiently philosophical, and for perceived misrepresentations of the traditions it surveys. As far as other traditions --Socrates' philosophy was entirely oral during his own lifetime, as it was written down only by his students, (chiefly Plato). It seems clear that oral philosophy was very much current during and before that time in Greece. It's also fairly well-accepted that the Tao Te Ching first circulated in an oral form before being compiled into the form we know today. It seems likely there were other oral philosophical traditions in ancient China. 

It depends on whether you are a realist about mental objects. If you believe that only the physical is real, then the purely mental is not, by definition. But mental realism is not unheard of --many mathematicians, for instance, still hew to the Platonic idea that things like numbers have a real existence as mental entities independent of human observers. 

Socrates was a contrarian to the end, and one of his last acts was to force the Athenians to follow through on an execution they never actually wanted or expected to serve. The goal of Socrates' antagonists was really just to humiliate and discredit him publicly, and in that way to break the fascination he held for the disaffected Athenian youth. But Socrates wasn't willing to play along and he wasn't scared to die. In court, he served as his own lawyer. The Athenian system at that time was that when a conviction had been obtained, the prosecutor and defender would each propose a punishment and the jury would choose the one they found most fitting. The concept was that this would give the prosecution an incentive to not be too harsh, the defense an incentive to not be too lenient. However, in this case, the prosecutor went for a grand flamboyant gesture, and asked for death. The expectation was that Socrates would counter with some minor sentence, maybe some light jail time. Instead, he proposed that he be sentenced to be fed lavishly at the expense of the state for the rest of his life --a clearly ludicrous "punishment." To everyone's horror, the only real option left to the jury was either to acknowledge the whole thing as a farce, or to go with death. Even then, they placed him in a minimum security prison, and gave him every opportunity to escape, which he ignored. So did this help or hurt Athens? It certainly did no favors to Athens' reputation or self image. I imagine, however, Socrates himself would have claimed it had a salubrious effect, by forcing Athens to be more honest with itself and less hypocritical. 

Law of non-contradiction is part of Cogito ergo sum. Other similar logic principles, where it is self defeating to doubt them. Such as saying "there is no absolute truth" which is itself an absolute truth if true. Finally, you can't prove that uncertainty means lack of knowledge. 

God is moral, and logically cannot be the source of evil Evil exists The only source of evil is free will 

Notice that the starting premise is that God is not evil. Anselm's ontological argument underlies this notion. If God were evil, there would be an even greater being than God, which is a contradiction. Therefore, God is not evil. So, the theodicy is derived by eliminating possibilities, and the only logical possibility left is that humans and other beings with free will are the authors of evil. The problem with other theodicies, such as your own, is that denying any premise #1-3 is philosophically problematic. It isn't that there is some conspiracy to avoid saying God is evil or the author of evil, as that suggestion has been proposed many times (e.g. Homeric gods) and is actively believed by certain Christian and other religious sects today. Each premise was arrived at independently from the theodicy, and when you put them together you get the theodicy. That being said, it doesn't quite make sense to me either. Being able to choose evil is not a necessary condition for having free will, as God can't choose evil yet has free will. The same goes for heavenly beings in general. If I were God, I wouldn't have given people the ability to be evil. However, it seems to be the only logical possibility once you accept premises #1-3. 

While not a logical proof, this appears to be a practical disproof of AI. If it were possible to replace programmers, with all the brainpower and sheer quantities of money directed at computer science we'd have discovered an algorithm to replace programmers by this point. But we haven't. Instead, the number of programmers is increasing rapidly. Therefore, programmers can solve a class of problems that algorithms cannot. Since AI is a kind of algorithm, true AI that replicates human intelligence is impossible. Is there any evidence to the contrary? NOTE: Giving credit where credit is due, this argument I took from the following paper where it is argued much better: $URL$ 

The issue is you're approaching the problem in a different direction. The theodicy you lay out is derived from these premises: 

At the national level it doesn't really make a difference. However, at the local level it does, and the politicians selected at the local level can have a larger influence. 

To turn the question on its head - if physical matter in the form of a computer can be sentient and suffer, then should we say any configuration of matter that is minimally Turing complete is potentially capable of suffering? In which case, physical laws being Turing complete (because we can make computers) means the entire universe may be capable of suffering. 

Being an atheist is about as scientific as being anti-flying spaghetti monster. Now, scientists may by and large not believe in the FSM. But, what scientists believe is not the same as science. Science is hypotheses confirmed or invalidated by empirical evidence. If your hypotheses can neither be confirmed nor denied, then it isn't science. Therefore, atheism isn't scientific. 

In general (not restricted to this site), what counts as a good philosophical explanation? Are there any objective standards? 

The phrase you are looking for is the "beatific vision". It is the idea that our perceptions of beauty, truth and goodness in this world are a glimpse into a deeper reality which is accessed through the soul and self knowledge. The first occurrence I know of is in Plato's Republic, which explains how seeing the Forms frees a person from slavery and teaches them who they really are, and uses the city as an image of the soul in order to understand a correctly ordered soul. This theme is picked up by Christian philosopher theologians such as Boethius, Augustine, Justin Martyr, Bonaventure and Aquinas. It is also a standard hermeneutic principle during the Middle Ages, where the deepest meaning of religious scripture is how the soul achieves the beatific vision. In fact, it is the defining pursuit of philosophy and theology during this time. The best popular expression of this idea is the Divine Comedy by Dante, which is a story about the escape of the soul from a false understanding of self to achieving the beatific vision. 

Well, your very question has the same dilemma...Billions of people think they can know things, many others think they cannot. Many in both camps are very smart, well educated, etc. If your premise is correct, that smart people on both sides of an issue means the average person cannot have confidence in a position, then it must apply just as well to your question. Therefore, if your premise is correct, then you cannot know whether your premise is correct. On the other hand, if your premise is incorrect, then you can know it is incorrect. So, no answer here in the affirmative can be correct, as it would be self refuting. Now, if we say the only two possible answers are yes or no, then by disjunction elimination the conclusion must be that you can indeed know things. This is a sound/valid deductive argument. 

It may appear to be possible to write an algorithm writing algorithm. In actuality, such an algorithm does not exist, due to the halting problem. While you can write an algorithm that outputs a list of instructions, the output is limited by the original algorithm, and only applies to a specific pre-defined goal. So, you cannot write an algorithm where you give it an arbitrary goal and it constructs an algorithm to reach the goal.