The word that interests me the most is the last one podes which is pronounced in rapid speech something like "pɔdʃ". Could the last sound cluster "dʃ" be considered an affricate, or is there a requirement that the affricate be entirely voiced or devoiced? 

The answer is because of vowel harmony in Vulgar Latin. The rule is not 100% anymore because Vulgar Latin was spoken so long ago. Clearly since the paradigm started, the stem changing has been applied to verbs that don't match the pattern, in general it is as follows: In verbs with medium height root vowels: 

If those verbs had a long (or doubled) vowel in Latin as their theme vowel then they were most likely going to be pronounced with a wide e - or a wide o - in conjugations where they retain the tonic stress. In the following examples I'll use first person singular i.e. Eventually those wide mid vowels became and in Spanish, because Spanish phonology does not contain wide mid vowels. Some simplifications are going to be made here, but here are some etymological timelines: 

Given that these two are the only accepted vowel alternation conventions in Portuguese, what is causing some speakers to alternate the in to a fronted or even ? This convention is especially prevalent in the first person form . I'll put a URL to a song here if anybody is interested in hearing it - $URL$ 

As the other poster indicated, accent is the application of native phonology to another language. However, if someone grows up speaking two languages, they would necessarily have less of an accent than someone who speaks just one language. Two languages necessarily have a larger phoneme inventory than just one, which means the speaker has more native phonemes to choose from. The perfect example is from Portuguese. In my experience monolingual Spanish speakers have a really hard time pronouncing European Portuguese sounds, particularly the reduced vowels and opened variations of E and O. Whereas English speakers have trouble pronouncing rolled R and reduced consonants such as the approximates of B, V and D. In my experience, students who grew up speaking Spanish and English do wonderfully learning the Lisbon variant of Portuguese. In the case of Mandarin, from what I've heard the Chinese usually classify foreigners differently. Since that language is so unrelated to Spanish and English, typically they just say someone had a Western accent, which it is usually not easy to determine the origin. 

What grammatical feature is being used, when we say something like, "I drink a cup of coffee"? In this sentence we have one noun modifying another noun, "coffee" modifying "cup". Would "cup" or even "a cup of" be an example of a determiner? If not, how would you describe these X of Y sentences in grammatical terms, where X and Y are nouns. As a very last question, would the grammatical terms used be the same in both English in German, where in German you would say, "Ich trinke eine Tassee Kaffee"? 

It is not good that man should be alone. (Gn 2:18) He said that it would rain today. I could not decide which pancake to order. I did not see who was shouting. I was shocked that he would be so gracious. 

The Wiktionary page on the English word "with" < *wi says that the meaning of "with" shifted in Middle English to denote association instead of opposition. The latter sense is still present in phrases like "He picked a fight with the older boy" (opposition), whereas we see the former sense everywhere, e.g. "I walked to school with my friends today." Do we have any more information on how or why this shift may have happened? Are there other descendants of *wi that reflect this shift as well, or only the preposition "with"? The alternative to "with" may well have been "mid" (< *me, cognate with German mit), still seen in words like "midwife". Any idea why this fell out of use? 

The phrase "ein wenig" is reminiscent of the English phrase "a little", but what is interesting about "ein wenig" is that it is not an adverb proper. It belongs to a different class called an adverbial. How would you classify the English phrase "a little"? Is it also an adverbial? And how would you classify the word "little" (in this usage) on its own? It does not seem to be an adverb here. 

If my suspicion is right, and each of these sentences contains a subordinate clause, then does it follow that a subordinating conjunction (that, who, whom, which) necessarily introduces a subordinate clause? (I am assuming that all relative clauses are also subordinate clauses, as indicated on this grammar website.) 

However the following verbs are not subject to the rule because the theme verbs are short, marked with a caret. poner (ponĕre), cocer (coquĕre), beber (bibĕre), meter (mittĕre), romper (rumpĕre) 

I've been studying Russian for years now, but the one thing that I can't seem to wrap my mind around is why would the sound е come to be pronounced like ё in certain circumstances? Obviously, these phonological processes are still active, because borrowings from other languages have their sounds altered from to to. I would have expected the following words to have been russified by just palatalizing the Latin e: , to a cyrillic е: . Instead, they seem to have skipped and gone straight to . For example: мушкетёр (musketeer) is pronounced фуникулёр (cable train from Fr. funicular) is pronounced шофёр (chauffeur) is pronounced like I've heard someone said that when the word шофёр was new it was indeed pronounced more like шофер, but as it became more Russified the became . However nobody can explain why this change happens. But even stranger to me yet, is the word: отель. It means 'hotel'. In the , there is no palatalization and it retains the frontness of the French , and it is pronounced , it is not pronounced or even . Aside from borrowings there are countless examples of е/ё altnernation based on flexion. Here are a few. сестра́ (sister): сёстры/сестёр о́зеро (lake): озёра ружьё (rifle): ружье́ 

In Portuguese there are two accepted reasons vowels in verbs alternate in height. The vowel harmonizing rule states that where the theme vowel (a from -ar, e from -er, and i from -ir) is deleted from the conjugation and retains tonic stress, the root vowel is changed to match the height of the theme vowel.. 

I am currently trying to learn Tamil. My friend who is teaching me seems to be making a clicking sound with one word in particular, and she can't seem to tell she's making it. The word is குளம் pronounced as [kʊ˞ɭʼʌm] - meaning pool or pond. Every time she says it my mind is blown when she transitions from the retroflex ɭ to the ʌ. The distance between these two sounds seems to be the maximum possible distance it can travel between two sounds. It's as if the tongue is slammed into the floor of the mouth causing a click-type sound. About 50% of the time she says the word I can hear a distinct click. I'm wondering if any phonologists out there have noticed these kinds of unintentional click sounds in any languages. Also, at what point would a click serve some sort of contrastive phoneme? Is it even possible for a language as old as Tamil to develop clicks?