Advantages of Mechs: This is a list of advantages mechs might have in some situations. Note that Mechs cannot do the job of tanks/planes/ships nor replace them. They are a new form of vehicles designed for a new form of warfare. This is all coming from an undergraduate in Physics and Computer Sciences, thus I am not an engineer, nor Napoleon, take this only as my grain of salt. TL;DR: Since Mechs have the same degree of liberty as a Human, it can do everything a human does, but at orders of magnitudes faster, thanks to Artificial Intelligence. A tank does not need and would not benefit from recent advances in machine learning since it only requires two variables: foward-backwards movement, aiming and shooting. A mech can do 'everything'. Which is why most armies in the world are fervently developing this technology. From the Military Point of View 

Here you can see the problem, for three objects orbiting each other, the movement becomes chaotic and unpredictable. This would also happen for the planets orbiting one of the binary stars. If we were to try and find out if such a system were possible, we would need infinite time to compute the numerical solution, since we do not, we cannot know which initial parameters would make such a system possible. Here I made a crude representation of what I mean. And in this case, the star collided with the planet... 

This is essentially a philosophical question. How one answers will be determined by their personal philosophy. If they believe that intellect destroys emotional capacity, they will say the world will become cold or dangerous. If they believe that the most intelligent thing for people to do is to be as selfish as possible, and that selfishness excludes empathy or often results in behavior which is harmful to others (both, the second is not a given), then they will expect the world to become a place of high competition. Avoiding simply reflecting ones own philosophy in answering this question is hard, but I am going to try it. What individuals and society will do, I cannot answer without simply saying what I believe intelligent people would do because they would be smart enough to figure it out. But, we're not left completely incapable of thinking about this problem without involving philosophy. Our assumption is that this occurs on planet Earth, correct? In contemporary times? OK, right off the bat we know that human beings did not evolve this capacity. (And I will assume that they also did not evolve the ability to create this capacity, as that boils down to the same thing.) The planet and our situation on it might become a serious issue. We can assume that we would be intelligent enough to value our planet correctly so that we would not do anything which causes our extinction, but there are other things which might not be solvable. Not everything in our lives is limited by intelligence. For instance, our inability to perfectly predict the behavior of nonlinear systems is not born of our lack of intelligence. That is a fundamental property of reality and mathematics. There may be general principles which unite the behavior of complex systems, we can't rule that out as impossible (the way we CAN rule out perfect prediction of most real systems), but there may not be such things. That may prevent us from accomplishing any sort of perfect utopia. Also, while we may be intelligent enough to preserve our existence within an environment we did not develop to 'fit into', we may be required to do things which affect us adversely. We might know, for instance, that we could cure all cancer by taking some action, but that sufficient action would also result in the destruction of most potable water, resulting in extinction. We would then be forced to make a choice. The result of that choice, continued existence of cancer in the face of knowledge of how to cure it, would be bound to have psychological and emotional consequences. We might be able to ameliorate them a bit, but we would most likely not be able to eliminate them entirely. Such situations would proliferate. Instead of our concerns being driven by what we can understand, they would, over time, be driven by fundamental physical limitations. Also, maintaining our identity may become a large issue. We are, fundamentally, feedback loops. How our environment affects us, and how we affect it, is the sum total of what we ARE. When we change our environment, we change ourselves. Cutting ourselves off so that our environment does not influence us would destroy us or, at the very least, change us so drastically that nothing which remained would resemble humanity. 

To conclude, an intelligent commander would use all the best characteristics of mechs to create an automated, multi-purpose robotic swarm that is able to cheaply and quickly overwhelm the enemy. It is quite frightening indeed. Of course, big mechs are inherently slow and bulky, smaller mechs would be the way to go. Now you might think, if this is so GREAT, why hasn't any army developed mechs already? Good question. The reason is that programming bipedal motion is hard... (EXTREMELY hard) (As a computer science student I can attest to that) It took millions of years to evolve bipedal motion, and even for children, it takes 3 years to properly learn how to walk. Armies are pouring tons of money into developing quadrupedal motion. Why not bipedal? Because if the robot cannot even walk with four legs, forget even thinking about walking on only two legs. So while two-legged mechs are cool in theory, they are really hard to make. However, you should anticipate quadrupedal mechs coming in the next decade or so. To give you an idea of what it would look like: 

Now for planets to orbit a single star in that binary system, you would need to solve the n-body problem, a problem that is currently unsolved, because it is chaotic. If you do a simulation of three bodies for million of years, the result would be highly different than what we would see in real life. The errors of a numerical solution are just too great in cosmic timescales. $URL$ 

Privacy is a modern invention, at least for the majority of society. I would recommend looking back at pre-Industrial-Revolution society for some ideas. Prior to that, there was no meaningful privacy really. (I discount 'meaningless' privacy which would be being able to have your actions/location/status be unknown but only to people who have no capacity to affect your life) Families slept in common rooms. Bathrooms had multiple seats and no dividers. Communication with anyone you were not face-to-face with was essentially impossible. Homes contained only the most bare minimum facilities, so most things a person would want/need to do had to be done in public, including bathing. Certainly there were isolated rural farmers, but their privacy would fall under the 'meaningless' header since everyone who could affect their life knew everything about them, and the only people who didn't know everything were powerless to affect them in almost any way. To get meaningful privacy, you've got to be able to be connected enough to other people that they can have a significant effect on your life, but disconnected enough that you can do meaningful things without actually directly involving that same group of people. I imagine the issue of 'meaningful privacy' will be important in your world because, barring some sort of extraordinary discovery or alien intervention which would have a far larger effect than anything to do with privacy, the resources simply do not exist to assign micro-drones to every person alive, collect and transport and store the data, etc.