Your CFO is looking to make money for the company. Right now, your suggestion is to spend money. He has no interest in that. You need to show him, how spending money will make money in the long run. Prepare a business case. What would the people you want hire do and how would that benefit the company. What does that mean for the bottom line? Don't approach him to hire 4 people. Talk to him about the opportunity to make more money, which would require 4 people. 

Yes. By all means yes. Lying on an interview is a bad decision. If you lied on your interview, the company can fire you on the spot at any time they see fit. So if you lie and you start to work there and they want to get rid of you after 4 years, they can just say "you lied all that time ago on your interview, you are fired, bye bye, no severance package". And since you were fired for cause, you would not even get unemployment benefits. Do not lie on the interview. Ever. 

Well, maybe they are right? If you don't have that experience, then I'm afraid you don't have that experience. If they have that requirement, you will not be a good fit for the job. 

There is no secret ingredient to getting an entry-level job: you look around on the internet or wherever you normally look for jobs (local newspapers, employment agencies) and look specifically for "junior" or "entry level" jobs. Those should not require experience. Apply. Interview. Don't get frustrated when you don't get the first job you apply for. Failure to get one job just just means you got one less competitor for the next job. Repeat as necessary. 

I'm not sure where you are and what your local customs concerning probation periods are. Where I live, a probation period is a test for both sides to find out if they like working with each other. Both sides can easily quit during the probation period. That's what it's there for. So yes, if you don't like the work there, you should not finish your probation period but quit as soon as you have found a new job. 

"Lunch" is not the only way to socialize. If you are working at an office, the others are maybe less obvious and less "default", but there should be plenty. Thinking of my office, I know there's guys meeting for an early coffee at the machine that come in early. Most latecomers queue up there at around 10. Then there is the "lunch". After that, on sunny days there will be an ice-cream truck outside at a specific time where people meet. And last but not least, the smokers corner. Even used by non-smokers to get some fresh air compared to their meeting rooms full of people (oh the irony...). So if you don't want to use lunch, use the other options. I have been on lunches where I was the odd one out that was basically holding a glass of water for the whole time. However, that may not be comparable, as it was obvious that was temporary (for example jaw surgery). As long as people understand why you don't eat with them, it should not be a problem. Although your reason should not be offensive to them (so you should refrain from saying things like "I'd never eat this garbage" or "eating meat is murder", keep it centered on you, like "I don't eat meat" or "I have problems with the food they serve here"). You did not give a reason, but make sure they understand it. Then it won't be awkward, neither for you nor for them. 

If it's seen as unprofessional is very company specific. I mean what exactly is it? Is it the genius finding the shortest, most optimized solution, or is it the lazy guy taking forbidden shortcuts? We cannot read your colleagues minds. However, I would like to point out another thing that impacts your professional life: insurances. Most countries have insurances covering accidents. The land owner of the property is responsible for keeping it safe. If there is a designated way to reach the front door and the facility manager is walking in every day on this way, you could say the property owner has provided a safe environment inspected daily. Now if you take the shortcut and slip, why would the property owner's insurance pay? The walkway was clean and inspected, the grass maybe had hidden mole-holes, was slippery when wet and not free of ice or snow when cold. You chose the more dangerous way on your own, the insurance lawyer will have a field day in court. People don't plan on having accidents, but they still happen. You will have to weight the risks. 

Wow. Do you know this for a fact? While I cannot prove that this is not the case in your specific region and/or industry, I would say it's very uncommon in Germany generally speaking. Germany does not have a system of "references". We do not call people. We just don't. Employees get written testimonies from former workplaces when they leave and they attach them to new applications. For obvious reasons you never have a written testimony from your current workplace. You get this when you leave and you don't want to alert people to the fact that you leave. The only exception, where people actually call each other and talk about employees is consulting and short-term contractors. I don't know where you got the idea that Germans consider foreigners less trustworthy. If you have the required permits to live and work in Germany, and translations of your certificates or diplomas you are just as trustworthy as anybody else. Now, there is something the insurance companies call general risk of life. Can anybody here guarantee that the CEOs of your future and current companies aren't best buddies from high school by pure chance, meet to watch a soccer game on Friday and get so bored out of their minds that they talk about work? No. We cannot guarantee that. But there are no guarantees that you don't get hit by a bus on the way to the interview either. Life is risky, there are no guarantees. You take a step forward and hope for the best. 

I guess it depends heavily on how resumes and CVs are structured in your country. Where I live, leaving a 2 year gap in your application means you did time in jail, were on drug rehab, had mental problems or something similar akward you don't want anybody to know. You did work for 18 months. As long as you did not get fired for something that counts as hard facts (stole from your employer for example), any reference is simply your former employers opinion after you left. Yes, maybe it's bad. So what. As long as you are professional about it and don't say negative things, it will be better than having a gap in your history. Hiding things is suspicious. If you get an interview you will have to explain the gap anyway, not mentioning the time on your CV only gets you so far. 

You are not using the Scrum terms, so I'm guessing you are not actually doing Scrum. My first advice would be to get a good book or better yet trainer. Your product team is what is called Stakeholders. And indeed, talking to the stakeholders finding requirements is not the Development Teams job. The Product Owner talks to the stakeholders. The Product Owner then talks to the Development Team in a grooming to refine the stories and make them either SMART (Specific, Measurable, Achievable, Relevant, Time-boxed) or INVEST (Independent, Negotiable, Valuable, Estimable, Small/Scalable, Testable) or whatever acronym is up to date. You should have a Scrum Master that you don't mention. And there is no team leader in Scrum. He seems to be doing what the Product Owner should be doing, so maybe that's just a mislabeling? So yes, your manager is right. Your Product Owner should be in that meeting, for the dev team it's just a waste of time (as demonstrated by their non-action). You should have another meeting regularly (normally called "grooming"), in which the Product Owner shares his insights from the first meeting with the team and where the team can ask questions and discuss the technical details as well as make an estimation. 

Permanent employment is considered the standard way of employment in Germany. If you are looking in online job portals, you will find more permanent than limited contract positions. Getting a permanent contract should not be any harder than getting a temporary one. 

However, if you cannot go to such a wedding at all, you should probably look for another job. Or another religion. Or another country. But all three together don't seem to mix very well. 

This would be illegal in Germany for any worker. Overtime can be used to deal with temporary changes, like maybe christmas season. It cannot and should not be used to change people's weekly hours. Any overtime must be regulated that on average you are not working more than 48h per week. Please note that for apprentices (Azubis) in Germany, 5 hours of school count as 8 hours of work if they are minors. So if you are in school 08:00-13:00, your 8 hours for this day are full. The only way you can be ordered to come back and work is if some of your school hours are cancelled. For example if of the 6 "hours" of 45 minutes each, the last two are cancelled because the teacher is sick, your employer can have you come back and spend the rest of the 2/6th of your 8 hour work day in the company. In practice, this is rarely done, because the travel time from school to the company premises does count against this, whether you are a minor and school lessons were cancelled or you are not. So in this example, you'd have to work a little over two hours when you finally arrive. If it takes an hour to reach the company, you will be there for little more than an hour on a day where nobody expected you. That's not really helpful. At least for my Azubis, the rule is that if school is cancelled or does not take the whole day, you win. You are not a full blown worker drone yet, go out, have fun and have a nice day. What I wanted to say: make sure this is calculated correctly. Nobody needs to work after school on normal days, because it just does not make sense. Exceptions apply if you are not a minor and your company is very close to school. Overtime cannot be ordered for Azubis, no matter how old they are. The IHK (chamber of commerce, organizer of this apprenticeship) says: 

You already established the fact the he does not change anything despite knowing. Maybe because he cannot. Maybe because he does not want to. Either way, this won't change. So there really is nothing to gain. Without any point left on the Pro side, why bother. That would be taking a risk for no gain at all. Don't tell anyone and get a new job at your own speed. 

I would feel blackmailed. You better already have filed for it because I might actually see it as blackmail and get you fired over it. Blackmailing your company is a sure way to getting out of that company. Rather sooner than later, but if need be, even later. Your reasons are sound, so be prepared to offer them as an explanation and let your boss draw any conclusions: 

It does not mean anything. The ad would read the same if you just left out that phrase. It's a filler word that was put in to somehow sound "cool" or "hipster" or however the startup music scene thinks of itself. 

Whoah. I don't know what women talk about when they are in private but if this was a guy or in public this sentence would get me sued out of my job over lunch. This is not ok. Not at all. If the company has any published standards, you won't have to check if it breaks them, you will have to count how many of them were broken. 

If you state that up front in your application, then there is nothing wrong about it. If the company thinks it's an option, they will invite you to an interview, if they think it does not fit with their plans, they won't. 30 hours are rather uncommon and companies tend to hate anything uncommon because it means more work for them. Someone working only 30 hours may be seen as bad for morale, because while salaries are somewhat secret, working hours are not. People rarely get as actively jealous over a number on a paper slip than over a colleague leaving two hours early each day or not comming in on friday. Because that is not some imaginary number in a bank account, but something real they are missing out on. That said, with strong unions you may want to apply to companies that already have 38.5h or 35h weeks, maybe that's enough. On the other hand, if you really want 30h you may want to look into non-unionized companies, because individual contracts are hard to get once there exist "Tarifverträge". 

Learning something new is nice. But your job is a job. It's supposed to earn you money. If you learn something new, from your employer's viewpoint, it means you cannot yet do your job properly. Your employer is not interested in your learning experience. They are only interested in you making them money. So expect your employer to be a passive party in this. You could obviously just learn new things at home. Program something in your spare time, join an open source project or do some moonlighting. You could obviously change your job. But personally I don't think that's a solution, because that still relies on your employer giving you an opportunity to learn new things. It will work, but it's a short term solution. I think the real solution is to stop relying on your employer to give you tasks that teach you something. Instead, find out how to improve what you do. Could it be done better? I find it hard to believe that you have mastered whatever programming language to the point where there is nothing more to learn. There is. But you need to seek that knowledge proactively. So when you get the next widget to make, don't think about it as something you have to do with your current skill and toolset. Think about how cool it could be, if you used a new skill or toolset. Automated tests? A better performing database driver? A new version of the language you are using? Maybe it's time to switch from SOAP to REST? I don't know what exactly you do, but there is a way to improve. But you need to find it. It won't be simply given to you.