These are the theorist who believe that the Millennial Generation, defined as those that graduated high school starting in 2000, are the historical analogue to the WWII's Greatest Generation. They are the result of the "Fourth Turning." 

According to The VVA Veteran, a Congressional Organization: Aristodemos (example above) later hung himself in shame. It relates the story of another Spartan commander who was forced to dismiss several of his troops in the Battle of Thermopylae Pass in 480 B.C. 

A simple peak at the time line disproves this. The sermon was written about a month before the infamous trial took place. Some of the accused were burned at the stake, thus "tortured." The second claim: 

This question comes from an interview I conducted many years ago. The question about drafts reminded me. The subject was a grad student and medical researcher. His research project was canceled and he was assigned to the early stages of the Manhattan Project, which first started at the university level. He worked on the project until the end of the war. According to the Selective Service, defense contractors were a form of deferment and thus were not drafted. That sounds like someone should be a defense contractor first, but this subject was not. His civilian assignment was non-voluntary. This Wikipedia page gives a little bit of a clue as to a possible mechanism: 

Every Indus Valley town used roughly the same city planning. They used the same standard sized bricks in their towns. The bricks invented by the Indus Valley Civilization were exceptionally strong and thus have still survived today, 4000 years later. While stone is still stronger, its difficult to cut exactly flat on four sides, so stone walls will be winding. The brick walls of Harrapa are very straight and that allows for the city to be planned into neat quadrants. 

I was trying to look this up earlier and could not easily find reliable information on the internet, mostly due to a new popular claim that 7 million people starved to death in the Great Depression! Otherwise, for the most part, what I could find were claims that no one starved to death, which are mostly predicated on the idea that all the deaths that seem like starvation are really severe malnutrition. According to the UN, malnutrition is still the leading cause of death in the world today. In the US, tens of thousands were dying during the years of the Depression from pellegra, which was cured in 1938 through niacin supplementation. This is known because there were Pellegra hospitals and it was believed to be an infectious disease so there are good records. New York, which was 10% of the US population, was experiencing death by starvation and would keep track much better than most places, such as Appalachia or Oklahoma, where I would think it would be much, much worse before the New Deal programs started. There is evidence that many government agencies conducted studies on malnutrition levels, but at the time they did not have an established definition or complete understanding of the symptoms of malnutrition would be or even what foods a person must eat to not die. Source: this and this So, I would be very interested to know how many people died of malnutrition or lack of calories, if any estimate is possible. Since it is already demonstrable false to me, it isn't necessary to disprove the claims in the Pravda article. 

A hell with subdivisions and fallen angels as devils is probably first described in the first Book of Enoch. There might be an earlier example, but I'm uncertain. It's dated to the 2nd century BCE. 

PTSD, or stress reactions from battle, were well known during the Greek and Roman era. The Greeks understood it very well. Alexander the Great's men are said to have mutinied after suffering "battle fatigue." These examples of Roman era PTSD are taken from a blog of ancient examples sourced from Max Hastings', An Oxford Book of Military Anecdotes: 

The US developed the psuedo-classical goddess Columbia, which shared many characteristics to the British goddess, Britiannia. This helped create a national American identity by uniting the Old World and the New. Columbia has fallen out of use and has been replaced with Lady Liberty. Columbia appears in the poetry of African-American Phillis Wheatley in 1776 during the revolutionary war: 

The Iranian Revolution was in 1979. Before this time, the US and Iran were close friends when the nation was run by the Shah. The Vietnam War ended in 1975. I assume that Iran supported the US in Vietnam, because the governments were still very close. The modern Iranian government did not like Sadaam Hussien. The Iran-Iraq War of 1980-1988 was likely fresh on their minds. The US got rid of Saddaam and changed the government to a democracy. Iran didn't just get rid of someone who might attack them, but they can influence Iraq, too as their neighbor for peace and common goals the two nations share. Most nations supported action in Afghanistan, including several in the Middle East, to prevent spread of the Taliban's aggressive terrorist activities because those could threaten to disrupt society or even topple Middle East governments. Bahrain, Turkey, and the United Arab Emirates still have troops committed to the international war effort. 

James Monroe was elected following James Madison. He also worked closely with Poinsett and was also a Freemason. Under his presidency, the US officially recognized the new Latin American nations in 1822 and instituted the "Monroe Doctrine" in 1823, as the wars were now nearing their end. Bolivia would be the last nation to gain independence in 1825, excepting Cuba and Puerto Rico. 

The first government in the world to separate church and state and to offer religious toleration was the American colony of Rhode Island in 1636. It was started by Roger Williams as a "hedge or wall of Separation between the Garden of the Church and the Wilderness of the world." His ideas would inspire John Locke and later Thomas Jefferson. The first national government to officially separate church and state was the United States with the US Constitution. In 1776, Virginia, South Carolina, Pennsylvania and Rhode Island had disestablishment enshrined in law. The last US state to separate church and state was North Carolina in 1875. The second nation to obtain a separation of church and state and religious tolerance is likely Brazil in 1891. Mexico and France had anti-clerical revolutions before this time obtaining short-lived separations of church and state through a repression of religion. In Mexico: 

The Catholic Church was a separate judicial person during the Middle Ages due to the existence of ecclesiastical courts. But the pope is the head of the Collegium Pontificum (College of Pontiffs), which is different than a collegium. The Collegium Pontificum in the Roman Empire was the group of high pagan priests headed by the caesar. Byzantine emperor, Justinian I, officially granted the title to the pope in Rome as the supreme religious leader of the Roman Empire. 

The $1.25/day figure inflation adjusted for 1932 wages is 9 cents/day. The lowest ever poverty figure was provided by W.E Dubois in his late 19th century study of African-Americans in Philadelphia. He provides the figure of $5/week for a family of five as "very poor." Converted to 1932 it equals 40 cents per day for an urban, non-farm worker and is still well above 9 cents a day. This isn't a scientific poverty level, but likely a direct translation of the work British economist Booth in his work describing London poverty. New York orphan child sweat shop workers earned 20 cent/day for 9 hour days in 1932. This was apparently not enough to provide rent and they lived in subways, clearly placing them below subsistence level. The poverty levels that will be provided will concentrate on targeting the amount of money an American needed to earn to avoid malnutrition, infant mortality, disease, early death or other consequences of severe poverty. This is an example of a good early poverty level: 

Japan conquered IndoChina (Vietnam, Cambodia, Laos) during WWII. After the war, the French went back to retake their colonial territory, but communist fighters, the Viet Minh, were trying to also take control. The First Indochina War broke out. (The Vietnam War is also known as the Second Indochina War) So, the US entered the war because: the US signed the Mutual Defense Assistance Act with France in 1950 and with growing concerns about the spread of communism in Asia after the Maoist revolution in China installed the CCP in 1949, the start of the Korean War in 1950, the US decided to start to provide military assistance to France in the war that was viewed as a proxy war against China and the USSR. The French finally surrendered land north of the 17 parallel and would leave Vietnam. 

Morality is a very disputable subject. I'm going to focus on the internal consistency of culture argument. Foucault realized that cultures could be arranged completely differently than the West but still be somehow internally consistent. He describes this idea in The Order of Things (1966). This passage illustrates the idea, without having to describe the philosophy too much. 

Some academics have studied this issue. The very popular theory today concerning it is the Strauss-Howe Generational Theory or the Four Turnings, which I believe only applies to US history. They created this theory to try to help some of the problems which will occur, since we can expect them. 

The Western Empire fell in 410. However, beginning in the fourth century, more and more of the barbarian tribes were converting to Christianity, so a "Holy War" against them would not make sense. The Visigoths, Othrogoths, and Vandals converted to Arian Christianity. 

The Pueblo Indians were surrounded by many nomadic tribes which are revered for their fierce fighting skills. Today we collectively call those tribes "Apachean" and/or Navajo. The Pueblo Indians were agricultural and according to the Spanish, they were very peaceful. Spanish missionaries built churches amongst them and early European settlers traded with them with few problems. (They was an Indian uprising at Acoma in the 1500s and the friar was killed after he abused the Indians for many years by eating too much of their scarce food, but it appears to be the exception). The choice of building structure is defensive and was very successful until the arrival of the Spanish. The Pueblo Indians chose defense rather than to engage with the fierce warrior tribes surrounding them. 

I'm familiar with the story, but it is a highly suspect claim. It is part of the Myth of the Lost Cause. The idea here is that compromise was impossible so war was the only option. For this reason, many sources may be unreliable and it would be best to use only primary sources to prove or disprove its veracity. James Henry Hammond made his famous speech "On the Admission of Kansas" to the Senate in 1858. From this speech, we get the phrase "Cotton is King." He says, for instance: 

One reason for this is to connect two pieces of artwork. This is a long section, but I'm going to paste in entirety for context. 

Continental Freemasonry comes from the French Revolution, but it is popular in all Western European countries. It could have come to South America from Spain, for instance. It can be very anti-clerical in nature and its leaders would likely follow the French tradition of the Declaration of the Rights of Man and of the Citizen. Anglo-American freemasonry was brought to the United States from Great Britain in the 1730s. They believe: "A Mason is oblig'd by his Tenure, to obey the moral Law, and if he rightly understands the Art, he will never be a stupid Atheist, nor an irreligious Libertine." It's leaders never discuss politics in meetings, while this is a large part of Continental Freemasonry. This makes Anglo-American Freemasory more transparent. As an extension of the Napoleonic Wars, the British attempted to gain a foothold in South America under the "Maitland Plan." It appears to have even attempted to recruit Freemason revolutionaries for its own purposes, but largely failed due to American interference. Many of the leaders of the American Revolution were Freemasons. Some of these same leaders, notably Thomas Jefferson and James Madison, were known to be personal contacts with Freemason leaders of the wars of independence in Latin America. For instance, Francisco de Miranda was a key figure in the American and French Revolutions and set the stage for Simon Bolivar, one of the most important figures in the wars against Spain. Thomas Jefferson and James Madison are considered "possible Freemasons" due to the fact that their Lodges are unknown, but the historical evidence is strong that were indeed part of the society. The official Freemason Grand Lodge in Pennsylvania includes them in their display of Freemason presidents. James Madison was president of the United States from the years 1809–1817 and help to aid the Latin American revolutionaries against Spain. Joel Robert Poinsett, a Master Freemason, was the first minister to Mexico and served as a "special agent" from 1810 to 1814 to Chile and Argentina under James Madison. He helped in drafting of a constitution. 

Spivak's term "epistemic violence" means the infliction of harm against subjects though discourse. Spivak's understanding of discourse comes from Foucault. 

According to Toynbee, the minority of people in a society who are problem solvers become entrenched and begin reflecting backward on their accomplishments, rather than working on solving the new problems. This dynamic results in internal conflict within the society until they are overthrown or the state collapses due to their mismanagement for some other reason. Here's the HOW Fragility of Complex Systems As states become more complex, they have more points of potential weakness that could lead to a cascade of societal collapse. This explanation was commonly invoked to explain the recent global financial crisis. The Soviet Union is a possible example. Limits of Imperial Conquests As the title implies, many states that are empires will collapse or dissolve into other states when they can no longer expand their empire. Their entire structure of government is built around buying fealty of the military through the pillage of neighboring states. The Vikings and Mongols are examples. Resource Depletion Natural resources can be depleted if the leadership of a civilization do not take steps to adapt and create new ways of building homes, growing/raising food and trading with neighbors. An example is the Inca. 

The phrase is a likely reference to the book, Don Quixote. Thomas Paine is familiar with the book and uses the imagery in the "Rights of Man" to attack Edmund Burke: 

There are many examples larger than this of nations using extrajudiciary justice or summary execution. The show trials during the Cultural Revolution probably would be the upper bound for largest ever death sentences. Hundreds of thousands of people were found guilty of being reactionary revolutionaries. To place the number of 529 in a proper modern historical context, the largest simultaneous death penalty case in the Sudanese justice system during the brutal war in Darfur involved a little over 100 people found guilty of terrorist acts against the government in 2008. Following the genocide in Rwanda, the government considered executing thousands of people. Two thousand died in prison awaiting trial. The International Court of Justice stepped in and worked with Rwanda to bring to justice the worst offenders who were often hiding in other countries. The largest execution involved seven people. Considering these facts, the number seems very large. Source: DOMAC case study 19 Sudan 

The Civil War is considered the first "modern" war for many reasons, one of which is that it is the first example of trench warfare. It was used in the Siege of Petersburg, which is not actually a "siege" but a series of nine offensives, seven of which were multi-day battles over an 11 month period. The Union won at the Battle of Fort Stedman and those battles are also offensives that run directly into each other. (The OP asks for examples of wars with more than 4 multi-day battles or 3 in one year, but this is far too generous). The Western Theater included 6 multi-day battles. The Army of the Shenandoah fought a multiday battle at Battle of Fisher's Hill. The Gettysburg Campaign included 4 multiday battles. (This is not a comprehensive list). The number of multiday battles in the Civil War WAS indeed unusual and would become a hallmark of conventional warfare that followed it. There were several advances in weaponry made during the war, including the Gatling Gun. It often wasn't well employed in early battles, since modern artillery strategy was new, but it contributed the most to the high number of multi-day battles by leading to the development of trench warfare. Smalls arms also become much more deadly at this time due to the development of repeating rifles and the mine ball. The land mine was also used in the American Civil War. Deadlier weaponry combined with the South having a smaller army caused them to develop a defensive military strategy which lengthened the time of the military engagement.