Short Answer: No the atmosphere of blame at the time did not permit collaboration with Spain. Yes that collaboration did eventually occur but only many decades after the incident and resulting war. Due to the extremely hostile public opinion of Spain in the United States in 1898, manufactured by yellow journalism and newspaper circulation wars; The sinking of the USS Maine brought on what many Americans believed was an inevitable and desired war with Spain. The US Navy's inquiries of 1898 and 1911 were mostly concerned with shifting blame for the explosion and associated deaths away from the US Navy. Although the 1898 Navy Board of Inquiry did not name Spain as the source of the explosion, in declaring the cause of the explosion as external to the ship(USS Maine), the already agitated US public was left with Spanish hostilities as the next most plausible explanation for the explosion. No in that atmosphere Spain was not seen as an honest broker. Spanish denials were ignored, and Spain's own investigation which pointed to internal explosion of a black powder magazine due to coal fire was dismissed at the time. It was not until many years later that Spain was consulted in a meaningful way. In 1974 Admiral Hyman G. Rickover asked naval historians to compile a complete record of the investigations to date, including Spanish investigations and to seek modern expert opinions as to the source of the explosion. Modern experts reviewing all the data including pictures taken of the explosion and the excavated hull from the 1911 investigation as well as incident reports of numerous coal fires in US, British, and French contemporary ships; concluded that the explosion was "without a doubt" started internally. Subsequent investigations point to the type of coal which the USS Maine had taken on(bituminous vs anthracite), the likely moisture levels of the coal bins after months in the Florida Keys and Cuba, and the proximity ( mere inches ) between a coal bin to the exploding magazine as the causal for the magazine explosion to be coal fire. No evidence of an external source for the explosion has was found. Detailed Answer: In the late 1890's two of the most influential newspapermen in the history of the United States were locked in a circulation battle. William Randolph Hearst who owned many newspapers including the New York Journal, and Joseph Pulitzer (Pulitzer Prize), who owned the rival New York World News; in order to outdo and outsell each other feed the public embellished or outright false stories of Spanish atrocities before and after the USS Maine explosion to sell papers. 

Charts From Wikipedia: The Great Depression Sources: Wikipedia: Governorship of Franklin D. Roosevelt Miami of Ohio University: A Presidential Governorship: The FDR Years as New York Governor Herbert Hoover Policies Federal Government Spending Herbert Hoover on the Great Depression and New Deal, 1931–1933 Wikipedia: Herbert Hoover 

There were exceptions: experiments in lower hours to boost productivity, some unions temporarily won lower hours as concessions before 1890, and in economic down times when labor was cheap the owners brought in relief workers to reduce costs... but generally 84 hours per week was necessary to keep the factory running 24 hours a day with two shifts of workers.As David Montgomery suggests, "There had never been a Golden Age in which 'the steel industry was controlled by the skilled workers."' This practice was only abandoned in 1923, due to public and political pressure. 

No because Mexico is within the area of origin of the Andean potato. While there is no record of it being cultivated in Mexico until it was reintroduced by Europeans, wild Andean potato's actually originated in that part of the world including in Mexico. 

To talk about the war between science and religion, initially one talks about the Catholic Church, because it was the early home for Christianity in western Europe, but the war waged across all christian persuasions. As christendom diverged it's branches continued to try to dominate ideas of their laity. The war between the christian world and science was not limited to the Catholic Church. Protestants and Orthodox Christians also had heresy laws and they also burned people at the stake for expressing ideas which challenged their doctrines. The crime science was accused of. In nineteenth and 20th centuries religions no longer burned people at the stake, but that didn't mean the war ended. People were still persecuted for running foul of religious principles. Denial of property, income, and freedom remained penalties for violating religious doctrines well into the 20th century. 

Picture 1: Hitler Tours Paris, June 28, 1940, Shocking the World with an amazing and intimidating quick victory against what was perceived to be a formidable foe FDR put off his announcement for a third term until nearly the last minute, July 11, 1940. (4 days before the Democratic National Convention in Chicago). He publically refused to campaign for the office. Relying on his overwhelming popularity, local political machines, and unions to carry the day. The nation was facing a pending crisis with WW II. Germany had shocked the world with their Blitzkrieg attack in Poland and France. More shocking though was when France surrendered June 22, 1940. By pre-war metrics France had the greatest army in the world and when Germany defeated them so quickly WWII took on a new and ominous perspective. Roosevelt would portray himself as a reluctant victim of extraordinary times who would sacrifice and remain in office for another term. The extraordinary times including the just weeks old fall of Paris became the justification for the extraordinary act. The argument against a third term was handled effectively by Roosevelt own silence on re-election until nearly the last moment, the extraordinary times, and Roosevelt's own considerable popularity. The people who brought it up were Republicans and Liberal Democrats who's voices were not as supported or trusted by main stream voters. Wendell Wilkie the Republican nominee in 1940 chose not to use the third term issue during the campaign and thus it never got much traction. The most serious opposition to Roosevelt's third term came from within the Democratic Party over his VP nominatee and had more to do with an FDR ultimatum after having painted himself into a corner than it did to opposition to a third term. More detailed Answer: This might be a technicality but Roosevelt didn't technically run for a third term, rather he stood for a third term. Roosevelt was approached by the Democratic Party to Run for a third term because with WWII raging in Europe, and Imperial Japan threatening in the Pacific, Democratic Party leaders believed the Nation needed FDR's experienced hand at the wheel. Having a new President come in to face these challenges while learning the ropes, they deemed potentially existentially catastrophic for the nation. By outward appearances Roosevelt had been preparing for retirement in 1940. 

Morocco was a Barbary Pirate state. Morocco did prey on US shipping during the revolution, and the Treaty of Marrakech was the direct result of extortion by Morocco on the United States for tribute. source 

You put your finger on why slavery was doomed. The Kansas-Nebraska Act which stated all new states would decide for themselves whether to be free or slave. That doesn't sound very anti-slavery, right? Well it was. You see, the more populous states were in the free-North, and the immigrants who would settle any new states were coming from slave-free-Europe. Folks from both the North and Europe had done away with Slavery. Also, folks willing to relocate to the new states were likely to be poor laborers who saw themselves in competition with slaves for jobs. For both reasons cultural, and economic; overwhelmingly new states would vote to be free as did both Kansas and Nebraska when they entered the Union. The Kansas Nebraska act had replaced the Missouri Compromise which prescribed balance in dealing with additions to slave states and free states. Kansas Nebraska blew apart the South's equilibrium, not in 1854, but the writing was on the wall and everybody knew it. As for the Dread Scott decision (1857) again, why slavery was doomed. You are right, on its merits the Dread Scott decision would seem to support slavery. It effectively legalized slavery in the North. It allowed southerners to travel in the North with their slaves protected from local laws. It meant federal agencies could be employed in the North to repatriate run-away slave. In some cases, it means the kidnapping of free African Americans and impressment into slavery. This decision enraged the North. It popularized the previously fringe abolitionist movement. It's arguable one reason why the Republican Party became so popular between the 1856 and 1860's election. Slavery was no longer something that occurred hundreds of thousands of miles away. Slavery was no longer something that could be ignored. Slavery was forced on the more populous and more financially successful North, and dealing with it (at least politically) became the preeminent issue of the 1860 election. The question wasn't to fight the civil war and end slavery in 1865, or to not and end it in 1866. Slavery may have taken decades to end. Slavery may even have lasted into the 20th century had the war not occurred. But without an equilibrium in the Senate to protect it, it would have eventually ended. Slavery would not grow in influence as the country grew. Slave states could not maintain their influence. Supreme Court actions had put the South and North on a political collision course one which the South could not hope to win. The South was isolated both nationally and internationally. The South had business partners in Europe (Britain and France) but they had no allies who didn't find slavery detestable. They were check mated, and they knew it.