This will be specific to the employer. The key here is to learn about their hiring channels and use them. Do they have a recruiting page? Keep an eye on it. Do they go to recruiting events at the school where you're taking classes? Stop by and talk to them. Do they have a linkedin profile for the company? Follow it. Is your contact there on linkedin? Add them as a connection. Linkedin (or other professional networking sites) can be a great way to "stay on the radar" without being annoying. Connect with the people who you know at the company, and then make posts that show what you're learning and what you're accomplishing. I really like seeing a candidate who is making relevant posts and talking about their progress or skills development, but you need to make sure it's relevant and doesn't come across as self-centered or braggy. It's fine to talk about projects you're doing in your classes, and if you see articles or blog posts you learned something from, link to them and post a few sentences describing why you liked them. Finally, keep your eyes open. It's great to have a dream job and a dream employer, but there are probably lots of other great jobs out there. Going after other opportunities, while staying in touch with your dream employer, can be a great way to contribute to an organization, develop your skills, and maybe find a different dream worth chasing - versus being fixated on a theoretical "dream job" that may never materialize. 

Mix your current experience into past positions: This would be flat out deceptive, and as I'm sure everyone (including you) would agree, a very bad idea. Also, you're still left with the employment gap issue, too. Put your current experience in a generic "skills and experience" section, versus associating it with a specific job you've held. This will likely raise questions, since it'll probably be obvious that these experiences don't fit any of the positions on your resume - and you're still also left with the employment gap issue addressed above. You'll likely be questioned as to which of those other jobs you had those experiences at, which will lead to you having to reveal your "hidden" job, which will at the least be awkward and difficult to explain. List your current position, as you normally would, but don't explicitly name the employer. Write something like "A midsized engineering firm" or "A Large School District" or "A custom software startup" or something appropriate for your current employer. This is not exactly a common tactic but it does happen when an employee has a valid reason to not disclose their current employer. Sometimes these reasons are related to security or trade secrecy (ie not wanting to disclose an employer related to a defense or intelligence contract, a startup or established firm that's being purchased or is involved in some other non-public transaction, etc). 

Decide whether you want/deserve/need a raise based on your contributions to the company, and if you think you do, ask for it, and support with facts. If you truly believe you are not being treated fairly for your skills and you NEED a different compensation, be prepared to go elsewhere. Don't make this about the brother-in-law. Make it about YOU and YOUR skills. If bro gets a raise, so be it. That's honestly none of your business. "I don't think my coworker deserves salary X": 

Given all that: I have a simple recommendation. Pick up the phone and call. The handful of questions in your suggested email are all fine, and sending that email would probably get you your answers, but sometimes it can be easier to have a conversation versus a series of emails - you can respond to the person's answers immediately instead of waiting for another round of emails, you'll get an idea of tone which can help you form your questions, and you can make an actual human connection instead of just being another set of words on a computer screen. Also, I would drop the question about you being surprised at the lack of another interview. If you have questions you would have asked in an interview, ask them now! Clearly, they don't have any other questions they need answered before they can consider hiring you. 

Resumes and interviews that read like a long list of accolades or a collection of buzzwords will put people to sleep. Technical skills and years of experience are just the table stakes. Those things get you in the door. Stories get you job offers. Prepare two or three success stories where you can show off when things went well for you. But, prepare one or two failure stories as well, where you can show off something that went wrong, and how you learned from it. You're claiming that your varied background has made you a star performer, because you were able to learn a lot - be ready to show off that learning. Again, it's not about memorizing a list of great things you've accomplished, it's about picking the right stories to tell, and telling them in a clear and engaging fashion. A great way to practice this is to prepare the story, then tell it to someone who isn't in your field and ask them how it made them feel. If they say "confused" or "overwhelmed," you need to cut back on the technical details and focus on explaining a problem and a solution. 

Skilled internal recruiters understand that it is their responsibility to manage the employer's connection with the labor market, and a huge part of that job is maintaining knowledge of candidates. Employers who say these sentences with the intention of actually following up will generally have a leg up on the competition that's using them dismissively. To get back to your question: If you're asking about a specific employer's response, none of us can know that. If you're asking about policy in general then yes, some employers absolutely do maintain applicant pools of "rejected" applicants and reach back out to them. 

If Yes: Incorporate the feedback and move on. It's easy to feel like he's attacking you personally. You need to be able to separate personal emotions from your work. We all will have gaps in our work product some times, this is why we do reviews. If No: Let him say his piece, and do not give an emotional or argumentative response. If you respond, you're playing into his game (the game you acknowledged in your update to your question). It takes two people to play a game. If you stop playing, the game will stop! 

To get to the root of your question: Saying you left a job because it was toxic - or even a softer version of that sentence - is bad practice because it leaves doubt in the interviewer's mind as to which of these three scenarios was actually the truth. They are left wondering - was the environment really toxic, or was the employee toxic? Will this person soon cause problems here, and then blame those problems on us? And so on. Obviously, you don't want that to happen. In that context, let's look at your actual questions: 

Keep the email as short and to the point as possible. Busy people don't like being faced with an unexpected wall of text. If you can manage those three points in one or two sentences, that's great. Three or four paragraphs will probably just get a delete. Also, in a more general sense, it's best to consider this reach-out as part of your larger strategy of targeting this employer, versus this reach-out being your ONLY contact with them. You hinted at this here: 

It teaches you to think about how inputs affect outputs. Software is generally a process tool - it takes some input, and generates some output. By entering your commands in this proprietary tool, and examining the code it generates, you're getting a new perspective on how software can interact with inputs and outputs. Since you've stated that you're getting some experience writing the tool itself, you've got another great learning opportunity: writing a piece of software that writes code forces you to think really hard about what makes good code. Since you're not writing the (actual) code output yourself, but rather writing a tool that generates it, you're basically writing a "software developer" as a piece of software: what better way to learn about doing something, than to write software that does that thing? 

Determine if it's legal for the employer to ask in your state. If not, you can let them know this. Redirect them to your desired salary: "My last salary was based on the job I was performing for my last employer. What I'm interested in talking about is the job I'm going to be performing for you, and I think that is worth $X." If the request comes in the form of a spot on an application, leave it blank and indicate something along the above sentence in any comments or notes on the application. If asked for paystubs, or confirmation of your salary via some other documentation, inform them that you're not comfortable sharing documentation that contains personal information, and that information about your salary at your last employer is proprietary to that company. 

Sometimes the follow up is done actively, other times it's a passive function of the employer's HRIS or recruiting system. Examples: 

Your github portfolio is showing off quick and dirty problem solving and fluency in certain languages. While those are both positive things to show off, there's a potential gap: as a hiring manager responsible for software development, more importantly than those characteristics, I look for people who write sustainable code. Developers who think about the long term and understand why things like unit tests are a good idea - not just people who do unit tests because they've been told to, or people who don't do them at all. In other words, I'm as interested in the process and approach (ie you did unit tests and commenting appropriately) as I am the end result (you got the right answer for the quick hackathon challenge). Clearly, there are other hiring managers out there in different types of organizations who may have a slightly different perspective on this. It's not clear from your question exactly what type of job you're going after. If you're looking for a more data science focused position, or a position where the software is secondary to the end result, your ability to write code that solves problems may prove more important than your ability to follow rigorous software development processes. So - back to the sales process - your github portfolio definitely has value, but it may or may not be the most appropriate value for the exact position you're going after. If you have a resume/cover letter/other portfolio that shows how well rounded you are and fills in any gaps in your github, then the github work can safely remain as-is. However, if you don't have a way to show the specific well-rounded picture you need in order to sell yourself, then you're probably going to come off as lopsided (for example: too much focus on rushing to a result versus understanding the value of good process and approach) and you should consider modifying your code examples, or adding new ones (which are clearly emphasized when someone looks at your github account) that show off your ability to write "production level" code. In Summary: