What makes up your desire to have your condition go away? How often is the desire/suffering being felt by you? What physical and mental sensations occur that show you your desire is absolute/a need? What part of you is your condition harming? 

The reason the Buddha suggested we abstain from certain things is not because of the morality of the actions themselves, but because of the effect these actions have on our minds. The fact that you are even asking this question illustrates there is some sort of mental suffering/inner conflict that has arrisen. This is the suffering we are attempting to avoid by abstaining from specific actions. This is what the Buddha warned us of. You are always free to do whatever you wish! I would just suggest you not do something that brings you suffering. 

I think at times it can be helpful, and at times, harmful. The teachings of the Buddha are his experiences. By sharing his atainments, he helps us all walk the path. Unfortunately, if you are too descriptive, people will seek your experience in their practice. They may come to false conclusions that make guiding themselves toards the next attainment much more difficult. I think it may be more helpful to others if someone with attainments focuses on another's practice, and asks them to answer questions that spark introspection that leads them toward their next fruition. 

Consciousness is an illusion, and therefore, I disagree with your belief. Consciousness is a part of the illusion of a separate, permanent self. If I understand your definition of "existent" correctly, then I would say anything you directly experience is considered an existent, with the exception of Nirvana. Nirvana can not be experienced, but it can be realized. Therefore Nirvana is an existent. 

For bhikkhus, Some vegetables are not allowable. Better to do juice and mix with cool water. The BMC says boiled juices are sugar. This is only Thai Tradition. BMC will list the vegetables and fruits allowable. Cucumber is not allowable. Boiled juices are prohibited by paauk Tea is actually not allowable as a "drink" for this reason of heating. Leaf juice is allowable, but you cannot add boiling water. Hence the rule of only warming by the sun's heat. You should be "sick and have a reason" for any medicine. This would outlaw, cold green tea. Aka Snapple. Juice drinks or sugar mixed with water can be taken for any reason, including thirst. 

Masterbation is unwholesome just like getting angry is unwholesome. Getting angry is not recommended, but it is not against a precept. I think there is confusion with abrahmacariya precept taken with 8 and 10 precepts. This precept replaces the third sexual misconduct precept of regular followers and requires complete celibacy. Abstinence from sensual pleasures are covered in this rule and also in the other higher precepts included in the eight/ten group. These precepts are taken by serious lay followers and novice monks. Bhikkhus must do manata/parivasa (probation) if they do such an act. It is very serious for a monk to do such a thing and very serious legal act to rehabilitate. Often, separate "prison monasteries" are set up for this purpose in Asia because of the difficulties in the logistics to carry out such a task. Novice monks ask to do chores (danda kamma) if they break this. It should be noted that the only difference in precepts of a lay person and a novice monk is the tenth precept of not using money. As far as the third precept (sexual misconduct) is concerned for the five precept yogi; "It takes two to tango." 

I have no idea whatsoever. That being said, if it is a breach of tradition, for what reason is practice not allowed at home? In a best case scenario, tradition can be helpful in that it may be a reliable way to accomplish something that has lasted through the test of time through its repeated success. Worst case scenario, tradition could be in place just because "it is the way it has always been done" and perhaps could inhibit your practice and slow your process of achieving your goals. Only you though can make that assessment and decide which is true for you, or if the truth lies somewhere in the middle. 

The beautiful thing about being dissatisfied is that although it is painful, it is an insight jumping in front of your face, ready to occur! Best of luck to you and I hope you find what you are looking for! 

The purpose of Vipassana is to gain insight. Is there any way you can gain insight into the workings of your experience through your newfound aversion? You can observe any experience to gain insight into the truth, but looking into suffering is particularly helpful. Moments of suffering house so much delusion, they are information treasures! Wishing your physical condition to go away is a manifestation of fundimental aversion. Next time you are meditating, I encourage you to ask yourself these questions. 

What you are observing here, if I understand you correctly, is what is called emptiness. All experience is. No experience has any qualitative aspects. No experience holds any meaning. No experience holds any wisdom. No experience holds any concepts. No experience holds any truth. It is not that snakes are not real. Our experience of any type of snake is real, waking or dreaming. They are both equally empty. There is only experience. We single out one aspect of experience and say "this is a snake!" A snake is nothing more than an interpretation of experience. A snake is the conceptualization of only a small aspect of experience. A snake is just a concept that we use to label experience. A label is empty. Just a word or idea. A concept can be realized, but that doesn't mean there is something behind the concept. 

"Medicines" There are some things in the BMC which I think are very misleading, especially concerning, "medicines" and how "Any Reason" is defined (p232). I could not find any pāli evidence that mentions "hunger and fatigue" as a valid medical reason. I could be wrong, but I asked a couple of knowledgeable monks to verify this and they also agreed with my findings. This would exclude many things which are considered medicines. I will not cover further with lists of the "medicines." Only that there should be a valid reason for taking them and justifying their use after Noon. The reflection and criteria are below. It is in every monastery chanting book and should be chanted every day. (Nauyana chanting book source) "Medicine Reflection" 

BMC I, 2009 ed. pdf Monks must also practice right livelihood according to not doing things from the list below: 

If they support you then it is OK. You should ask for support according to their faith and ability. Normally supporters and family are the same words in pali. It is listed in the Metta sutta as family "kulesu", often translated as donors. However, one should live a modest life and ask for only what one needs. Asking for sangha needs is much better. It depends on your family's desire. There could be a problem with receiving donations from your parents if you gave them money beforehand. I am not sure of the exact details. While I do not know the exact rule for this, I do remember asking about this with a monk who gave his parents money and then asked for a computer specifically saying, "Use the money I gave you.". The teacher (Sayadaw U Kovida, paauk) said this would be unallowable. (This transaction never went through, by the way) To avoid a situation like this, if you do give your parents your money, you should say, "This is yours, use as you wish." Or "Do not use this for me or to monks." Then when you ask them for things, whatever they do, it is their money and donations are from their own doings. It is actually legal for them or even a bank to have money for you as long as you do not use it. This is how one ordains temporary in a vinaya tradition. If you decide to stay full time, things can get complicated with bank accounts (if you are one who cares about vinaya). Some need to temporarily disrobe to handle their affairs. According to ratapala sutta, he told his parents to throw the money in the river. 

The Buddha teaches us the path to enlightenment. When enlightenment occurs, the sense of self, attachment, and suffering no longer arise. In my opinion, the Buddhist way is analyzing your experience in order to cultivate wisdom and become enlightened. If someone attepts to steal from you, yes a Buddhist who is attempting to emulate an arahant would give the thief their belongings. But now that your things are gone, how do you react? Are you attached to those possessions? Where does that attachment come from? What does it feel like deep within you? If you have walked the path, it is impossible for someone to steal from you. If you are walking the path and your goal is enlightenment, what is most important is not what happens and how you act, but how through your investgation of your experience is. Training in morality is essential, but I would argue not as important as concentration and wisdom. 

What changes do you need to make? What roadblocks do you believe you can't overcome in your current situation? Enlightenment can be attained no matter what your circumstances are in life are. Living using monastic princaples can assist in removing distractions that can be enticing, but if your practice is strong, you can walk the path no matter where you are in life. There seems to be some sort of misconception that you must ordain to become enlightened or must live according to specific guidelines. The key to walking the path is cultivating morality, concentration, and wisdom. Use the five aggregates to help balance you along the path. Follow the Buddha's teachings in morality as best as you can. Cultivate concentration and wisdom through meditation. No matter your living conditions, you will still be observing and analyzing the same experience. I encourage you to ask yourself while meditating, what makes up my desires to make changes in my life? The beautiful thing is, you already (and always will) have everything you need to attain new wisdom! 

According to the Fifth Method of Dependent Origination, there are five causes and five results. The five results are the five khandas. The five causes are ignorance, craving, clinging, formations, kamma force. This is listed in the Vissudhimagga. Path Of Purification (2011 PDF, p601) These are broken up into two consciousness wholesome and unwholesome for humans who are lucky to have a wholesome factor in their near death moment of the immediate past life. Humans always have wholesome kamma force and sankhara (formations) The unwholesome is the craving consciousness. It includes the ignorance mental factor which is part of craving. Clinging is repeated craving. So all three are nearly the same type of unwholesome mind. Got that? Wholesome with unwholesome do not mix together, but the unwholesome mind can "surround" the wholesome mind. So when you did something good in a past life, like something of generosity, you wished to do something (that requires a body) or you wished to become someone (ignorantly). So someone who is male previously wished for becoming male. Someone who is female previously wished to be female. Whether or not one has enough kamma to get that wish is another story. It is like a raffle ticket. Buy more raffle tickets and you have better odds. Do something once that is really big and many raffle tickets get put into the pot. Habitual kamma is a good way to get that wish. Heavy kamma like what Bill Gates did, will also help. (His is both because of his continued involvement, but he may wish other things). Bill Gates probably did something similar in a past life and kept wishing to help other people (to do that with a male body). Then the opportunities (supporting kamma) from other kammas helped support that wish. Read "Outliers" and you will see it was not chance for him to become so rich. Often people switch sexes and species, but I imagine that most people wish with the same sex perception because they do not imagine otherwise. I suspect most sex changes happen via the animal realm. For instance, a dog may want the conditions to have food and whoever feeds him may be the gender resultant next life gender. There are of course humans who wish for sex changes and even do so even in their current life too! So it does happen as humans for future births as well. There is a wheel publication by Venerable Nyantiloka called "Fundamental Themes". It is not easy to read, but it is correct. "The Workings of Kamma" by Venerable Pa-Auk Sayadaw explains this too. There is a chapter on kamma in Ven. Narada's book.. "The Buddha and His Teachings". I think a pamphlet was made from that chapter too. This is a great book for newbies. You might be able to find a meditation manual on dependent origination by Ven. Pa-Auk Sayadaw. It is called "The Fifth Method". It is not readable for the average person. However the first section might be interesting. It is posted it to my website..unlisted. The rest should be easy to find for free.