Is this really mandatory? I haven't met a "venerable" until now. These days one has to be very careful, because there are monks who teach wrong things. Also sticking to useless rites is Silabbatupadana. If you bow down that's fine - I wouldn't. I associate bowing down with submissiveness, but that's just me. If it helps the mind, it helps. Just be cautious of idiolizating the monk and also question everything as stated in the Kalama Sutta. 

Is the breath all important? I know that the breath conditions the body, in that the breath tranquilizes the body, but often I read about NOT volitionally breathing in and out and this is exactly what I am doing. Can I use an alternative object or even open monitorin, that is many objects in a succession? 

Apart from Buddhism, I can also recommend REBT (Rational Emotive Behaviour Therapy) by Albert Ellis who was the "father" of cognitive behavioral therapy. Especially Windy Dryden published countless books in how to overcome obstacles (search on Google Books, I learned most of it through Book reviews there). One of the most important hallmarks in REBT is self acceptance, and if possible other and world acceptance, where you differentiate between personhood (or supposed "self/other worth") and the doer. Basically "condeming the sin but not the sinner". It would definitely help with your self esteem issue you raised. On YouTube, Albert Ellis is also to be found. There are old lectures, but still on point and have a no non-sense approach which I like and is usually quite rare to be found in comparison to Buddhism, where lectures and talks go up to 2-3 hours with a lot of non-sense and rambling. 

I remember that I once read a sutta by the buddha where he mentioned to do things slowly while being mindful in order to recognize each step. Any ideas which sutta it could be? 

Acknowledge that you have a feeling/thought/urge and do not kid yourself about it. Be honest and don't "should" on yourself, i.e.:" I shouldnt have this feeling, I must always feel serene.." Realize that you do not have to act on it immediately (rehearse your self statement for example) Acknowledge that you have an option: To act or not to act See the (long term) disadvantages in giving in Counter any possible reasons why it is good to give in Do whatever you would have done if you wouldnt experience the craving Keep in mind that your thinking might still be distorted and pulls you in your habitual way of thinking because your underlying irrational belief is still somewhat active. This needs to be done repeatedly and you will eventually lapse because we are all fallible. Accept yourself and try to do better in the fure and take the horror out of the badness. 

According to suttacentral's entry, Sati is defined as memory, recognition, consciousness, intentness of mind, wakefulness of mind etc. My question is then, is it a mistake to call Sati Mindfulness, since Minsfulness means awareness. Now Sati is always used with his close companion sampajañña, which in turn makes the attention always directed to moral attitudes etc., whereas "mainstream mindfulness" just observes inner and outer phenomena with an open, curious and beginners mind. Source: $URL$ $URL$ 

I was and probably still am a skeptical person. A couple of tips: Don't force yourself to believe in anything (especially far reaching goals like enlightenment and rebirt etc because you cannot prove them to yourself). Rather, test the teaching out step by step and do not digest to much teachings at once. Practise certain meditations like loving kindness in a step by step manner and see if you feel better. Read for example the first five or so paragraphs by the dhammapada and look if they make sense and stay there for a couple days or weeks to gain confidence.. make much of them.. cultivate it (bhavana). If doubt arises talk to yourself and remind yourself that everything can be criticised and to seek for the ultimate truth is a waste of time.. if you judge a person is that ultimate truth? No? Is science ultimate truth? No, also constantly changing. And keep in mind that whenever someone criticises something or you do it by yourself you should only allow or regard it if it's 1. constructive and 2. your have a good replacement at hand, otherwise it's a waste of precious time and mentally draining. You could ask yourself for example: What are reall the disadvantages of loving kindness? Almost none. What are the disadvantages (both long and short term) of not meditating, being kind, chasing worldly things.. Isn't the mind causing most suffering? Have an internal dialogue and do so repeatedly. This comes from my own experience. 

I just read somewhere by Dhammadhatu's posts that it is Mindfulness with Breathing. Can someone explain the difference? So I don't pay attention to the in-and-out breaths? I'm now quite confused. Sati means to keep something in mind and now in the case of Anapanasatti the breath is something which must be held in mind as well as the other three objects, correct? 

Suppose I yell at a person and I hold a belief like: "I made a mistake and I try my best not to repeat that fault again" vs "I'm such a bad person for doing that bad deed. I should feel ashamed of myself" then the kamma is completely based on my sincere beliefs I hold about the situation and the less anger, greed and delusion they have the better the karmic results, right? 

Is it during deep meditation when the mind is completely stilled that one experiences anatta? Is the conviction in anatta gradual or abrupt? This question would be connected to the 4 stages of enlightenment, too. Regards 

Would you say that it is appropriate for a monk to give advice to the laity in how to live life/dealing with obstacles? Now don't get me wrong, but monks certainly have "safer" environments. They are much less exposed to stimulating sensory input as well as life problems. I am by nature quite skeptical and cannot really take a monk serious if he gives tips and at the same time does not follow these tips (or rather that lifestyle). How can a monk give relationship advice? Sure, the Dhamma gives such, but then it's just intellectual knowledge given by a monk, but that advice has not been practised by him. I think the whole "problem" starts with titles like "venerable" or the admiration of monks/nuns. Again, don't get me wrong, seeing in them a role model and paying homage to them because they delivered proper dhamma is appropriate, but one should always keep in mind that they are UNIQUE, COMPLEX (in that they think, feel and do good, bad and neutral things) and FALLIBLE. Anyone made same experiences? Advice? Opinions? 

If you judge someone or if someone does something to you we tend to look only that event. We do not see the bigger picture. There must always be a preceding cause for someone to think or act in a certain way. If you consider that we're all in the same boat and all have to face existential problems (the questions I mentioned in your last question) then a sense of empathy arises. This perception needs to be put to the fore via sati (recollection or mindfulness) and with this recollection the perception gets stronger and stronger. If you are condeming a person there must be a preceding cause for that to arise. Maybe you were angry which resulted in a negative state of mind, which further gets strengthend by indulging in more negative thoughts, or you are telling yourself that you shouldn't think or feel in a certain way because you are a spiritual person etc. Every state of mind (whether wholesome or unwholesome) filters out unfitting information. I hope this makes somewhat sense? Don't believe this, look for yourself next time you feel good or bad and how the subsequent thoughts will be. When you feel positive how is your outlook in regards to life? To answer your second question: You don't need to do formal meditation to do this, it can always be done via recollection in daily life but in formal sitting it's most effective. You just consider the basic predicaments which every human has to go through. Asking questions is more effective than just telling your mind certain "truths" , "teachings", "drawbacks". Whenever we pose a question our brain is forced to think (remember school?). Just reflect on causes and conditions that weren't developed just now. Every human being has to cultivate skills/behaviours, emotions and mental states. Whether wholesome or unwholesome. If one was raised in a negative environment and had no insight into cause and effect etc he is not to be blamed because he is a fallible human. This is equanimity and compassion. 

So while reading a lot of teachings, especially "higher" teachings, a great deal is mentioned about dispassion in worldy things, unattractiveness in the body and various contemplations on death. It's quite easy to get lost in these kind of contemplations without developing the Brahmaviharas to feel something positive (especially social positive emotions are important for humans). I'm wondering if positivity is highly stressed in Buddhism? On the one hand the brahmaviharas are not withot reason called "the divine abidings". So I think one needs to dwell in them as much as possible. Also the last two points of Right Effort stress the importance of cultivating and maintaing positive emotions. On the other hand though, being non-delighted in things makes this look rather grim. Maybe I haven't read much Suttas on Compassion, loving kindness, generosity etc.. 

Vitakkasanthana Sutta (MN 20) Please keep in mind that one's effort should be of ardency and urgency. You have to act like a hero and free yourself from these. You need to have wisdom about defilements, otherwise you will find excuses and dwell in them even further. 1) "Divert your attention to something more skillful". Now, this doesn't necessarily mean to change one's ill-will to compassion via metta meditation, since the ill-will has too much energy and your thoughts are therefore distorted and won't let good thoughts in so easily. Therefore attend to something skillful but nothing unrealistically positive, for your current state of mind ( ill-will in that case) is too strong. You can try to give self compassion to yourself, i.e.that you are quite angry and that you are not feeling well (treat yourself like a little child). After that, once you feel better you see that other person might also get angry so that you have a sense of not being alone with that problem and you then send metta to these people. 2) Repeatedly scrutinize the benefits of letting go of negative mind states and the benefits of positive ones (both for you and how it contributes to other people as well) 3) Step 3 in the sutta mentions: "Paying no mind to thoughts". Since not thinking of a thought or even aversion to it doesn't really eliminate it, my adive is to always accept the presence of the thought and then distract myself and do something else (or just curiously observe it and see its impermanence). At best, I would always employ a cognitive technique like Step 2 and a behavioral one (like standing up and doing something else while keeping the drawbacks and benefits in mind)