Fundamental language differences are rare. Considering the existence of plural maybe allows over-generalisations, hence ethnic prejudices. That would be a bit far-fetched argument. W.r.t. normal variation of speech: non-objective monikers like terrorist / rebel / freedom fighter, that far more influence our mental state. Nevertheless for speculations enjoy a bit of science-fiction classics: Null-A from A.E. van Vogt, and The Languages of Pao of J. Vance. Having a regular number-forming systen is said to help in arithmetic: short / single syllable digits, regular (10+3 / 7x10, Esperanto) as opposed to thirteen / seventy. I doubt there is a measurable effect for adults. 

Languages often disappear when they coexist with an other language. Official languages are often institutionalized (national, supranational), whereas dialects are in general more volatile (currently Catalan vs. Spanish). Frisian in the Netherlands one official language, in Germany quite lost. In general in an ever smaller world dialects, regional/ethnic languages may fear extinction. Languages came into (stronger) existance by the creation of Israel in the previous millenium, the balkan fragmentation (Croatian becoming more "Croatian" as opposed to Serbian). Separate evolution of a language like American English from British English is hard to judge. So total disappearance might be measured, but other numbers are (1) hard to collect numerically and objectively (language like Catalan being part of ethnic pride). One might for instance count languages in the internet... - a minority. Or are there sufficient linguistic studies? 

In Asturian, there is such a thing as a different noun class than masculine / feminine. You can mark a noun with a different suffix to indicate that it is an abstract version of that noun. This is the so-called neutru de materia, used for non-countable mass nouns. This presents a five-fold paradigm morphologically: 

Nouns are still either masculine or feminine, but you can make them abstract / material nouns. So for example, if you had a red hair, it would be un pelu roxu, but if you were talking about red hair in general, it becomes pelo roxo. It’s a bit more complicated than this (for example, feminine nouns don’t change their endings), but that’s the basic idea. You can find vestiges of this in the Castilian ése / ésa / eso distinction, and in lo necesario. If you read Castilian, you should be able to piece your way through texts in Asturian that talk about this very interesting subject. One such is El llamáu neutru materia. 

The question worth asking here is, how "instrumental" is the Slavic instrumental really? "Instrumental" is just a name that grammarians gave it, after its most common usage; but I don't think the pre-literate speakers of Proto-Slavic would think of it as a case for expressing instrumentality. To them, it just was what it was. The case for instruments and passive-sentence agents, as well as the case for times of day/year, as well as the case required by the prepositions for "behind" and "in front of", as well as the case for being or becoming, as well as the case for modes and manners (every -sky adverb in every Slavic language is historically an instrumental, plural, neuter adjective. По-русски is a technically ungrammatical contamination of rusьsky with po rusьsku.) And that latter meaning can probably elucidate how instrumental "felt" to speakers of Proto-Slavic — as a "modes and manners" case, which could equally be modes of doing — as in *maltomъ "with a hammer" or *slověnьsky "in Slavic", "the Slavic way" — or modes of being, as in *byti dobryjimъ "to be good". Or circumstantial modes such as *noktijǫ "at night". 

(It goes without say, that I personally still see some viral power in Esperanto. It would at least cost least effort, go fast and provide quality. A nice light-weight second language.) 

This sample here only, to give a taste of such agglutinative languages. They often are taxed "difficult" for their "strangeness" like the Uralic languages. The reality is: they often are more regular. 

It seems qualitative requirements of such a World Language have still not been mentioned. Other qualifications: The (as yet) failed Esperanto shows that pure rationality is not the sole issue. (I am both Esperantist and anglophile.) 

In general language standardisation happens after changes in the language communities. Only reforms in Chinese is a counter-example. The impetus of changes derives of the cultural changes in the communities. Historical American English and Brazilian Portugues changed faster. One language with many more or less isolated communities (historic Greek), isolated Portuguese in Portugal and Brasil. Small Dutch/Flanders may have easier reforms. Regulation like revisions, and cross-community standardisation, are conservative (though still receive much opposition). Take the reform of German where some occurrences of (but not all) were replaced by . Regulation authorities are seldom speeding things up to a larger degree. In general they start to allow new orthography and finally make some new spelling the standard. They also cannot really hinder new cultural terms. The dictionary though intending to be non-regulative, in fact is regulative. As people tend to follow spelling and word choice as provided in the dictionaries. Conclusion: The mosquito steering the elephant. Though language regulation is linguistically important, its controlling function (negative or positive) depends on other factors, like the Chinese in the past wanting to do a huge simplification. 

I think you’re looking at this backwards. The Portuguese word spelled sim did not come to be pronounced through some sort of assimilation of nasal consonant, the way occurred with Portuguese fim  and um , or even sem < Latin sine. Rather, the word came to be pronounced that way, and so came to spelled in a way that indicated its nasalization, and ‹im› is simply how one spells there. Although not all nasalization in Portuguese is explicitly marked in the orthography (for example, in muito ), with sim , it is. Similarly, Portuguese assim is written with an ‹im›. This developed from Latin ad sic, “with nasalization”.[ref] The history of Portuguese is complex and uneven, and did not settle down until much later than in languages such as neighboring Spanish did back in the 1500s. Nasalization and palatalizations were variously marked with an tilde, with an n or m, or with a following h — or with some combination of these:[ref]