So we can imagine that other african species may have followed the same road, and reached your island when the sea was lower, during the ice age. Even if your island was never directly linked to the continent, it may have been close enough to allow terrestrial animals to end up there. After the sea rises they would have been definitively trapped on the island, but they found a way to survive. 

You may add a fame system in your game. When a player do collaborative actions, he earns fame points that he can use to upgrade and gain new skills or items. He may need a certain amount of fame to become a team leader, or create a guild, etc. A player can also reward with a few fame points another player who helped him. On the opposite, a player killer would loose fame points for each kill, and then would have a restricted acces to cities or NPCs, etc. 

The yellow lines are the watershed limits (roughly). Draw it on a new layer, that you can hide later. I started along the mountain crest, and between rivers that flow toward different directions. Once I've made a few significant areas, I tried to add the major river in it. Watersheds that are just a coastal band should not have major rivers, that's why I've put red crosses on it. This is where you should add rivers only on a local map. When the watershed was big enough, I added a river, starting from the river mouth and then trying to find a way to the mountains. I added a few tributaries in the larger watersheds, to fill the voids. As you can see, it's just a start. I haven't filled the biggest watersheds. You may need to subdivide them. I hope it gets you started anyway. To get an idea of the number of rivers you should have on your map, just compare to a real map that you like, at the same scale (with roughly same climate). Even if your planet is different from Earth, it's not a problem. There is no "true map". What truly defines a map is not the planet, but the target reader. Maps are always based on choices, a balance made by the geographer to set the right amount of information, and make the map usefull and easy to read. 

On average, a woman dies after 5 pregnancies, resulting in on average 3,8 children. 2,53 of these survive childhood. 1,29 of them are girls. So each girl born gives rise to 1.29 new girls. Thus there is an increase in the female population with 1.29 each generation (~ 25 years) and one can assume that there is a similar amount of men as there are girls. 3000 years = 120 generations 1.29 ^ 120 = 18,653,710,652,522 girls per original girl.. So, well, 3000 years is a long time. If food is unlimited they can easily reach billions and above. What will happen is that food and living space runs out. If food really is endless overpopulation will spark massive epidemics killing lots of people and increasing the mortality rate dramatically. That is unless they develop advanced medicine during those 3000 years. On Sustainable Population: According to this, the carrying capacity of the land using various methods are as follows: 

Human genetic material when transplanted into an eggcell becomes a human. At least according to us - humans are sentient. Thus, if we start with human genomes, we just need to modify them enough that they are unable to breed with normal humans. There are multiple ways to do this but one way would be to split one or more of our chromosomes into several smaller chromosomes. This would make the modified lifeforms basically identical to humans, but when a sperm and an egg meet they would not be able to match their chromosomes correctly and there would be no viable offspring with normal humans. Over time (hundreds of thousands of years), or with exrtra induced mutations or additional deliberate changes, the new species would diverge from normal humans. All of this is probably doable with current gene-editing technologies together with current cloning technology, at least if neither ethics nor budget is a problem. 

Infrasound How about an infrasound device? They are quite big, and so you would have to weld it onto the outside and sort of stalk the ship for a little bit while you wait for its effects to kick in. Infrasound is sound at the 1hz-20hz range. It can cause hallucinations at high decibel levels (as it turns out the resonant frequency of eyeballs is 14 hz) They can also cause uneasiness, fear, a feeling like there is a spiritual presence. Of course you would have to wait for everyone to go crazy or kill themselves somehow like in the Dyaltov Pass Incident, which one of the more likely explanations is infrasound generated by the winds there. This page has some information on the effects of infrasound, and a diagram of a infrasound device. "the frequency that is thought to be most dangerous to humans is between 7 and 8Hz. This is the resonant frequency of flesh and, theoretically, it can rupture internal organs if loud enough ... according to results published by NASA researcher GH Mohr, frequencies between 0Hz and 100Hz, at up to 150-155dB, produced vibrations of the chest wall, changes in respiratory rhythm, gagging sensations, headaches, coughing, visual distortion, and post-exposure fatigue. 5 Subsequent research has determined that the frequency that causes vibration of the eyeballs – and therefore distortion of vision – is around 19Hz." These are a few key things I decided to pull out. Also, armor and earplugs are completely useless against it. "Even with industrial ear protectors, sound waves are able to enter the head via the nose and mouth which are, in turn, linked to the ears by the structure of the skull." (this quote is from the same article). As sound can't travel through space you would be perfectly fine as long as you shut it off before you board. 

The long game: Nudging other people closer to giving up their soul If few are willing to give up their soul, then an indirect approach might be useful. The devils can recognize that those who actually do give up their soul do so under certain circumstances (despair, to save loved ones, etc.). If so, then they need to create those circumstances. So the demons have two kinds of 'customers'. The first type is one real mark, the ones that with enough manipulation can be made to willingly give up their souls. These may be ones who have contacted the demons as the second category in the past, or totally unknowing victims. The important point is that the demons are in for the long game with these people. They follow them through their entire lives just to create that particular setup where they will have no way out but to call them and offer all they have. The second type is the bulk of their customers. These people gain minor favors in exchange for doing things that push one of the real marks towards their final destination. Typically they will be entirely unaware of the real consequences of their actions and all of them might not appear to be overtly evil (although that depends on what the particular endgame is). It might be things like delivering a letter, closing their store early, convincing their friend to try a new drug, rescuing someone from a peril or pretty much anything. This can be nested to any level. Some devils might be setting up organizations, cults, drug cartels, gangs, insiders in governments etc through pawns and favors which can then be used to favor the long-games of the real marks of other devils. All of it ends with the same thing, people giving up their souls, but the majority of the effort is on the 'enabler structure' rather than the real victims.