was right. From the conditions you gave were not entirely satisfactory for an certainty of a conclusion. I suggest taking your thoughts backwards causally (what I stopped myself from doing earlier). By working backwards, you'll possibly come to a cause of the existence of everything and thus learn more about the finitude in which you're thinking. Otherwise, we have a nebulous account of deterministic existence, that assumes all things are and are matter, which was historically bonked over the head and thrown into a dream world by Descartes and then later crushed by Kant ("the crusher of everything" -Schopenhauer). So that premise has some philosophical problems too. Good luck. 

This is extremely reminiscent of Spinoza's account of the universe. In brief, he assumes that there are substances and modes, which are independently and dependently existing respectively. From this, he deduces that there must be one infinite substance (he calls God) that contains all possible things within it in infinite ways (Prop XVI, Part I, Ethics). However, from your cosmological account, it really shouldn't matter from what position we begin in explaining all of existence, since whatever happened happened, and now we're stuck with absolute finitude. So, I will restrict myself to just this claim and attempt to not predicate any particular assumptions for its cause. I will assume that you are personifying "law" rhetorically and not making an implicit assumption for the existence of a God. If you were, then we'd be in a heap of trouble philosophically. If we are absolutely determined and in accordance to the principle of sufficient reason, then it follows that there is no free will--I cannot freely choose my actions. From your statement, 

If you want a good explanation of why Classical Christianity is not the claim 'God exists' then I'd recommend God: A Guide for the Perplexed by Keith Ward. It would even be possible argue that this early form of Christianity is not strictly theism or atheism, both being a naive view. As a consequence most modern Christians reject their roots and rarely study them. For a strict and rigorous logical argument you could check-out the Buddhist sage Nagarjuna. In the second-century he constructed a proof designed to clarify the philosophical foundation of the Buddha's teachings. He logically proves that nothing really exists, (where 'really' is a crucial word) and this would include God. I'd recommend not the original text but The Sun of Wisdom: Teachings on the Noble Nagarjuna's Fundamental Wisdom of the Middle Way by Khenpo Tsultrim Gyamtso. This is brief and clear. I see no good logical arguments for or against God's existence in modern Christianity. There are some attempts but nothing conclusive. In mysticism the arguments are much stronger and firmly grounded in metaphysics. Of course, mysticism often speaks of God but this is not the God of the Churches of the People of the Book. Even the ancient Rig Veda warns us against this idea. It would be a far more subtle phenomenon, one that would transcend the distinction between existence and non-existence. 'God' would be a choice of words and not a necessary one. For Indian religion 'Brahman' replaces all ideas of an objectified God. Or you could examine the doctrine of the Upanishads and the arguments found in the commentaries, which do not reify God but promote a much more subtle idea. I have no wish to offend a lot of people all at once, but have to say that the monotheistic God of most modern scientists and Christians belongs in the nineteenth century or the children's Sunday School. Arguments against this God can be found all over the place in Buddhism, Sufism, Taoism, advaita Vedanta and even in a large body of Christian writings, for instance in Ward's aforementioned book or the Gospel of Thomas. We see here why so many Christians and Muslims believe that mysticism is the work of the Devil. But for the mystic the Devil would be as much a fantasy as the God of the dogmatic Atheists and Theists. Here's some words from The Mystical Theology... . . . [H]e possesses all the positive attributes of the universe (being the Universal Cause), yet, in a more strict sense, He does not possess them, since He transcends them all; wherefore there is no contradiction between the affirmations and negations, inasmuch as he infinitely precedes all conceptions of deprivation, being beyond all positive and negative distinctions. (Dionysus the Areopagite, The Mystical Theology) And from Keith Ward. “Dionysius went so far with the negative ways of speaking of God that he even denied God existed: ‘It is the universal cause of existence while itself existing not, for it is beyond all being’ (from his book On the Divine Names). This might seem like nonsense. It would certainly cause a stir if a preacher went up into the pulpit and said, “According to our greatest authorities, God is not like anything of which you can think. In fact, I can tell you that God does not even exist. Let us pray. But of course the point is to say that God does not exist in the same way that anything we can imagine exists. God is ‘Nothing’, not-a-thing, but that Nothing is not a sheer vacuum. It is that in which all distinctions fade away, but in which they are rooted.” (Keith Ward, God: A Guide for the Perplexed) 

Everything we have come to know is an illusion of difference. From this, we have come to the wrong conclusions about free will, "creation", etc.. However, we are all one and imperishable. But, it would then follow that motion cannot be. This was a big problem for Plato. If every point in the universe is filled with matter, then if any bit of matter moves, then there is a difference between the prior position and the current one. But we can't have difference because this would assume that there was a part of existence that the matter could move into and thus contradict both the assumed plenum and the true lack of difference. So, we come to a somewhat paradoxical conclusion that all of existence really has no motion or direction. Everything just is, is one, and is still. If this were the only assumption and there was no account for a beginning of creation, then we could accept pure nihilism. Hmmm. Case 2 (no plenum): Everything is completely determined, but there are empty spaces in the universe. This case is more aligned with current models in physics than the previous case. Nevertheless, we still have determinism from material finitude. From that we can once again extrapolate various claims of nihilism and meaninglessness. Not very exciting of a framework, huh? Anyway, your thought: 

I gather that the lack of a free will implies a lack of moral certainty. Since we cannot choose any of our actions, we cannot be accountable for them? And since this "law" of deterministic finitude assumes the materialization of consciousness, reason, and experience, then all knowledge and thoughts are likewise determined. In all honestly, at this point, I am extremely tempted to work backwards causally to explain from where we originate, but I promised that I wouldn't. Moving on-wards. You did not account for a plenum of matter in the universe, or rather, if every possible point in the universe (including points that contain no matter) are affected. So, I will now consider two cases: Case 1 (the plenum): If the universe is a true plenum of matter, then we find ourselves in a Leibnizian/Parmenidean system of a monad. Put simply: There can be no difference among everything, since everything is matter. It would then follow that: 

Metaphysics stands before and after physics. It surrounds physics, standing between physics and Reality and a fundamental theory. Physics is not fundamental and will never have such a theory. If we want a fundamental theory we must study metaphysics. That is to say, if we want to explain the phenomena studied by physics we must transcend physics. Metaphysics must always take full account of physics and should explain it. Chalmers' article illustrates the relationship. The problem of consciousness, the inscrutability of matter etc., must be taken into account and explained within a metaphysical theory if the theory is to be plausible and useful. Metaphysics is the boardroom of knowledge where the big decisions are taken. The natural sciences form a working party dealing with the world of appearances and reporting back to the the Board. The Board must take full account of these reports but its task takes it well beyond the limited realm of the empirical sciences. 

Similarly how does this tie into Chalmers notion of Philosophical Zombie? Why might imagine that such autonomy can serve to discriminate between philosophical zombies and humans, since zombies act like they are autonomous, but aren't being driven by an autonomous agent on the "inside" (See my previous post about "freewill zombies")? 

I don't know of any comprehensive histories of 'Eastern' philosophy but there are many surveys. Great Thinkers of the Eastern World (Harper Collins) Ed. Ian P mcGreal. This is very good. It leaves out far more great thinkers than it includes but this is inevitable. For a compendium of ideas and extracts there is A Treasury of Traditional Wisdom (George, Allen & Unwin) Evelyn Underhill's Mysticism is still popular but it is heavily coloured by Christian thinking and imho not well-informed or entirely trustworthy. Huxley's Perennial Philosophy is still a good read although rather narrow imho. Eagle Editions do a very good series called 'The Essence of...'that includes Gnosticism, Sufism, Rumi, Kabbala, Tao and other relevant topics. Hindu Scriptures by RC Zachner is good and serves as a sort of ground-zero for the rest of the tradition. There's a nice little book called The Mystics of Islam (Penguin) by Reynold Nicholson. 

Old pagan religions vanished because they were usually closely tied to ritual. Once the temples were destroyed and the priests dead, the religion pretty much ceases to exist. While there are myths and cosmologies associated with these religions, they weren't primarily about believes. There weren't usually debates about the right believe: Socrates was accused of introducing new good. Also, some philosophers like Xenophanes, argued against the humanising of gods, these were moral arguments, not theological ones. While Christianity, for example, emphasised believe, even here the notion that religion is something entirely subjective, something one happens to believe in, is rather new. One could even argue that, ironically, the fact that today there seem to people who "believe" in pagan religions again, was only possible in a christian/post christian society that made your religion or lack thereof a matter of choice. 

is a valid argument. But presumably, it is not sound. When calling an argument "sound", you defer the questions of knowledge and certainty. But usually, an argument should not only have premises that happen to be true, but premises that we find plausible (in which case, you might call it an persuasive argument). You can have arguments that are valid, sound, persuasive; but usually not absolutley certain. 

Here, »peace« and »war« are not to be understood as under international law (because there peace is not a kind of war); of course this technical meaning is meant as well (the context – Valéry wrote this 1919 – should give a hint). But obviously Valéry doesn't see peace and war as pure opposites and we can suspect that »war«, for Valéry, has taken quite an abstract meaning that also includes peace if it »allows acts of love and creation«. What this abstract meaning is we cannot decide from this portion of the text; we could, however, build a hypotheses – conflict? change? – which we test as we read along. The Whole To understand seemingly complicated texts, you have to relate the details, the single sentences and arguments to the whole text. First, there is an inner structure. The portion you cited has four paragraphs: (1) Peace and its origin is more mysterious than war. (2) Some people may be intuitively sure of the answer. (3) Valéry wants to examine the problem by means of the intellect. (4) This method is limited, but so is any other. Of course, there are some more details we have to examine, e.g. the juxtaposition of sensation and intellect. Does Valéry mean that some people simply feel that peace is right, but that he himself wants to give reasons? Or does he mean something else? To answer this, we need to take the outer structure into account: the cited portion is only the beginning of the second letter. The Context To understand the details, knowing the context is helpful. The context, however, is pretty much everything. So we have to think about which context we want to examine. (1) Knowing the hole work is generally a good idea (in this case it is rather short). But usually, we should be able to make sense of an excerpt on its own. In fact, it often is a good idea to identify the questions which the complete text might answer: We might expect to find more in Valéry's concept of war, but not necessarily more on his distinction between »sensation« and »intellect«. (2) Biographical and historical information can also help. World War I and its aftermath has obviously to be kept in mind. (3) Intellectual context is probably the most difficult to establish. But again, we should be able to make some sense of the text, without knowing too much about what else people though. Questions of thinking vs. feeling were a hot topic back than; but we could suspect as much from the excerpt. Knowing what Bacon said about idols is also helpful; but it is quite clear to say »that this notion of the intellect is an idol« means the notion is somehow wrong or at least insufficient. 

This may be your choice. Dennett seems to advocate making assumptions about the agency of objects and developing a fantasy about their beliefs, purpose and place in the world. I would doubt that an object can have beliefs and find the whole approach highly unscientific. I'd agree with you that unless we see some autonomy, even if it's ultimately illusory, then it will look like commonplace software. 

There is a fourth option and it's called 'nondualism'. This is the 'Absolute Idealism' of Francis Bradley. For this form of idealism solipsism would be not strictly false or true, and there would be no ultimate noumenon. For this view (contra to Kant), the Ultimate would be a phenomenon but (uniquely) it would have no associated noumenon. A noumenon would have no distinguishing features so there can only be one. All phenomena would share the same noumenon or 'ground-of-being' and always the same one. This would be consciousness. But this word 'noumenon' is not usually used because it is inappropriate. The phrase 'Monistic Idealism' has been mentioned. This may be the same view, but it seems best avoided to me since nondualism is not monism except by a very specific definition of 'monism' so the use of the latter word can lead to misunderstandings. I have an essay under review on this topic if you'd like to read it. The issue you ask about is how Kant's 'noumenon' relates to Nagarjuna's 'emptiness'. There are crucial differences but their common features makes them worth comparing and contrasting. Roughly, the 'thing-in-itself' would contain and comprise all phenomena, making solipsism in one sense true, and this would be the reason why we cannot falsify it. 

Your understanding is definitively good enough as a working hypothesis. The relation between alienation and unification is one of the major topics of the book, i.e. something not defined but explored. The Socienty of the Spectacle is much easier to read as a whole than as a system, i.e. repeatedly rather than incrementally. Still, let me provide some background and some explanation: Alienation For Hegel, alienation basically is the result of reflection: the subject presents itself as an object when we reflect on it; the same goes for all our parts and all we are part of, our properties, the categories we think in, society, nature. For Hegel the unity is generated by the spirit or (at least in Marxist understanding) by thinking: ultimately the spirit realises that all the things that seem to be other objects are really its own product. Now, Marx’ critique is this: Marx claims Hegel has got it the wrong way, that Hegel’s philosophy has to be put on its feet. To understand this, recall Hegel’s Philosophy of Right: Hegel starts with the notion of property, this notion then leads to contradictions which require the new notions of contract, law, moral, family, society, and, finally, the proper »State« in which all the contradictions find their solution. One part of Marx’ critique is that Hegel only presents the ideal of unification but not the real praxis (the economy) which actually unifies. Perhaps more importantly, he tries to inverse the process: What if, Marx asks, the totality is not the reconciliation of contradictions but rather the process by which the contradictions (property, or, for the later Marx: commodities) are generated in the first place? This question is the basis for Marx’ project. But this reversal has important consequences for the notion of alienation: alienation no longer means that we have not (yet) understood that we and the object we are regarding are really the same; rather, our totality produces real contradictions, it produces conditions in which our parts and what we are part of, our products and what we are produced by, are not »ours«. Unification While in Hegel, alienation and unification can be seen as opposites (the alienation ultimatly disappears only in the final unification), even for Marx this is not true: the capitalist mode of production unifies (almost) everything, but alienation remains: the products of the worker are not her own, but present themselves as an alien and potentially hostile power. In Marx, however, the unification is not total, because the remaning alienation (although the later Marx no longer uses that notion) is understood to be visible and the necesessity obvious to abolish dispose of the mode of production that creates said alienation. This is where some 20th century Marxists disagreed: It seemed that the unification indeed tended to become total, and the question became how to explain that. Debord provided one of these attempts. Society of the Spectacle ›Alienation‹ occurs for the first time in Thesis 8: this is pretty Hegelian, »reciprocal alienation« means that »reality« as well as »spectacle« become what they are not, reality because it presents itself in the spectacle (therefore as something else than reality), while the spectacle is real, e.g. a spectacular concept of reality. While for Hegel and Marx alienation was between subject and object, Debord describes alienation in a process that is already removed from the subject. According to Marx, the subject creates her own alienation by producing; not so with Debord: the alienation has already happend before the subject even appears. In Hegel, contemplation of the object is the process by which alienation is ultimately overcome, For Marx, contemplation (or thinking) provides us with what is required to change the conditions that create alienation. But for Debord, contemplation is exactly that what creates alienation: when we contemplate (watch, observe) we do not really critically analyse. Rather we understand reality in categories provided for us, in categories we use but did not create. For Debord these categories (the spectacle) structure and constitute what is real to us. They create our reality. And they combine every aspect of reality. Everything fits. That is unification. At the same time, the spectacle (the cultural discourse, the political discourse, the way we see our surroundings in our roles as workers, commuters, tourists, revellers, etc.) is somewhat removed from what we really do (as opposed to our role). Unification means that everything fits together, everything can be explained by something else and, therefore, everything that is can be justified. If alienation can be justified, any hope is lost. Debord’s project hinges on the hinges on the possibility that the unification is a wrong one. So while Debord tries to explain why alienation and unification must present themselves in our society as identical, his project requires that we still can distinguish between them. And, indeed, there has been much discussion, if and how this is possible.