Now whether Drop box is a worthwhile solution to your problem is a different question and would be better answered on something like the Super User or Server Fault sites 

This is a slightly different answer to your question. I am currently working for a US company that does engineering project work on a global basis. And industrial control systems and materials handling systems (which is the companies bread and butter) all run on software these days. It may not be cutting edge but it can be interesting. Through this company I have personally worked in Australia, USA, Italy, and Russia for extended periods of time. Next week I fly to Vancouver, CA for a bit. I should have gone to a job in the Bahamas but the client there bailed. Later in the year I will spend a lot of time in the UAE, while other colleagues are headed to China, Peru and Chile. I have gotten over my jealousy of my colleagues who spent a lot of time in Spain and Brazil. The beauty of this system is that they pay you to go to these places. The airfares, the accommodation, the food and all the legal and visa costs. (and in fact right now I have about 3 or 4 people currently organizing all the paper work for me for CA, all I have to do is turn up at the airport and get on the plane) There are still US companies that build big engineering stuff on a global basis. Getting employed by one of them can allow you to travel AND not have to worry as to how you travel or organizing stuff when you get there. 

I would say that it is harassment based on reading of: U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission: Harassment However as per that link 

You are right in saying that this affects the public, but it is more than that - it also affects you as you are also subject to those same shocks. So this is clearly a workplace violation and you should inform OSHA asap as you have clearly tried to do the right thing, but have been ignored to date. See Occupational Safety and Health Administration - Contact Us. If you are a part of a union you should also consult your union rep as well. (And even if you are not a part of a union, but there is a union on site it might be a good idea to consult with them as well) It is your responsibility to remain vigilant in your workplace and ensure that all appropriate rules and laws are followed. I know that this will put you at risk, but I would hope that you can tip off OSHA anonymously. Given that the public are subject to these shocks and that your boss has been informed and not done anything about it, then you can always play dumb and say it was obviously a member of the public who complained. I agree with Christopher Estep that you should not fix this issue without approval and supervision. And with respect to that new woman employee. Think of it like this, while the boss has dictated that she not touch these machines, accidents will occur - either it slips her mind, or she makes a mistake. If that happens and she is injured/dies OSHA will come down on your company like a ton of bricks. There will be a lot of blame to go around, and you don't want to be the one saying "Well I knew about it but didn't do anything about it" 

I would say that unless you involve management then the situation is not going to change. Anderson likes what he does, as such he is not going to change his manner to something he likes less unless he is compelled to. And as you are his peers (albeit of less seniority) then you have no way to compel him. And while Andre does make a good point about the people stepping up, I have personally seen situations where the dominating person doesn't want to share even when peers do try and step up. Not knowing Anderson we can't say how he will react to perceived challenges to his dominance. 

Once you leave the company, what you want or don't want them to do becomes irrelevant. I sense that you have pride in your work and want to do what is best for your company, but if management does not buy in to your vision there is nothing that you can do and you have to let go. 

You're a company (wo)man now, so you will have to toe the company line. That may mean using a windows based computer as your primary machine. There are many benefits to the company for you to use the machine that they supply. Such as: 

So even if your employer really wants to legitimately employ you he has already run afoul of IRS requirements. 

In addition to what has already been pointed out will there be assistance for any taxation implications of working in Korea? I don't know what the situation is in South Korea1 but I spent 3 weeks working in Canada in 2016 and may be liable for submitting a tax return there. Also see if you can get bumped up to business class for your flights! 

Been there, done that many times. You go to a remote site and then find out that for some reason you need to stay longer. In my latest example my extensions was thankfully cut short because of hurricane Mathew. From your post I think you already have the necessary information to present to your CEO. 

The other answers tackled the managerial problem. I'm going to look at it from a different perspective, as to me it seems that the direction of the question has a large chunk of your personal feelings embedded in it. 

My wife just encountered the term in several job advertisements that she was looking at. This is not a term that either of us had heard before1 but it appears to mean mid-level. 

I can't say what you feel about the job (as it might be with your dream company and you are up for the challenge), but from what you say, I see a lot of warning signs. And these are only the ones you know about. I'm of the mind set that if you can see obvious problems then you have to ask yourself how many problems are hiding in the shadows and is that something you can deal with? I understand your need to write code. But at a fresh out of college level I'd suggest you find a place with other experienced people who can mentor you for a bit. The exception to this is if you have a burning desire to solve a particular problem and you know that you are the only person the world that can do and you have the complete set of skills to do so - in which case you go out on your own. 

So I would politely raise the above issues with your VP and frame them as being liabilities to the company and how worried you are about the potential outcomes. I don't think that you are going over anybodies head by doing so if the VP is coming to see you and you mention your concerns in a casual way. So basically I think that you already know what you need to say and just have to do it. Of course the bigger issue is what will happen after you mention these issues. If the company doesn't do anything about it are you prepared to walk away? 

If you can't avoid it, then someone has to be film-crew, animal-wrangler, key-grip etc. Be creative and think up some very important reason why you can't be on the action side of the camera. 

Based on what you have said it is possible that your boss is creating a hostile work environment through the use of harassment. If this is an ongoing thing you should consult with your HR about it. 

You have been upfront and honest with your application, so it is a good sign that this company still wants to interview you - they obviously see something worthwhile in your application. (Or playing Devil's Advocate - They are desperate for warm bodies.) But we can't know if you will receive formal (take this class) or informal training (here's the documentation) or no training at all (Here's the code, get at it). However this would be a good question for you to ask during your interview - what sort of sort of training do they offer. Remember the interview is a 2 way street. Not only are they interviewing you to see if you would be a good fit, you are also interviewing them to see if it is a place where you would like to work. The quality of training that they offer would be one consideration in accepting any offer from them. 

Anything that requires work in industry of any sort. You will end up walking around the plant as systems are typically physically distributed. For example one hot strip mill (steel mill) I worked in was 1.1km long and I had to deal with computer systems along its length. If I wanted to waste 1/2 hour or so I'd walk to the far end. Currently I work on ship-to-shore container cranes. Not only are they distributed about the port, but they are also physically tall (though not compared to radio towers). And computers are mounted all over them. In both cases you endeavor to manage stuff from a central office, but when working with computers than control physical equipment nothing beats actually being up close and personal when trying to debug issues. As an added bonus, if you get work with a company that builds (for example) steel mills or cranes you will also likely have the opportunity to be paid to travel globally. And while you might think that this is electrical engineering type stuff, you would be surprised as to what sorts of general purpose IT/Software issues there are that you have to deal with. To really do my job I need intimate working details of: