planets are big At urban density you could pack the entire population of earth in Kansas. planets get you a lot of living area with lots of room to spread out and build specialized areas. building enough space stations to support that population would likely exceed the gross production of the entire human civilization. Planets are self regulating. Planets use the least labor intensive way to regulate temprature, humidity, oxygen levels, ect. It largely cleans its own water and produce their own soil continuously. A people on a planet can survive a technological crash, people on a station would not,plague, war, civil unrest can take out a station, not just poele the station itself. Planets have built in radiation and meteorite shields, also a meteorite cannot depressurize planet. Planets have dirt and rain. this sounds minor but you can grow food on earth literally by throwing seeds at the ground, this is again armageddon proofing your species habitat. Biodiversity. This is really long term but incredibly powerful. planets have so many habitats and so much space you can leave a lot of it fallow for new things to evolve in, new plants or microbes that can be used for drugs or food, or technology(PCR was invented using products from hot spring bacteria), or just decoration, new animals to eat or harvest, or milk, or keep as pets. New will be a valuable resource in such an advanced society. most importantly it i can allow a place for new intelligent species to evolve, and company will also be very attractive idea to any advanced civilization. This also means planets can be sources of material almost impossibly to produce on a space station, like wood or tuna. In truth it is not an either or, you do both each has its advantages and weakness, and the more options you poele have the more they can make, the more they can invent, and the less change the unforeseen will wipe them out. 

maneuverability. Rowers make for a highly maneuverable craft, they can row at different speeds and even opposite directions to move the ship. This makes them far more maneuverable than any other ship on the sea. They also can operate in extremely shallow water, unlike a propeller which will make the draft of the ship deeper. in Naval warfare maneuverability wins. 

You can do it on a planet identical to earth for all intents and purposes. They are aliens not humans, just something with a vaguely human body plan, you have an entirely different evolutionary history to work with and their are plenty of organisms much bigger than humans, even intelligent ones. Just come up with a different starting point, heck just look at gigantopithecus. If the hominid line had started from something like that, or even just something gorilla sized, instead of something close to the body size of a chimp, humans might fit your description. And that is just an example you can make up an evolutionary history that has nothing to do with primates or terran-like life. 

Unique biological products will be valuable, silk for instance may be unique to earth life, milk and cheese will almost certainly be an earth only product and other planets will have their own unique products. Maybe there is planet with something that makes fiber optic cables organically, we know starfish produce the most optically clear lens we have ever seen even if they are microscopic. maybe there is an alien plant that makes a perfect artificial sweetener for us. Weird quirks of evolution have always been a source for desirable products. Many of our medicines originate in this way, for all we know platypus venom might be the cure for some alien disease or makes the perfect alien hotsauce. On each planet that has life there will be unique quirks of evolutionary history that make things that are desirable and unique just as they were unique to a single continent or region on earth. Now sure most of these could be synthesized but often has the advantage of efficiency at which they are made. We could synthesize chocolate but it would be horrible expensive but there is a plant that makes it for free from dirt, sunlight, and rain, more importantly had that plant never have existed it is unlikely we would have invented it on our own. so the information will always be valuable regardless. Just look at past and current trade goods that fit this description unique biological products. Textiles like cotton or silk Spices and flavorings Unique fruits, nuts, and other foods Drugs both illicit and medicinal Liquor produced from native plants skins, furs, shells, rare woods, and exotic feathers for the high end markets Also consider how much people today spend on organic and handmade products, if the technology is that advanced the different societies are post scarcity, meaning cost of shipping is nearly meaningless, the psychological value of the "real thing" will far outweigh the energy cost. "Sure some people might settle for milk from a machine, but my restaurant only uses milk produced by genuine cows." 

What you describe was actually fairly common, just look at all the Mediterranean islands that were major trade centers. Ships are limited by the amount of supplies they can carry, the more supplies the less space they have for cargo, if they can carry half as much supplies that turns into a lot of cargo, as long as they can resupply for less than the value of that extra cargo most ships will stop on your island. Shorter routes also make navigation a lot easier, especially before compasses are commonplace, early ships did not like to get to far from land. The more supplies the island can generate itself the better, otherwise they will be dependent on ships bring in supplies they sell, which will tend to washout any excessive profit. Ideally your island needs a plentiful supply of fresh water and a decent fishing fleet to supply the ships, if it has extensive forests and farmland even better. It is also important for them to have protected anchorage for waiting ships, storms can wreak havoc on lots of unprotected ships. If you want them offloading the bulk of their cargo on your island that is a bit more of a problem, loading and unloading a ship is by far the most costly part of shipping (not including the initial purchase). Unless the island has something unique to trade for the cargo they will have little reason to trade much of their cargo, most large trade in terms of having a large amount of trade material being offloaded were connections between major sea routes and major land routes, such as Venice, where it just was not possible to keep moving the cargo by ship so it had to be unloaded to trade with the rest of Europe. 

Basically nothing by himself, a single person is not very good at advancing technology. But there is a way for him to advance it a little. A single person is not going to advance technology all that far. He will advance technology slower than that the hundreds of thousands of other people working on similar problems, so really he will not be able to push it further than the existing technology. However if he pulls and Edison and uses his wealth to creates a think tank to research technology he see potential in, then he has a much better chance of actually advancing technology, costs will be horrendous however, but we are handwaving that (and of course eventually it may start making money. But firearms are tricky once matchlocks are introduced people realized the potential power pretty quickly so a lot of effort is put into researching them so at best you are only getting maybe 100 years of a jump start, assuming you started early (1000AD) if you start in the 13th century you probably are not getting ahead by more than a few years. 600 years would put him in the 17th century (flintlocks) add 100 years and you to the 18th century so maybe percussion caps, of course chances are everyone else would have them as well, so your dude is not ahead of the game he just got it jump started sooner. Also any further require industrialization, hand making cased rounds just is not practical, so he can't go any further without jumpstarting the industrial revolution.