Mathematical models to the physical world are topographic maps to the actual terrain: the former are just approximate representations of the latter. As precision increases, the smoothness of the representation disappears. Large-scale maps reveal rough terrain; hight-precision measurements result in jagged curves. Take Ohm's law for example: anyone who studied electronics long enough will realize that Ohm's law is not a law at all; it is a rough description of a very special kind of conductor. High-precision measurements reveal that most conductors are better described by I-V curves. The question that naturally follows is this: how much of today's particle theory is based on mathematical models whose own premises remain rough and unexamined? A physicist should always be a geographer first and be vividly aware of the chains of inferences and the assumptions behind a mathematical model. Probably a generation of physicists brought up in the Russellian school is needed in order to sort things out. 

The notion of "thing" is a mental construct, and the reason to differentiate one from another is entirely arbitrary. In a gaseous world, the notion of "thing" is very difficult to comprehend. My own attitude toward monism is that of an agnostic, i.e. there is not enough evidence to suppose monism is false and it is unnecessary to believe it is true. Whitehead & Russell's Principia Mathematica does not require the existence of more than one individual for its primitive propositions. The axiom of infinity is added in the middle of the second volume as a hypothesis for the existence of aleph-null. 

There's several issues that make this question complex (some of which make it more interesting and other's less so). To simplify, I'm going to basically ignore the Facebook example. As "no comprende" notes in the comments, they aren't really a research entity per se, and as such, most of their users don't expect them to be doing research of any kind let alone groundbreaking studies. (In fact, I doubt that they intended to make "scientific" discoveries at all). Further to simplify, the specific issue of informed consent is only going to come into play in a limited way. For this to even get off the ground, informed consent must be something that is either what we are trying to maximize or minimize or something that we can equate to it (this is no small feat). Limiting ourselves in the above ways, the problem becomes a series of variations on: can a Utilitarian framework ever make it such that the benefits of some given research (benefits calculated in whatever units of measure we are using in our utilitarianism) outweigh the costs of the forms of harm involved in achieving that research (e.g. the loss we associate with the lack of informed consent)? To answer this, we first need to understand the nature of Utility. For Mill, Utility is measured in pleasure. Thus, the question is about what maximizes pleasure. But in Utilitarianism Book 2 Paragraph 5, Mill makes an important, interesting, and controversial qualification. He explains that there's a distinction between higher and lower pleasures. And that humans should pursue the higher pleasures. Thus, his calculus is that we should maximize pleasures of this sort (I just read something about this in Robert Adams, Finite and Infinite Goods (OUP: 1999) near page 200). ( to some extent this raises a second issue "no comprende" points to in a comment, if we're quantifying how can we have upper/lower distinctions.) Even Mill's account is more complicated than what he says in Utilitarianism as he brings up an idea in On Liberty that we cannot in the process of maximizing pleasure cause harm. If we've got both utility and a harm principle we cannot say it's better do something that causes harm no matter how much utility it brings about. Before we give in despair, we should realize however that most contemporary "Utilitarians" do not follow Mill in making the goal the maximization of pleasure. First off, there's the problem with defining pleasure. Second, there's other concerns that they want to incorporate that pursue many to either want to (a) minimize suffering or (b) maximize justice or (c) maximize freedom or (d) something more complicated. These contemporary utilitarians are often called "consequentialists." For some of these consequentialists, there is a single thing we are trying to maximize. In that case, it's partially a question of quantifying how much the research gains produce this vs. how much is lost in the loss of freedom. (Obviously, if freedom maximization is the goal, then research loses unless it could make up for that loss). But we're not out of the woods yet. A further complication is that utilitarians differ in terms of how we go about this maximization. There's three major groups that I'm aware of "act utilitarians", "rule utilitarians" and "preference utilitarians". The difference being act utilitarians thinks each situation should be evaluated to max/min the desired good. Rule believe that we can establish rules that will lead in general to maximization. Preference U. believe that we should cause people to have preferences that lead to maximal outcomes. It seems much harder to prove either preference or rule utilitarians could allow this regardless of what they want to maximize. To summarize and return to "informed consent," there's no consensus that immediately follows from "Utilitarianism" and its relation to informed consent and to research. If anything, there's several problems mired together: 

There are several good answers in the other post, and rather than rewriting the whole thing, I am just going to point to that. 

I would recommend looking into Professor Bennet Helm. Free will and the nature of how we define it is his primary academic study. Link to item description The book, "Emotional Reason: Deliberation, Motivation, and the Nature of Value", poses that free will is a product of emotional attitudes, and not reliant of higher intellect. Prof. Helm has also used this in discussions as a distinction that defines the difference between the free will that an animal may exhibit versus that of higher order intelligence by discussing first and second orders of volition - I think that this can be extended as far as to include all forms of life in varying degrees if autonomous volition. Therefore, this also addresses a divid between intellect and free will. You can have a massive intellect (like a computer), but without emotions you will not exercise free will. However, there are actually a few high functioning Artificial Intelligence experiments currently active. BINA48 Tay Most of these are targeted at passing the Turing Test 

I think this is a strict programming scenario where "True" is treated as a variable, and not in any philosophical way. For example in VBA "True" is equivalent to -1, while False is equivalent to 0. Other programming languages define "True" as 1. If that is the case with Python, it follows that 1 + 1 > 1. In Philosophy, True + True = True because Truth is not a divisible value. 

It is wrong to blame the parents, because, for the same reason stated above, as far as our current knowledge can warrant, the blame can be traced all the way back to fish. 

祿 : Official's salary, promotion, rank or "climbing the ladder." Source: $URL$ This is a keep-your-head-down-and-make-no-waves advice on how to prosper in a hierarchical organization. 

When plain English is used to explain mathematics, the effect is often to the opposite of what the author intended. For lucid explanation, see "Section E Inductive Relations" of *Principia Mathematica by Whitehead & Russell. Symbols are a lot easier to understand than "plain English." Yes, you can delve directly into this section. I'll be happy to explain those symbols. The summary of this section reveals what mountains of labour were behind a simple definition.* For example, W&R discovered that the "intuitive" conception of an ancestral relation conceals the concept of finitude, whose very definition depends on the ancestral relation itself. Thus the definition of ancestral relation familiar to our common sense will not do. 

According to Bertrand Russell, truths are different from facts. Facts are independent of the mind but truths are not because true and false are properties of beliefs. Truths are synonymous to true beliefs. This distinction is important because everyone is trapped in their own skull. All that a person experiences are mental events in their own head. Thus all of our knowledge about the objective world are true beliefs ( or truths ) about facts. Scientific research can generate a lot beliefs that are very likely to be true. Nevertheless, scientific knowledge are mere reflections of facts, can infinitely approximate facts but guarantees neither truthfulness nor accuracy. Science does not automatically imply truth. As a matter of fact, scientific knowledge is highly tentative, subject to revision based on new evidence. 

But this too is invalid -- because Kant does not say we can never treat people as ends. Instead, it is that we can never treat people as mere ends. Thus, this fails to be problem for Kantian philosophy. 

I think you may be misunderstanding the value of the merely in Kant's formula of humanity formulation. It is not that it becomes okay to sometimes treat people as means; it is that it becomes okay to treat people as means so long as you recognize them properly as ends. Sticking with your factory analogy, you cannot on Kant's view treat your employees like machines [mere means] but you can recognize that there is a transactional nature to the relationship, i.e. you are buying their time. Maybe this works out to the same thing as what you wrote -- but as worded, it sounds like you are saying Kant would be fine with periodically [i.e. sometimes] reducing people to mere means in our relating to them. If Rand is taking something from the formula of universalization, she is not properly understanding the requirements of the formula of humanity or ends. In both cases, the requirement is such that I respect all rationality whether in myself or others. In other words, it is not man living for his own sake. It is every rational being living for reason on Kant's picture. This gives us imperfect duties to ourselves and others (to cultivate one's talents and to provide aid). These duties arise in part, because the only way to universalize what we demand of others is to be a supply to others. The Kingdom of Ends formulation makes this quite clear. You can find an interesting version of what it might mean in Christine Korsgaard's Creating the Kingdom of Ends. Rand is not generally considered a philosopher in professional circles, but I would categorize her view as a form of egotism or social darwinism. Her views don't allow for the possibility of cooperative community which is a key feature in most views. There are also some elements of existentialism in her view insofar as meaning is found through independence, but there are some pretty clear elements where she thinks there is an idea of rationality that predates this. 

If you are a scout, you will be repeatedly told to "report what you see, not what you think you see." In other words, be mindful of the differences between facts and inferences. 

I'm not sure what your assignment is asking for. One of Russell's hallmark habits of mind is that he sifted through bodies of work then pointed out hidden premises then went on to reduce the number of premises to bare minimum. If your assignment is asking students to use Russell's methods to analyse Russell's work, I am indeed surprised; this is a great idea. Premise 1. We cannot draw inferences from experience to what is not experienced unless we know general principles of some kind by means of which such inferences can be drawn. A sure way to demonstratively prove all cases is to examine each and every case. To prove all ships in your squadron are mission capable, every and each ship must be thoroughly inspected. When it is impossible to demonstratively prove every and each case, general principles of some sort must be known in order to draw inferences from particular to general. Premise 2. If P implies Q, then the probability of P is less than the probability of Q because whenever P happens Q happens, whereas when Q happens P may or may not happen. Premise 3. Failed cases cannot disprove a probability statement. An improbable event can nevertheless happen; that an improbable event happened does not invalidate the statement that this event is an improbable event. Suppose a man, as of January 1, 2000, had seen a great number of swans, all of which are white, and he speculated that all swans are white. Even if all the swans he saw after he made that statement turned out to be black, his later experience cannot invalidate the statement he made on January 1, 2000 because counter examples cannot invalidate a probability statement. Premise 4. A principle cannot be used to prove itself. Using examined cases to prove unexamined cases relies on the inductive principle itself, thus inductive principle cannot be proved by enumerating examined cases. No. 1 says the inductive principle is need in order to make inferences from particulars to general. No. 2 says the probability of the general law is less likely than the particular case. No. 3 says the inductive principle cannot be disproved by experience. No. 4 says the inductive principle cannot be proved by experience. 

Heidegger would certainly agree and would argue that these people have not achieved "being" in the true sense of it. *this answer needs expansion, and I will add later. 

Thomas Jefferson disagrees with the OP criticism; "the notion of human rights is imaginary and reducible to absurdity (that humans by virtue of being born are magically entitled to certain things)... [and] that human rights are a human invention" Jefferson argues in the Declaration of Independence, that human rights are unalienable which is understood a priori by all individuals in society. 

To trust in the testimony of a person when referring to themselves is perhaps a requirement to claiming to be open-minded to a dissenting opinion or proof. Without this willingness to trust and accept someone's self-ascription, Person B is not likely to accept any sort of argument. I would argue that the burden of truth does not lie on the honest testimony of person A, but in the refutation of person B. To argue that Person A is lying, without evidence of Person A's actual contradiction or falsified testimony is an "Argument from Ignorance" - i.e. a proposition assumed true because it is not yet proven false, or assumed false because it is not yet proven true. I would say that the argument is epistemically askew in the OP question because the true "claim" that needs to be fortified with evidence is Person B's assertion that "Person A is a theist albeit in disguise". It is more readily available for Person B to be required to show evidence that Person A is not what they claim to be, through some demonstration that Person A is in fact a theist. Historically, Person B's position can be likened to the McCarthy era Red Scare or the Puritan era Witch Hunts. This is not to say that theism or atheism is moral or immoral, nor to accuse either side of manipulation or misgivings. I am simply comparing the requirement to prove the negative - e.g. trying to prove "I am NOT a witch". Therefore, Person A proves they are an atheist by asserting that they are and living as such without contradiction. It is the absence of evidence that illuminates Person B's false position and perpetuates the truth that Person A is an "honest to God" atheist. 

The reason I think this question interesting is that it eventually asks what the word "understand" means: what does a person feel when he understands a situation? When an object-word is understood, the listener's mind forms a mental image similar to the one which that word expresses. If that word is "fragrant" but the listener has no sense of smell, the listener will not understand it - i.e. he will not associate a noise with an olfactory sensation. To understand how a steam engine works, a series of percepts are necessary, and mental images are the ultimate results. It follows that mental images - feelings, sensations, desires, etc. - are most likely the ultimate results of understanding. To understand another person's problem presupposes common feelings, and common feelings are the ultimate results. If a person has no sense of smell, he will never be offended by BO and will not understand why BO is a huge problem in the office. It follows that, if a person has no sense of smell, his opinion on BO is much less weighty than that of a person who can smell. Similarly, the mother will never understand why the son is so attracted to a certain woman while the father virtually agrees with the son on every aspect. It follows that a mother's opinion on the son's girlfriend should not be taken seriously. It follows that men's opinions on issues particular to women are very likely to be less credible than women's own opinions. Being unable to understand does not necessarily imply lacking concerns for the sufferings of others. Civilized western men's attitudes towards women are nothing but admirable. Being able to understand does not automatically imply compassion. An evil man is capable of exploiting your vulnerabilities for his sadistic pleasure; he may justify it by some karma yoga philosophy, which only reminds you of the kind of fine phrases used by a 20th-century saint to excuse himself for sleeping next to naked young girls. 

Since this is a modern trend being widely implemented, it is a suitable answer - and the end to many people's investigations. It was my experience that strictly studying business as a practical subject was limited to strictly finding a solution to a problem and never discussing the deeper implications of those decisions. However, in studying philosophy I delved into other facets of the questions; i.e. "If outsourcing will eventually raise the cost of labor in a country, is this a sustainable practice?", "Is exporting labor exploitive?", and "What role does a business play in the community that sustains it?". Many of these questions fell outside of the scope of a business study, but integrally informative in practical business. 

Usage of adages like "Bigger is always better" in this way may be considered a faulty generalization, and more specifically a "thought-terminating cliche": 

While the dualist and materialist do not agree on the origins of the mind, I believe that both hold agree that it is the existence of a mind that establishes personhood. Descarte described an animal brain as a clockwork mechanism devoid of a mind. Therefore, the sheep's brain in a human's body is an animal. In the reversal, where a human brain in transplanted into a sheep, personhood could perhaps be transferred too. For a Dualists it would depend on if the mind is also transferred. For the Materialist, the mind necessarily transfers where the brain goes (if the brain maintains its functionality). This is also true for a literal "brain in the vat" scenario. However, to ask if the mind could be "downloaded" into a computer, rather than transferring the brain to a vat frames the question slightly differently. It poses little issue to the dualist, since the mind is separate from the brain, and the computer would simply replace the mechanical portion of the current role of the brain. However, to a materialist, each mind is the result of a specific brain, therefore begs the question of how the same mind could exist outside the specific brain of its origins. 

But seriously, it's unwise to restrict your readings to just continental philosophy -- or even just analytic philosophy. Read good philosophy that makes solid arguments. Much of the best analytic philosophy is informed by the history of philosophy. And much of the best continental philosophy is in dialogue (and I don't mean the way Derrida was) with contemporary analytic philosophers and the history of philosophy. 

Everyone with back pain should exercise. I have back pain. Thus, I should exercise. Therefore, I (will to and then do in fact) exercise 

But now this doesn't look very much like a consequentialist matrix, because actions in 2 are completely excluded from the realm of conceivable moral action, and that we are evaluating not what happens as a result of actions but that we are evaluating whether our maxim bears the right relation to this principle. Which on Kant's theory is inaccessible. So then yes, each agent would be maximizing the value of their maxims (and absolutely not engaging in the actions contrary to the CI or treating others as mere means), but they would have no ability to calculate whether they have achieved anything positive vis-a-vis this maximization. (Since the Kantian moral will in its classical version is not inside of the manifolds of sensibility or the categories of understanding, we can never know when we commit moral actions, because we have only access to our past actions in the world and not our prior moral will; conversely, we can identify some patently bad actions directly -- like lying).