(emphasis added) His conclusion is that the Omride dynasty might have closer ties to the biblical record, while the information in there about the King David is extremely unreliable, if not fictional at all. An even more extreme view currently hold is: 

Going by this absolute from the OP headline: there were some doctors and other scientists saying that it would not be possible or very dangerous to even try. But "that the scientific community at the time deemed the feat impossible" seems unlikely: 

This claim constructs a capitalist conspiracy were there is none. The first Green Revolution of the sixties had its problems and still has: it was entirely focused on industrialised, mechanised, chemicalised agriculture, then seen as the future and without alternative, disregarding several consequences. But the general aim in that revolution was to end world hunger and starvation! And of course to make a buck in the process. But providing more nutrition is not achieved by reducing the nutritional value of a crop. 

In "The Bible Unearthed: Archaeology's New Vision of Ancient Isreal and the Origin of Sacred Texts" Finkelstein lists clearly, why "Appendix D: Why the Traditional Archaeology of the Davidic and Solomonic Period Is Wrong" 

Interestingly, this timeline from the Google Ngram Viewer seems to coincide with claim 2, showing an increase in use of the term around the 1960's. Did the CIA popularize the term "conspiracy theory"? Is there evidence that it was used to stifle questioning about the Kennedy assassination? Is there such a memo called "Countering Criticism of The Warren Report" that endeavors to 'weaponize' the term? 

There's an interesting report from a company called SnoopWall that is detailed in this YouTube video from a Special Report with Bret Baier with Fox News. In the report "Cybersecurity Expert" Gary Miliefsky, who works for SnoopWall, says phrases such as: 

Just listening to some thinking kind of stuff on YouTube and came across an interview with Stephen Fry, a highly respectable man in the "empiricist" and "rationalist" circles. I found most of what he said compelling and believable, but he made this very precise claim: 

Right leaning political content (USA perspective) is more likely to be censored In racial issues, "white favorable" content is more likely to be censored, especially if the user is white, while "black favorable" content will remain uncensored, especially if the user is black. Graphic images of white or "christian" victims, terrorism or otherwise, is quickly removed while graphic images of non-white or "muslim" victims is left uncensored. Celebrities get a quick pass or are quickly reinstated after a ban, while common users remain banned forever. 

Looking at the relationship between advertising, promotion on one side and the actual development put forward with increasingly abysmal results for US based innovations makes it much more urgent to look at other reasons for price increases. One reason often heard is that pharmaceutical companies are very simply not non-profit-organisations. 

While gluten is now often seen as problem in itself, for most people it is not. It has the utmost importance for the perceived quality of bread made from wheat and it was therefore a primary goal to increase in breeding. The rise in or increased awareness for celiac disease was unforeseen at the time and the current trends in hysteria are not really connecting to breeding programmes in the sixties either. These wheat cultivars that were introduced in the Green Revolution have their problems. When they are used in an organic setting, it is revealed that they are heavily dependent on the setting for which they were developed: industrialised farming. Without fertiliser, herbicides and on marginal land, these cultivars decrease in yield. In organic settings older or different types have to be selected as a matter of necessity. The supposedly less nutritional semi-dwarfs would be suicide, in all views: economical, nutritional etc. So, how do they compare: 

I am not a physicist, but that explanation sounds like nonsense, and the scientific community remains skeptical. A very common criticism centers around uncertain instrumentation, and therefore bad measurements. For example: 

What studies support the notion that oral polio vaccine provides a lifelong immunity similar to subclinical wild virus infection? The quote from Wikipedia gives only inference. 

Save for reproductive issues that medicine cannot overcome, there's no reason to think that the unfit reproduce more or less than the fit, when averaged out among the world's billions of people. If it's good enough for Attenborough, it's good enough for me. Now, the claim in the question's source goes a step further, saying the human genome is deteriorating. Maybe, but that's really a matter of perspective. If medicine can keep up with mutations and genetic drift that would otherwise be harmful, then it doesn't really matter. And if it can't keep up, well then Natural Selection will kick in again. A more neutral term would be the human genome is "broadening". But this can be viewed as a good thing to. With a broader genome, the species is more likely to survive devastation from sudden environmental change, such as a plague. 

tl;dr: Yes: as an additional treatment option or preferred food choice this vegetable brings more than taste to the table. The effects of the original claim are substantiated, on a certain scale, and others on top of that. It will not cure, but it may very well help. The indicators and the evidence is slowly mounting. 

Stinging nettle is apparently used since ancient times, also for the problems or diseases indicated in the question: 

It's possible. But we do not know for sure. We cannot know for sure. The only source is not trustworthy and not reliable. The book located so far – "Hitler's Table Talk", in all its incarnations – as the source for the quote had its content commisioned and authorised allegedly by Bormann and was then published in German by an actual witness of these events, Henry Picker, in a very limited edition. A first review of that book appeared to be not very convinced of its content: 

Many people claimed that running a mile in less than four minutes would be impossible, nearly impossible or fatally dangerous. One example of a scientist with very fine arguments in that tradition is as follows: 

Natural Selection works only if the unfit don't reproduce at the same rate as the fit. Since the percentage of humans born who eventually reproduce is at massively high and unnatural numbers, it goes to follow that there is little Natural Selection affecting the population genome. There are numerous sources saying the same. Consider, for example, Sir David Attenborough: Humans have stopped evolving 

The following article Thousands of Venomous Portuguese Man O’ Wars Wash Ashore in Australia: ‘It Was the Stuff Of Nightmares’ details an event where a large number of a jellyfish creatures washed up on a beach in Australia. Mostly, the article is just about the alien and disturbing nature of the sight. However, the author claims: 

Yes, sensitization can occur without elicitation and in lesser allergen amounts than elicitation. Sensitization is best understood as an asymptomatic immune response. Elicitation is a symptomatic immune response that occurs after sensitization, as the allergen persists in the tissues, exacerbating the response. It is in elicitation that damage to the tissues can occur. For example, see this graph detailing the progression from sensitization to elicitation. 

During the 2018 Super Bowl there was a commercial advertising a campaign to help bring fresh water to people in developing countries. It argued that fresh water is grossly easy to attain in developed countries yet 

tl;dr The Reichsbürger claims are not really true, but they are also not completely baseless. Germany is not a fully sovereign state, it has a de-facto constitution but refuses to call it officially "constitution": it is not Verfassung der Bundesrepublik (constitution of the Federal Republic) but it is still called Grundgesetz der Bundesrepublik (Basic Law of the Federal Republic) and historically the Grundgesetz was indeed officially not a constitution, but a ersatz constitution or interim constitution.1 There is no real peace treaty, only a treaty serving as a historical, de-facto one. Technically there never was German re-unification, only the "accession of 5 new federal states into the territory were the Grundgesetz is in force". Many valid legal interpretations might successfully argue that the two points from the claims are technically true to varying extents, although in reality and in the de-facto situation, they are all not true. 

Note that the average wheat eater normally doesn't care much about minerals, discarding most of them anyway with much of the fibre when making flour. Conclusion The claim is beyond ridiculous. It never was a goal in breeding to reduce the nutritional value of wheat. If it would have been a goal to reduce the nutritional value then breeders seem to have failed in reaching that goal. Sources: F. G. H. Lupton: "Wheat Breeding. Its Scientific Basis", Springer: Dordrecht, 1987. Muhammad Asif, Muhammad Iqbal, Harpinder Randhawa, Dean Spaner: "Managing and Breeding Wheat for Organic Systems. Enhancing Competitiveness Against Weeds", Springer: Cham, Heidelberg, 2014. 

The top example is interesting as an anecdote, but that's really not helpful in determining if there really is a bias in the application of their censorship policies. Considering the massive amount of users, data should be readily available. Are there any good studies or analyses of this data? Perhaps there are at least polls that ask whether users feel they have been censored and whether it was wrong or justified? 

If you google search "twitter double standard censorship", there's certainly no shortage of people claiming that Twitter censors content with a double standard. Essentially, the claim will take several forms, but here are the common ones: 

Seems to say it all. How well correlated is doing well in higher education and doing well in life? As a bonus, how does this compare to any correlation between not attending university at all and doing well in life? 

While watching this video, it makes the claim at about the 12 minute mark that US crime rates are lower across the board. It then shows a graph that lists various violent crimes with numbers in columns for 1992 and 2011. It lists: 

While the study is compiled by an animal rights activist the sources used for his campaign give bare statistics gathered from the industry internally and by overseeing institutions. The over arching number of 25% across all sections of animal products might seem unreasonable. But for carcasses entering the food market it is not entirely far fetched. Bacteriologically infected and visibly degraded meat is sorted out. But if only the lungs and udders are inflamed only those organs are discarded and the everything from that sick animal that looks OK is passed on as 'good enough'. One of the sub claims is about 10% of all milk sold is from cows with infected udders. "This is impossible because it's downright forbidden." says Moder, president of the German federal association of veterinaries. Only then going on to qualify that that after 5-6 six days the numbers for infectious cell markers in the milk fall below the legal threshold and that milk from the at least recently infected udder is mixed with in with the rest and thus further diluted. 

That makes the conclusion quite obvious that Brouchkov did not inject living bacteria into himself. In whatever way he took the bacteria or an extract of them: his claims are not about injections, but about improved health in test animals and himself. Any claim about "injections" is up to the media to substantiate, sometime perhaps? More factual reporting, even as events unfold, seems to have been possible in this case: 

The source of these numbers is faulty. The individual numbers include or exclude certain parties, so therefore do not represent similar things. The numbers include converts, not just ethic Jews, and there was a massive conversion. There was a massive baby boom. Six million Jews killed is not the correct figure. 

The term "conspiracy theorist" was made popular by the CIA. It was an effort to stop questioning about the JFK assassination. A memo called "Countering Criticism of The Warren Report" specifically set out to make this distinction. 

Conversely, some will likely and eagerly try to reproduce the experiment's results. The above paper from the AIAA, if the findings are legitimate, marks what may be the biggest discovery of our century; the promise is too good to pass up for some. 

A common claim among holocaust denial is that if Jews were killed, the 6 million figure is grossly exaggerated. A specific claim is that 

I wouldn't be too skeptical if this claim stopped short of personal crimes, where there's one perpetrator and one victim, but he extends this claim to the recent school shooting and all of them, going forward and backward.