This answer doesn't handle how to separate the population, but discusses how much separation is required. I decided to do a small simulation of two such populations to give you an idea of the amount of interbreeding that is possible to retain the two populations. I assumed there were two populations, both of which were city sized (they mixed together within their city perfectly, everyone may end up having children with anyone else). Then I assumed that a small percentage (alpha) from city A moved to city B each generation, and the same percentage of B moved to A. Then each generation produced a new generation with the ethnicity distribution that the new generation which had an ethnicity ratio was proportional to the number of individual pairs that could lead to them. For example, assume cross-over was 1 percent and we are simulating the first generation. The original generation from city A has 1% individuals that are purely from B, and 99% that are purely from A. Therefore generation 2 would have 0.01% from B, 0.99% that are 50/50, and 99% that are from A. Then 1% of this distribution would swap with 1% of the opposite from the group at B and it would be repeated. I ran this for 1000 generations, with 1025 different ratios available (i.e. a person could be 1/1025 from A and 1024/1025 from B). Here are the results (I apologize for the small font): 

The top left is when there is no mixing. You can't see anything because the populations stay pure. The top right is when mixing is 1%. The green line is population of A, with the right side of the graph begin purely A, and the blue line is population of B, with the left side being purely B. It is on log scale, so the spikes mean than approximately 1% of each population is 50/50, 1% is 75/25(favoring the native ethnicity), 1% is 87.5/12.5 and so on. A cross-over of 2% in the middle left graph shows similar trends, with 2% of the population at 50/50 and so on. At >3% cross over though, the populations become unstable and converge to both being about 50/50 for all individuals. Therefore while you may have many ways to seperate the populations, you want to make certain that the population transfer per generation is only on the order of a percent or two. 

This is just a couple of examples of how an expanded visual range into the infra-red could effect the progress of technology. Over a broader span of time, UV perception would be similarly useful - earlier nuclear tech? faster discovery of radiation? etc. 

Good examples of this strategy (with the resulting outcomes) can be seen in lots of fiction (I'm using movies here simply for broad cultural awareness): 

No need for a full dry dock,which is only really necessary if you're working on the hull of a boat. We already have a system that manipulates boats: canals. If you have a canal structure such that the basic known depth allows a boat to float in, and then a pre defined volume of water is "flooded" into the canal lock, you can get total displacement without all the complications of a dry dock. A bonus to this system is that it can be integrated with the lift, so as soon as you calculate the counterweight you'd be able to engage the lift. 

Otherworldly dual faceted entity Otherworldly portion dies Undead portion departs to THIS world as a soulless body Upon physical destruction of body, rebirth in Otherworld 

Yes, neutrality in war is a valid strategy if there is enough of a disparity of resources between your superpower and the less civilized warring nations. Based upon the scenario you've given us, it sounds like we're at the start of the Scientific revolution. Your Superpower probably has not only an advantage in native resources, but also an influx of wealth and a resulting knowledge gap. Such a society would progress far more rapidly than its neighbors, quickly becoming a fearsome presence much like the major empires (Hittite, Assyrian, and Egyptian) of the Bronze Age. In the real world, Europe was so broken up historically with tribal/royal warfare that no one maintained a monopoly on resources or knowledge long enough to exploit it effectively. Perhaps the best correlate, both geographically and technologically, would be the Ottoman Empire, which was at the height of it's power at the start of the 17th century. Without a Russia on it's northern border or the religio-cultural strife caused by the class distinctions between Christians and Muslims, the empire might well have retained it's full power into the 19th and 20th centuries. If you've got resource poor North and South separated by a Mediterranean, your resource rich Superpower would want to supply both sides with raw goods to fuel their own economy. Then, when the war dies down, they flex their muscle against the weak winner and expand their territory. The institutions of learning in your progressive Ottoman empire can't be mirrored in your surrounding medieval societies which are basically struggling for everyday sustenance and border squabbles. Since most people in the warring lands would be illiterate (as historically they were), your advanced empire wouldn't need to worry as much about knowledge leaking across the border - not enough people would have the resources, background, and technical skill to replicate their more advanced technology, especially if there was a linguistic barrier on top of everything else. The political ramifications? As an important crossroads between north and south, They would be courted for favor by everyone. If there's a threat, it's probably from the more stable Western nations banding together to challenge supremacy of your Superpower, since they share similar advantages for trade and war as the single nation, and it might be easier to play one minor nation against the other rather than dealing with a monolithic superpower. Ultimately, though, I think your "middle" nation is doomed to fail from the Superpower mopping up after the civil war and the opposing western nations seeking to expand their holdings. The resulting collapse of the middle nation would result in an east-vs-west clash, as your border countries expand toward your superpower and the "inner" western nations (who can't expand into the middle kingdom) will diplomatically plead the superpower into conflict with their neighbors so they can expand themselves. The result of this evolution in conflict is outside the scope of what you're asking, though. 

You want to hide in plain sight. You start a company that produces and sells Cthulhu-themed card, board, role-playing and video games, books, and anything else you can think of. Your fans are nerds who love to play cthultist in their free time. You still need a decent staff of salesmen and marketing specialists to get as many fans as possible, as well as designers, artists and game developers. One time you organise a big event, inviting all your fans, and you "roleplay" a grand summoning of the Old Ones with hundreds of completely motivated fans. This assumes that there are no special requirements for the ritual other than enough voices for the chant. Actual human sacrifices could break the immersion quickly, if they happen before the point of no return. 

The universe is populated by a decent number of different spacefaring civilisations and races, the largest spanning over hundreds of systems. They have formed relations with each other: Diplomacy, trade, and of course war. Most nations can field large military fleets and the largest nations have constructed huge dreadnoughts up to a kilometer long (though nothing planet destroying). Space battles often have epic proportions, with hundreds of vessels exchanging fire. Yet, encounters of ground forces are far smaller in scale, with usually less than a hundred of combatants. Tanks and large mechs exist, but are a rare sight. Instead, most forces are small elite teams. Why would a nation have so much bigger space than ground forces, when it has the economical power to field millions of soldiers or tanks, or even build huge titans?