Damn, that's a really crappy situation for both you and "Steve" As I think you've already concluded warning him is not a smart move, as ruthless as it sounds you need to look out for yourself. Sure him having some notice and being able to prepare would help him out a bit since he could get a jump on the job hunt but that's not really worth potentially putting your own standing at the company at risk. If this was someone you were a close friend with irrespective of the workplace then I'd think differently about it but otherwise it's basically taking on a shedload of risk for yourself for no real gain. Remember that the firing-without-notice may be unethical but it's not you being unethical it is the company so it's not your responsibility to fix it. Being put into the position of having to covertly gather knowledge of his work and role isn't great and I know I'd feel uncomfortable too but it's what your employer is currently requiring of you and as potentially distasteful as it is it is not entirely uncommon. To be honest in your place I would look to pick up what bits and pieces of the knowledge you could within the bounds of your own comfort levels, for me this would be just paying attention to what he does and trying to get the knowledge more passively. You won't get anywhere near as much which will make taking on the departing Steve's duties harder for you but I know that would sit better with me. If your bosses are keen to push a more active situation of knowledge transfer then at point you can push back a bit and say something like: 

Assuming you are both in the clear contractually speaking (and I would strongly advise both you and the developer check this carefully as I would be surprised if there weren't at least some restrictions, especially in your contracts) then I don't see anything wrong with this. If said developer is so critical at his current job then that's their problem not yours - they either need to take steps to mitigate the Bus Factor or, failing that take steps to keep him. The developer is an adult so can make his own decisions about whether he wants to move to your new client, all you would be doing is giving him the option. 

Since your manager won't have much knowledge of your work/achievements over the last year you need to show them to her. To do this document up your key achievements, where possible back them up with any positive feedback you have from other coworkers or people from the client. 

If the dept. B manager is indicating it will possibly be another three months before the job in that department goes "live" then you'll have been with dept. A for ~9 months at that point which is a long enough stint that dept A wil probably have gotten some value out of you to repay their "investment" in terms of training you up etc. Since it's an internal transfer in a smallish company I imagine they will be allowing for quite a large amount of flex in the transition which will soften any "blow" to the operations of dept A. Also it's not the same as if you were leaving the company - if you transfer and then 2 months later someone in dept A needs to ask you a question about something they can just pick up the phone. Internal transfers between departments are pretty routine in general, and there is nothing unethical about it so it's unlikely to make any real waves. If you're really worried that your manager in dept. A will think badly of you for transferring (which they probably won't) then you can always talk to them first and say that you might be applying to move to dept B. and if they react badly you can scrub the idea. I wouldn't though, denying yourself a "big opportunity" to preserve good feeling in a temporary role doesn't sound like a worthwhile trade off to me. Honestly though I expect that unless your manager in dept A is an arse they will probably just be pleased for you and the world will keep spinning. And if they are difficult about it, you probably didn't want to work for them anyway. 

You're essentially saying the same thing in both but one gives the impression of a keen, enthusiastic worker that wants to step up and help tackle the business' needs and the other sounds like a disgruntled worker who needs to be kept happy or he'll be a Problem. It's not rocket science to work out which is going to get the warmer reception. Something I think you need to bear in mind though is that ultimately you're employed to achieve tasks that the business needs doing and those tasks aren't always going to fall under the headings of "interesting" or "things you'd like to be working on", it's pretty much one of the reasons why we get paid to go to work - because they understand that you'd rather be doing other things with your time. You wouldn't expect to go into a restaurant and have the chef complain to you for ordering the steak and say that you need to order the lasagna instead because it's more interesting for them to cook! Certainly if there is nothing that interests you in the foreseeable future then it's absolutely okay to do exactly what you did previously and vote with your feet but it's unrealistic to always expect that there is going to be interesting work to do on demand. EDIT: Just a few additional comments following the OP's update.. 

NB: I am not a lawyer and this in no way constitutes legal advice From what you've described it does sound very much like you could be considered a "Worker", possibly even an "Employee" under UK employment law (see here) and if that were determined to be the case then yes they would owe you the minimum wage (including back pay) in addition to your outstanding expenses. In the comments you mention contacting ACAS - they really are the best place for you to start. See here for how to go about doing just that. In terms of what you do during the meantime - well personally I'd sit tight until you've spoken with ACAS, they will be able to provide you with advice as to what to say (if anything) to your current 'employer' 

Following the update from the OP that the Plan A studies would be carried out at a different institution I would say that while not out and out unethical doing this does skirt the edges of it. It depends upon the exact circumstances that lead to the Plan B university getting you the interview with the company - if they are leveraging connections with companies that they have taken time and effort to build then it is a little dubious to use those connections with the intent of cutting the Plan B university out of the "deal" as it were. If there's no such relationship then I would say it is much less of an issue, and probably not something I would particularly be concerned about from an ethical point of view. 

The short answer is no. Any arrangements surrounding your probation period extending do not trump the statutory notice periods set down either in law or in your contract. It might not be "fair" but (and I hate to be the voice of doom and gloom) fairness isn't something that really factors in to the world of work and employment. Your rights are what is laid down in your contract and the local law beyond that it's all up to the employer's discretion. 

Any time you are trying to make the case for the more expensive of two or more options to a business you need to be able to clearly articulate what the return on investment is for the business. This return doesn't have to directly translate into monetary terms but it does need to be a clear and easily understood by the decision maker. In your case I would suggest carrying out a proper evaluation of the paid option and write up a comparison vs the free solution and point out clearly where you feel the paid version is superior and what benefits that could bring the business. If the UI/UX is better on the paid software you could suggest that the better UX will reduce mistakes, if common operations are quicker to carry out in the paid one then that's directly saving employees time which they could then be using on producing things that earn the company money etc. Depending on your company's culture you may not be presenting this in written form but whether you are doing this verbally or not I find that having a clear Pros/Cons list for both options is a useful tool - and don't fall into the trap of ignoring the cons of the paid solution, no-one believes that something is perfect and you'll just look like you are promoting an agenda of your own rather than having done an objective evaluation. And definitely make sure that the "cons" list for the paid version includes the cost - it's the truth and it shows that you are taking the cost into account and not just assuming the company has a bottomless pit of money to spend. 

If the company has simply re-branded itself a different name but the legal entity that is the company hasn't changed then there's no need to issue new contracts at all as the old ones are still in effect. 

Your obligations are what is in your contract, nothing more, nothing less. You are obliged to work as per your contractual hours for your notice period. Any projects left unfinished aren't, strictly speaking, your problem. That said given that they have taken this so badly it might not be a bad idea to offer a compromise in order to mend the relationship somewhat - if nothing else you may well want a good reference from this employer at some point in the future. I'd be tempted to offer a longer notice period (within the bounds of the month you mention) in order to see if you can get the project finished. There's no need to be doing weekends or evenings or anything like that. Not an indentured servant remember! Edit to add: While I understand while your employer is feeling a bit annoyed - they now have the headache of how to get this project finished after all they are definitely behaving pretty unprofessionally. People leave jobs all the time, it's just part of doing business. You haven't really done anything wrong and they shouldn't be pouting this much and that says more about them than it does about you. 

See if you can organize a second interview with her where you can ask different but equivalent questions and ensure that her father doesn't know the content of the interview questions beforehand, that's your best way of seeing if she actually has the necessary skills/knowledge to perform the role and not just parrot answers she's been spoon-fed. EDIT: As per some of the comments below if you are concerned about "fairness" to the other candidates you may want to give all of those invited back for a second round the same or similar questions. 

Your job history might look bad and lead a potential employer to think badly of you but not including it at all will almost certainly be worse. Chances are they will end up assuming one of three things: 

I'd say to keep your answers the same as what you are already planning - suitably vague about your previous employer and focused on you making positive moves for your career. If the lawsuit has somehow come to the interviewer's attention through other means and they bring it up you can just respond that you are unable to discuss the legal case as it is still on-going. This is called "Unlawful disclosure of facts subjudice" in German law and technically it only applies to verbatim reproduction of "essential" parts of official documents (for certain types of hearing) or where the court has imposed a prohibition on talking about it but erring on the side of caution and not discussing it is perfectly reasonable in light of this so I doubt any reasonable interviewer would press the issue. Then you can bring it back around to "you"-centric reasons as to why you feel a role at the company you are interviewing with would be good for both yourself and them. 

This may well vary depending upon local culture but personally if I were to receive a cover letter (I'm assuming that's what you are referring to) with the wrong name on I'd be pretty offended (and would probably file it under "BIN") whereas I'd be pretty neutral about one addressed "to whom it may concern". The first speaks to me of a lack of competence or sloppiness and the second mainly sounds like they are just applying for lots of jobs and are trying to save time. 

The fact that you already discussed the issue of compensation previously will head off any avenue of the company using the negotiating tactic of being "surprised" that you would expect a higher level of compensation for this sort of work and therefore being unable to provide such compensation on short notice. It's a professional yet gentle shot across the bows as it were. It also heads off the "budget" argument somewhat since unless they really are operating the budget to the bone (which some companies are, especially in today's economic climate) then they should have advance warning that they probably need to budget for an increase for you. The scenario posited by @Rob in his comment whereby the company has deliberately advertised the position as one thing in order to fulfill a different (more expensive) role on the "cheap" is possible I think unless you've seen other red flags about this organisation then I'd apply Hanlon's Razor at this point and assume that they simply had a different internal expectation of a "Data Analyst" vs a "Data Engineer" - job titles like that are always a bit vague and open to interpretation anyway. Obviously if you see other indications that make you think they are deliberately trying to underpay you then you'll probably want to start a quiet job hunt for somewhere that will appropriately value your skills but otherwise I'd carry on.