try $URL$ it's a little rough but it contains the full text of both Lane and Lisaan al-Arab, in parallel. It's not designed as a dictionary, i.e. something where you just look up a "word". It's a tool for exploring the lexicon. it only understands roots, and will show you all permutations for a root, so you can examine Eg all words that start with "kt" and ponder whether they share a common semantic kernel - a very old theory in Arabic lexicology. you need to read the help screen carefully and experiment. E.g. Lane and the Lisaan pick different roots for some words that have "weak" letters, and I have not yet unified them. 

there are many transliteration schemes. if you want to be scholarly, follow the Encyclopedia of Islam scheme. informally, I use H for your first example and h for the last. the middle one is not really an "h" sound, I usually go with "kh". 

yes and no. a proform by definition must refer to something else, but that "something else" need not be linguistic. For example, Joe says something crazy. I point my index finger to my temple and swirl it (meaning, that's nutty). Sally points at me and says "he's right" or "that's right" or similar. I haven't said anything, but everybody understands Sally's point. 

Arabic: 1984 could be read as "one thousand and nine hundred and four and eighty" (the modern reading) or "four and eighty and nine hundred and one thousand" (traditional). I have heard the latter on the radio. and you could probably get away with "four and eighty and one thousand and nine hundred". P.S. On a related note: it is often claimed, even by "experts" (like the Unicode folks) that Arabic numbers are written left to right, and since the language is written RTL, Arabic (and other RTL languages) are "bidirectional". This is total hogwash. You can read and read numerals in whatever order you like. The semantic rule is simply "base 10, least significant digit first", in contrast to (most) LTR languages, which go most significant digit first. The myth of bidirectionality is 100% fabricated by the tech industry. 

If you’ll accept non-natural languages, one such case would be J.R.R. Tolkien’s conlang Quenya. The general system of conjugation in Quenya is that the ‘verbal endings’ that show person and number are really just clitic and optionally shortened forms of the personal pronouns. They are thus not really verbal endings at all—they can also be added to other things, like prepositions. They have standalone forms (with optional lengthening of the vowel when stressed) and clitic forms (long and short); nominative/accusative is not distinguished. To give a few pronouns to work with (listing standalone, stressed standalone, long clitic, short clitic): 

Quenya also has specifically emphatic pronouns that presumably really emphasise the subject. These are made up of the stem e- with the (non-shortened) clitic form of the pronoun suffixed; so the 1sg. form is enyë. These are also used with the endingless verb form, as can be seen in this direct quote from the song Namárië (‘Farewell’) from The Lord of the Rings, which uses the 2sg. future (-uva-) of the verb hir- ‘find’: 

Yes, it would be utterly incorrect to use vem in this case. The default pronoun to use as subject or object in a relative clause in Swedish is som.1 In all the Nordic languages, vem ‘who(m)’ is used in three ways: 

Note that there is no use at all of vem as a simple relative pronoun ‘that/who(m)’ in that list. There are some interrogative pronouns, like var ‘where’ and vilket ‘which’, that do also function as relative pronouns, but vem is not one of them. It is worth noting that vilket, which does function as a simple relative pronoun, is not used like ‘which’ in English: its antecedent is invariably a clause or some type of more or less clearly defined notion, never a simple noun phrase. This is somewhat similar to (but still distinct from) the difference in English between restrictive and non-restrictive usages of that and wh- words (see StoneyB’s comment above). This is also why only vilket (neuter) is used relatively: the commune vilken would not make sense with reference to an abstract notion. In cases where vilket is used, the simpler relative pronouns may not be used, just like the corresponding cases in English can only take which, never that. Or to put it in different terms: cases where English can use either ‘that’ or ‘which’3 can only take som in Swedish, while cases where English ‘that’ would be ungrammatical must take vilket in Swedish: 

old joke: a language is a dialect with an army. terms like "the German language" are practically useful; they help us to communicate, which is to say, to help us coordinate our actions. But in reality there are no such things. What counts as the German (or French, Chinese, etc) language is always driven by norms established by a dominant social group. Real people speak whatever they speak, which is always unique to the individual: an idiolect. once you have a community of speakers whose idiolects enable successful joint action (communication), then you can start talking about dialects, languages, etc. but in all cases what counts as the language is a matter of norms, not any kind of objective rule or grammar. If you find German perplexing, try Chinese or Arabic. Both of those terms are very broad, umbrella terms that cover enormous variation. It's useful to have them so we can say, e.g. "he speaks Arabic", but in fact nobody speaks "Arabic", since there is no such thing. What he speaks is one of millions of idiolects that enable people in a broad community to communicate. so terms like "the German language" are really more sociological than linguistic. PS. I don't have the citations handy, but there is good reason to think of dictionaries and grammars a indoctrination devices. 

your America friends are having fun with you. Nobody does this, unless they have hearing problems, the soundtrack is muddy, or they're in a noisy environment like a bar. native speakers of American English are just people, no different than native speakers of any lsnguage. as for spelling, it is complete irrelevant. native speakers never need guidance from written language to disambiguate, in any language.