Which when you dig around a bit, you find out, that constant is like the higgs particle. Which is to say, that we are not 100% sure about it yet. But the way we are doing our mathings, relies heavily if not solely on it being there. Which is a way of saying, "Wehlp, that cosmological constant is the only thing that lets all this other really cool math to work... so uhhh we're goin' with it." Which to my mind seems like sloppy astronomy, but like the hypothetical person suggested... its all we got to go off of.. so there. the philosophical counterpart of gravity, is brahman. The unknowable supreme existence ether. -Thanks much, for the candy for my brain to gnaw on for a while. :-D 

The SEP entry on perfect moral goodness states this argument against the possibility of a perfect moral goodness. Necessarily, God actualizes some world Necessarily, for each actualizable world w1, there is an actualizable world w2 such that from the moral point of view one would prefer w2 to w1 Necessarily, for whatever world that God actualizes, there is a morally better world that God does not actualize yet could have (from (2)) Necessarily, for whatever world that God actualizes, God's act of actualizing that world is not as morally good as some other act that God does not perform but could have (from (3)) Necessarily, for whatever world that God actualizes, God's agency is not as morally good as it could have been (from (4)) Necessarily, God's agency is not perfectly good (from (1), (5)) They seem to state the main discussion point is between (3) and (4), but I don't see why one must accept (2). What makes them think a best world isn't possible? 

The philosophical counterpart of gravity, i believe, would be "weight." As in "the weight of such a statement..." or leading to the "impact of such thoughts" Now, the yin to gravitys yang? now that is much more tricky. Your question seems to ask about two differing things. Gravitational force, and universal expansion (the big bang). So like gravity... from what i understand. As we don't fully understand the cause of gravity's force and impact on reality and existence. We can't really then say what the opposite of it would be. One of the other answers mentioned something about someones reasoning about. "smoke rises stone falls" That logic isn't really one of gravity, as much as thermodynamics. Simply put, heat rises, cool drops. (from a context of oxygen rich gaseous environments such as ours.) We observe that the more mass a thing has, the more gravity affects it. So the stone, being a solid, has more mass. Than the smoke, which is just either gas or vapor (is there a difference?) So smoke not having much mass at all. and having more heat than the ambient air around it, will rise. I do not think that electricity is really the right way to go, as simply electrifying something, does not affect its overall mass. However this is speaking from a non quantum sort of sense. As at the quantum level we observe that potential energy has mass. (Gross Oversimplification: a spring that was pressed down against itself would weigh, if even an imperceptible amount, more. Than an identical spring, just left out with no alteration.) I am not sure about the quantum implications of electricity... but you might be right. Perhaps then, we are just "beings" of "mass" and "gravity" rather than "those" of "photons" and "charge." So i guess, i am suggesting and agreeing with the idea that everything has its opposite. but perhaps the opposite of things like gravity and matter, are so opposing, that we cannot even observe them to exist... Maybe souls are the counterpart to gravity? Not to be glib, but maybe god? Perhaps gravity is the counterpart to physical existence itself. A side affect... Really, all of this is sort of splitting hairs though. You know the saying "a thousand ways to skin a cat"? That is all any of this is... Differing ways to view the same thing, reality, or... 

Given a materialist view on things (the mind cannot exist separate from the body), it seems on the surface that an afterlife is possible. However, the SEP entry on afterlife seems to provide some pretty good objections to this idea. How can any of these problems be surmounted for a theist? One of the objections is this: if God created multiple beings the same as the one on Earth, how would our consciousness be preserved? This question is not asking if mind-body dualism is right or wrong, rather I'm asking whether afterlife is possible given materialism. Edit: When I say "materialist", I mean the idea that our bodies go to heaven with our minds, not just our minds "by themselves". And this question is mostly aimed from a Christian perspective. 

..as it were. Which is only light. Light at different speeds and wavelengths. Some lights are many different frequencys and "shades" of light. But the end of the day... its just light. You zoom in far enough and you get cells down to proteins and amino acids and such, down to particles, to atoms, to electrons and protons and such, to quarks, to the other things that we have found beyong quarks. ...to higgs particles... and then eventually what ever makes up higgs particles... that is the cosmic joke. Zoom in, far as ya like or zoom out, far as ya like... and you haven't really "got" "anywhere". Look into fractals (wiki) and recursion (wiki) Sooo. You asked for my view, which is kind of a cop out, lol. But all the same here you go. Gravity; like time, light, Pi, god, and so many other things. Are ineffable, and try as we might, we are not built for the task of effing such topics. Eh heh heh heh, see what i did there? It odd, but after proofreading this, I think I have stumbled upon another argument in support of the hindu brahman. Put simply, that which contains all that is, was, can, or will be... the unseen thing or force that governs all things or forces. ...most people might just call it "god." But i like the hindu framing. As brahman would be the thing that god is also made of... as it makes up all things... including emptyness and the lack of things... its a real trip though... that would be the zooming out to macro as well. as macro as the scale can get. Again though, like time, infinity, and death... its a topic that our brains were honestly not developed to be able to conceptualize in its totality. Merely to get a functional understanding of it and move along. Like the answer involving all the fun mathings. With the formula. It mentions the cosmological constant... 

The problem of animal suffering states that God wouldn't allow animal suffering because animal suffering is evil. Skeptical theism is the idea that God knows infinitely more than humans, and hence we cannot say what is good or bad for God because we do not know all that He knows. A skeptical theist typically responds to the human problem of evil by saying evil is for the greater happiness or overall betterment of that person either here or in heaven. These responses seem to not apply to animals. Since it is generally accepted God does not give animals heaven, the only argument left is for the greater happiness of the animals. This seems questionable, but I guess can be argued. So what is the skeptical theist's respond to this? Note: I'm mostly talking about natural evil for animals (i.e. forest fires), but human evil toward animals are also in the picture. 

I think the answer would be yes. If it was a physical possibility, then it becomes a valid possibility. You then start to get into probability. I agree, the probability that unicorns exist, is outstandingly low. However, it cannot be said with 100% truth that they do not exist. A note about conspiracies and conspiracy theory's: Conspiracies are quite real, and non imaginary. A conspiracy led to the assassination of president Lincoln. A conspiracy led to the attacks on september eleventh... Conspiracy Theory's are quite often over exaggerations of doubt, rumors, and hearsay. That being said, many of them end up being total crap. While others are completely justified. The problem you refer to, i believe is "the tyranny of the masses" wiki article about it Where basically enough people, believe or impose, one school of thought or ideology, to the point where it becomes law or "right" or "fact." And you're right. It would be a big issue. Now the "solution" to this issue... I am not certain. However i think that at least within the contextual framework of theism, it would at the very least, be considered rude or disrespectful. To disregard someones "possibility". Regardless to how improbable we may feel it to be. It opens a very big "can of worms" however. Because then you open the doors to people justifying polygamy and other much worse things. By saying something along the lines of "hey man, thats what my god tells me to do." So yeah, tough subject to tackle. I see what you are saying though, with something like theism, we have only faith. So then i ask you, what constitutes proof? or likelihood for that matter. Does the fact that X number of people "believe" in Y faith, affect the likelihood of it being factual? We get back to the tyranny of the masses... however, even though the process can be distorted or warped towards validating a falsehood. It is also the foundation of our scientific knowledge and understanding of everything... "If enough people can run the same test and get the same results... then its fact" I am not sure if this really answers your question, as much as gives you something to ponder. ::shrugs::