For common definitions of the word development the NIIP would be a very bad measure. The NIIP is a measure of net foreign debt. I don't see any clear first order link between foreign debt or assets and economic development. A popular measure of development is the HDI, which is constructed from data on live expectancy, adult literacy rates and GDP. 

The difference are the intragovernmental holdings, which consist of treasuries that are owned by government agencies and are thus not counted as government debt - it's a debt that the government owes to itself. From Wikipedia ($URL$ 

This is an interesting observation that has produced a lot of theoretical and empirical research in industrial organization. In fact this phenomenon also occurs in developed economies, for example with gas stations. It is also not limited to location, the broader questions being why competitors in many markets tend to produce very similar products when they could also choose to differentiate themselves more strongly. A special case of the question is also often applied to politics, where the question is why different parties tend to be very similar to each other (most of the time). Most simple explanations are based on an old and simple game theoretic model by Harold Hotelling called the Hotelling model or linear city model. Applied to politics, this model is behind the predictions of the median voter theorem. You can find a very good explanation of the reasoning behind the model in the links below: $URL$ $URL$ $URL$ 

For most people consumption does not equal income. Many consume less (they save) and others consume more (they take on debt) than they earn. In an economy with financial markets and heterogeneous consumers, discounted lifetime income should equal discounted lifetime consumption, but there is no reason why consumption should equal income at every point in time. 

In consumer theory, preferences are called rational if they are transitive and complete. Some nomenclature: An alternative A is weakly preferred to another alternative B, if you either like A more than B or you are indifferent between the two. Transitive means that whenever an alternative A is weakly preferred to alternative B, and B is weakly preferred to C, then A is weakly preferred to C. Complete means that for any two elements A and B of the set of possible alternatives, either A is weakly preferred to B, B is weakly preferred to A, or both. In short, preferences are rational when they are defined for all possible alternatives, and when they don't contradict each other in obvious ways. Rational expectations are a different beast and are specific to different models. Agents in a model have rational expectations if they use the model to form expectations about the future. This means that expectations are consistent with the model/theory in question, and it also means that every rational expectations model has a different "theory" about how people form their expectations. Rational expectations are as much a concept to solve dynamic models as they are an assertion on people's behavior. They are commonly used because they make sure that people are not systematically wrong about their beliefs, and they keep models' properties from being driven by more arbitrary assumptions on how people form expectations. I don't think there is a lot of thought going into alternatives to rational preferences and most people are content with making the assumption that preferences are rational. There is a big literature in macro and finance on relaxing rational expectations assumptions. A lot of people work with models of bounded rationality, in which agents use a simpler approximation to the true model to form expectations. 

That being said, I guess that wages in the Czech Republic have been growing much faster than in Switzerland or Germany and the gap is indeed closing slowly. 

First, let's assume there's a 50:50 split with identical prices. Any equilibrium price above 5 can be ruled out by the usual Bertrand game argeuments. Firm 2 will never charge a price below 5, since it will make a loss. Firm 1 will never charge a price below 5, because given $p_2 \geq 5$ it could always increase it's profits by raising the price. So really the only candidate for an equilibrium is that both firms charge 5. However, if we assume a 50:50 split in this case, then firm 1 could increase it's profit by slightly decreasing the price and gaining the whole market. As a result, there is no equilibrium in this subgame, and hence no equilibrium for the overall game. Second, let's assume arbitrarily that if both firms charge the same price, then all customers will buy from firm 1. In this case $p_1 = p_2 = 5$ is a Nash equilibrium. You could then go on to find the NE of the whole game for different assumptions on the payoff split. 

There is ample evidence that increases in the minimum wage in the magnitudes that we've seen in the last 20-30 years have caused no or very small decreases of low-skilled employment. In that sense, the predictions of competitive labor market models like the one Friedman probably had in mind are clearly wrong. A classic reference here is Card and Kruger 1993 ($URL$ A more recent contribution is Allegretto et. al. ($URL$ There are many more. Some recent minimum wage increases have been much bigger than the ones discussed in these papers (for example the 15$ minimum wage in California) and the effects of these increases may be more substantial. The argument for minimum wages is mostly about redistribution, and modest minimum wages probably achieve this goal. 

You want something that correlates with minimum wages but not other determinants of employment. It will be difficult to find something that is really convincing. You could try variables related to politics, for instance democratic/republican party state governments or something in that direction. 

These estimates are almost certainly bs. The TPP would benefit consumers because easier imports may make consumer goods cheaper directly and through more competition on product markets. The TPP would hurt some workers, because increased import competition would force some American companies out of business. The TPP would benefit other workers, because their companies would export to Asia and grow. 

There are two ways to see the CPI: (1) A measure of price changes for a weighted basket of consumer goods (2) A measure of the change in cost of obtaining a fixed level of utility (cost-of-living) If you interpret it as the second one, then there are a number of crucial structural assumptions you need to make, mostly concerning the importance of substitution effects. Also, you may still mismeasure cost-of-living for different demographic groups. Here is an interesting recent paper on this topic. $URL$ My preferred interpretation of the CPI is the first one. The CPI is a very simple aggregate statistic and this is why it is useful. Of course it does not correctly capture the evolution of cost-of-living for every demographic and under every assumption, but this is an unreasonable requirement for a single index. 

(1) There is a large body of research that suggests that the statistical properties of exchange rates are best described by a random walk. In this case your best guess for the long run exchange rate is the exchange rate today. (2) The theoretical foundation for many exchange rate forecasts is that in the long run some variation of PPP should hold. This means that the exchange rate should adjust to equalize prices in different countries. A forecast for the long run exchange rates could thus be based on the differences in prices today and forecasts of inflation rates. (3) Be aware that your forecast will most likely be close to worthless which will be obvious to everyone if you include confidence intervals that attempt to correctly reflect the uncertainty in the numbers. 

Also remember that as a result, linearizing models with uncertainty reduces them to their certainty equivalent version. This may or may not matter for what you are doing. 

The quantity theory of money is a theory. For a variable as important as consumer prices, it is clearly desirable to just measure it directly rather than appeal to a theory, even if the theory had some truth to it. Besides that, it is also not at all clear what the right measure of money supply would be. 

Typically foreign reserves will just be assets denominated in a foreign currency, most importantly government debt. Another popular reserve asset are IMF special drawing rights, which are convertible into currencies of member countries. I don't think there is any amount of physical cash currency in international reserves. You can see the makeup of US reserves here: $URL$ If the US treasury would decide to increase it's Yuan holdings, it will just buy bonds that pay are traded and denominated in Yuan. 

I think this is almost certainly wrong. I recommend "The Protestant Ethic and the Spirit of Capitalism" as a good book to read on this subject. Max Weber argues that protestant/puritan work ethics are the precursor to capitalism. Most of the early immigrants to the US were protestants and puritans, but these movements originated in England, Switzerland, Germany, etc. 

I think economists consensus is that on average and in the medium run, free trade will benefit people in both countries. However, it has also become pretty clear that free trade hurts some people quite badly in the short run because they'll lose their jobs and possibly won't find new ones. It has also become pretty clear, that even though in theory you could put policies in place that help people and places that are hurt by trade at the expense of those who benefit from it, this is almost never done in practice. If you are for more or less free trade depends largely on what weights you apply to this trade-off. 

The components of aggregate demand are government consumption, consumption, investment, net exports. While people typically assume there is a relationship between demand shocks and inflation, this does not mean that inflation will necessarily go up whenever consumption goes up, because consumption depends not only on demand shocks but also many other things that will not necessarily affect inflation in the same way. For example, if consumption goes up because labor productivity and incomes increase, inflation may even go down. On the other hand, if the central bank decreases the interest rate, demand will increase and this will cause an increase in inflation. 

You should keep in mind that the definition of profit in economics is not the same as in accounting. In particular, economists always deduct opportunity cost from accounting profits, and the price = MC formula has to be interpreted in this way. For example, let's say you are a self-employed web-developer and you may make a profit in an accounting sense. Economists will subtract from this accounting profit the opportunity cost of not working elsewhere. Looking at it this way, the profit of a self-employed web-developer is just a wage he pays to himself. The same is true for larger firms. Those firms usually pay out accounting profits to their shareholders. Economists would interpret this as the cost of using the equity capital provided by owners. 

A sample being ``representative'' of the population has nothing to do with the distribution of some attribute in your sample, which is random. What counts is that the probability of a unit to be included in the sample is equal for the whole population. Let's say you want to estimate the share of females in a population. When you draw a random sample of people from the population, the share of females in your sample is a consistent estimate for the share of females in the population because your sample is random. It will not be the same because of sampling error. As you draw a larger and larger sample your estimate of the female share will converge to the population value. Now let's say you already know the population share of females and you want to estimate something else. Let's say your population of interest consists of 6 people, 2 females and 4 males. You draw a sample of 3 people without replacement. In the random sampling case, the sampling probability of each person in the population is 1/2. If you draw a stratified sample consisting of 1 woman and 2 men, the sampling probability is still 1/2 for each person in the population, so both ways of sampling are representative of the population. Do you have anything to gain by stratifying your sample? If the thing you'd like to estimate is independent of gender, then you will gain nothing. However, if you'd like to estimate something that is not independent of gender, then a stratified sample will give you a more precise estimate by reducing sampling error. The drawback is that if you for some reason use incorrect sampling probabilities and do not adjust for it, then you will get a biased estimate. RE: I just realized this answer is mostly a duplicate of the one above. Sorry about that. 

You could see it as a coordination game and an example of a rational bubble. Because everybody knows that people start buying gold and the price goes up when the economy tanks, it is actually a good strategy to do just that. Similar things happen for example with the Swiss Franc. The idea that the stock of gold is fixed and hence it's price is stable is empirically just plain wrong. First, gold production varies with production cost and the demand for gold, just as in other industries. It is also dominated by a couple of countries/big mining companies with tons of market power. Second, the price of gold is highly volatile, just as other commodities. The standard deviation of gold prices is much higher compared to for example treasuries or big developed country equity indices. 

I like Osborne "An Introduction to Game Theory" and Gibbons "Game Theory for Applied Economists" as textbooks. In any case, once you understand the concept, finding mixed equilibria boils down to solving a bunch of linear equations, it's just algebra. 

This measure of poverty depends on your definition of basic needs and local prices. Argentina is a good example for how local prices matter. It is widely accepted that official price and inflation statistics published by the Argentinian government are cooked and inflation rates in the last few years are have been substantially bigger than official numbers suggest. I assume that the world bank has to rely on those statistics and it is therefore likely that its estimates of poverty in Argentina are too low, simply because the price level adjustment is not done with good data. Alberto Cavallo has a nice paper showing the discrepancies of official statistics with other measures of Inflation in Argentina, see here. Living on 90$ a month is obviously not nice, but around the world many people do. This measure is intended to document the extent of extreme poverty in developing countries, i.e. the circumstances where you are literally close to starving. Many more developed countries use a much higher poverty line in their domestic statistics. The world bank as an international body publishes statistics on development that are internationally comparable, and hence uses the same threshold for each country. The World Bank's extreme poverty line used to be much lower - I believe it started out at 1$ per day around 1990. You can read up on the intention of publishing such a statistic, and how the threshold is chosen in this interesting blog post by a World Bank economist.