I don't care what was the reason that poor lion looks like that, as I doubt there can be any verifiable answer. I'm much more intrigued with the origin of the gift. Unfortunately I couldn't find any valuable sources for this story on the Internet, even the official website of the Museum at Gripsholm Castle doesn't write about it. But when I've tried to investigate it a bit, it turned out that there was no such person as Bey of Algiers (or bejen av Alger, as in the original Swedish text). In 1731, Algieria was known as the Regency of Algiers, a territory of Ottoman Empire. According to Wikipedia, the official title of its ruler was Dey, who nominated three beys, governors of provinces, which were called beyliks: 

Let me introduce you Alexander Marshack, who in his book "The Roots of Civilization: the Cognitive Beginning of Man’s First Art, Symbol and Notation", published in 1972, proves that notches and lines carved on certain Upper Paleolithic bone plaques were in fact notation systems, specifically lunar calendars notating the passage of time. It was developed by Aurignacian culture, which was active in Europe and southern Asia between 47000 to 41000 years ago. This way it would make it the oldest known lunar calendar. You may also want to search for an article by Judy Robinson titled "Not counting on Marshack: a reassessment of the work of Alexander Marshack on notation in the Upper Palaeolithic" published in Journal of Mediterranean Studies in 1992, in which she suggests that Marshack's discovery is just an over-interpretation. 

Well, the Byzantine Empire certainly considered itself to be a continuation of the Roman Empire. It continued Roman culture fairly directly at first, but gradually changed over its lifespan of nearly a thousand years. The Empire had been re-arranged and sub-divided a number of times, but the distinction between the Greek-speaking East and Latin-speaking West was the one that lasted, and the Byzantine Empire had started as the Eastern Roman Empire. The Holy Roman Empire also considered itself to be a continuation of the Roman Empire. It only maintained Latin as a language of the educated after the Romance languages had developed out of Vulgar Latin, and most of the HRE territory was German-speaking anyway. While its culture had Roman influences, it wasn't strictly Roman. It did, however, help preserve Latin Christianity. The Ottoman Empire regarded itself as a successor to the Byzantine Empire, but it wasn't founded until about 800 years after the fall of the Western Roman Empire, so the claim to be a successor of the original Rome was not taken seriously, and lapsed after the death of Mehmed II. The Russian claim was based on family links to the last Byzantine emperors, and their support of Orthodox Christianity. "Tsar" is their version of "Cesar". After the dismantling of the Holy Roman Empire, the Austrian Empire claimed to be its successor, as did the German Empire from 1871. Fascist Italy also claimed to be a new Rome, but they weren't very good at conquest. The Wikipedia article on Third Rome is a reasonable summary of the various claims. 

This was a variation of the F.N. model. 1910 that was commissioned by the Yugoslavian military in the inter-war period with 60,000 ordered with both general issue and "officer" markings. Note, the Wikipedia article is horribly referenced, but you should be able to confirm this in Anthony Vanderlinden's book FN Browning Pistols: Side-Arms That Shaped World History as several other sites refer to it (I don't have a copy so can't verify this). 

A "boat crimper" is synonymous with a "boot crimper" - a person who specializes in manufacturing and repairing boots. The process of crimping is used to make leather conform to shapes that can't be created with folding, and involves stretching wet leather over a form with clamps or pliers. You can get an idea of what is involved here. A good example of the term being used in this context is in the following excerpt from the 12/25/1890 edition of the Daily Alta California (emphasis added): 

He eventually arrived in Le Harve on June 20th, after brief layovers in Santander and La Coruña in Spain and Plymouth, England. The picture below purports to be of the Ypiranga entering the Le Harve harbor with Díaz aboard. 

The long strap you are referring to is called a "Guige" strap, and the original intention was likely not to allow the shield to be transported on one's back (although it would have been an added bonus) - the primary purpose was likely to distribute the weight of the shield during use. Given that a shield could weigh upwards of 5-10kg, being able to support the majority of the load on the shoulders would be a considerable advantage even with any loss of mobility. For soldiers wielding spears, the guige also allowed a shield to be used in combat while freeing both hands for the shaft of the weapon. In addition, they were also used on horseback to either entirely support the shield to allow a free hand on the reins or again lighten the load enough to allow the shield hand to do so more effectively. In fact, you can sometimes see how they were used in period art, such as this plate from the St.Etienne Bible for Cîteaux. 

Speer was fortunate in that the gains in the early months of his administration were mostly due to decisions that had been taken under the previous minister. That gave him some time to simplify and streamline the processes of his ministry, and to get the industries he was in charge of better organised. His training had been as an architect, which had given him a background in running complicated building projects. This was applicable, to some extent, to running much larger organisations. He was pretty intelligent, not so beholden to vested interests as many Nazi politicians, and he had Hitler's backing. Basically, he was better at running a large centralised organisation. Sources: Adam Tooze, The Wages of Destruction, and Alfred C. Mierzejewski, The Collapse of the German War Economy, 1944-45. Addendum: the German Official History, Germany and the Second World War, volume V / IIA has a lot more on Speer's methods, successes and limitations. That's part IIA (which is a large book in itself) of "volume" V of the overall history. 

My best source for this is Richard B. Frank's book Guadalcanal, which doesn't mention Ghormley receiving the reports. However, requiring the reports to be routed through Ghormley to Turner would have been foolish; it was undoubtedly correct for McCain to send his reports directly to Turner. This is because Ghormley was 900 miles away, in Nouméa, New Caledonia. With the shortwave radio of the time, nobody could rely on messages getting there and back promptly. They'd be sure to make it after a while (via repeated attempts), but imposing unknown delays on information with potential tactical importance would have been silly. Ghormley got many things wrong in the Guadalcanal campaign, but most of the blame for the disastrous Battle of Savo Island must go to the British Rear-Admiral Crutchley, who was in command of the forces guarding against Japanese surface action from that direction, and failed to organise them properly, or tell his subordinates where he was, and thus who was in command. 

I've promised to write an answer regarding Poles from Wehrmacht who joined Allies. So here it is. Polish soldiers in Wehrmacht First, how did Polish people land in Wehrmacht? There were three kinds of them. First of all, there was German minority living in Poland before the war (Polish citizenship). Second, Polish minority living in Germany (Polish nationality). Those groups had small or no choice to avoid army service, also many of them could actually believe and support Hitler. But the third group was the biggest. Poles of both Polish citizenship and nationality, who singed Volksliste - the special document stating that they are Germans (if they lived in particular regions of Poland that had strong historical connections with Germany). Some of them made it because they found it an opportunity for themselves, others were simply forced to do that (many of those who didn't sign it, landed in concentration camps or had other problems). Dates and numbers From the overall number of 225000-375000 Wehrmacht soldiers, depending on how you define being a Pole, 90000 joined Polish Armed Forces in the West between 1943 and 1945. That's why I don't agree with the use of word "individual" in your question. But I'll agree that from every German unit only individuals decided to do that. Why? The reason for that is because Germans perfectly knew they can't trust Poles. They didn't organize military units that based on Polish soldiers, but instead pushed few of them to each unit. So in fact, there were only Polish individuals in every German unit. Also any kinds of indiscipline, tries of desertion or acts of sabotage were punished with death. Still, some of them decided to do that. I won't talk here about the history of Polish soldiers fighting together with Allies, as it's a different matter. Let's just say that the cooperation started in France in 1939, followed by 35000 soldiers coming to Great Britain, making up the largest non-British contribution in Battle of Britain. Together, Polish Army Forces in the West counted around 220000 people (without counting the 30000 in reserve). There were also Home Army (biggest resistance movement in WW2) and Polish Army Forces in the East, but it's another topic. So the mentioned 90000 soldiers from Wehrmacht made 40% of the overall number. Where and when they were recruited? Before the Normandy, during North-African campaign, 2000 Poles from Wehrmacht were recruited. In the Middle East (1943) and Italy (1944), additional 2500. As for the time between Normandy and the end of 1944, the number is 29000 (half by half for western and southern front). 1945 brings 55000 Polish soldiers from Wehrmacht joining Polish Army Forces in the West. Unfortunately, because of the ending stage of war, it's difficult to say how many of them actually took part in any fights. It's important to add that there would be much more of them before 1944, because of the situation at Eastern Front, but Stalin didn't agree to release Poles from Wehrmacht kept in his prisoners-of-war camps. Later, many of them joined Polish Army Forces in the East. Normandy as an example of recruitment practises So what was the way of recruitment? Thankfully we have a good overview of that. As you've already mentioned Normandy, let's take it as an example. On the way, I'll explain why I don't agree with the use of "spontaneusly" and "Polish-Americans". Polish forces, already having experiences from the Mediterranean front, perfectly knew what to do and that there will be great amount of Polish people who want to join Allies. Long before, the advertising campaign started, organized by the Polish government in exile, using a.o. flyers and radio messages. This way for many Poles from Wehrmacht who decided to join Allies, this decision wasn't spontaneus at all. They already knew before the battle, what they're going to do. Here's the text of this message, written by the Minister of Defence, gen. Marian Kukiel, but translated by me from Polish language original, so all the language awkwardness is mine: 

Addendum: It seems very possible that the British did not try to compile detailed figures for bombs dropped or estimates of their weight. In a heavily bombed urban area, it can be very hard to distinguish the effects of several explosions. At the other end of the scale, many bombs fell in the countryside, doing no harm apart from craters in fields. The British do not seem to have regarded the bombing on land during June and July as very significant. Richard Overy's The Battle of Britain, a short volume of insightful analysis, reckons that the main effect of those raids was to provide training for both sides' air forces. The British gained more, because they gained experience with the operation of the air defence system they had been training with, while the Germans were attempting to learn strategic bombing from scratch, having been previously trained as an army support force. The Battle of Britain, T.C.G. James, Frank Cass Publishers, 2000. Crown Copyright. 

Mechanised infantry were used in very small quantities during WWI, with extra troops carried in German A7V tanks, and became reasonably commonplace during WWII, with the advent of armoured personnel carriers. The defining feature of mechanised infantry is that the vehicles they travel in provide a significant degree of ballistic protection. Apart from that, they may be tracked or wheeled, but the ones with heavier armour tend to be tracked. If the infantry can fight from within the vehicle, it is called an Infantry Fighting Vehicle (IFV); if not, it's an Armoured Personnel Carrier (APC), like the M113. The US uses the M2 Bradley as its IFV and the M113 as its APC, although they make less use of APCs than less wealthy powers. The UK uses the Warrior IFV, and the FV432 APC. Germany uses the Marder IFV, and several different APCs, all wheeled. France uses the AMX-10P IFV and the VAB APC. There are plenty more listed here: NATO doesn't have much standardisation of armoured fighting vehicles these days. The difference between an IFV and a tank is that the tank is more heavily armoured, armed with a large high-velocity gun intended mainly for killing other tanks, and doesn't have space to carry infantry. All of the crew of a tank are dedicated to operating the tank, while an IFV has a small vehicle crew, often only two people, while the additional people it carries are equipped and trained as infantry. Motorised infantry travel in vehicles that don't provide protection, such as ordinary trucks, or SUVs. They're much cheaper, but the infantry take far more casualties on a real battlefield. "Technicals" are an improvised example, generally used in low-intensity conflicts, by irregular forces (rebels, guerrillas, and so on). Mechanised and motorised infantry, as a concept, really date from the first half of the twentieth century. An infantry phalanx is only similar in that it is the most powerful and best-protected kind of infantry of its period. The Trojan Horse was a ruse of war, not a vehicle. Motorisation and mechanisation gave infantry speed of movement, equal to that of tanks, which had replaced cavalry. You could try to argue that troops who rode horses for mobility, but dismounted to fight, were the predecessors of mechanised infantry, but the analogy is weak. 

At the beginning of 20th century, large masses of black people were migrating to North or between districts of the same towns (like in New York from Tenderloin or San Juan Hill to Harlem, previously occupied by Italians and Jews), because of lower real estate prices, economic crashes, worsening of conditions for blacks elsewhere and anti-black riots. Several black real estate entrepreneurs, like Phillip Payton Jr, took big part in organization of such moves. I wonder if it had any reflexion in architecture of such districts, except for probable more thrifty use of ornaments, what I believe would clearly result from lowering the price of newly created buildings. I compare it for example to Jewish settlements in Europe or United States, where their own culture was strongly reflected in local architecture. But while there were plenties of Jewish architects with proper education and unique style that developed through centuries, with its own symbolic, I'm not aware of anything like that in Black American culture, except for so called shotgun houses. How did settlements of Black Americans reflect the local architecture? Was there anything like Black American architecture style or symbolic in the beginning of 20th century or later? 

This way we can assume that Hannibal had three separate armies that didn't know each other and didn't have previous experience in cooperating together. One of them being Magon's army, containing Celts, Ligures and other tribes, the second Africans (Libyans and Carthaginians) and the third army in which Hannibal believed the most - veterans from Italy. Also half of his cavalry were Numidians. At the same time, Scipio's army were mainly Roman and Italian soldiers, strengthened by forces of Masinissa who wanted to take revenge on Carthaginians for supporting his opponent on the way to take over the power in Numidia.