TL;DR: What tactics can a professionally trained army use against a horde of untrained conscripts using human wave attacks? (This scenario takes place in the very-near future.) Background information: The two forces of SEDA and GAU have been at war for the past decade, SEDA defending against the constant onslaught of GAU conscripts. Brainwashed and forced into service with minimal training and faulty equipment, the armies of GAU are nothing more than hordes of conscripts rushing blindly at the enemy (in a similar method to the Banzai Charges of WW2.) In modern history, human wave attacks have often failed and have only served to waste entire battalions by having them be cut down by machine-gun fire. However, the size of the GAU forces have the sheer excess of numbers to make this a viable strategy. They are vastly more numerous than their opponents, overwhelming their enemies with sheer numbers. The forces of SEDA are professionally trained and equipped soldiers, defending against the hordes of conscripts. While in normal scenarios this alone would be enough to counter such an unorganized attack, the sheer numbers of their enemy calls for a more specialized counter-strategy. What Tactics and Strategies can SEDA use to defend against this human wave attack style? Are there any formations or positioning that could help them gain an advantage? 

Democracy! Let's be honest here, sure if you take power now your country will prosper under your rule (that is to say if you're as good at ruling as you say you are) but the chances are that after your death any number of incompetent or malicious Heirs or Nobles will take power and throw the nation back into ruins. Replace the idea of nobles and ruling monarchs with a Constitutional Parliamentary System, and you're golden. "But won't this mean that I'll have to give up my power?" you may be asking. Well, not entirely. Let's take a look at Britain for example. By following the same steps as they took to becoming a democracy, you can still have yourself loved by the populace as a figurehead, and also have a bit more say in policy than the average citizen. If you wanted to, you could even run for Prime Minster yourself! The people will love you for volunteering your power to the people, and you might be able to use this to get yourself elected! And let's be honest here, if the mid 20th century in your world is anything like ours then monarchies are dying out, and there are only 3 places it can go from here - Democracy, in which you hand over your power and try to get elected; Fascism, in which you seize power and force your citizens to fight your wars for you; or Communism, in which you and your entire royal family are purged in glorious revolution, Comrade! And out of those three options, I think it's clear where you'd want to be headed. 

There are other things to consider like overpopulation that will drive them to go to the surface, but the question is why can't they come up to the surface when they are suffering from overpopulation ? The answer is simple : 

The infamous main character in my story is traveling among others on a mining spaceship that is carrying tons of valuable materials from Mars to Earth under the protection of the US government, our infamous hero wants to convince his fellow miners to seize control of the spaceship and travel to a Chinese space colony near Saturn (he arranged a deal with someone in charge of that colony) where the US has no authority and then become rich thanks to the spoils of Mars, but his diabolic plan is faced with many challenges : Obstacles : 1 - The ship is heavily guarded : about 100 soldiers equipped with laser rifles. 2 - The ship is under the command of one ruthless ex-military feared by everyone. 3 - The miners are many (about 600) but have no criminal background. 4 - He has only two months before reaching earth. Spaceship : The spaceship is very huge, it's a mobile industrial refinery used to refine materials extracted from Mars before shipping to earth, but it's also very fast (not speed of light fast). Miners : The miners are a variety of space engineers in many fields such as : 

In Greek mythology, Zeus is capable of striking the enemies with giant meteorites, inflicting a devastating damage. 

If he is smart enough he will kill the dragon when he is flying over the sea. Water will reduce the impact. EDIT : OK don't kill the dragon, instead incapacitate him with a fatal blow until it reaches the ground very wounded, and then finish it. Other method : If he's falling near a high tower, he could stick his dagger/sword and reduces his fall by friction while looking cool !!! 

Since you are writing a sci-fi the only technology I can think of is : the bubble maker. Each citizen in your city lives inside a personal bubble, they can eat, work, sleep and do everything normally without breaking it. Each bubble has a 24 hours supply of oxygen after that, every citizen must go to this huge medieval machine to change his personal bubble. 

Human disease will only affect humans. You might think a disease would spread rampantly among an alien population considering the effects Smallpox had on the south american natives when they were exposed to it. And while this is a perfectly reasonable assumption, it's also incorrect. It is almost impossible for there to be any human diseases that can affect the alien at all. The reason for this is that human diseases evolved to infect humans. Alien Cells would be too different from Human Cells for any disease to attempt to infect. For example, a Plant can't catch Smallpox from you. And while there is some precedent for cross-species infections as has been the case on Earth, these have been between animals that share a relatively recent common ancestor, like Cats and Humans, or Birds and Humans. This is why I said "almost" impossible, because there is a tiny, tiny chance it is compatible, but this is less likely (and less plausible) as winning the Lottery every time for about 100 years. But that doesn't mean that there's no way for you to make it plausible. Using something like the Panspermia theory, you could have the two species share a common ancestor, which would massively raise the odds of an infection. War of the Worlds can be considered incredibly inaccurate. Until, that is, you consider the theory that the Martians and the Humans are biologically connected from a common ancestor, which makes it just slightly more likely, and into the realm of plausibility. 

What I'm thinking for this question is that some kind of filter is put around the sun by aliens that prevents some kinds of solar energy from passing through but allows other types. Like if it stopped visible light but allowed UV. Is there any way that the parts of light plants need for photosynthesis can be separated from visible light, allowing the plants to survive but preventing visible light from passing through? I've tried to do my own research on this, but all I've found is that they require a nonspecific "light", and I'm not sure if this means specifically visible light or all kinds of light, such as UV. For the question, assume that the barrier around the Earth can sort between different types of light, regardless of whether or not this makes any sense. EDIT: Close voters, I understand my question may be slightly difficult to understand due to the nature of what I am asking, however reading the answers below should allow you to see what I am looking for, and show that there are others who understood the question even if you didn't. 

How long does it take to completely deplete the resources of a planet ? Nomads change places only if they exhaust the resources (food, water, ...) existing in the previous location. In your case we are talking about planets, so to completely consume the resources of a planet during let's say 3 years, it has to be one of these propositions : 1 - Small and tiny planets : The galaxy in which your nomads live contain only small planets with few resources, so they need to change places many times during their life cycle. 2 - Swarms of nomads (overpopulation) : The traveling civilisation is actually a big one, hundreds of billions of people can easily exhaust the resources of a planet in no time, then move to the other in an endless cycle. 3 - Lazy and passive civilisation : What's wrong with working in farms to grow vegetables and fruits and breed animals, doing so will assure a more stable future for the whole civilisation. 

There is something in the water : There is some chemical substances in the main water source of the city that has the effect of making everyone who drinks enough water to sleep during the day rather than the night, the minority who doesn't sleep during the day are the ones who drink much less water, maybe because they live far away from the city's main water source, or maybe they suffer from dehydration. 

Imagine a society that knows for sure, the expiration date for the planet on which they live. Let's say for example that scientists have predected that this planet will be destroyed due to a huge natural disaster in about 150 years from now, this will eventually lead them into becoming more interested in space travel and the possibility of finding a new habitable planet out there, in order to ensure the survivor of their kind. So the fear of extinction is a motive for a society to become spacefaring. 

You've got a space gun. There's no doubt this idea could work, as the article I linked will tell you. So essentially yes, this contraption of yours is entirely possible (as for whether or not you can use a Space Gun to launch a projectile unnoticed into space, well that might be a good idea to ask in another question, since that seems right up this site's alley) 

State-Sanctioned Divine Beings Short answer: No These divine beings aren't the church, the church is simply an organization that worships them. The beings themselves are separate entities, and as a result contracting them should have no legal implications in terms of separation of church and state. This only changes if the beings are a part of the leadership structure of the church itself. For example, if an Angel holds an official position of power in the church equivalent to a bishop or priest. Weaponized Priesthood Short answer: No, but only if they are being contracted like mercenary groups This part of the answer is a simple one. If they're being given specific contracts as if they were mercenaries, then this is no violation. This isn't a violation because they're never becoming a part of the state itself. If they are official government employees, however, then this is a violation. These are official parts of the church that are also official parts of the government, and this is a violation of church and state. However... As Daron's answer has indicated, there's no law that enforces a separation of church and state. This answer is more of a guide of things that are and aren't violating the concept of separation of Church and State, which while it might not be useful for the legal aspects of your world, might be useful for the societal impacts. 

Let's say you have the entirety of Earth's nuclear stockpile at your disposal (you don't have to use it all, and if you need it there's an infinite supply of extra ICBMs) and that every weapon you fire will have 100% accuracy as to where it explodes. Is there any way these explosions could take place without causing any environmental (or at the very least Limited) damage to the planet's environment? I'd imagine the problems with this would be that the explosion would either be too high in space for the EMP to affect anything, or too low in the Atmosphere to not cause damage. Am I correct in this, or is a (mostly) worldwide nuclear EMP feasible without causing mass environmental damage? 

But who put them in this position long time ago (more than 10000 years ago) ? I think they were living in a village near Antarctica and a huge mountain fell over them burying them underground for good. 

Effects in medicine : It will be a controversial healing method, something like suicide assessment in hospitals where you need to sign an agreement or a paper that you accept this healing method and that you are fully aware of its drawbacks on your health in the future. It's something the doctor can't decide, only the patient will choose whether to accept it or not. Effects in warfare : Soldiers are expendables when it comes to winning a battle, so when a soldier falls in a fight he will be healed immediately using this method whether he liked it or not, of course this will enhance the chances of winning the war, but after many years the number of recruits will diminish because people will become afraid, not from death, but from painful death by cancer. Effects in society : People will mostly riot against this healing method, since many religions forbid suiciding, and this healing method is literally a suicide, so it will not be welcomed by everyone, and society will incriminate every mage who practices this sort of healing (talking about burning mages at the stake). 

Watchtowers : Put watchtowers in every city, they provide a military advantage especially inside the city's walls : 

Well the 14th century is full of crisis : The Black Death that wiped half of the population. $URL$ The Great Famine of 1315-17 $URL$ So if he brings medications and antibiotiques, he will be idolized by them. 

Practicing Sports with your fancy shoes : One way to demonstrate that you are wealthy is to practice sports while wearing your fancy shoes instead of regular sports shoes. In that case you will prove that you are too rich to not care about your fancy shoes getting worn by playing sports. Avoid walking on pedestrian passages and walk on rough unattended roads : Yes you are rich enough to torture yourself by walking on rocky roads just to prove that you are much superior than the others. That doesn't make sens but it will definitely get your shoes worn.