There are two kinds of infinite expressions (formulas, strings, words): 1) Those which can be described by finite expressions, and 2) those which have an infinite complexity and cannot be reduced to finite expressions. Examples of the first in the domain of real numbers are 0.111... or SUM(1/n!). These expression are precisely defining numbers as their limits, and analogous logical expressions can be used too. Examples of the second kind are most of the real numbers because there are uncountably many but only countably many finite expressions. These surplus numbers are undefinable and therefore cannot have a numerical value that could be communicated in mathematical discourse. Same is true for infinite sequences of logical atoms or other infinite expressions. They cannot have a truth value because every truth value obtained up to a certain step could be negated in the next step. Without an "End Of File" there is no value discernable. 

In the biginning there was only energy / radiation. After 10^(-35) seconds quarks and leptons were formed. After 10^(-10) seconds protons and neutrons were formed. After 1 second hydrogen and and helium and perhaps a bit of lithium were formed and after 3 minutes the constitution of matter was finished (Steven Weinberg: The first three minutes). There were no heavy elements. in order to syntheticise heavier elements than iron you have to add energy. So these elements had to wait until in supernova explosions plenty of surplus energy was available. And in these furnaces there were also with certainty all elements like plutoniom and heavier formed that ever can be created by humans (and also elements like technetium that are missing (or seemed to be missing) in our terrestrial environment). Therefore the question "Are artificially synthesized chemical elements natural?" has to be answered by a clear yes. And finally: Since humans are as natural as supernovas, all they do is natural too. 

have sufficiently good public policy outcomes when their policies are implemented that the voter's are not driven away from the party. arbitrage between different voters' (not-fully-rational) decision making processes to achieve a winning coalition, and 

If the creator, or the bot itself, were able to convince the relevant person/people at SE to make an exception or to amend the terms of service, then you wouldn't have a problem. If society were to change such that bots of whichever sort are generally considered persons (individuals) then there wouldn't be a problem since the normal and legal interpretation of the current TOS would admit them. In this context, the AI aspect is a red herring; what is important is that SE is providing its services with restrictions. If anybody/anything is not able to conform to those restrictions they are lying (falsely entering into a contract); a fact that has negative moral impacts. This answer addresses one facet of a bot autonomously participating in SE; there are certainly ways that a bot acting in coordination with a person, could fulfill the TOS but I don't interpret that as the thrust of the question. 

In a letter to J. Hontheim Cantor wrote on 21 December 1893: "The time is not far, however, that my teaching will turn out to be a really exterminating weapon against all pantheism, positivism and materialism." Who can explain the meaning of this quote? 

Wittgenstein never changed his opinion about Cantor's set theory. Imagine set theory's having been invented by a satirist as a kind of parody on mathematics. – Later a reasonable meaning was seen in it and it was incorporated into mathematics. (For if one person can see it as a paradise of mathematicians, why should not another see it as a joke?) [V. 7] If it were said: "Consideration of the diagonal procedure shews you that the concept 'real number' has much less analogy with the concept 'cardinal number' than we, being misled by certain analogies, inclined to believe", that would have a good and honest sense. But just the opposite happens: one pretends to compare the "set" of real numbers in magnitude with that of cardinal numbers. The difference in kind between the two conceptions is represented, by a skew form of expression, as difference of extension. I believe, and I hope, that a future generation will laugh at this hocus pocus. [II.22] The curse of the invasion of mathematics by mathematical logic is that now any proposition can be represented in a mathematical symbolism, and this makes us feel obliged to understand it. Although of course this method of writing is nothing but the translation of vague ordinary prose. [V.46] "Mathematical logic" has completely deformed the thinking of mathematicians and of philosophers, by setting up a superficial interpretation of the forms of our everyday language as an analysis of the structures of facts. Of course in this it has only continued to build on the Aristotelian logic. [V.48] [L. Wittgenstein: "Remarks on the foundations of mathematics", Wiley-Blackwell (1991)] The expression "and so on" is nothing but the expression "and so on". [p. 282] There is no such thing as "the cardinal numbers", but only "cardinal numbers" and the concept, the form "cardinal number". Now we say "the number of the cardinal numbers is smaller than the number of the real numbers" and we imagine that we could perhaps write the two series side by side (if only we weren't weak humans) and then the one series would end in endlessness, whereas the other would go on beyond it into the actual infinite. But this is all nonsense. [p. 287] "This proposition is proved for all numbers by the recursive procedure". That is the expression that is so very misleading. It sounds as if here a proposition saying that such and such holds for all cardinal numbers is proved true by a particular route, or as if this route was a route through a space of conceivable routes. But really the recursion shows nothing but itself, just as periodicity too shows nothing but itself. [p. 406] In mathematics description and object are equivalent. "The fifth number of the number series has these properties" says the same as "5 has these properties". The properties of a house do not follow from its position in a row of houses; but the properties of a number are the properties of a position. [p. 457] After all I have already said, it may sound trivial if I now say that the mistake in the set-theoretical approach consists time and again in treating laws and enumerations (lists) as essentially the same kind of thing and arranging them in parallel series so that one fills in gaps left by the other. [p. 461] [L. Wittgenstein: "Philosophical grammar", Basil Blackwell, Oxford (1969)] [...] there is no path to infinity, not even an endless one. [...] All right, the path must be endless. But if it is endless, then that means precisely that you can’t walk to the end of it. That is, it does not put me in a position to survey the row. (Ex hypothesi not.) [§ 123] It isn't just impossible "for us men" to run through the natural numbers one by one; it's impossible, it means nothing. [...] you can't talk about all numbers, because there's no such thing as all numbers. [§ 124] There's no such thing as "all numbers" simply because there are infinitely many. [§ 126] The infinite number series is only the infinite possibility of finite series of numbers. It is senseless to speak of the whole infinite number series, as if it, too, were an extension. [...] If I were to say "If we were acquainted with an infinite extension, then it would be all right to talk of an actual infinite", that would really be like saying, "If there were a sense of abracadabra then it would be all right to talk about abracadabraic sense perception". [§ 144] Set theory is wrong because it apparently presupposes a symbolism which doesn't exist instead of one that does exist (is alone possible). It builds on a fictitious symbolism, therefore on nonsense. [§ 174] [L. Wittgenstein: "Philosophical remarks", Wiley-Blackwell (1978)] 

(too long for a comment) The logic in your second paragraph misses the point. Assume "I believe that ripe bananas are yellow". It is a properly basic belief that "I hold that 'I believe that ripe bananas are yellow'". Note the second level of indirection. The sensation of believing something just comes to oneself as a subjective experience. Since this "sensation of believing" is a subjective, internal experience, it is (or at least appears to be) on the same kind of footing as having as other internal, subjective experiences, e.g. perceptual ones. Whether or not there are bananas out there in the world that aren't yellow when ripe doesn't change the fact that, in my current mental state, it is true that "I believe that ripe bananas are yellow". 

Frequently, it's both. The bare judgment "race X has feature Y" is an assessment regarding the state of the world. For example put in a morally neutral term for Y like "has good fashion sense" or "gets fewer cavities". However, in many cases of race-generalization the feature has moral considerations; in those cases the racist is making a moral judgment about a set of people; this is a moral judgment in the same way as an individualized moral judgment, albeit generalized too far. A sense that I get from your question is that it also relates to the idea that a 2nd party can make a moral judgment about a 1st party's racism, and that this judgment of the racist's beliefs/behaviour is moral in nature. Under various moral theories you can see how this is the case even if the racial judgment is not overtly moral in nature -- basically it boils down to the idea that overgeneralizing in this way is indicative of a failure of judgment and thus poor decision making. Which in turn reflects on the racist's virtue (virtue ethics), or likely "goodness" of decisions (utilitarianism)... 

The man weighs 500 pounds. That's a fact. The man is fat. That's an opinion, although coming close to a common definition. Facts can be proved by experts in the respective field with (almost) always the same result. Facts always remain the same. Opinions can be differing. They can change from person to person or even from time to time. Here is an example: When I was young, I knew a lot of elder persons in Germany whom I considered fat. When I visited the USA for the first time, I saw a lot of persons whom I considered really as fat as I never had seen before. I remember a sheriff ordering a Coca Cola and pouring a pound or so of sugar into the drink. After that the people in Germany appeared no longer fat to me. (Alas meanwhile the Germans have caught up.) 

What were these notions of completeness that had to be abandoned in order to fit ZFC within the framework of first-order logic? Second-order logic (SOL) quantifies over predicates or relations including functions. SOL cannot be reduced to FOL, according to current set theory, because FOL addresses at most a countably infinite set. By the theorem of Skolem there is a countable model that satisfies precisely the same first-order sentences about real numbers and sets of real numbers as the real set R of real numbers. In the countable model there cannot be all uncountably many subsets of N or R and the least upper bound property cannot be satisfied for every bounded subset of R. So, if the real numbers are uncountable, then there must be many FOL models of R. In SOL, however, there is merely one model (up to isomorphism). SOL has a main disadvantage however. According to a result of Gödel's SOL does not admit a complete proof theory. So SOL is not logic, properly speaking. Quine calls it "set theory in sheep's clothing". 

One approach is to claim "process objectivity" as opposed to "outcome objectivity" -- the legal system is organized in such a way that all involved know what the rules are -- legislators get to draft and enact laws, judges get to make decisions in court cases, the lawyers present cases on behalf of people in the courts etc. All of these processes are regulated in terms of rules, laws and regulations, that are objectively specified, e.g. written out; at least in those places where there is the "rule of law". The (written) laws and regulations provide an objective framework within which the legal process plays out, even if individual aspects of that process do allow for subjective judgment calls. The picture I have in mind is that the subjective aspects of the process allow for some wiggle room in the exact outcome within (what should be) a rigid set of objectively specified constraints. I'm more familiar with this kind of distinction in the context of the philosopy of science but should apply in the philosophy of law. 

Cantor can certainly be called a philosopher, whether or not Wikipedia agrees. Cantor published in philosophical journals (Zeitschrift für Philosophie und philosophische Kritik) philosophical and theological questions. Zermelo's edition of Cantor's collected works (Springer, 1932) has the title "Collected works of mathematical and philosophical contents". Cantor himself mentioned various philosophical roots of his work: Ebenso finde ich für meine Auffassung Berührungspunkte in der Philosophie des Nicolaus Cusanus. Man vgl. R. Zimmermann, Der Cardinal Nicolaus von Cusa als Vorgänger Leibnizens (Sitzungsberichte d. Wiener Akademie d. Wiss. Jahrg. 1852). Dasselbe bemerke ich in Beziehung auf Giordano Bruno, den Nachfolger des Cusaners. Man vgl. Brunnhofer, Giordano Brunos Weltanschauung und Verhängnis. Leipzig 1882. He had correspondense with many, many philosophers and theologians, see for instance Georg Cantor: Leben, Werk und Wirkung, Herbert Meschkowski, 2. Aufl. BI, Mannheim (1981) Georg Cantor 1845 - 1918, W. Purkert, H.J. Ilgauds, Birkhäuser, Basel (1987) Georg Cantor Briefe, H. Meschkowski, W. Nilson (Herausgeber), Springer, Berlin (1991). Further he speculated about the real father of Jesus Christ and the real author of Shakespear's works. Of course these topics are not sufficient to make him a great philosopher. But his set theory is enough to make him great - and in fact it is pure philosophy as far as he is concerned: The belief in the possiblility to finish infinite sets, based on the holy bible and the teachings of S. Augustin and other fathers of the church. 

Such a thing a ethics exists within the sphere of international actions. If this seems like too much structure, my question is really about when is one nation justified in taking offense at, and thus taking some sort of response to, another nation's actions. (Note this can go the other way too: one nation takes what should be considered benign/standard actions and uses them as a (false) pretext for their retaliatory actions). I'm talking about elections, and assuming that they are to some reasonable degree free and fair. These require a fair bit of information exchange, which is why I think foreign communications/propaganda are a particularly salient class of actions to consider. I'm mostly thinking about state-level actions done by recognized government actors for political purposes even though in some cases the line between public (governmental) and private actors and actions might be blurred (the United Fruit Company provides a historical example beyond the situation of today) 

are larger impacts, but (in hindsight) these transitions did not seem to be focused on the characteristics of a single species. 

There is a clear no. Transfinite sets cannot have practical applications because of two reasons: First, there is nothing transfinite in the universe, at least in that part accessible to us. And second, transfinite set theory is a self-contradictory system, not better and not more useful than astrology. There is a society of believers in this system who will downvote this answer and who have upvoted provably wrong answers like number theory relies on the existence of large cardinals or cryptography relies on the machinery of Grothendieck universes or Gentzen "proof" by induction to a larger ordinal or the set of real numbers which cannot be distinguished and used but have a well-order. To prove my case for the unbiased and objective reader here is one of many blatant contradictions between mathematics applicable to real science and transfinite set theory: Scrooge McDuck receives 10 $ every day and spends 1 $ every day, always the oldest one of his possession. According to transfinite set theory he will go bankrupt in the infinite limit. This result is crucial for set theory. Without it, the fundamental distinction between countable and uncoutable sets would break down. The argument is simple: For every dollar we can determine the day when it will be spent. The argument is wrong because: For every dollar we know that it is followed by at least 9 other dollars. This is overlooked intentionally because this fact prohibits the exhaustability of infinite sets - a basic requirement of set theory. Of course in mathematical analysis there is only an improper limit: Scrooge McDuck will get infinitely rich. He will never become bankrupt, not even in any limit. Every mathematical statement or theorm that relies on transfinite set theory is wrong or at most true by chance. 

This view relies on an assumption that morality assements are only a function of the moral sentiments of each of the "actors" individually -- in any sensible moral system the sentiments of all sides of the interactions need to be considered. If I give a sandwich to a homeless person he/she (presumably) wants it, and will benefit in physical terms (have better nutrition). If I kill someone because of their religion or ethinicity, they do not want that, and suffer in physical terms. The morality of an individual's actions aren't judged in a vacuum, they need to be judged in relation the other people that are affected. 

I'm going to cast my answer in terms of the badness of death, rather than the value of life. I believe that this does not affect the logic, one being the mirror of the other. Sections 16 through 21 of the Yale online course on Death are probably relevant in this sense. There's a reductio ad abusurdum to indicate that we can't consider all potential intelligent life as equally valuable: there are an incomprehendably large number of "potential people" if you consider all possible egg+sperm combinations between all differently sexed pairs of people (even more if you go out a generation or two). Nobody worries about the lost value in that these potential intelligences never came to fruition (or at least the "value" of any one of these needs to be incomprehensibly small). We need to draw some sort of line, or have some sort of weighting to balance the "value" of these potentials; and that threshold/weighting defines where in the progress from a gleam in your fathers eye to being a fully matured person that we're going to allocate value. Thomas Nagel's paper Death provides arguments that assessments of the badness of death as a form of deprivation need to take into account the past history of the individual in question (he's primarily concerned with people who have become fully intelligent). He argues that (part of?)the badness of death comes from the elimination of possibilities that the person would have had available but no longer does, and these possibilities depend on the entire history of that individual. In my view, this is just another argument that some threshold/weighting needs to be considered but doesn't provide much concrete guidance on where/how to make the distinctions. I'd be remiss if I didn't include the standard, uncontroversial, observation that one person's death can be bad for his/her survivors, through their grief at the loss. For me, this would include even the very earliest stages of the development process: the anguish felt by some people who wish to bear children but cannot, is clearly a bad outcome, even though barely any steps have been made in the progression. I thought that there was somewhere in the Yale course lectures (link above) where Dr. Kagan referred to a theory where the deprivation due to death was due to the fact that humans think about the future. (I haven't been able to locate it.) For animals that don't have this ability, it would be moral to kill (and eat) them, since they are not actually deprived by death (I'm bringing this up since the context of the theory might have been in justifying eating meat, rather than discussions of death). Anyway, if this idea, that death is only a deprivation to individuals that can, or to the extent that they can, form ideas about the future, (a) exists in the philosophical literature, and (b) is coherent, this would provide one possible specific feature on which to base the value judgments. Even if I'm mis-remembering the idea that an individual must possess one or more mental faculties in order to realize a deprivation from death may be an approach to pursue. Another relevant mental faculty is the ability to feel pain; at the very least it's pretty generally accepted that we should avoid inflicting gratuitous pain on entities that can experience it. So it is almost certain that answering this would need to account for multiple features and their potential interactions in terms of "overall value". To summarize: The idea that all potential intelligences are equally valuable seems hard to swallow, so some additional details need to be filled in there. Looking at the problem of "why is death bad" may be a useful approach since this question has been looked at in the philosophical literature (see the Nagel paper and references to/from it).