Volcanoes Volcanoes even today prevent air travel in a large region near where they are active. This should be even worse for early planes as they required clear weather to fly properly, or at least radar. They also make mountains seemingly out of nowhere. These are called Volcanic Mountains, while not the largest will slow down early travel across the land. Volcanoes can be clustered, on earth they are typically at sea in the Ring of Fire but I would suggest this could also take place over land and in a smaller area. The location would be very active geologically but would create a physical barrier to other parts of the world preventing flight and foot travel. 

We can use a see through material at the poles as a green house. Have a see through material like quartz cover the top of the water ice and over time the heat from the sun will gather under it, melting the ice down to the surface. This will make the environment warm. The surface should be an easily drain able material like sand. This way as the ice melts to reveal the ground the water drains down into the earth. This will provide the environment to be dry. The planet will need a 0 degree axis to sustain this and simulate a night/day at the poles. The rest of the planet, and even above the pole it can be a ball of ice making the planet much like you wish. As per one of your comments, this sort of environment will doubtfully create human like species. 

There is an Anime where an fantasy army invades Japan and more or less gets anhilated by modern weaponry. It's called Gate maybe you can get some ideas from there. 

They could cultivate some kind of space animal. Those animals wander through the galaxy and the nomads would follow them. For more inspiration see Wikipedia. 

I'll have a limited space like $1 km^3$ that have (through handwaving) more then three dimensions. But anyone entering it would perceive it as a three dimensional space. A little bit like this video, but more or less a flat version. This results in two people walking around the same tree in clockwise or anti clockwise direction would end up at different positions. What I would like to know is how big is my surface area on which I can walk at maximum inside the multidimensional space. My first guess was, if I have a $1 km^n$ hypercube and ignore height I would have a surface area of $1^{n-1} $. With an 4 dimensional example I would have a surface area of $1km^3$. Unfortunately this is a unit of volume. So my formula is missing something to get $km^2$. I would also assume that the result would be something greater than $1km^2$ 

Child Care In our current world we have a rising rate of single mothers. They require things like daycare, school, and after school organizations to keep their child in relatively safe locations and under super vision while the mother is at work. With most people entering the work force by the end of 6th grade your society would have a higher birth rate than right now. With more children you need a larger child care workforce and what better way then a government subsidized baby sitter who also tries to get your child an education and better job? 

Many weapons made prior to the industrial revolution can be made out of organics. I will start at the bronze age and move forward as that is where metal really began to take hold in military use. 

There is already a company in California doing this (soliculture), they are called "smart greenhouses" and use glass tinted magenta. They claim plants grow just as well in their green houses and have the potential to produce solar power as well. Take a look at this article detailing more about the idea. $URL$ you can also go to their corporate page. $URL$ 

I assume with static you mean you cant post or change things, but you will still get the latest info, like the mysterious disappearing of yourself in the local news. A way to archive this: Your smartphone is no ordenary smartphone, it has special designed OS and automatically generate a VPN to your cooperation instead of your normal access to the internet, you access it through the cooperation firewall. However your cooperation has the policy that posting is not allowed. Any HTTP request other then GET will be filtered. And maybe some other popular Sites. While this would not completely prevent the ability to influence the internet, it could be enough for your story. You would still appear in the logs, everything that uses get to transmit data will work (unless the firewall has some special rules to prevent this, because it is a relay good firewall), but that doesn't mean your character knows this or find such services. Some company also have the rules of no mails on holidays, which would prevent you from writing emails. Maybe after some time someone will notice that your character access the network, and starts communicating with him. Or he will be trapped forever. 

Having a lime stone cave system with a lot of water draining through it to create Stalactite columns should work perfectly for your labyrinth. 

In a normal lifetime these skills take awhile to develop. In a simulation with accelerated speed (2x speed? 10x speed?) people who want to learn these skills put in a fraction of the amount of time. This would be especially important for slow developing adults (some forms of autism need more time to learn soft skills) or business skills like managing. Services A number of services are time intensive, being able to manipulate time would be a very nice ability to have for things like Therapy. Therapy costs as much as it does right now due to high demand and limited time in the day. If we make a 10x simulation a therapist can spend 6 real minutes with someone for 60 minutes of therapy. Other services would be things like reading. Ever want to read that whole book in a single night so you don't have to for a class/course? a 10x simulation would take care of that in no time. 

I think it depends of the initial defense of the wizards. If they posses the Chinese wall which is secured from the beginning, or know they will be attacked, they will probably win. If not and the caveman will lunch an surprise attack, 3,000 people is to few to survive. If the caveman raided the village at night when everybody sleeps, there would be almost no resistance. Most would be killed in sleep or while waking up. The next big part of people die while in panic. The rest dies fighting or fleeing unarmed before they get any weapons. Only a few would be able to arm themselves and effective fight back. To few. In the last scenario I assume the wizards have an open town design and almost no military facilities. Also normal people don't posses firearms. That what I would assume from an peaceful society. Additional from those 3000 people not all are able to defend themselves. They could be to young or to old. And if they have the correct age, they still cold be in a fitness state where they would be no match for an enemy. The caveman on the other side have 100 people per wizard in addition they will most likely die younger and all young and adult men and woman would be stronger and tougher. So for every wizard that can defend there town would be 120 or more attackers. I could image 20 to 50 people to fend of the initial attack, get some firearms and regroup. Even if they use there superior firepower to kill enough caveman so they will retreat, the wizards would be as good as dead. Most likely all children and older people are dead, without some luck all women also. That would be the end. The survivors would soon run out of essential stuff like weapons, food, fuel, medicine or something else. Higher advanced civilizations have an higher specialization of individual. It is not likely that the survivors will have the knowledge in all fields they need to keep on fighting the caveman. Eventually they will get hunt down by the caveman. 

It is socially rude to hold secrets from other people. Your mind linking society grows up learning the thoughts and feelings of others so in a public space they find it rude to have secret conversations with others. This would be similar to texting while out for dinner with friends. Telepathy makes others suspicious of your actions. In a police state no one wants you talking without being heard and even in a free democracy the government wants to keep tabs on it's civilians. As a protection to their personal freedom people speak out load so bugs and video cameras capture the events. The lack of speaking makes the person socially strange. Allowing unfettered emotional contact with any random person is the trade mark symbols of a sociopath who never questions his own thoughts. 

Your people have a fear of the cannibals over the next hill. You kill their tribesmen but once every few years one turns up in your village, anyone who dies could be their next meal. 

How reliably would it work? I would assume that the network would be very reliably (on the higher layer). The question would not be if the message arrives, but when. However interference could delay a message for hours (or days?). What would the expected bandwidths be? I think we can build a network that has enough bandwidth, but I didn't found information on this. So the rest of my answer assumes we have enough bandwidth. Would using it be exorbitantly expensive? I think the network would be quite expensive. However not necessary for the end user. A system wide internet could be subsidized by government and content provider which want to sell there content to the users. That's what happens today in not so dense populated regions to get fast internet there. And how would it actually feel to use such a system? If the user access planetary (his current location) resources there won't be a difference from today. As soon as he actually uses the interplanetary network, however somethings most likely will change drastic. Entertainment Any online game that has real-time interaction won't work. You could still have something like racing against ghosts of other players, simple leaderboards or playing something like chess. Like in the time when you played chess via mail (not E-Mail). Instant Video wouldn't be so instant as long as it is not cached anywhere. Big players could maybe hold a copy of all there content in different datacenters around the system. However if you want to use a service that don't provide this, the question would not be "what should we watch (now)", but "what should we watch tomorrow". So you will request the content and watch it when it comes. If you have an abo for series they will start sending you a copy to watch offline as soon as it is released (maybe still DRM protected). Information News will be as today. You will still be notified but it will take longer. This could result in a trend back to traditional media. If you need to wait several hours for your information maybe you can wait an hour longer for verified information. Surfing the internet from link to link will not work. There could be an indicator how long it would take to load a Link. Is it a local resource or it is already cached. Often accessed sides will (as already today) be cached. But good caching will get much more important. Surfing will often result in I want to read this and that later. On the technical site requesting a Website would not only deliver the site but also other sites of the domain and other linked content directly. Communication We would not use messengers as much. There wont be any direct communication. We will go back to E-Mail, or something similar. Maybe we would write more and longer letters, like in the time where there was no telephone. Communication on websites should change to (in order to be still somehow use full). Forums will need to structure the communication better. You need to know which post related to which other in order to follow the discussion. Some websites will only used locally because the discussions are to fast to allow anyone from far away to participate. Other Sites could use some mechanism to counter this by showing posts only after a specific time they where posted (when the user pressed send, not the server received the post). 

These lime stone caves become enormous, currently the deepest cave in the world is know as the Dark Star, measuring 17km at a depth of 900m. The whole thing is lime stone and not even completely explored. It is known as the underground Everest. 

Health We are not completely certain about all the health effects zero-gravity has on the human body yet, but so far it is not looking good for the growth of healthy humans. This is a major topic for nasa recently who put a man in space for a year who also had a twin on earth in the hopes of finding the most precise changes to his body. The results are not in yet, but the whole article is here. 

Flex your brain muscles Humans have brains that evolved to do some thing well, like pattern recognition , and other things not so well, like risk assessment. Make your magic system use a piece of the brain that it just isn't good at, making your user devote greater amounts of resources to continue the practice. This is your system so you can hand wave an area your humans are poor at understanding and claim your magic requires that they do it. This also gives you the opportunity to explain why another race or species would be good at your magic. 

I would assume a raising popularity of IaaS provider that will replicate your content over the howl system. Even small blogs that currently are hosted in private environments maybe want to migrate to bigger providers. We would maybe also see more toplevel domains that indicate the location, like .us.earth or .mars, .pluto and .sun. The underling protocols of the internet must change drastic as the application the end user uses must change in order to give him enough information what will happens if he clicks this link. Nobody wants to click a link in twitter and sitting there for hours until the site loads. I think log distance communication will feel more like in old days before telephone. There wont be any non local news with live broadcast from the place where something happens. Nobody can ask questions to the journalists at the place. Most likely the information will still be published as soon as it is available. But the livetcker would not be live anymore. 

Planets are gods this one is a bit out there. Say that somehow all planets are sentient beings and can telepathically communicate with the populations living within their magnetosphere. You can describe away earth's monotheistic religions by explaining that was the planet directing humans but once they leave earth and discover more then each planet would be a diety, if to a small portion of the population. This would probably continue until we discover how they are sentient and spread across the universe, or the death star starts to blow them up. 

Carbon Dioxide lakes happen at much deeper locations in the ocean than Brine pools. The depths typically needed are 10,000 ft below sea level as the temperature is low enough that liquid carbon dioxide is denser than salt water and can be collected in pools. There are other ways to make them, like volcanic underwater geysers that release CO2 into underwater holes. Fish take in oxygen rich water in order to breath, and I would imagine spells that allow breathing under water do the same thing, using CO2 lakes the raiders would suffocate underwater, just like they not able to breath with a spell. You would need to hand-wave some of this in order for them to form close to an island but both would work well for defending against underwater attacks. As added bonuses, neither should interrupt ship travel, so normal traders should never even notice it there. Also, due to lack of oxygen Iron weapons dropped by the raiders into either should stay in relatively good condition for collection later.