Karl Popper concluded that we act according to our beliefs. This is really very obvious since what else do we have to go on? This is not a social phenomenon but personal. Our beliefs colour every perception we make and every thought we have. And usually most of these beliefs will be wrong. 

Briefly, the position is this. We have learnt that the exploration of the external world by the methods of physical science leads not to a concrete reality but to a shadow world of symbols, beneath which those methods are unadapted for penetrating. If to-day you ask a physicist what he has finally made out the aether or the electron to be, the answer will not be a description in terms of billiard balls or fly-wheels or anything concrete; he will point instead to a number of symbols and a set of mathematical equations which they satisfy. What do the symbols stand for? The mysterious reply is given that physics is indifferent to that; it has no means of probing beneath the symbolism. To understand the phenomena of the physical world, it is necessary to know the equations which the symbols obey but not the nature of that which is being symbolised. Feeling that there must be more behind, we return to our starting point in human consciousness - the one centre where more might become known. There we find other stirrings, other revelations (true or false) than those conditioned by the world of symbols. Sit Arthur Eddington In Ken Wilbur Quantum Questions 

You ask some great questions. You're speaking of metaphysics in Western thought which Kant sums up beautifully as 'An arena for mock fights'. This statement is worthy of close examination. But nothing you say is generally true of metaphysics, only locally. The debate can be stopped but not unless we pay attention to the formal results of metaphysics. Western thinkers cannot do this since it would bring them into line with Nagarjuna, who with great care shows exactly how the debate can be stopped. Regrettably a common superstition has it that mysticism is not worth getting to know and is wrong about metaphysics in some unspecified way. To stop the debate we have to find the exit from Kant's arena and there is only one. It is to concede that all positive metaphysical positions are logically absurd thus must be judged false. Job done. It really is this simple. The idea that metaphysics is a non-halting problem is only viable for those who reject the solution. The solution is to follow the logic and abandon dualism in all its forms. This is the rational approach. The problem is that at this time the professors refuse to do this since it would mean breaking down the barriers between 'Western' and 'Eastern' thought. I could easily show you how to bring metaphysics to an end. The clue is in your question. You only need to reject all the theories that don't work. But don't expect to hang on to your tenured position. The idea that metaphysics is interminable because its questions are not answerable by science is terribly wrong. Metaphysics is prior to the natural sciences and deals with much deeper issues. Science has very little to contribute. They have different names for a reason. Rather, it is science that needs metaphysics. Hawking more or less concedes the point in an essay called 'The End of Physics' (which used to be online but seems to have been withdrawn). Kant showed the way but few people take any notice. If we stand on his shoulders metaphysics proves to be quite simple. After all, it is a safe bet that only one world-theory is correct and that all the rest will not work. You've noted that in our tradition of thought we have not found one that works so really all that is required is to examine the one it refuses to study or consider. The final result of metaphysics is well-known. It is, in Kant's words, that all selective conclusion about the world a whole are undecidable. In Nagarjuna's words it is, 'All positive metaphysical positions are logically indefensible'. Bradley puts it as 'Metaphysics does not produce a positive result'. How much clearer could the situation be? Even Carnap acknowledges this point as your quote shows. He cannot make sense of this result, but then he is firmly trapped in Kant's arena and seems happy to be so. It is truly weird that you have to ask a question such as this one in the 21st century. It seems rather obvious that metaphysics has a clear result and a definite end given that it hasn't moved for two millennia. All we need do is understand why it ends where it does. The only difficulty is that this would mean climbing over the walls of the Academy and exploring the world beyond. At the level of principles, as the three quoted statements above indicate, metaphysics is a doddle. It allows us to logically prove that the Universe is a Unity. Or, more accurately, it allows us to prove that no other solution is available, which is good enough for abduction. The answer your question is therefore that philosophers in the West (sorry about the geographical stereotype but it's handy) make nothing at all of metaphysical controversies (antinomies, dilemmas, barriers to knowledge, ignoramibuses etc.) while philosophers in the East use them to prove the truth of nondualism and the Unity of the Universe. You pay your money and make your choice... 

There seems to be a confusion here between self and consciousness, as if they are the same phenomenon. It may be noted that the self is explained thoroughly in the Wisdom literature and is not said to be a conundrum. It is definitely a conundrum in modern phil. of mind and in scientific consciousness studies but this is a local problem. Peters seems to assume that consciousness requires a spatio-temporal location which is an odd idea, but maybe I'm misreading him. There is a vast literature on this topic. Among modern writers I'd recommend Alan Watts and Rupert Spira, both of whom chat on youtube, but the discussion in the ancient Upanishads or the Corpus Hermeticum won't say anything different. The mystics have been explaining the relationship between conciousness and the self for at least three millenia now. Whether they are right or wrong is a decision for you to make. Note that mysterianism is the view that we cannot know about these things and as such is exactly the opposite of mysticism. 

This is deep stuff. It is obvious (is it not?) that the past and future do not exist. Thus the present is all. Time would be psychological/conceptual as per Kant and the Buddha. From this we get to the 'Perennial Now' or 'Divine Instant' spoken of by mystics and meditators the world over, which would be consciousness free of time or instant and pure awareness, or the Biblical 'I Am'. The difficulty is that the present has no duration. This means that while nothing can happen in the past or future there's not enough time for it to happen in the present. So to make full sense presentism we must deny the true or fundamental reality of events, which is just what the Perennial philosophy does. Again I would recommend Hermann Weyl as a mathematician well on top of this one. He points out that the intuitive continuum, the continuum of experience, is not extended. It is always Now. It is the mathematical continuum, a product of imagination, that is conceptually extended.