Young woman, your current situation like before as well, is not for sure, can chance even that very moment. So when ever there is something possible to be given, give, at least, just what is given is not lost while short comfort is. How much has been given to you? What can be said as having gained without suffering and sacrifies by others at fist place? Not anything, or? What ever you can do and give without doing something wrong for the sake of your parents is good done. What ever does neither harm one self nor others is always good to use to share. What ever is gained proper and is rightly yours: gain and share with best wishes. Once one has been worse, not a little aware of what has been given without any real need to do it, not even to carry for month, give body and birth. Even if not perfect as it could be, one owes much, not easy to repay. Don't fall into arrogance and greed or even without proper gratidude (as so many people easy become when they are or feel more securce then their previous supporters, yet forgetting that their situation now is also not a lasting, not sure) and it's not wrong to give back with joy and even with more wisdom as having been given. 

Because he/she is an enemy (at least as such perceived), or because one prevers giving what is proper and can be given, maybe...? It would not be of benefit to give without confidence and joy, that what is good for all and praised by the wise. For long time benefit and aimed even beyound, some inspirations: If somebody desiring sharing merits by a more extended answer here and seeking sources to be able, Opening the Door to the Dhamma, also Mv I 15: Upajjhāyavattakathā — The Discussion of Duties Toward a Preceptor/teacher and a collection "Respect and Veneration", might be good "starter". 

It's good to get aware of issues of different kind of equanimity not only because most modern, especially lay teacher, even whole "schools" actually teach the dangerous "household-equanimity". The differernt is btw. actually drawn out in the notes and also in the translators intoduction of the sutta: 

Young householder, since you work on Dhamma and it just bears fruits for one self and others if it is in line with Dhamma, others then the "ordinary" peoples way watching out for fruits and not proper ways at first place: Release and freedom of remorse can be expected when things are given without string to the world personaly. If thinking on "taking on trust" it requires some factors: 

Following just that much, associating with people of firm convidence, one arives at doubtlessness naturally. Is there any reasonable argument not to seek and associate with skillful deeds and those firm with it? So the famous Mangala-Sutta starts not out of reason with the root condition of being really blessed: 

Let my person "answer" with a counterquestion: Does sceptic gives any lasting release and how - for sure such times can remembered - doesn't faith and vision gives more to hold on and to not let oneself fall into a meaningless hole with all it's effects afterwards? At least, here what could be lost aside of rebirth while not living a visionless death life? Who ever could give such a "money back guarantee"? 

If having tendency and possibility, a mind torward right resolve, make use of the possibility of the holly life and even the highest kind of livelihood for your own benefit and that of all others. Of course, again, possipilities and circumstances are different and according to previous action done individually. And at least, there is nothing wrong in "just" eating what ever, especially if freely given and no harm has to be conformed by the act of taking or receiving. Cases are especially in a householders life different day by day and there is no way to generalize best ways outward the pillows given for the holly life, yet they can be adopted in cases, sometimes even good. Trust a skillful heart (mind) when arising and doubt hypocritical ways of thinking, cut them of by simple ways of thinking right here and now when it is actually required. Stick firm by ways of actions in thoughts, words and speech which are not harmful. [Note: This is a gift of Dhamma and not meant for commercial purpose or other low wordily gains by means of trade and exchange.] 

Intetion is kamma and of course a "only" taking in a count that harm is directly caused by ones actions, agreement or even joy within harm, is bad kamma as well. Just merely ignoring things in hypocritical ways does not help one out. If an action harms, simply don't do it. It an action praises harm obiviously and agrees with wrong ways, simply don't do it. If asking your heart might already know the answer. Health and long life and especially a life without much guilty feelings, are not really matters of the kind of food but how it has been gained, how it is received and how food is used as nutrition for live. All beings require food and yet beings are in most cases food or suffer under the gaining effort of it by others. So the more it can be seen as given or abounded the healthier it is at long terms. The lesser careless joy is found in eating but more seen as a need to propable get ride of desire for food at all, just to cross the desert, the more freedom of remorse will be felt. So it's good to focus more on that rather then on any hypocritical thesis. Situations and possibilities are different for all beings but as a human being one has actually a big spectrum of possibilities most animals would not have. Tend to what ever feels best for you and gives you rightly the most less reasons for remorse yet food needs to be used to cross. And food does not end with physical food, and so it's good to always watch out who "gives" and with what intention and strings toward what is dealt. The Four Nutriments of Life might be useful for liberating insight. 

[Note: This is a gift of Dhamma and not meant for commercial purpose or other low wordily gains by means of trade and exchange.] 

The single factors are not to be seen as being abound once reaching a certain but as a coming together of all, like the single supports of a wooden wheel. Of what is finally right effort on even the most subtile levels on knows after the gain of path and fruit. Just this right effort, in simply ways taught by the Buddha to his son will bring one to the final liberation and to develope all needed factors. 

[Note: This is a gift of Dhamma and not meant for commercial purpose or other low wordily gains by means of trade and exchange.] 

It's not very wise to tend to think on making use of (let it be called) system graps and if really on a serious level of going forth, why thinking on certain outwardly ease and comfort, even on possibilities of keeping contact to those left at home. Nothing wrong with leaving home but one should be honest to oneself and really willing to take on certain burdens outwardly. While there might be and are those able to do certain things it's for the most more wisely to make use of the founded society and way to live the holly life by the Buddha and to ordain proper when ever there is still a possibility. Of course it is today hard to find a proper Sangha or even a proper teacher, but by walking honest and giving right causes possible effects are met, sooner or later. Ones defilements can play really good shows to get around things and cheat oneself. So be carefull and truthful to youself, mr and maybe some words might work also in regard of what might be good contained in certain aspiration here. Talk, seeking for easy ways, really walk the talk and such as being really willing to take also consequences are often far from each other. And to correct certain ideas: , if right and true reason, there is no such as a "must in all cases" - situation, yet on the same place it's also not right to speculate with this "system graps" in merely possible defiled preferences of own ideas of what is right and good. At least it is not out of reason why the Uddha wanted his new disciples to have such as a preceptor, teacher and admirable friends for best care of each other around. Maybe good if study the Mahavaga a little deeper, not like a usual system preyer, like very usual especially in social societies, but in real honest ways. To better walk alone if no equal or better is found, the advice by the Buddha, the ways for such are also found if very formal following the Vinayas way. Nobody the Buddha would bind to something somebody not conuctivefor the gain of the highest goal. Of course there will be sooner or later also the time when even such as a proper Bhikkhus Sangha, who could give proper ordination will have dyed out and it's right if seeing that it is no more really easy to trace and find one in line with the Dhamma, Vinaya and it's ancestors. Also circumstances disappear very fast this days and hardly places tolerating a holly live at a large are to be found. What ever might be the result of good and honest proof, especially inwardly, follow the ways which will not be later hindrences and of course better ask those who know and have experiances not only beyound theory but in daily live and ongoing actions. Be sure that while it is possible to cheat one self and/or others even for a good while, it's impossible and foolish to think that the ever working law ofcause and effect could be cheated and a bunch of paramis and merits,not to speak of a real pure mind in ones action are required to walk the hoy live all alone, without making debts at large right from the beginning. May you follow the wise track and never be to proud to approach and listen to theelders and those walking in front, knowing that one can feel always be given of best advices out of compassion. At least one could easily fall into what is called "Affiliation Through Theft" which would be possible a grave hindrence later on. Yet of course going into the homeless state is not a Sangha of the Buddha monopole and of cource a not merely belly and comfort seeking way a "in any case" obstacle, but it's a topic one needs to be very clear and pure about since having possible many seriouse effects if based on even just foolishness or so called naivity, not to speak of "hero" and revolution acts in a way fighting the wise and proper practcing, which is also a very modern and destructive way. [Note: This is a gift of Dhamma and not meant for commercial purpose or other low wordily gains by means of trade and exchange.] 

And possible end up in not having found real refuge again but just a more "comfortable" better more tricky chicken raising farm, with all good for health and grow and good managed, where "non" even able to harm the other. 

And, could you overcome stinginess, now a year later asked back, asked so that you might answer your question by your self and mark it as solved? Share merits or reflextion, of course, works also hard against stinginess and uncover defiled arguments and thoughts. [Note: This is a gift of Dhamma, not meant for commercial use or other low trades and just exchange for the world.] 

A dog is always after his tail. Watch them and learn how ease foolish ideas could be solved and how difficult it is for a fool to get the exit. Some love and prefer the live as Don Quixote and are seeking for their Sanchos to help carry their burdens... [Note: This is a gift of Dhamma and not meant for commercial purpose or other low wordily gains by means of trade and exchange.] 

At least, not as a demand or just to belittle but as a matter of generosity and compassion, Danilo, so that you may have more ease and more doors to good places open in future, to train youself in good conduct, is actually not respectfull, not praisworthy and possible for the most cases a hard hindrance to ask indirect, without reverence and yes of course in certain equal manner. So for normal and strict holding on secure ways, Danilo might not only get any useful answer but also be known, like many, as someone with less virtues not at all worthy of gifts. But again, that is just for you and others grow, being aware that good conduct and proper behaviour is something unknown an utopistic in the modern and internet realms. One might feel free to go into the topic even deeper or to train here, on a given and more proper place. At least most might be really wasted giving, as mentioned in the question, yet for those possible to get healed still. How to foster generosity and gratitude?