A little terminological clear-up, first. 'Practise what you preach' is usually directed to people who tell others to do one thing (give up smoking) but don't act on the advice themselves (a doctor tells her patients to give up smoking but smokes regularly herself). I'm not sure I'd call this 'hypocrisy'. I see hypocrisy as the self-conscious deception of others. The hypocrite talks and acts in ways meant to deceive others. She pretends to have beliefs, motives, intentions, that she does not have. Not quite the same thing. But I take the question to be about hypocrisy. The final paragraph of the question is dominated by it. If there has been a rise in hypocrisy, there is a connection with the rise of individualism, both liberal and existentialist, as a virtue. (A diverse pairing, I know.) The ideal of the individual as living authentically according to her or his own values, and not automatically heeding conventions and customs, and deciding that if you don't respect some practice or institution why pay it the tribute of hypocritically appearing to esteem or approve of it ? Consider an example : How many gays pretended to be straight in 1918 ? 1938 ? Now when gaylife is widely - I don't say universally - accepted as an equally valid lifestyle, especially by gays themselves, appearing to be straight seems an imposition and an inauthentic way of 'being in the world' as Heidegger might say. If you're 'glad to be gay', why pretend you're not ? Unless of course you live in a homophobic culture but I assume otherwise here. There is, I'm pretty sure, a link between the rise of this kind of humanistic or Enlightenment individualism and a decline of hypocrisy at least in select areas of life. Philosophically the influence of Kant, with his idea of the self-legislating individual who follows laws she or he has adopted autonomously and not from custom or convention, deserves mention. Such an individual has no reason even to pretend to be what others want him or her to be. Sartrean existentialism coincides with much the same line of thought, though the influence of Kant even on persons who have never heard of him has been much greater. Yet another kind of individualism has played a part in the decline of hypocrisy- the egoistic individualism of homo economicus in which each pursues his or her own interests regardless of those of others - or takes account of others' interests only in order to further his or her own. The egoistic individual is disconnected from any traditional social order, customs and conventions. To the extent that we do not belong to a community we have no motive to pretend hypocritically to respect a community's values. Communal values of fairness, care or sympathy are not worth even simulating. I am describing a point of view, not endorsing it. Yet we see this kind of individualism at work in economies where, for instance, CEOs award themselves disproportionately to company performance or to the salaries of staff further down the ladder. There is not even a straight-faced attempt to justify the disproportion. A hypocrite would at least pretend that the disproportion was fair. This is not a general indictment of CEOs, just a pointer to the egoistic individualism of some. 

I think you are skidding on 'your'. They are only not 'your' thoughts in the sense that they have been externally induced (without your knowing it). But they are still 'your' thoughts in the sense that you have them. However they came about, the thoughts are within your consciousness and hence are 'yours'. ▻ DESCARTES AS A THINKING ENTITY 

This is a thought-provoking question. The essence of lying is an intention to deceive, though not all intentions to deceive involves lying : if I deceive you by impersonating someone, I have not lied to you. For the sake of a little more rigour one might define lying like this : 

If it isn't a bicycle, what is it ? I think the definition should more accurately read : 'a thing of a type used for transporting people or goods, especially on land, such as a car, lorry, or cart'. That would still leave your 'bicycle' a bicycle even if it were permanently locked out of use. In general things should be defined in terms of their inherent qualities or capacities, so as to exclude conditions they might be in - contingent conditions - that block the exercise of those qualities or capacities. It's a teasing question, glad you asked it. 

It depends on what you mean by 'can'. Logically, I suppose this is possible. There is no contradiction in saying 'X is a new branch of science and it is utterly new', i.e. without precedent or prefiguration in existing or previously existing science. Historically and empirically, there are few or no absolute beginnings in science. One science emerges from another. I think this happens in two broadly different ways. ▻ Revolutions in a field of inquiry create new conceptual schemes Think of physics. There is the physics of Aristotle, then the physics of Ptolemy, then the physics of Copernicus, then the physics of Newton, then of Einstein, then of quantum theory, now of string theory. In each case a conceptual revolution occurred that created in all but name a new science. And each revolution happened because of perceived defects in previous theories. ▻ Progressive refinement What starts out as a gross, undifferentiated subject matter breaks down into sub-inquiries : in physics, for example, astronomy, dynamics, mechanics, optics, and any number of other fields progressively emerged. New fields of inquiry separated themselves as distinct groups of problems were recognised. But they all developed from existing inquiries. ▻ New combinations Plainly the intersectional or bridge disciplines such as bio-chemistry, bio-physics, &c. could only emerge from pre-existing sciences. 

I have in general had difficulties with the series your first book belongs to, if that's any consolation. You could try : Dermot Moran, 'Edmund Husserl: Founder of Phenomenology', London : Polity, 2005 (ISBN 10: 0745621228 / ISBN 13: 9780745621227). This has a chapter on the CM. Other chapters also throw light contextually. There's also Joel Smith, 'Experiencing Phenomenology: An Introduction', London : Taylor Francis, 2016 (ISBN 10: 0415718937 / ISBN 13: 9780415718936). Husserl & CM only have a chapter but (though of course you must judge for yourself) it's fairly clear. Husserl is not the most lucid of writers, as you will have found, but these two references might help. Good luck ! 

One problem with falsification as an alternative to verification is that the falsification itself needs to be verified. If my hypothesis predicts A in conditions X and the outcome is not-A, the hypothesis has only been falsified if the outcome not-A is verified. If we can't verify that not-A has occurred we can't tell whether the hypothesis has been falsified. 

No - on four counts. ▻ FIRST-ORDER SUBJECT PROMPTS PHILOSOPHICAL QUESTIONS I should say that the study of philosophy as a sole course is losing its appeal and rightly so. Historically the best work in philosophy was done very often by thinkers who were involved in other matters and turned to philosophy in order to elucidate problems in independent fields - Descartes, Leibniz and Russell all turned to philosophy to aid or clarify their work in science or mathematics, for example. They did this not just for interest' sake but because their first-order inquiries raised problems that turned out to be philosophical. One can go back further, and further afield : Aquinas was a theologian who, within theology, hit rock bottom philosophical problems. Croce in the early 20th century turned to aesthetics and the philosophy of history because in his experience of art and his practice as a historian, he encountered problems that could not be solved or even addressed within art and history but only in the philosophy of these subjects. It seems to me that mathematicians and scientists - Polkinghorne, Penrose, Raymond Tallis, three that come instantly to mind - have genuine and deep philosophical interests that have stemmed from their professional work. Their involvement in philosophy is a counter-argument to decline. I can cite a personal example. One of my students, a choreographer, was drawn into philosophy because she wanted to know how far she could vary the performance of 'Swan Lake' and it still remain 'Swan Lake'. Whether she solved the problem, I don't know but she had run slam into a philosophical problem, that of identity. I can't see this kind of process of being drawn into philosophy as a by-product of one's interest in something else ever stopping or much increasing or declining. ▻ FIRST-ORDER SUBJECTS AND PHILOSOPHY COMBINE It is not possible to do the philosophy of mind any longer without a reasonable scientific knowledge of the brain and central nervous system. Philosophy detached from or empty of such knowledge is just mental chess. Equally political philosophy, a very different field, needs to be informed by theories of rational choice and the theory of games drawn from economics and strategic studies. Philosophers can contribute some conceptual finesse and facility in argument to scientific teams working at the intersection of science and philosophy - in regard for instance to the status of 'folk psychology'. It strikes me that much published work is intersectional. Is one reading a scientific (or scientifically inspired) text on the brain or a work in which scientific concerns and philosophical questions meld ? It's often hard to say and not worth asking. ▻ SCIENCE AND PHILOSOPHY - THE BLURRED FRONTIER There have always been scientists, from Newton to Brian Cox, who do not feel the need for any engagement with philosophy in their work. But consider the case of Einstein, mentioned here before. His work on space and time - or space/ time - was both physics and philosophy. Physics and philosophy were related as opposite sides of a curve as he not only did physics but in the process revolutionised the concepts of space and time. From this viewpoint it's otiose to ask whether he was a physicist or a philosopher. In his work this was a distinction without a difference. I might add that this site is replete with philosophical questions relating to quantum mechanics. I see no decline in the number of such questions. Their overall quality is another matter. ▻ PHILOSOPHY AND CRITICAL THINKING Critical Thinking courses abound in schools. There are more than ever in the UK. I don't straightforwardly equate critical thinking and philosophy. Critical thinking involves problem-solving, making decisions, learning new concepts, spotting fallacies in arguments where the subject-matter may be of very little if any philosophical interest. Equally there are problems in philosophy such as the definition of truth, the validity of the concept of causation, the old question why there should be something rather than nothing, which require more than (just) critical thinking. None the less the boundary between critical thinking and philosophy is fuzzy. I've taught critical thinking and haven't been sure at times whether what we were doing was critical thinking or philosophy. At points the two activities commingle. In this regard, if critical thinking is flourishing then so is philosophy where the two intersect. 

If I act out of my first-order desire to harm the puppy, then I am morally responsible for my action. If I act out of my higher-order, reflective desire not to act out of my first-order desire (which higher-order desire Frankfurt calls my 'free will') and accordingly do not harm the puppy, then I am equally morally responsible for my action. I can't see how the level of desire on which I act makes a difference to moral responsibility. To put the point another way, it is my uncoerced desire-based intention that produces the action in both cases. This intention is the ground of my moral responsibility. It is not so much the case that Frankfurt dissociates free will and moral responsibility; rather, he connects moral responsibility with acting out of my uncoerced desire-based intentions whether the relevant desires are first- or higher order. I had better add the rider that I cannot speak for Frankfurt; I am setting out the position to which I think his argument leads. I can't see how he can avoid that position. If others can, this is an open forum. 

You do not offer an analysis of causation or, more particularly, of the opaque phrase, 'simply its causal factor'. No implication of moral blame follows from a merely causal statement. Let's talk in terms of events, a reasonable convention in causal analysis. A fell over and caused B to break an arm : for convenience let's also give the events the same names : A caused B. A caused B only if (i) A and B occurred and (ii) A was necessary and sufficient, in the circumstances, for the occurrence of B. No moral judgement, of blame or anything else, follows from this bare causal analysis. There are no moral terms in the causal description, therefore no moral conclusions can be deduced from it. It is perfectly possible, of course, to offer a different analysis of causation. Feel free, anyone, to go ahead. But the principle will still hold that from a mere statement of causal relation, no moral conclusion follows. In terms of the question, there is no logical derivation from being a causal factor to being open to blame. An attribution of blame needs at least one extra premise, a premise containing a moral term. E.g., 'Anyone who breaks someone's arm by falling on them is morally to blame' - but there could be no such plausible moral premise. 

If examinations can be justified, I doubt if it is terms of some single aim. I have myself set more examination papers (in philosophy) than I care to remember. I can't avoid the platitudinous : the aims of my exams were to test accuracy of knowledge, to assess judgement (so I looked for fairness and balance in an answer) and, least important, expression. These three criteria don't sit in easy harmony with one another. What to do with the answer that shows truly impressive accuracy of knowledge yet is one-sided, not balanced, but brilliant ? If these criteria - perhaps others have better - define the aims of examinations, those aims are only imperfectly served by any actual examination system. 1 The examiner can only hope to assess a cross-section of what a student might know. No examination paper can cover the whole syllabus or module. It is a matter of no small chance whether for a particular student the 'right' questions come up. I have myself sat both lucky and unlucky exams - exams where I got the questions I had prepared for and others where I didn't. Say, two 'good' questions and several horrors on a single paper. There is always this element of unpredictability and (good or bad) luck. 2 The examinee quite often faces the worry whether s/he has understood the question. (In one exam I realised half-way through my answer that I had completely misunderstood the question. I cancelled everything and started again, just managing to organise my material in time.) 3 Then there is the worry whether the examiner will read the answer as intended, understand the exact point the student is making. 4 Finally - at least here - there's the worry whether memory will work fast enough, or whether you are answering questions in the most 'efficient' order (don't tackle your weakest questions first, they will or may well undermine your morale), and the sheer worry whether you can sort out the essential from the less relevant or irrelevant in time. Time is a dimension of terror in any exam. Because of these imperfections in any exam system, I think the golden age of the exam is over. Increasingly exams are supplemented (if not replaced) by course work. But this, though a good idea, brings its own dangers of undetected plagiarism and undue help from fellow students or even, it must be admitted, instructors. So, to wrap it all up, exams are not pointless. They serve the three purposes I outlined at the start. But points 1 - 3 can well induce scepticism. I know : I've been there. 

You are referring to what are usually called 'self-refuting' statements. These can be of different types : 

Probability is relative to evidence. It think it would be going too far to say that there is absolutely no probability of God's existence but that's really beside the point. Which is that there can, could or might be zero - absolutely no - probability of God's existence on given evidence or 'current information'. Yet unless the concept of God involves a logical impossibility, God's existence is still logically possible. Zero probability (on current information) is consistent with logical possibility. But, of course, it's open to you to include the logical possibility of God's existence in 'current information'. But if you do that, the probability of God's existence on current information is, ex hypothesi, not zero.