A black hole is effectively a bottomless pit because as something falls closer to it the relative time slows down and approaches zero. As long as the object being dropped into a black hole does not collide with anything else on its way then it will effectively fall for the entire life of the black hole which is/may be infinite (depending on which theory you follow). Although a black hole is not technically a hole, it does provide the ability for something to potentially fall for an infinitely long period of time. 

I'm going to say that this depends on what definition of "thought" you want to adhere to. Conscious thought or unconscious thought? Certainly every feeling or action taken by a human is preceded by some function of the brain (and/or reflex mechanisms, muscle memory, etc). Is every feeling preceded by a conscious thought? No. Is there an unconscious function happening between a stimulus and a resultant feeling? Yes, and this is also sometimes followed by a conscious thought which can also precede the feeling but may happen after the feeling has been triggered. To use your example of feeling afraid: If a bear jumps out in your path and growls at you, you will very likely feel afraid faster than you can consciously think about your situation. However, as soon as you are able to gather yourself (assuming you do) you may also begin to have conscious thoughts about this event which lead to feelings. Another example: Some feelings and reactions, either through repetition or other means, can become learned and automatic. Like a child learning to walk they will think about every step until eventually they can walk without consciously processing their every move. If you are able to have a single feeling as automatically as you can walk, then your answer is no, every feeling is not required to be preceded by a conscious thought. 

The only way to experience perpetual "any feeling" is to continually have stimuli that cause that feeling and said stimuli must also adapt to your own bodies ability to get used to its environment. Example: A certain smell that is pleasant is constant. You will eventually get used to that smell and stop noticing it. In order to keep noticing that smell it must continue to grow stronger as you continue to get used to it. The same is true for any feeling that is a result of any certain stimuli. So, if your stimuli is constant, then you will eventually get bored with it. Conclusion: It is not very likely to be at all possible to enjoy permanent "any feeling", whether that feeling is good or bad. 

There is an idea, an a fair argument can be made in its defense, that the entire universe as we know it is simply some kind of simulation being done by some unknown and vastly superior intelligence. Evidence that leads to this idea is that the closer you look at the inside of an atom the more you begin to realize that there is no actual physical size to anything in the universe. That is to say that everything is made up of points in space that exhibit properties like gravity, but they have no physical size (like a video game simulation). Inside of a proton is smaller particles that are so small they may possibly exist merely as points in space reacting with neighboring points in space as their properties dictate. Combining this idea with our own consciousness is a bit offensive to some people, but you only have to imagine the idea of a program/simulation that is so complex that the program itself believes that it is conscious and has free will (exhibit: Lt. Commander Data). Once you admit the possibility that such a thing can exist outside of yourself you are then presented with the question of whether or not it is possible that we ourselves are examples of such complex programs. It is certainly an entertaining idea in the least. If such an idea were to be valid, it would also imply that a "god" exists as the creator, but this entitie's intentions and abilities however, still cannot be known. 

I believe this to be an improper appeal to authority. In this case, what I mean by authority is more akin to reputation. Since authority and reputation are similar ideas. Your friend is using their previous reputation as defense against any current or future claims to the contrary. Another example similar to this is outward honor, where it is more important to be viewed as honorable by others than to actually be honest and honorable at all times. This idea is often combined with might makes right forms of defense against character. Classical nobility and southern pride are popular examples of this tactic being used. In classical nobility: a noble, by virtue of being noble, is incapable of committing such crimes. In southern pride: it is somehow possible to defend one's honor (or sister's honor) - after the it has already been shown to be lacking - via a fight. The example of classical nobility is more akin to the actions of your friend, but I included the southern pride example for thoroughness. 

To add to @AndrewC's answer (which I think is quite correct BTW): I would certainly pick any person out of a lineup if I thought with 65% probability that it was the correct person. That person is not necessarily going to be convicted of the crime in question, they still must stand trial and be found guilty beyond any reasonable doubt. I would, however, tell the police how sure I believe myself to be when/if I pick someone out of any lineup. Even if I were 100% sure, I would still say "I am 100% sure" rather than simply point the person out silently with my finger. The only thing that would keep me from choosing is if two people in the lineup were fairly close. Lets say that two people looked similar: I would tell the police that those two look really similar and I cannot confidently choose one over the other, but that I think it is possibly either one of those two. The police may not like that answer, but it would be the truth. To your point about any difference between men and women: no, not one difference to me. Picking faces out of a lineup is picking faces out of a lineup. To your point about picking someone out face to face: that is a whole different thing. It depends on other factors like does this person have a reputation of killing witnesses and/or their families? That is a whole separate topic all together, to which I have no good answer for. 

I do not think it is possible to imagine something outside of your previous body of knowledge. Even the greatest inventors and most creative writers base their ideas on things that they have already experienced and then they imagine new expansions on top of them. Consider that we know there are some animals which can see the infra-red spectrum while humans cannot. We have infra-red cameras, but they project their data into our own visible spectrum so that we can see it with our eyes. So, there are no humans who know what infra-red actually looks like (technically there have been a few, but they cannot convey those images to us verbally). Can you imagine what it looks like? It has to be outside the realm of every color you have already seen. Can anyone imagine something outside the visible spectrum? 

(As @chris_Sunami pointed out in the comments, this question is best fitted in the academia site, but since it is here I will give it a go anyway.) Having a time limit and a word limit should compel you to limit your answer to a specific point about the topic. If you believe the topic is too broad to fit into 550 words, then pick a single aspect of that topic to focus on. As you mentioned, yes, certainly you can (and possibly should) explicitly state your intent as an introduction to your answer. 

In regard to your updated question where a person desires to kill but holds back until an opportunity arises to do so legally and with a social benefit: does this not apply to some percent of military persons and police? In other words: a person has an innate desire to kill, but they choose to do so only when deemed appropriate per their own interpretation of what is socially acceptable. If it has been deemed appropriate then it is also morally correct. It sounds like what you are describing is an anti-hero. 

ethics != emotion There are examples of ethical behavior that might still cause a negative emotional response to some people, notably the greater good argument it still hotly debated on both sides. So simply removing emotional attachment would have little or no effect on the ethicacy (that has to be a word) of a person's choices. Even in a universe where everything can be repeated and the consequences are marginalized they are never eliminated. Doing unethical things is still unethical even if the consequences are small. The only way to completely remove any concern for ethics without consequence to anyone is to isolate your choices from effecting anyone outside yourself. So in your theoretical universe where we have infinite chances to redo everything, if one person kills another they are still behaving unethically because they are causing that person to have to restart and do everything again. This could possibly go on forever, in which case is becomes severely unethical and torturous to do this to someone over and over again for eternity.