I'm reading "Cognitive interpretation of Czech verse" by Pavel Jiráček about a way to analyze poetry by reading how the consonants, syllables and words conotate "up" and "down". What is the best broader term for those kind of theories? I guess I need a version for dummies. 

After long googling, I'm still not sure what does this theory think about the origin of language. Does it really state just: "There IS some kind of mysterious connection but we don't know what's behind it."? Or does the "natural resonance" in human actually refer to the "concept of the word" - ("kiki" is made of short and intermittent sounds)? I'm sure Müller doesn't actually refer literally to sound resonance. 

I'll really appreciate an incomplete answer or an online literature recommendation since I understand this is a very broad question. 

Is there a website or a study I could find a detailed list or net of priming connections between words? Here's how I imagine it: 

Listen to those Indonesian words. The sound is very clear and native speakers agree with me it's way better than the voice of English Google Translator. I doubt Indonesian speaker uses more advanced technology than English, so what's the difference? 

What term should I use to describe the branches of linguistics studying a specific language or language family such as "Chinese philology"? Is it possible to call it "regional linguistics"? 

I've just read about the Saussure's second primordial principle that states that language is linear. This is sometimes interpreted as the notion of one-dimensioness of language. The second dimension indeed doesn't usually play a significant role in language, since written language is perfectly legible even without intonation and stress. Is there a language that has this second dimension? Here are two examples I'm wondering might be the case (you don't have to include them in your answer): 

The phoneme g is not original in Czech and is present only in foreign words. There is an official grammar rulebook declaring the inclination in locative case to be "ž" or "z", however I feel like phoneme "dz" would fit much better, even though it's not even a letter in Czech. Example: The mages are fascinating. We talked about mages. Official translation: Ti mágové jsou fascinující. Mluvili jsme o mázích. My suggested language: Ti mágové jsou fascinující. Mluvili jsme o mádzích. Example2: We use tags. We talk about tags. Official translation: Používáme tagy. Mluvíme o tazích. My suggested language: Používáme tagy. Mluvíme o tadzích. 

I only know English as a language aside from classes in Spanish and French and the typical stuff learned through movies and the like. To people who are multilingual, is English the most descriptive language? I wouldn't be surprised if it's up there but I never really hear of other languages having such a diverse vocabulary. To be specific, I mean how many different ways of expressing a thought. For example, I know "ja" means yes while "jawohl" is a very-affirmative yes. Now I don't doubt there are more variations of it and not knowing much German, I can't really say. I do know in English, you can say things such as: yes, sure thing, absolutely, affirmative, and at once. I've also noticed that when looking for translations, I'll sometimes get the same results for two similar phrases or words, hence indicating that maybe there isn't much of a variety in vocab for the destination language. EDIT: The idea of asking wasn't to boast about English at all. And of course of all the languages both past and present, it's nearly impossible to get a definitive answer. But all I'm asking is in one's own experience, is it at least a plausible assumption. It's not something we can actually quantify or qualify, but something we may gauge roughly. 

I think it is as simple as historical, gender bias. Men have pretty much always taken dominance in societies, especially in roles of power (politics, religion, warfare, business). When one would think about humans (man) and their contributions, one would almost be referencing men. Man has built cities, man has cultivated crops, man has conquered lands, man has mapped the stars, etc. Women have been seen more as a side role to men, here to serve, to bear offspring, not to learn, work, or command. I speak not out of personal belief, but from what I know of history. Of course, every society isn't and hasn't been like this but vast majority have and are. A simpler solution for modern times as to why it hasn't changed might be because we are lazy, at least as far as English goes. Man is easier to say, write, and type than 'humans' or any other variation. Three letters is all it takes. This also eliminates the need for an additional, new word. Same reason why people use 'they/them' as a pronoun for a person which the gender is unknown, because it's easier than saying him/her every time. It's easier to say 'man' than humans or man/woman. PS: I think my first argument might help explain why 'brotherhood' takes prevalence in most forms when used as opposed to brother and sisterhood, especially since there isn't specifically a gender-neutral form of the word. Same with fraternity, as it can be used to describe a group of males with bonds or group of people in general, with bonds. As far as student Greek organizations go, fraternity can be male-only or co-ed whereas female-only will only be a sorority. Ultimately, it's one of those words that requires context to determine if one is talking about men or men and women. Unfortunately, some people require the use of something completely gender-neutral choices or both gendered iterations, which many are too lazy to do. 

Tonal languages. Is the use of tone in those languages often enough so that the languages could be called two dimentional? Click languages. Are the click consonants in click languages such as Xhosa being arranged so that they play a role of a standard phoneme, or can they play the role of the second layer of information? 

I'm learning Indonesian and I was telling myself it's great for an anthropologist to be able to aproach so many aboriginal languages in the group. Though, I'm not really sure if this could be a real thing. Is it possible to communicate with local tribes in Indonesian. I know Indonesian is still being used more like a formal language (most of the Indonesains speak it as their 2nd language). 

I've read several studies about sound symbolism and I'm still not sure whether I got an insight into the topic. I know that today's view of most of the linguists is skeptical towards sound symbolism to the extent that most of the words in the most of the world languages do not resemble the sound of the word but there are many antonyms that could resemble their meaning in the contrast of the neurological or the vocal human cognition system. Though, even though we could find resemblances between the words and their meaning in our studies, their interconnectedness still might be theoretically a result of the shared "convention", an old trait of language perception shared among the earliest languages. But let's say a study found a significant above-random correlation between words' meanings and the meanings guessed by people from two very distant language groups. Is there a non-negligible chance that this correct guess could be actually caused by the shared root of the proto-human language? 

This problem's going through my head for a while. Take Indonesia - everybody speaks fluently Indonesian there but Indonesian remains a second, "official language" for most people anyway. In Canada, there's​ a huge percentage of bilinguals - but even though French and English affect each other and create neologisms occasionally, they seem to remain two very distinct communication systems (I have no references for this). Though, do languages merge together or tend to merge together when coexisting in an area for certain time? 

I find building interlinear gloss for Chinese to be difficult without any sort of reference material for what to call different grammatical particles etc. Is there such a reference available online? 

The first type of similarity, phonetic and lexical similarity, can be measured using an edit distance metric, for instance the widely used Levenshtein distance. This basically uses an algorithm to determine the number of deletions and insertions of characters one has to make to get from the first word to the second word. The more similar the words, the smaller the edit distance. This is usually considered a quite simple and straight-forward thing to do. Semantic similarity is a different beast. Now we are no longer interested in how a word looks on the surface, but what information a word brings to the table, and even more important, how to quantify this difference. This is a very active research area called Distributional Semantics that has been looked into in the computational linguistic community for at least two decades. Recently, this has also become popularized through the deep learning community, but now called word embeddings. The basic idea is that you can represent a word as a vector in a vector space, and having words of similar meaning to be close to each other in this space. The words get their place in the vector space by having an algorithm reading large corpora and taking note of the context of each word. For instance, we can expect tea and coffee both having the word drink as a common neighbor and therefore this makes the distributional semantic model place them close to each other in the vector space. This works well for some words using some algorithms some of the time, but there is still a lot of work to be done here. 

What I take from this, is that structural linguistics no longer has any relevance in modern linguistics. Is this the full story, or are there fields which still consider structuralism important? 

I'm thinking of doing some measurements on readability in various tasks, but looking through available readability tests was somewhat like falling down a rabbit hole. What are the most used ones, and are there any especially well used on academic text and papers?