As possibly some of you remember early computers had very small human-machine interface and coding programs was done by cards like this one: 

Although I think this question seems to be out of scope of this group, I'd try to answer to make it more fit. If you are interested in genealogy, and ever had created your family tree, you should have noticed that your ancestor had more children than we do (at least in Western culture). Having 10 children was nothing unusual. If you look deeper, you will notice many of them died being infants, so not so many survived to their adulthood. Of course the reason is poor condition of past medicine. The development allowed us to live longer, healthier (not only medicine counts, but eg. washing your hands before eating), and thus happier (also because it's easier to get a car or brand-new smartphone). However, the theory of evolution (in simple) says that the weaker organisms shall die, while stronger will survive and multiply. The theory says it's not good to say "weaker/stronger" or "worse/better". The organism that fits better its environment, is better, but we can't say a crocodile is worse than an elephant only because an elephant is a mammal. They are equal, because they live. If a crocodile is not fast enough to hunt an antelope, it will starve to death. If an antelope is not fast enough to escape, it will be eaten. If they die, they won't multiply and bad genotype will be lost. The same applies to humans, of course. We could harness the nature using weapons (against bigger animals), tools (against flora) and medicine (against smaller organisms like bacteria or parasites). The development of religion and ethics made us think that human life is always worth to protect. This is of course against the evolution theory which says that only good organism "is" protected and the worse should be (I'm sorry) eliminated. The development of medicine made us weaker than people from the past, because bad genotypes were stored because we've invented penicillin, we managed to fight some diseases. We are less immune if compared not to all people from the past, but to all from the past who managed to reach their adulthood and have children. Probably, statistically, if we take all people who lived then (also those who died young) and compare with all living now, we are healthier. But shouldn't we compare only those who survived? The development of antibiotics allowed to kill many bacteria, but those which survived, are stronger. They need to be killed with stronger antibiotics, but this also weakens us. You may also notice, when talking with older people, that they managed to live in stronger climate (eg. colder winters), and they are doing pretty well now, while we have civilization diseases like allergies. We are not able to climb a mountain that 80 yo. person travels twice a day. 

TL, DR Read this article, this one, this one, or this one (I understand some of them are popular science and should not be considered as a scientific source). Maybe you'll google more articles on the same topic. So answering your question: there are many theories leading to a conclusion, that men from past would manage to live in our times better than we do. 

This was the capital city of Poland in medieval times, one of largest and richest in Europe. The green lane around the Old Town is called "Planty" and marks the medieval border of the city (city walls). I tried to mark all churches there, but I'm pretty sure some are missing. These are only Catholic churches, but Protestant and Orthodox do also exist. Some of them might be a bit newer (Renaissance), some of them are churches of Orders. In Polish Wikipedia there are statistics of demography of Cracow. Until 19th century there were ca. 20 thousand inhabitants, reaching maximum in 1530 (30000). Of course these people did not live only inside city walls. Today in the Stare Miasto district live 40545 people (source). The District area is however about 3-4 times larger than the Old Town itself, so let us assume that inside the City Walls lived about ten thousand people. I marked 18 churches inside the city walls, which gives about 500 people per parish. This number is reasonable, however not when you realize that St. Mary church can hold about 3000 people at once (my own observation). I assume that other cities in Europe have similar numbers. What was the reason of building such large churches with such density? Was it only ad maiorem Dei gloriam? 

In the movie Enemy at the Gates there is a moment when Nikita Khrushchev comes to take control over the Soviet forces defending Stalingrad, even making previous commander commit suicide (is this true?). As I am not much interested in WW2, and I didn't know about his role in the battle. I did some research, and citing Wikipedia article about Khrushchev: 

First, he is still some honoured citizen (HC) in some cities. Here is a Polish news he is still HC in Szczecin (Stettin), there is nothing to do with this, because law does not specify how to take his HCship back. But Szczecin was of course German city, like Wrocław (Breslau) or Olsztyn (Allenstein). If Free City of Danzig can be considered as "outside Germany", he was a HC of this state (Polish Wikipedia). One interesting note is that (again citing Wikipedia) 

There surely were German forces in the southern part of occupied France; eg. there was a submarine base in La Rochelle. The Wikipedia article about the city says: 

It is not only historians who decide. Usually, the "Allies" call such themselves. For example, you refer to World War I. Please remember, that on the very beginning there were two blocs: Triple Entente (France allied with Russia along with United Kingdom, which was not allied to anybody, except the Commonwealth), and Triple Alliance (Germany allied with Austria-Hungary, along with Italy, which was allowed not to fight against the UK). Because later the Triple Alliance had been increased by two countries without Italy, making Germany, Austria-Hungary, Ottoman Empire and Bulgaria, they referred to themselves as Quadruple Alliance (refer eg. Treaty of Brest Litovsk, articles 2, 5, 6 and so on). The other countries were called the Entente (without "triple", as more countries joined, mainly Serbia, Belgium, Italy, Romania and the USA, but also eg. Portugal and Japan), but as far as I remember, there were no official term "the Allies" for this (they are called "Allied and Associated Powers" in The Versailles Treaty, but this is to distinguish them from Germany, the other party of the treaty). Calling some countries "the Allies" is used when they are different from one another (they have different locations, different language etc.). This applies more to France+Russia+UK than to Germany+Austria. So using "the Allies" for them is more language-friendly than for these German countries (even if A-H was a multi-cultural country, it was more German than any other, even Hungarian). Germany and Austria were considered similar and it was somewhat natural in 1938 during the Anschluss. During Napoleonic wars it was analogous, as France had only vassal allies (Duchy of Warsaw and the others were conquered or forced in other ways to join), while Great Britain, Prussia and Russia (main opponents) fulfill the "requirements" to be "the Allies" as they are different from one another. The same applies to WW2, with UK, France and Poland having at the beginning mainly one opponent (Germany) along with her minor vassal (Slovakia). I would say that using the term "the Allies" depends on how different the forming countries are. If they are more similar than the other side is, they are not the Allies. It can be also affected by British Commonwealth which can be considered as a worldwide alliance with countries like Australia, Canada, India, South Africa and several more or less independent lands. So it is easier to call a bloc with the UK as "Allies". Also, the United Kingdom, liked the term "the Allies", to express her independence from other countries. They are allies, equal parties of a treaty, but it is a form of good business. The treaty ends and they are not allies anymore, and any other country can be, even a former opponent. This attitude dates (with some exceptions) since the end of the Hundred Years War, and was given a name "Splendid Isolation" in 19th century. That is why it is somewhat natural now to refer the "UK-side" as "the Allies". However, in my opinion, all of this should apply to WW1 only in common language, as "the Allies" were in fact the Central Powers.