There are some letter archives from WWI: $URL$ $URL$ $URL$ $URL$ $URL$ $URL$ $URL$ As another example, you can read the letters of Cicero. 

Most emphatically, Himmler (or other top Nazis) was not against mass murder. On the contrary, by the time the memorandum was written, the Einsatzgruppen had already murdered at least 65,000 Jews (as others have noted in their answers/comments here already). However, it does seem to be true that at that stage Himmler (and other top Nazis) did not consider outright mass murder as the only way to "solve" the "Jewish problem". What Himmler writes later on in this document is: 

This has been the standard approach in modern historiography, as far as I can tell; it and in fact it was espoused already in the 17th century by contemporary pundits and columnists who were then called Arbitristas. Of course this paradigm found an able challenger in Henry Kamen who argued in an interesting paper that paradoxically, Spain did not decline because it never actually rose economically. Instead, he asserted: 

Today I saw in a museum a row of coins minted by Roman emperors. The last four coins were of the follis kind, belonging to Constantine the Great, Constantius II, Anastasius and Justinian I. . The picture I took is not very good but one things is clear: the latter two coins (the Byzantine) are much larger than the former two (the Roman). Is there a pattern here or just a coincidence? Perhaps the relative value of the follis with respect to other denominations has changed and so its size had to change too? Or is there some arcane numismatic reason for this? 

As far as I know, later emperors are not known to have engaged in any such activity. But Svetonius' next sentence is even more striking: 

Is his rendition of the facts correct? That is - is it true that the democratic Weimar Governments declined to publish WWI documents which revealed that Germany was actually defeated? If yes, is there information why they took such an apparently illogical decision? 

Basically, you've given the answer yourself in the question: handwatches were a very rare thing in Soviet Russia at the time and it is small wonder that they became the soldiers' favourite trophy, especially since handwatches were highly portable and could be kept by the soldier himself. As to why handwatches were so rare in Russia - well, that was a special case of the exclusive focus of Soviet industry on military and dual-purpose hardware. This was a conscious decision, made by Stalin and laid into the cornerstone of the Five-Year Plans (especially the first one). In other words: this was a deliberate choice by Stalin of guns over not only butter, but also over decent bread, so to speak. He was preparing full-steam for large-scale war - as early as 1928 (!) - at the conscious expense of the citizens' level of living. This was debated at the 14th Communist Party Congress in 1925 during which Zinoviev and Sokolnikov proposed a more gradual development of Soviet industry, focusing on "light industry" and presumably a greater focus on consumer goods. Stalin however accused Zinoviev of being an imperialist agent bent on promoting the Dawes Plan and duly carried the day since he already had the party machine behind him. Sokolnikov, shuffled from Finance Minister into an array of second-tier jobs tried to fight a read-guard action against Stalin's approach: 

Well, Napoleon's empire and his satellites were born out of the French Revolution and presumably in his first years in power as First Consul, before he became emperor, he might have well retained some of the revolutionary rhetoric. (Did he actually? It'd be a good technical follow-up question). However, once he became emperor, Napoleon didn't seem to have much use for revolutionary language or ideas. As you correctly point out, he was an absolute monarch himself and did not seek on principle to dethrone other absolute monarchs; instead he married the daughter of the Austrian Emperor. So I am a bit hard-pressed to recall examples where Napoleon or his minions claimed that "they were revolutionary forces fighting a revolutionary wars" - what did you have in mind? Another telling example (for which, alas, I do not have a reference at the moment) is that Napoleon did not even conceive of offering Russian serfs freedom when he invaded Russian - arguably the only political move that could have allowed him to achieve victory (of course, actually winning his battles there also could have helped....). 

Greece has been subject to many many invasions since the 7th century and there must have been a serious mixing of peoples. In a similar situation, we do not usually consider the French or the Germans to be lineal descendants of the Romans. So can the modern Greeks be said to be actual descendants of the ancient ones? P.S. Just to make it clear, I have no political axe to grind or anything, just curious. 

Unless I am very much mistaken, he has his favourite ancient Romans in mind and their method of holding and policing territory by veterans' colonies. However, I do not recall any instances of medieval or Renaissance colonies of this kind which Machiavelli might have had in mind. Indeed, he gives no illustration of his colonies advice, while he copiously illustrates other advice with contemporary examples. So I wonder if I missed some cases - or perhaps Machiavelli was being here more of bit of an antiquarian? (like he is a lot of times in his Art of War) P.S. My wife suggested one great example - the Ulster Plantation. But probably Machiavelli was not sufficiently clairvoyant to know about it. 

General Pichegru was a famous French Revolutionary military leader who had won great victories in 1795. And then, all of a sudden: 

What could have the author had in mind? He seems to ascribe to Palmerston a positive agency of some sort in removing Louis Philippe but I've never seen such a claim in other sources. Perhaps he means that Palmerston failed to support Louis Philippe in his hour of need when revolution against the latter broke out, but then, again, I cannot imagine how Palmerston could have materially helped the French King to hold on to his throne. So am I missing something or had D. Thomson committed a Post hoc ergo propter hoc? 

I've found one contemporary source in the university library but it seems to be extremely biased. It's a slim 30-pages brochure called "The Poles in Germany and the Germans in Poland" by one George Kurnatowski, a political science professor from Warsaw, published in 1927. Prof. Kurnatowski is strenuosly trying to show that the Poles in Germany are persecuted and oppressed while the Germans in Poland are treated with respect and are given protection. As one would expect, he cites many outrageous examples for the former contention but is very light on details for the latter one. He cites no sources (such as newspapers) so it's hard to factcheck or verify anything. Still, you might find this useful. There is also a large bibliography which surely contains interesting material. 

There is another perspective on this, which is suggested by the historian Mark Solonin in a speculative 2009 article. The article is a long, wide-ranging and detailed one so I'll summarize the major points of his arguments, as I understand them. The wording is mine and so is the presentation: 

Such estimates have actually been made. Roger Bagnall in a recent book writes that the price of a sheet of papyrus was "something like a quarter to a third of the value of the food for an active adult for a day". Or, to put it more succintly "a sheet of paper cost you as much as a hamburger". (p. 134). A similar estimate (probably derived from the same sources) is quoted by QuintusCinna Cocceius from a book by Harris here: 

This is a complicated issue. One thing seems certain - there was no law against exposure of infants anywhere in Greece, in particular in Athens. (Unlike, say, in the late Roman Empire where such a law was promulgated in 374). It was certainly done occasionally, but whether this was a prevalent or a fringe practice in Athens is a matter of much scholarly debate. Most of the evidence seems to be literary from myths or Attic comedies and so subject to widely varying interpretation. Archeological evidence is not likely to turn up (for 2 reasons: (a) there was no central dumping place like in Sparta (b) not all exposed infants died, more on that at the end). John Boswell summarized the debate in detail in footnote 96 in his book The Kindness of Strangers: The Abandonment of Children in Western Europe. I've read La Rue Van Hook's 1920 article that he mentions and it does show that earlier authorities posited a widespread custom of exposure without sufficient evidence. Note that we are discussing classical Athens here; for ca 150 BCE La Rue Van Hook quotes Polybius who does indicate that exposure had become widespread. A more recent scholar, Harris, writes in his 1994 article: 

This sounds rather upright. But I am wondering, however, whether other candidates except Sulla and Metellus, his crony, were allowed to - or dared to - stand in that election. Is something known about this? My suspicions are further heightened by this passage in Appian: 

Actually, for a brief span of seven years there was such an army (or, strictly speaking, a corps) - the Palmach, founded in 1941. Its officers wore no special insignia (and in fact, there were no ranks in the usual sense, only command-titles such as "platoon commander"), got the same pay as the privates - and ate together with them. This all makes a lot of sense if one recalls that the Palmach, while an always obedient non-political arm of the Haganah and the Yishuv was also a sort of self-conscious brotherhood, steeped in a rather radical socialist ethos. Indeed, in a famous headcount in 1948 Ben-Gurion (not quite an impartial observer, but still the figure seems to be valid) estimated that 60 out of the 84 top officers of the Palmach were members of the radical-left Mapam party. (For a somewhat different, culturological, take on this point see here). Towards the end of 1948, Ben-Gurion, striving to establish the nascent Israel as a properly constituted state (he called it ממלכתיות, which can be very roughly translated as "stateness"), forcefully integrated the Palmach into the IDF. Notably, the Palmach veterans were very incensed about the introduction of British-style officer messes, rank insignia, and separate pay grades for officers (one such letter is cited on pp. 176-7 in the book בראשית by Michal Tzur). However, their egalitarian system was probably incompatible with being part of an organized state's army and had to go, whatever were its merits. Even so, this source indicates that joint officer-men meals persisted in ex-Palmach units for a while: 

Most probably just a myth. See here for a detailed analysis of Aristotle's actual writings on the the issue, and the ensuing debunking of the myth. 

Did they have Irish estates? Did members of the family visit Ireland? Did they have strongly held and/or publicized views on issues of Irish politics? (like Home Rule) 

Indeed, as @TomAu has said, the evacuation of the Czechs (and Slovaks!) was handled by the US government, which also presumably paid for it. I found a Romanian article about Victor Cădere, a Romanian diplomat operating at the same time and place with a similar objective: evacuation of Romanian nationals. This article provides some valuable information: 

But Claudius II's full name was Marcus Aurelius Valerius Claudius Augustus and his brother Quintillus was Marcus Aurelius Claudius Quintillus Augustus (note the weird absence of Valerius). No Flavius there! Of course, if the whole thing was invented after Constantius's own time, retconning it properly might have been too complicated. Maybe Constantius just liked the sound of the name Flavius? 

An interesting article in History Today by Katherine Weikert is devoted to this very topic. The three examples studied in depth are: 

What was the matter with him? Why did he change his allegiance? He originally came from a peasant family so I doubt he could have had much genuine affection for the ancien regime. And his rise was through the Jacobin faction - not a likely breeding ground for royalism. Nevertheless, his later career and sad demise do evince a sustained effort on behalf of, if not genuine belief in, the royalist cause. Was it purely personal ambition? Was he trying to play Monck? Was he trying to play Napoleon before Napoleon was a thing? All the books on the period mention "Pichegru's treason" but everybody just seems to take it for granted. 

As explained before, these pipe dreams of Himmler are referring to an East already cleared of Jews. So, he is holding forth about the various Slav peoples here and comes to the conclusion that mass-murdering them might not be practical after all, and perhaps not very sporting. Even such a "courtesy" is not extended to the Jews. 

Well, in 1946 the Italians voted to abolish the kingdom and create the republic, basically because the monarchy was tainted by association with Mussolini. Italy's monarchy was a stronger one (in my estimation) than the East European ones but still it couldn't weather the storm. I have the impression that in Eastern Europe the real prestige of the monarchies was not very high, the people did not resent them so badly as to oppose them as long as they were in power but on the other hand few cared deeply enough for them to work for their restoration. This might have had a lot to do with the monarchies being mostly young and created by foreign powers. You seem to assume otherwise in the question - do you have sources for this assumption?