Earth initially got its oxygen from the Great Oxygenation Event, which was a period in earth history when photosynthetic life began to flourish and change the chemistry of the atmosphere. If this planet underwent something similar then you have all the pieces in place. With a large oceans you have plenty of space for that oxygen producing life to maintain a oxygen rich atmosphere. 

If your goal is sealing the wound then low pressure may also help work. A pressure lower than 6.25 kpa or .9 psi also known as the Armstrong Limit is when the boiling point of blood is equivalent to body temperature. As the blood in the wound boils it's temperature will rapidly drop causing it to freeze, sealing the wound. Probably not the safest option, but it ought to work. 

Yes Knowing well the defenses of this planet an adversary would not attempt to sneak in. They would go with full frontal assault. Machines are susceptible to electronic attack, specifically focused electromagnetic radiation or EMP strikes. By virtue of being autonomous systems, their sensors will be vulnerable to attack because they can't be under the EMP shield. Additionally, the encryption key(s) is a weak point too. Encrypt it all you want, but a quantum computer can make mincemeat out of an encryption scheme. Unfortunately for you, the radioactivity from the star will interfere with communications, which means broadcasting at a higher power or with error correction wich is all good news for anybody eavesdropping. This is, of course, assuming that the system doesn't destroy itself as o.m. pointed out. 

No Our biologies are likely to be so radically different that in their own environments each species has home field advantage. On Earth our microbes thrive, on their world, their microbes thrive. Even if our microbes could pose a threat, there is no way that that would be slaves would not be quarantined/studied first. If some microbe on/in us posed a threat or vice versa, they would know about it and enact a measure to deal with it. We even practiced this, Apollo Astronauts were quarantined upon their return from the moon for example just in case. Unless... What follows is not impossible, just extraordinarily unlikely Because our biologies are so different it is possible that they may misidentify a pathogen. I'm not saying they are going to miss a flu virus or an E-coli bacterium because if they can travel the stars they can pick those out. They just might miss a Prion; which can be thought of as a super simple virus though that's not quite right more of a misfolded protein. It's a (single?) protein that when introduced to the body behaves like an illness. Here is how they may miss it: a Prion may be indistinguishable from any other protein in the body because the only flaw is it is folded wrong. The alien scientist may assume that it is part of our biology or miss it all together because it's a single molecule. Now, our biologies are almost certain to be radically different, but the building blocks may not be. Ammino acids have been found in space so it's not unreasonable to think they may share many similar molecules. Which means that Prion they missed could be compatible with something on their home world and * just might* be the source of illness. Even then, probably not. 

If you really want an animal like a machine, it's easier to build the machine like the animal rather than make a machine that the animal can use. Update in light of modifications to the question. It's still more practical to just build machines because there is no training necessary, just program and go. The machine could use the space that would be taken up by its animal operator to be more powerful/durable than an animal could ever be. 

Yes/No To answer your question directly, yes a powered exoskeleton would be able to augment the natural abilities and potentially make animals them more useful. However it would not be very practical. Building a machine around an animal is very challenging in its own right. Then you have to power it and train the animal to use it. Also, if you want the machine to be able to move with the animal to keep balance, for example, it is going to have to be every bit as dextrous as the animal. It will also need one heck of a sensor array to monitor the animals' movements to keep up with it. Sure, an animal could be trained to cope with the difficulty of operating a less dexterous machine, but that is time-consuming. Boston dynaimcs has already created robots that can balance themselves. 

Climate is hard Firstly, it is hard to accurately predict the effects on climate an event has because all of the influences are coupled with one another. Changing one may not result in the behavior that is expected because all the other influences become affected too. The earth's climate is a self-regulating system change one thing and other things change to counteract it. This process does take time. I'm going to assume that the water is dumped rapidly and that it comes out at average ocean temperature. The Melting Antartica contains 26.5 million cubic kilometers of water, which is over half the freshwater on earth. Melting all of it will result in a sea level change of ~60 meters. That's bad new all it's own, adding all of that water rapidly will cause catastrophic flooding. This document from the UN cites that about 40% of the worlds populating lives within 100 km (63 miles) of the ocean. While not true for the whole of the earth, but here in Texas a sea level rise of ~60 m moves the coast inland at least 150 km. So it's safe to assume that %50 of the world's population is at risk. The pour Adding the water quickly will cause a mega tsunami on a magnitude likely never before seen on earth. Every coastline on the Atlantic will be inundated by a wall of water hundreds of meters high that will wash inland for hundreds if not thousands of kilometers. Unlike a traditional tsunami who's open ocean height is a few centimeters this thing's wave will be enormous even in the open ocean literally like the waves on Miller's planet in Interstellar. I find it unlikely that any sea-going vessel in the Atlantic would survive, submarines might fair better but I certainly would not want to be on one. All fixed platforms will be ripped from their foundations and the land surface of all coastlines will be blasted clean. Results will vary, but anyone that is not well up a mountainside or in the interor of a content will likely not make it, the casualties will be catastrophic. Sloshing It will take time for all of the water to distribute itself across the earth, during that time it will slosh about. In some areas that will produce massive tsunamis and in others it will appear to drain the ocean. Given the volume of water and the amount of energy involved it may take weeks to stop. This effect will produce irregular patterns of destruction across the earth, spelling danger for places that may have otherwise escaped the sea level rise. Now it gets bad All that freshwater will wreak havoc on the ocean's ecosystems. I can't say for certain the salinity change, but it may be enough to kill off large amounts of marine life. Possibly enough to collapse the ecosystem. The change in sea level will kill every established coral reef on earth. In the aftermath, there may be a massive algae bloom dues to the massive aeration, mixing, washing of nutrients from the land, and the stirring up of gigatons of ooze formed from the accumulation of marine snow. Relieving the pressure from the ice sheet will cause a rapid rebound wich may contribute to overall global volcanic and seismic activity. All the fresh water disrupts the Thermohaline Currents, not to mention the sloshing. These currents are responsible for distributing heat across the planet (that's why Europe is temperate), without them you may have triggered an ice age. This is a very real risk because no currents coupled with the algae bloom (wich pulls CO2 from the atmosphere) and the cessation of a significant fraction of human activity means the poles get colder. Less salty water freezes easier so the north pole at least will be enormous, even if it's ice sheet ended up in Siberia during the pour. More ice means reflecting more sunlight means cooler temperatures. This may cause an ice age or not. Hurricanes will be worse because the heat near the equator no longer ends up near the poles as easily, which equates to more fuel for them. These new found weather patterns will cause areas of extreme rain and areas of extreme drought. I would put my money on a cooling trend overall up to and including an Ice Age. Other things to consider 

No An object that size simply would not block out enough light to be detectable. If we assume a sun-sized star then the surface area of its disk is $1.5\times10^{12} \text{ km}^2$ and your ship at its largest apparent surface area is $200\text{ km}^2$. Which means it would block $1.3\times10^{-8}$ percent of the light, which is well inside the noise coming from a star's brightness measurement. Here is an example of what a light curve from Kepler would look like anything not planet sized would be undetectable. Here are some examples of a light curve from the link. Three different transitioning planets are shown here. Notice how the measurement jumps around from environmental noise. 

When in doubt Nuke it Far and away the very best way to easily bring destructive energy to a hostile object on the moon is to nuke it. Deploying personnel and equipment off earth is already extremely challenging, getting it safely to the moon more challenging still. Also as of right now, most spacecraft can't even get a large payload meaning people, life support, and weapons to the moon. Nukes are relatively light and heavy lift rockets are very powerful. The falcon heavy for example could deliver a 16-ton payload to Mars so it could easily be repurposed to deliver a dozen nukes to the moon. Strap an MKV like guidance package so you can aim a little and your threat on the moon is toast.