All good points and things worth thinking about, but these are going beyond the five precepts. The precepts are intended to take you to a point where you can examine all of your behavior to see what is skillful, what leads to affliction, etc. But the precepts shouldn't be redefined to also include these new things. This would only lead to divisiveness between people as one person preaches getting rid of coffee and others disagree. Remember the Buddha refused to make vegetarianism mandatory for the sangha, even though the killing involved in eating meat can easily be seen to pertain to the first precept. In the case of coffee, I could see a person getting riled up by it and possibly being less able to control their mind, being quicker to anger, etc. If this is the case, then it should certainly be examined, and perhaps that behavior should be abandoned, but this is not covered by the fifth precept. 

There are Uposatha days, wherein one makes increased effort at following precepts (either being more conscientious of the five precepts or temporarily adopting the eight). I gather that there is often more deliberate meditation or study as well on these days, in addition to precept following: 

Take a look at Ajahn Lee's autobiography, page 16 and onward. His practice slackens, he grows disillusioned with being a monk, and he begins an obsessive debate within himself about whether to disrobe or not: 

From an academic perspective the wikipedia article "Tath훮gata" has good information. According to wikipedia: The word's original significance is not known and there has been speculation about it since at least the time of Buddhaghosa, who gives eight interpretations of the word, each with different etymological support, in his commentary on the Digha Nikaya, the Sumangalailasini: 

It is correct that a stream-winner will not not break the five precepts. On the other hand, that is not one and the same as perfect morality. As an example, from Mahasi Sayadaw's Manual of Insight: 

Yes, people are known to reach enlightenment and even full liberation without any knowledge of Buddhism or use of teachers and guides. In my opinion, thinking, "What I practice is the only way," is a form of pride and a way for people to hold themselves above others. 

If it is accompanied by tingling limbs, tingling lips or minor headache it can be a sign of hyperventilation. It can also be a feeling associated with detachment and depersonalization. Here is a scientific study, albeit with only 6 participants, that confirms meditation can induce depersonalization. It talks about treatment for depersonalization but personally I do not consider it a bad thing and instead part of the meditation experience. Here is a .pdf that is more in depth: The Circumplex Structure of Depersonalization/Derealization 

If a practitioner of mindfulness has experienced cessation/fruition should they use the memory of that as their anchor or should they continue to use the perception of the arising and passing away of kalapas? Or does focusing on either one of these cause the practitioner to develop different skills? 

There is no benefit to accrue to anyone except personal actions that lead to the ending of suffering. Someone killing a pest doesn't "benefit" you, it gives you some short-term sensual pleasure--the pleasure of being outside and feeling a cool breeze without a determined gnat landing on your face. Or the pleasure of eating food/drink without having to pay for it. But these are certainly not permanent pleasures, nor ultimately fulfilling. Instead of worrying about who did what action and what pleasure resulted, try thinking about why you think superficial pleasures like these are beneficial? So long as a mind thinks these are good things worth pursuing, it will pursue them. And for the comment underneath you, also about killing insects: 

So I've been a Buddhist since around 2007, but I've never been to a temple. I don't think I've ever actually met another Buddhist. I just go by what I read in Bodhi's translations and Thanissaro's lectures and practice on my own. A few months ago, I started working in Raleigh, NC, and my drive home now goes right by this Dhammayut temple (map). It's only something like 8 minutes out of my way. I had called their number a few years ago and asked if--I forget what I said specifically--something like do you have any services? (I may have said "Sunday services." Ack.) The response was something like: 

Together they refer to one's mental processes as a whole. Separately, what are they and how are they different? 

From my own understanding of the Maha-Assupura Sutta, after abandoning the five hindrances the practitioner enters Jhana. After having obtained Jhana the practitioner works on insight. On abandoning the five hindrances: 

Given these different approaches, how can an individual decide which they are most suited to follow in order to revert the chain and where in the suttas can each approach be found? 

This is oftentimes an intensely debated precept. Yes, the fifth precept is understood differently by different people, i.e., sometimes people interpret it to mean abstaining from all drugs or all intoxicants. It usually always includes abstaining from intoxication and heedlessness from alcoholic drink though; some people may interpret this as allowing them to drink in moderation. If I had to guess, the person that was responsible for putting those Buddha statues in that bar thought they were cool and has no idea about the precepts. 

The Golden Buddha, officially titled Phra Phuttha Maha Suwan Patimakon, is the world's largest solid gold statue. What is the justification for such a statue? By justification I mean, what reasons would the Buddhists who created/use the statue give to explain why keeping gold (often seen as a sign of wealth and power) as a statue is right; as opposed to using the money from melting it down and selling it to buy meals for the homeless or others in need. 

Big long word happily rendered as "beer-cider-carelessness-intoxication-condition" by Kare. This is talking specifically about fermented things like beer, wine, etc. Neither coffee nor tea are fermented, nor do they cause heedlessness. I've heard of monks drinking tea. (I've heard of monks smoking too, which I think isn't forbidden by this rule, although perhaps by others) It's all well and good to look past the behavior prohibited by the precepts to see what further kinds of attachments you have that can be abandoned, but not, I think, at the cost of going back to change the meaning of the precept. But I do occasionally see attempts at redefining the precepts to be stricter than they are. Take Sulak Sivaraksa's reinterpretation of the five precepts: 

It doesn't seem to match the equivalent Pali. Is there a system that they're using, such as shoehorning the Thai tone rules into English syllables? Or are they just making it up entirely? 

Then there are other various holidays and festivals. I'm not sure if any of the other holidays involve increased practice or not. Some seem like they would just involve paying respect to the Buddha (Vesak) or monks (Kathina Ceremony). 

I gather from reading around that the rising/falling pitches that appear in Pali chanting by Thais is due to the tones in the Thai language. But when I see English-language chanting by monks from a Thai tradition, they still have rising/falling tones. See excerpt from the Abhayagiri Chanting Book, with the tones marked: 

You need to also recognize that what is impermanent is stressful and what is stressful and impermanent is not self. 

I am not referencing any suttas for this answer, it comes from my own experiences (I am not an arahat). One who has obtained nirvana can choose whether or not to experience pain and can choose the level of suffering that is associated with that pleasure or pain. Having obtained nirvana an individual has the ability to reside beyond pleasure and pain and it also gives them complete understanding of pleasure and pain and things can not be understood without being experienced. After some research, Sakalika Sutta: The Stone Sliver talks about how buddha cut his foot and endured the physical pain. 

According to the Maha-Assapura Sutta a practitioner abandons the hindrances before working on insight. Practice samatha meditation until the five hindrances dissipate. 

"The mind inside" consists of the mental states of desire, aversion and ignorance. "The mind outside" consists of these same mental states but now they have attached to something outside of ourselves. For example, being angry would be an internal mind state. Being angry at something would be an external mind state. 

Can next path start without being skilled in fruition attainment? For example, if I am able to advert to A&P but not able to advert to fruition, is that proof I am still reviewing the last path, or can it be that I moved on too soon? Sorry if this is convoluted, I am looking for an actual answer as opposed to a non answer. 

Not having children will not stop those beings from being reborn. There are plenty of other organisms to be reborn as on Earth and there are other realms like the Deva world as well. 

The entire population of humans could all die and be reborn as insects today and it wouldn't appreciably increase their overall number: adding six billion to 10 quintillion doesn't even amount to a tenth of a percent. So removing the human path as a rebirth target does nothing in the way of removing suffering. 

There are those traditions that disregard pursuing an "ultimate reality." In Tools of Perception (and mp3), Thanissaro says: 

But what I found was that after considering this table of past lives, I would see an insect landing on my face (trying to collect water, I guess) and I would instantly think "this is what I may be born into" rather than "what an annoyance this is." So I think this kind of experience has to do with the Buddha wanting you to view every kind of sentient being the same as any every other kind of sentient being. This is contrary to what we tend to do, which is separate beings into various kinds of classes of beings, some of which are acceptable to kill with a fly-swatter and others, which aren't. 

The term Hinayana's usage is confused at best. It's mostly used now as a synonym for Theravada along with some other early Buddhist schools, but some people think Theravada needs to be specifically excluded from that group. From Pali Buddhism, Hoffman/Mahinda: 

Buddha probably thought buddhism was the best approach, or else he would have spent his time promoting something else. The idea of "learning from life" makes me think of learning based on the rules of the society a person is born into. Most societies are deluded. It is more unlikely to just have an epiphany one day and realize this than it is to follow a set of instructions that have helped people have this realization for thousands of years. This way of approaching life and escaping delusion exists without "Buddhism"; someone can figure out to follow the same approach as a Buddhist without ever knowing that Buddhism existed. This is why individuals can escape samsara even when the teachings have been lost. In the same sense, a person could rediscover algebra... but think how much easier it would be to just go to school and be taught algebra. 

Individuals may experience nirv훮na as an object of mental consciousness. Certain contemplations with nibbana as an object of sam훮dhi lead to the level of non-returning. At that point of contemplation if the individual realizes that even that state is constructed and therefore impermanent, the fetters are destroyed, arahantship is attained, and nibb훮na is realized. With regard to nirvana, a distinction is made between a person's experience of nirvana during their life and after their death. These two aspects of nirvana are described as: 

In this last link, one of the posts as dhammawheel.net mentions, very apropos of Bodhi's comment on Spk: 

Let's say you're studying pottery and throwing a vase on the potter's wheel. Your teacher comes over and says "Too thin. This will collapse in the kiln." The teacher has not predetermined the destruction of your pot, merely used his accrued experience and skill to predict an outcome. Presumably the Buddha knew enough to predict who would be a future Buddha, how many future lifetimes they would have, how many centuries the dhamma would last after his death, etc. 

I feel it's probably true that only some portion of the people throwing around the term Hinayana actually intend it to cause damage, the rest use it because what other term could you use? You can't just use "Theravada" for everything non-Mahayana and non-Vajrayana. I find myself coming around to the view expressed at the end, of viewing the term without the derogatory baggage. Because people often translate Hinayana as "inferior" vehicle, and of course that was the original intent, but I believe it literally means "smaller", which doesn't have to be an insult. The Buddha's concern in the Pali Canon does seem to be individuals, personal action and personal liberation from suffering, not the grand salvation of the universe, extraterrestrial Buddha fields, cosmic Buddhas, etc. It is indeed a smaller vehicle by comparison.