Castles, like any fortification, are designed to project power over an area and at the same time resist being taken over. What makes a castle different from a "base" or "bunker" or other fortification is crenelations, arrow slits, moats, double gated archways. These are all things designed to protect counterattackers and make it really hard for ground-based troops to enter. You said these castles have force-fields and anti-air defenses (anti-ship, missile, energy beam, god-rod, etc.). Well, once it's clear that air assault will not work, an attacking commander may well switch to ground-assault. It may be that force fields can deflect an energy beam, but maybe they can't stop a physical slow moving object (like a foot-soldier). So, perhaps high-tech weapons have cancelled each other out enough that old-school D-Day style frontal assault is the only choice. And what would be really handy when you've got thousands of armed troops running at you? Crenelations, arrow slits, moats, and gates. In reality, though, I would think a CIWS would take care of just about anyone coming at you. And those things are scary automated. So, to be fair I guess the foot-soldiers would have to have some pretty good armor. Totally doable. 

Note that a relatively small Mongol army was able to control a huge territory through sheer terror. If you resisted, at all, your entire village would be slaughtered. As a result even when the main army moved on the conquered population remained submissive. 

They pull into orbit. Analyze our broadcasts to work out universal translator software. Broadcast out a signal. "We intend to build this outside Jupiter. Here are advantages for you. Here is the license we require from you. Here is what we are willing to offer in return" in every language. From there it just becomes standard diplomacy and negotiations. The aliens as you describe them are not actively harmful to earth so would probably agree reasonable terms and then move on. The UN would no doubt be paranoid and do a lot of arguing but the simple fact that the aliens are willing to deal in the first place rather than just move in without permission would be a huge sign in their favor. After all if they set up anything they liked around Jupiter there really is nothing we could do about it! The ripple effects through earth society though at confirmation of alien life, and potential scientific or other breakthroughs that come from the contact, would be huge. That is where the main effects would be. Even if the aliens don't sell us any technology as part of the deal we're still going to learn a lot just from seeing what and how they do. Sometimes just knowing that something is possible is half of the work needed to find out how to do it. 

Don't Use (Astrological) Periods So, as others have said, calendars are typically based on solar cycle or lunar cycle. Once you've got a year, you can chop that up (you don't have to have 12 months) into finer and finer pieces. Even the second and minute were initially defined as fractions of the solar day. Key to this is that the year repeats when the sun reaches the same point in the sky. It's periodic. Why not have a culture that tells time purely linearly, not cyclically? For example, in Star Trek, you have different planets with different orbital cycles, so why would Vulcan agree to a time system based on Earth's rotation around the Sun? Just find something that ticks off consistently (like Earthicans currently use a certain number of Cesium 133 vibrations) and start counting those off. Don't Use Any Periods Or, you could be totally fugazi and not even use a consistent time marker. Like a fanatical culture that measures time by the heartbeats of the Emperor. The rightful Emperor wears a (pre-industrial) chest monitor that wirelessly updates the Central Time Net or something. And everyone lives by that because he's the gd dmn freaking Emperor. If the Emperor gets nervous or excited, literally time speeds up for that empire. Yeah it seems stupid to us, but we just don't know how deeply the Emperor loves us (yet). You could also get Game of Thronesey and not really have constant seasons. Like, what is up with Summer and Winter lasting different numbers of years? That could also explain why cultures on the same planet would invest vastly different systems. Who Even Cares? Of course, you could also have a culture that lives on "island time," which is to say, they don't really pay much attention to time at all. Like, time is measured by how many spliffs you've smoke that morning. (Sounds good to me.) 

As already mentioned the Asteroid Belt is a solid choice. The other obvious choice is the moons, rings and general orbits of the gas giants, you have huge amounts of raw materials and energy available and the option of both gravity wells and free fall for people and industry to take place in. 

No. To be more specific, no single substance could have such drastic but controlled effects, at the very least you're talking some sort of viral particle with new DNA to inject into your system. Just changing the DNA is not enough though, your body needs time and a lot of it to regrow into the new configuration. Assuming someone managed to package all the information needed to complete the transformation to the final form while staying alive then you're still taking a long time (weeks at least) for the transformation to happen. The moral of the tale? Don't take drugs from strangers... 

@Alexander von Wernherr comment to the original question is apt. Not only are prey animals adapted to avoiding a fight instinctually (generally speaking), but physically as well. A hare that was about 5' 10" and 185 lbs would have two big front teeth, and some claws, but most of that 185 lbs would be in its massive hind legs. A rabbit does not kick as part of its fighting. And here's one reason why: A rabbit's skeletal structure is overall much lighter compared to predators (because it is built for speed), and shatter relatively easily. Femurs sometimes break just from jumping. Fighting is not winning for a rabbit. Its eyes are set more to the side of its head with almost 360 degrees of view, but no binocular vision -- which is real handy when you are trying to bite (or punch) something, especially a moving thing. You can't just scale up things and get equal return for size. If you take the long, light and thin leg bones of a rabbit, and you make them even longer, and attach about 100 lbs more muscle weight to it, those bones may no longer be able to take the stress. The bending stresses may be tolerable when the bone is only two inches long, but if they are going to be two feet long, then the proportions and the density have to be beefed up. A good example is engines used before the Wright Brothers; they were simply not able to output enough power to carry their own weight. Bigger engines put out more power but they weighed more too. It also ate a lot more fuel and generated a lot more heat. A tiny engine is less likely to melt itself. That same engine fifty times bigger actually might. Making things bigger increases the advantages but also increases the disadvantages. A timber wolf, on the other hand, has every advantage. It is a sleek killing machine, not a fast grazing machine. However, even a 5' 10" rabbit could still kill you or a wolf if it got a lucky bite in. So size alone would make it more dangerous for the wolf, but all in all the wolf is built to kill, and a rabbit is built to run. 

Microbes could survive inside the shielded areas and underground and then re-colonize the outside even if none survived on the surface. It will take longer for larger lifeforms to emerge but some could well have survived, and again if not they will re-seed from the shielded areas. Radiation and heat will naturally return to normal over time. Wait a few centuries and everything will be fine on that measure. The reason for the humidity is that you evaporated all the oceans, so where did all that water go? You need to somehow get rid of all that water from the environment. The options really are: 

The icon now exists with a meaning of its own, that is getting steadily more and more abstracted away from the thing it originally represented. So in the future a phone symbol will still be used to represent a phone, it may get simplified or stylized further but it's already pretty simple so even that is unlikely. The save icon is definitely likely to have that happen though. 

Retrovirus! A retro-virus inserts its DNA into the DNA of the host cell. Usually that is a regular somatic cell. However, it is theorized that retro-viruses can also insert their DNA into a gamete (sperm/egg) cell, and when that gamete creates an offspring, the virus' DNA is permanently incorporated into the somatic cells of the offspring. Then that offspring will create gametes with the virus' DNA and pass it on to the next generation! Let's say a retro-virus infects a single sperm. That lucky sperm joins an egg and contributes its half of the DNA+virus DNA to the new baby. That half could have genetic dominant traits that cause enough changes to mark the baby as a new species. Now multiply that out: For the population at large: you could have a highly contagious and infectious but harmless to the host retro-virus that attacks gametes both sperm and egg, thus making every baby diploid with the new DNA. (You might have to explain what effect the retro-virus has on such babies.) The new DNA should not be fatal, obviously, since you want the babies to be killed by the robots. How cruel you are! But you're storyline has to wait a while. "Species" is often defined by being un/able to produce viable offspring. You'd probably have to wait till these babies reached sexual maturity to find out that they cannot reproduce with non-infected but can reproduce with other infected. (Unless you have a way to determine fertility or reproductive compatibility strictly through blood or DNA or other tests. I mean obviously after you discover the incompatibility issue then you can just screen for the new DNA. I'm just talking about the initial realization that the infected constitute a new species.) 

No, oxygen is not required. Assuming complex (multi-cellular) life can form then intelligence can evolve in those life forms. We don't know yet what the constraints are on developing true intelligence and self-awareness as opposed to the far simpler systems used by more life forms. It maybe that true intelligence is rarely going to involve, but there is no reason to think that oxygen respiration would be requirement, so long as sufficient energy is available. The development of a civilization without access to oxygen would be very interesting though, as fire was a very important part of human development. 

One possibility would be an erratic orbit around a variable star. The warming and cooling due to the two interacting systems would result in very erratic weather systems and while the results of the erratic orbit would be reasonably predictable those due to the variability of the star would not. Be aware that increases in luminosity tend to also be accompanied by massive doses of gamma ray and x-ray radiation. The atmosphere may mitigate this effect but it's still going to make life difficult. 

What's Good is Good The question asks a lot, so first let me clarify my understanding of the question. The wizard wants to make a better society. But evolution works on individuals. Typically, "successful" individuals spread their traits by reproducing more than their competitors. But the question is about creating individuals who are most "comfortable" in a society, such that the society is "better." "Better" is not defined. Thomas More, Thoreau, Big Brother, and the Unabomber all have different ideas of "better." So, lots going on here. Killer Bunnies I know this is not what you are looking for, but at some point, the constituent make up of this society needs to change from what it is now, to include a significant number of these mutant individuals (let's call them "happy folk.") Either a controlling minority, or a plurality, a majority, or the entirety. In order to do this, the happy folk need to be better at reproducing themselves--whether it be Duggar-style family planning or good ol' fashioned human cloning--or, they need to be better at surviving some situation that reduces the current, non-happy population. Or both: happy folk can multiply like bunnies and also have a "negative" effect on the current population, like say, murdering them. This is not unheard of. I do not mean to offend, but some (not necessarily me) would say that the population of Israel is undergoing exactly such a change. An indigenous population is rapidly being replaced by another. What Was Good is Not Good So you see my problem with this question? By changing individuals to be happy in a society, you wind up changing the society. But I can imagine that somehow you reach an equilibrium where [almost] everyone is happy enough to no longer require further tweaking to fit into society. Although these "static societies" are often portrayed as being fundamentally flawed, that's usually because the protagonist is an outsider. For example, Logan's Run/Brave New World: people are pretty convinced that they're happy (at least so long as you are in society's good graces). Everyone is generally predisposed to accept or like their position in society, coupled with some reinforcing education and fostering. Everyone has fulfilling work and takes recreational drugs and is promiscuous. People have just enough problems to have just enough morals to basically not realize the bubble they're in. Is that what you want? Is that what anybody wants? Running In Place The factors listed in the original question are great. When navigating New York's "smellscape," one can easily see how nice it would be to control your own senses. (I think that's why people wear earbuds and dark sunglasses on the subway.) But every tweak raises potential society-ruining side-effects which might only lead to an "evolutionary war." (The classic example of evolutionary war is: prey develops poison, predator develops immunity. Prey develops stronger poison. That's how you get tiny frogs that can kill an elephant.) For example, let's say that the wizard wanted to make society more cohesive and compassionate and so he made individuals feel a closer sense of "brotherly love." Let's say happy folk identify other happy folk in the same way that animals recognize kin. Well, the obvious side effect can be that they become xenophobic. Or, the logical extreme can be that they become fascist (the thinking is that all happy folk express their true "happiness" by adopting normative behaviors, and that anyone who doesn't act happy is a traitor and a threat to society). Better How? So, to return to the spirit of your question: if you want to keep society the way it is now, but tweak some happy folk so that they can thrive in this society, you can make them not care about certain things (like eliminating ennui and existential quandries by making them pure lizard brain) or you can make them overcome their problems (like eliminating ennui by making them super-social and fun loving). But both solutions fundamentally change the society they are adopting to. 

That's a valid argument and it is certainly possible for an alien species to have that mindset. However he Xenomorphs were shown to care for their young and their eggs, so it's not the only argument. Consider that most humans are at least partly carnivorous, we live by consuming other living things. Hatching our eggs inside them isn't really that big a departure. After all in theory we could see anything vaguely edible as potential food but dogs, horses, cats and much more for the most part go uneaten. The key thing would be for these other species to achieve a mutually beneficial symbioses much as we have with the three species I list. By doing that both gain by working together and the urge to use Fluffy as an egg incubator is not actually a successful survival strategy when Fluffy can help you hunt down something else to do the job. 

Get In Me Belly! In a nutshell: for humans, "civilization" really got going with the agricultural revolution, which led to permanent settlements, which led to division of labor, elite classes, then writing and accounting. And of course, trade and war and religion and all the things you find interesting when you're not constantly starving. You Scratch My Back... But none of that would have happened unless we had the need and the means of invention. In this case, the "need" was safety. We evolved as social creatures. This is because numbers provide comparative safety compared to going it alone. Usually, prey animals like to stick together. It spreads out the risk of being targeted. When in groups, certain cooperative behavior tends to emerge. For example, most foraging herds or flocks develop a system of watching out for predators (vigilance behavior) and a simple set of warning calls. You also have some kind of understood communication. You may have cooperative parenting and group defense tactics (like how bovines often circle the wagons). This has been a successful evolutionary behavioral model for dozens of millions of years. But you don't see any animal "civilizations." That's because you also require intelligence. Keep Bangin' Those Rocks The thing about evolution is, mutations happen. Most of them are bad. But every so often a mutant has a (small) advantage over others in his generation, and that mutant gets to pass on the mutant gene, leading to more mutants. Some say you can look at intelligence as just another evolutionary feature. A cerebral and behavioral mutation that turned out to be kinda handy for dealing with situations that would kill a dumber individual (or get you laid more than a dumber individual). The thing is, human intelligence comes at a huge cost: calories. Powering a human brain can be 20% of a day's calories. So if you're gonna sport a brain, it had better be worth it or you're just as dead as any other idiot. So why did intelligence work out for humans? Because we're risk takers. (Is one theory, anyway.) As the changing climate turned forest into tundra, we were forced out of the trees. So we had to deal with new environments, find new foods, escape from different predators. Intelligence was good for that. As we became omnivores we had to come up with hunting tactics because we were pretty weak compared to the other animals out there. What's My Motivation? Civilization = Numbers + Food + Intelligence. Hyperparasites sound gross and it's not helping that there are probably hundreds of them infesting a single host. Ick! But that host is also probably in a group of hundreds infesting some other poor sap. Can you say Hyperparasite Party! Social behavior can be beneficial in any situation where two heads are better than one. I already mentioned predation. But also, maybe it's difficult to find and latch onto a host, so at some point in their evolution the hyperparasites figured out how to work together somehow and they increased their success rate. What's the "agricultural revolution" equivalent for hyperparasites? I would say these hyperparasites would have to make the leap from finding hosts in the wild to cultivating them in controlled environments. (This would be like if humans had ranches where we grew elephants that we lived in.) But since these are hyperparasites, it's obvious how to cultivate host-parasites: you cultivate the host-parasites' hosts! (This would be like if humans grew a lot of peanuts because elephants like peanuts and then when an elephant comes to eat the peanuts we move into the elephant.) The Great Material Continuum So, strangely, a hyperparasite civilization could actually start with the cultivation of the food that feeds the host upon which the parasite-host feeds ('cos hosts need to eat too). (This would be like if humans made a lot of fertilizer to grow peanuts, to lure elephants, to live in.) It's a pure and simple vertically integrated production model. You gotta admit that would take some smarts.