If you don't have a teacher, you will need to be your own judge. If you cannot be your own judge, you will need to find a teacher. Suzuki in Zen Mind Beginner's Mind warns about going too quickly. He recommends something like one hour per week meditation for beginners. 

Consider the double meaning of entrances and exits. What are the entrances and exits of a human being? What goes into the body and via what channels? What is light? What is sound? What is food and water for? What about air? How long can you go without these things? Why? 

Sometimes during meditation, a noisy drill or something will start up from outside. Those times are great because you really get to see whether you are able to meditate or you just like the pleasure of tranquil sitting (I am not lazing! I am meditating!). As long as the job itself conforms to right livelihood (samyag-ājīva / sammā-ājīva), it does not in of itself contradict the dharma. It is not a problem to want to earn a lot of money. It takes a lot of smarts to be able to do so and you can do a lot of good for a lot of people with a lot of money. The answer lies in your motivation, what you want the money for. Engineers like to solve problems and make things work. Sales people genuinely like interacting with other people. You will have your own vocation. 

For Sanskrit, I use Sanskrit Dictionary and Spoken Sanskrit. I will even use Wiktionary e.g. for etymological information. In fact, I tend to look up a Pali word, explore its Sanskrit ancestor/relative in the Sanskrit Dictionary and then check etymology in Wiktionary. 

These opinions you have, what is the source of them? What is the source of any opinion? Have you met either man or did you read an article, hear a report or hear someone talking about them in a bar? If you haven't met them, consider how you have relied on intermediaries to form an opinion of two people you don't actually know. Do you trust these intermediaries (tv companies, newspapers, members of the general public)? Why? Meditate on this. 

Since the elements are really expressing states i.e. water is not really water but liquid, wetness, changing, the idea is perhaps about the composition (and decomposition) of bodies. Individual bodies like yours and mine but also the larger structures we belong to: our families, our nations, the international community etc., which also function like bodies, where different people playing different roles and where mind work is at the top and support work is at the base. In starvation, the human body will take food from itself to feed the brain and keep it going and will only take from parts of the brain to feed the most important parts of the brain when it has no choice. And what is an ox/bullock in the ancient world? The source of work/energy. Hence harnessing/yoking and the plough. 

My understanding is that the teaching is not to suppress emotions but to observe them. Are you sad your girlfriend left you? Why? Do you miss certain aspects of her character? Do you miss the sex? Are you scared you won’t find another one? Was she unique? In what way? Why? etc. It’s not to say that any of these are right or wrong but rather to get to the heart of the matter. The point is that getting attached leads to suffering (it hurts if you don’t get what you want and if you get what you don’t want). Seeking lasting happiness in what doesn’t last isn’t a long term strategy. By all means, have a relationship. Enjoy the relationship. When it ends, learn from it and move on. Or fight to revive it but at least know why. Flowers are nice to look but fruit is good for you to eat. And flowers fade and die. So does fruit but at least you can harness its goodness through eating it. Attachment is not engagement or interaction. Attachment is dependency, a bond, a fetter. The master can. The slave must. I must have those shoes. I learned a lot through learning about triangles, waves, wheels and how they all link and by meditating on what a carriage is and what work the different parts do. The fewer things you are attached to the less you are going to get dragged around by desire. Think of the prison guard who gets distracted through some ruse appealing to his stomach or his loins. 

It is interesting to note that etymologically extinction means more or less the same thing as nibbana i.e. blowing out. Which is presumably why the dinosaurs haven't come back yet. 

Like Gevurah tempers Chesed in Kabbalah, I think something similar is going on with the Buddhist paramitas Dana and Sila. Dana is generative: put out, bring forth, produce, make or even the first step on a journey of a thousand miles; Sila imposes justice i.e. it draws a line: give but not ALL things at ALL times and to ALL people. 

Of course you can dance, sing and fall in love. Do you think these things don't exist in Buddhist countries? Monks forego these things but you don't have to become a monk. As a lay Buddhist, you don't even have to take the 8 precepts (where singing and dancing are mentioned) and observe uposatha days. I don't think Buddhism is against the material. It's practical. It's more a case of understanding what is essential and what is not essential. You need to eat but not everything etc. From Dhammapada I.11-12: 

In terms of harmless meditation you can do on your own, metta bhavana (cultivating kindness) might help. Here $URL$ is one good guide (specifically section 11) but you’ll find many other sources on the net. It’s more about developing maitri/metta than concentration as such but considering what is at the root of masturbation, especially excessive masturbation, it will help you by developing good will towards others and away from yourself. It will also help you concentrate. There is a concept in Buddhism called the Three Unwholesome Roots or Three Poisons $URL$ The Three Poisons are: 

Personal morality is personal morality. In the world, lawmakers make laws for jurisdictions. Ideally laws should be made thoughtfully and skilfully. Of course, this is proving challenging in the rapidly changing world we live in but is the issue specifically Buddhist? As far as Buddhism is concerned, the dharma is clear: if it's not yours, don't take it. If something is legal to take, it's not theft. If a system fault robs a customer, he/she should be reimbursed/compensated. If you think something should be legally theft, you can change the law or influence lawmakers to change it. To be fair, the liberality of the modern world encourages a lot of behaviours that are legally grey but not compatible with Buddhism. Listening to an artist's music on YouTube without paying for it is theft. I do this and it's incompatible with Buddhism. On the other hand, so is music itself (strictly speaking), certainly the music most of us listen to. What to do? My own non-Buddhist take is that if I take from the world, I should give back more to the world. The key principle is not to be a parasite on balance. I judge my own actions. The dharma judges me. And if I break the law of a king or queen, they send one of their goons to bash me. 

Perhaps what he means is that a violent man whose violence is held in check by fear of reprisal has the will to be violent but lacks the means - and that he therefore shouldn't hypocritically claim to be a man of peace. He is not. He is a man of limited means. And it is easier to cure his violence than to give him the means he desires to exercise it. I think Buddha would agree. Frustrated desire is not the opposite of desire. Gandhi isn't advocating violence. He is saying violence disguised as non-violence remains violence. Violent thoughts are the seeds of future violent words and deeds. 

Since kamacchanda is one of the five hindrances, it seems to be something to overcome. Does that mean then that there is no more place for art and beauty in the life of a practitioner after the first jhana, according to Buddhist teaching? Or can you have a healthy relationship with kama? Is taking pleasure in a tree or a conversation with a friend kamacchanda? 

Pure mind is difficult to explain. I will try, bearing in mind that it will probably fail and may even be wrong. Pure comes from Latin purus and really just means clear/clean. Think of finding a hair in a pizza. It’s disgusting because it’s not the right place for hair. But hair on your head is ok. Finding pizza in your hair is also wrong. It’s not morally wrong. It’s just not the right place for it. At the start of life, a human is open to experience and learning etc. As they grow older, they become more set and stiffer, until one day they no longer move at all. Pretty much everything rigid in this world is dead. Trees move very slowly but the wooden chair made from them is dead. Most of your body is non-Newtonian fluids e.g. like ketchup. If you get a hair on your eye it hurts. If you get a hair on the dark part of the eye, you are compelled to remove the hair immediately? Meditate on why that is. What are your eyes for? What is the relationship between the looker and the looked at and even looking itself? Purifying the mind doesn’t mean sterilising your mind. It means getting to the heart of the matter and clearing out the junk. A book you haven’t read in ten years could be better put to use in someone else’s hands. What good does it do on your bookshelf? You want to get mega-rich and have dominion over thousands? Why? Know why. For me, good and bad relate to karma and waves. Does the action lead to that which is beneficial or does it just set the wheel in spin and make waves leading to people being unhappy. Try what works for you. The teaching is primarily about dukkha and karma rather than moralising. 

It seems that the five hindrances are obstacles to the five factors to be developed in the first jhana. There are other hindrances but these five are important in the context of progress in meditation. According to Access To Insight: 

You don't need to stop eating meat. Drinking and smoking are not compatible with the path of the Buddha. The more you follow the path of the Buddha, the less you will do these things. So you can step on the path if you smoke and drink - everyone has to start somewhere - but you are not a follower of the path if you do those things. Notice how these things are not satisfying you because you are looking for something else (Buddhism currently). Buddhism will help you understand your craving for these things (and anything) and its role in your suffering. Good luck. 

For Pali, I use The Pali Text Society's Pali-English dictionary. Here are the options I choose for best results (in general) i.e. Search entry words only and Words starting with (as mentioned by ChrisW in his answer) 

To study, to work, to make a difference, to "light up a corner of the world", these are all admirable things. To please yourself with temporal goodies of all kinds maybe not so much, although: 

I don't know but maybe this passage about a skilled butcher from chapter III of the Book of Zhuang Zi is a clue. 

Read up on these and consider how the negative roots are divisive and involve perceiving a separate self, pulling things from the world into that separate self, and seeing others as threats/competitors in the context of this pulling into the self. Then consider how the positive roots concern unifying and working towards the good of all, focusing on adding to the pot rather than drawing from it, sharing with others and taking care of others’ needs. Ask yourself if you had to describe yourself to a woman you fancied, would you prefer to describe yourself as a consumer or a producer, a taker or a giver? Do you want to feed the world or do you want the world to feed you? In terms of pure concentration, mindfulness of breathing is very effective. Maybe it’s better learned from a teacher but there will also be guides on the internet. Good luck. When I gave up smoking, I decided to not punish myself if I started again but simply to stop again, no matter how many times it took. And it worked. I haven’t had a single cigarette in 13 years. So don’t beat yourself up if you fail at first. Just keep working on your practise. 

My own failure in implementing what I learn has to do with the complexities of learning any skill. It's very difficult to go from simply learning something in a classroom to actually integrating it into your daily life. For example, a person may spend several years in university studying programming but to the company that takes him on as a junior developer he's still only in the learning stage. What matters to the company is not his ability to understand theory but to have assimilated it to the point where he is able to produce something tangible they can use. I'm also a coward but that's another story. As for priests, I do think you should be careful who you let into your head. Years ago, I read some books by someone I later found out to be a cult-leader. I stopped reading his books immediately but some of the teaching remains in me to this day. A major reason I don't join a religion in spite of reading lots of religious texts is that I don't feel comfortable subordinating my own judgment to that of a priest. To me, 'faith' is something that belongs with family members or people who have proved their good will and loyalty to you over time. And yeah, I wouldn't take advice on relationships from someone who'd only read about them in books.