Another important thing for planets is collimation. Read your scope's manual and practice what they preach. A scope out of collimation may severely underperform. It could mean the difference between seeing and not seeing the Cassini division. See here for some examples: $URL$ There's a bewildering variety of tools and techniques for collimation. Start with the simple stuff (the manual) since it's better than nothing. Then keep reading. Here's a good page: $URL$ Or see here: $URL$ A laser collimator should in theory be one of the easiest and most precise tools, but beware of lasers that are not centered. Plug the laser in the focuser, and turn it (spin it) in place. Watch the laser spot on the primary mirror. If the spot moves in a circle as you keep turning the laser, it's not centered. Some lasers have adjustment screws for centering, some don't. High quality lasers like the Howie Glatter series are very precisely centered from the workshop and don't require adjustments. $URL$ $URL$ I do own more complex collimators like the CATSEYE system, but in 99% of cases I just use a Howie Glatter laser with a 2" TuBlug to do a quick check-up before each session. Any laser is fine as long as it's precision-centered. Collimation is something you'll keep learning for a long time, so don't worry, do what you can at first, and slowly refine your technique over time. But keep your scope collimated. Once you're comfortable with the technique, it only takes 5 minutes. 

It is correct. Contracting stars heat up due to their own contraction. This justifies the initial temperature raise in a star, before fusion begins in earnest. Kelvin was not 100% wrong, it's just that fusion, over the life time of the star, makes much, much more energy than contraction. The collapse heats up the star at the very beginning, then fusion takes over and makes essentially all the heat you observe. This is also true of gas giant planets. Even a tiny amount of contraction may raise their temperature measurably. E.g., Jupiter radiates more energy than it receives from the Sun - this is due to contraction, at a rate of 2 cm / year (diameter). TLDR: Gravitational energy becomes heat. 

Other things to try See if you can get better results with the Cheshire only. Try and make a very simple collimation cap. It's basically a plastic cap with a tiny hole in the exact center, that's all. The procedure for using it is explained here: $URL$ A more detailed procedure is explained here: $URL$ If you're patient, you could collimate by the stars. It's complex and time-consuming, but it's guaranteed to be 100% accurate. It is always a good idea to use a quick star test at the end of whatever other collimation procedure you use - think of it as a reality check. The laser may or may not work properly, but the stars never lie. $URL$ Laser collimators can be very good and very quick - provided they are centered very precisely from factory. I use Howie Glatter's collimators, but they are not cheap. If you could borrow a Glatter collimator it would show you what's really going on. $URL$ Is your primary center-dotted with good precision? In many cases, mass-produced telescopes come from factory with an off-center dot on the primary, which is as misleading as a bad laser. Even the best laser will not work properly if the primary is not precisely center-dotted. But you can always re-center the dot with good precision. See here: $URL$ (Always use a donut shape to center the primary, instead of a solid dot. The donut allows you to use laser collimators, unlike the solid dot markers.) More thoughts on collimation below. These articles are written by very experienced amateur astronomers and telescope makers. Highly recommended to read these before you begin. $URL$ $URL$ Try something simple (like the collimation cap) before you open up the scope and do "major surgery" on it. Then do a star test. Does it look pretty good on the stars? Then you're probably doing something right. The stars are looking pretty bad no matter what? Then perhaps you need to open up the scope, re-center the primary, check if the mirrors are sitting properly in their cells, etc. 

Actually, that happens all the time, even now. The so-called dark energy actually makes more space, continuously, even now. That simply means that, whereas a while ago there was X amount of distance between galaxies A and B, now there's X + Y amount of distance. The low-level mechanism that allows this creation is not well understood. It could be imagined that something similar happened during the Big Bang, except it started from zero. Again, the low-level mechanisms around the origin are not well understood. To understand that we first must be capable of understanding something far more simple - the physics of the center of a black hole. To do that, we would need something like quantum gravity, which is a part of Physics that has not been invented / built yet. If this seems overly speculative, it's because you're asking a very profound and difficult question - so difficult that it exceeds the limits of current science and even philosophy. 

Cameras: for solar system objects like planets or the Moon, you'll need cameras with smaller sensors that can take lots of frames quickly (planetary cameras). For galaxies and nebulae (DSO - deep space objects) you'll need cameras that perform well with long exposure (DSO cameras); the best DSO cameras have cooler elements installed on the sensor. There are OSC (one-shot color) cameras that don't require filters. There are monochrome cameras that require a filter box with R, G, B filters; you need to take separate exposures through each filter. OSC cameras are easier to use; monochrome cameras tend to provide higher performance. Planetary camera examples: ZWO ASI 224 MC, ZWO ASI 178 MM DSO camera examples: ZWO ASI 1600 MM, ZWO ASI 071 MC-Cool 

Final comments If you use too much magnification, the image will not look very sharp, no matter what. Stay within 100x ... 200x while testing. It is pretty rare that atmospheric conditions and/or the quality of mass-produced optics allow good performance above 250x. Always check the results in the center of the image. With most mass-produced optics, performance degrades at the edge, and there's not much you can do about it (other than replacing them with better optics). Before you do anything, take the scope outside and let it "breathe" for 30 ... 60 minutes. After it reaches ambient temperature, its performance might get better. More details here: $URL$ 

Not exactly. This universe we live in is infinite, as far as we can tell. It just goes on forever and ever. What you call "space" is this universe. Now, there is something called the "observable universe". That's the chunk of universe we can see. That's finite. We cannot see all the way to infinity, because light doesn't go that fast. However, this is just a little chunk in an infinite whole. 

Adaptive optics only mitigate the air turbulence that blurries the images - and even that is only a partial recovery. All other issues remain. Air absorbs various wavelengths. Air has a certain amount of glow from various sources (light pollution, etc) which masks faint objects. Etc. There is no real substitute for a large telescope operating in vacuum. 

Amateur telescope and mirror maker here. Not sure if I qualify as a "citable source" but anyway, here it is: All metals will eventually tarnish. It may take a long time, but it will happen. The process is not entirely chemical always. Sometimes it's purely mechanical (abrasion). Other times it's in between. Surface phenomena are complex. Even gold-coated mirrors will tarnish. You could use gold for infrared observations. But no matter how much care you take of it, eventually you will have to re-coat it. Sure, gold lasts a pretty long time, but not even gold is forever. Aluminum is covered with a natural layer of colorless sapphire (aluminum oxide), which protects the metal from further destruction - sapphire is very hard and very inert chemically. But oxygen still diffuses through sapphire (albeit extremely slowly), and so do other corrosion agents like sulphur oxides, marine salt, etc. So, yes, replacing silver with aluminum was an improvement. But not even aluminum is forever. In practice, you will maybe double the lifetime of the reflective layer when you migrate from silver to aluminum. It should be noted that silver is still used. Aluminum is most popular nowadays, but you'll still find silver-coated mirrors (it's reflectivity is higher than aluminum), gold-coated (for infrared), etc. There are further coating techniques, like layering silicon oxide on top of metal, which further improve the lifetime of any kind of metal. 

If your scope has 4 vanes, then you should see 4 spikes, like this (it's really 8 spikes, 2 times the number of vanes, but in this case they are superimposed 2 by 2): 

It's a combination of special polishing strokes, and feedback via control and testing. $URL$ Normal polishing strokes (center over center, 1/3 diameter amplitude) tend to make a sphere. When all goes well, the surface of the mirror tends to become spherical, or very close to it. This is not different from grinding, only more precise. When two surfaces are rubbing against each other in a ball-and-socket type of joint, any irregularities will be removed and both surfaces will "want" to become spherical, or close to it. When making telescope mirrors, the so-called "normal stroke" is what accomplishes that in the best way. 

The diffraction spikes are easily visible on very bright stars. On medium-size and small stars, they are not easily visible, or not visible at all. This is normal. Unless the stars are super-tiny dots like in the images above, your scope is not ready for use. Do your best to collimate it and find true focus. Make the stars super-tiny. Good luck and let me know if you need more advice. It would help a lot if you could find an experienced astronomer nearby to help you fix the scope. 

This is basic thermodynamics. When you compress a gas, you inject energy into it. Think of the pump you use to inflate the tires on your bike. It takes some force to move the piston, right? That effort is not wasted, but goes directly into the air in the pump. Now the air has more energy. But what happens to a gas when you put energy into it? It's molecules jiggle around faster. Well, faster jiggling is basically the definition of higher temperature. By putting more energy into the gas, you raise its temperature. You can actually tell that the bike pump is getting warmer if you pump quickly and forcefully - this is something you can experience yourself. Same with stars - the whole star is the "bike pump", and gravity is the one who's pushing the piston. Due to compression (shrinking) under gravity, the gas gets hotter and hotter. It turns out a star has A LOT of gravitational energy, so the gas can get VERY hot. In your terms, yes, it's the acceleration that molecules experience falling into the gravity well of the star that makes them move faster. Faster moving molecules = higher temperature. Pretty straightforward phenomenon, really. 

Freeform optics are a response to the specific challenge of cramming a telescope in a very limited space. A traditional instrument would have all optics symmetrical and aligned on the same axis. It would waste a lot of space within the cubesat. Also, traditional designs tend to be much longer than they are wider; they don't fit well in a cube; it is very hard to make classic instruments that are as short as they are wide. But with freeform optics you could bounce light in a few directions within the cube. You'd still achieve a decent focal length, and you would use all the volume available to you. 

A few clarifications. Telescopes in general operate at very large distances - "at infinity" is the term used in optics parlance. A bright enough object can be seen from any distance, no matter what its size is. All that matters is that: 

I don't know if this question is a good fit for the Stackexchange format, because it's a complex topic that would require a lot of discussion. But I'll try to provide an answer. I think you're getting the wrong ideas from the image of the event horizon being frozen in time for the remote observer. While this is true, it also means the remote observer never actually gets any information from the event horizon proper. If you're a remote observer, and you see any change that happens related to a black hole, by definition that change is not happening at the event horizon or inside it. It happens outside that region. The event horizon might as well not even exist from this p.o.v. The merger of the two black holes is what the remote observer sees. But a hypothetical local observer, inside the event horizon, would have a different perception. For the local observer, the whole history of anything outside the black hole takes place in an instant. The whole evolution of the universe, including the black hole colliding with another black hole, and the resulting object evaporating via Hawking radiation - all this stuff happens in an instant. You really need to think of it this way: the remote and the local observer experience two completely separate realities, where the flow of time in one is completely disconnected from the flow of time in the other. 

It's important to focus the instrument well before using it. E.g. point it at the Moon and adjust the focus until the image is as sharp as possible. You can also focus on stars - adjust focus until the image of the star is as small as it gets. You can also adjust focus on whatever object you're currently observing. 

How to verify if the laser is centered: Place it in the focuser. Do not tighten the screws too much, allow the laser to rotate in the focuser a little bit. Turn the laser on. Watch where the spot hits the primary. Now rotate the laser in the focuser. If the spot describes a circle as you rotate the laser, then the laser is misaligned. Different method: Make a V-shaped trough from 2 pieces of wood or aluminum. Placed the through horizontally on a sturdy table. Put the laser on the trough. Turn it on, projecting the spot on a distant flat object, like a wall or fence across the street. Now rotate the laser in the trough and watch the spot. Does it stay put? Then the laser is fine. Does it move in a circle? Then the laser is misaligned - find the adjustments screws (if it has them) and adjust it until it's perfectly square. 

This is correct. Absolute space, as in newtonian physics, does not exist. Same for absolute time. Both are just relations between objects, and between events. As long as you hang on to the notions of absolute space and absolute time, relativity cannot be understood. If you let go of them, relativity actually seems natural. 

Your telescope is not focused (most likely), or is having some major collimation issues (less likely). Try and move the eyepiece back and forth a little. Go through the whole range of the focuser. You must catch the primary focal plane in order for the image to become clear. If that doesn't work, pull the eyepiece out a few mm and try to move through the whole range again. If that doesn't work, try a different eyepiece. 

Almost. The speed of an object in orbit depends on the radius of the orbit, and the mass of the body being orbited. 

Well, do they? Do we know that for sure? For the overlap to happen, the orbit of Bb would have to be relatively coplanar to the mutual orbits of A and B. This seems likely, but I'm not sure if it has been established as a fact. 

@PeterU - I strongly recommend that you read several introductory books to cosmology and modern physics. Some of the difficulties you're encountering are stemming from the fact that you're looking at popularized science, hear some of the analogies they use to make the public understand difficult scientific ideas, but you're taking those analogies at face value, not realizing they're just metaphors. This is not to accuse you of anything - these are complex matters and it takes time to figure them out. I know it took me many years, and I recognize some of my bewildered musings from the past in the questions you're asking here. I think you're doing fine, just don't get stuck in analogies. A few clarifications: When scientists say the universe is "flat", they don't mean it looks like a pancake. They just mean its geometry is euclidean, that's all. The word "flat" is perhaps poorly chosen (it makes sense if you know a lot of geometry, but not everyone does). There are non-euclidean geometries that mathematicians are studying, but our universe does not seem to be built based on them. It is built based on an euclidean metric. $URL$ The universe is infinite and it's the same in all directions. There is no privileged up, down, left, right, back, or forth. They're all the same. And it goes on forever and ever.