I will start with question 3, as it is the most straightforward. Gaiman has done a whole lot of elaboration on a passage that is in fact rather short. I will quote the relevant passages from the primary sources, as they are rather short. First Völuspá: 

Holofernes is a character in the biblical Book of Judith (which is considered canonical in Catholic and Orthodox tradition, but not in Protestant). He was a Assyrian general under king Nebuchadnezzar, who invaded nations and destroyed their temples in order that they should instead worship the king. When laying siege to a Hebrew town, the widow Judith seduced him and cut off his head. Holofernes was later (in e.g. Dante) considered as an example of pride. Bramarbas seems to be the German title of a play by Holberg, where the title character is a soldier who brags about his (imaginary) exploits; "bramabasieren" seems to have become a German word for this sort of bragging. I believe Bierce tries to use the two names to characterize the people as proud, strident and combatative, but not necessarily very effective fighters. 

according to Wikipedia, in the second Quarto, the last line read "hunch-back'd", but it is retained as above in the texts I've found. Also, in Henry VI, part 3, act III, scene 2, lines 1648-1650, Richard (here still called Gloucester), laments his looks: 

A fetish in this context is like a voodoo doll in that it lets someone access magic. Unlike voodoo dolls, fetishes don't have to be doll-like. They can be plain objects or even parts of bodies (human or animal). Correspondingly, a fetish man is like a voodoo priest in that they access magic using an external object, often with an accompanying ritual. For translation, I'd suggest that you look up some translations of Tarzan novels. There are a few witch doctors in them, and some of those witch doctors use fetishes. Since the these books are pretty popular and mostly public domain in some countries, you might find good quality translations already existing in your language, which you can then rely on for familiarity for the readers. For example, from Tarzan and the Leopard Men (particularly appropriate since it was published in the same era, and also has a hyena fetish): 

What did it mean to do so? Is this a point of medieval Western tradition of hospitality that's being referenced here, or something internal to the Seven Kingdoms that's as yet unexplained? 

This isn't the first instance of controversy after Carter took the reigns. A biography of Lee by Marja Mills also ran into trouble. How Unauthorized Is the New Book About Harper Lee? from Gawker (July 18, 2014): 

If there was any inspiration, it was likely very minor. The only thing this ring seem to have in common with the One Ring is the curse, and that Tolkien could easily have gotten from elsewhere. The most obvious inspiration for the rings of power is Andvaranaut from the Völsung cycle: a magical ring which gave great riches to the owner, but at the ultimate cost of their destruction. It was first owned by the dwarf Andvari and taken from him by Loki to give to Hreidmar, king of the dwarfs, as part of a ransom; Andvari cursed the ring. This fits well with the seven rings given by Sauron to the kings of the dwarves, as well as the One ring. Andavaranut is responsible for Fafnir's transformation into a dragon, and, likely, for the continued misfortunes of Sigurd and the Nibelungen. Considering Tolkien's general approach to creating his legends, my opinion is that this is a likely point from where the general concept of the rings of power was developed. Some would instead argue that Tolkien was primarily inspired by Wagner's ring cycle (e.g. here), but that does not seem strictly necessary. Some influence is likely, but not to the point that LoTR should be seen as a variation on Wagner rather than the original. Let's not forget that the War of the Ring is a small ripple in the aftermath of more cataclysmic events; the One Ring was originally not the major focal point it would be when LoTR was published. There is also the Ring of Gyges, a story told by Plato in The Republic of a ring that can turn it's wearer invisible, which destroys the original owner's morality, but not through any inherent corruption but by removing the restraints placed on him by other's observation. Even if Tolkien appears to never have alluded to this in any text, it is not an unlikely influence. In my opinion, The Lord of the Rings could very well have been written exactly as it was even if the Ring of Silvanus had never been unearthed. 

Personally, my father, who would be of a similar age to Estha and Rahel, and is of a similar situation to Velutha, attended the local public school, which was considered one of the best in the district, and an engineering college, and go on to get a decent job. 

I'll only address the question from the translation requirement POV: what would you call a person who uses fetishes for magic, given the culture is African (as opposed to, say, Haitian), but in the context of Western literature? Given various factors, I feel this would be more appropriate than actually giving a nuanced description of such a person in African culture: 

The old money have, over decades and centuries, developed a highly indirect (hence, euphemistic) and repressed society, whereas the new money would be far more direct. No doubt they feel some irritation and impatience for the silliness and lack of forthrightness of the old money. 

(The books are horribly racist and misrepresentative of African culture, but still likely to be familiar with fans of science fiction or fantasy.) 

So, either the intention to convey a particular meaning is evident in the work, and therefore it already means that, or the work doesn't convey that intention, making it irrelevant. This itself could be a fallacy: Does the author even have intentions? - as James Downey argues: 

Yes, there is, at least in one context. If you are talking about most kind of poetry, alliteration is a rhetoric effect. It does not need an exact definition, because what you are interested in is how effective it is in making the poem achieve something. You can set up rules for yourself, but others might follow different rules, while still thinking that they are using alliteration. However, if you are talking about the old Norse and Anglosaxon poetry, then alliteration do have a definition, since it is part of the metre. Apart from the structure with stressed and unstressed syllables, lines are held together with alliterations. The rules for this are fairly simple: 

Let us first remember how a Sherlock Holmes story is often constructed: a client appears, talks to Sherlock, and he then moves into action and begins gathering clues. At some point, Sherlock forms a theory about, while everything still seems very mysterious to Watson and the reader. Perhaps Sherlock himself starts to act in a strange way. After some crisis, everything is explained and is usually seen to have been very logical all along, and Holmes strange acting turns out to have either been a way to gain confirmation or a way to position himself so as to better be able to catch the crook. With this in mid, it is easy to see why Holmes thinks that the stories are told backwards. To him, the events usually goes: problem, gathering clues, deduction, seeking confirmation and conclusion, but the stories are instead told in an order so that the deduction is placed at the end. Considering the how highly he values his methods, and in particular the deductive parts, this is to him an unnecessary distortion. 

Are keteks (the form: palindrome [allowing for conjugation, etc.], n [≥2] thoughts) based on some real-life form of poetry, or are they purely fictional? 

Wikipedia's List of poems by Robert Frost includes it in a collection published in 1937. Robert Frost and the New England Renaissance by George Monteiro claims: 

I believe you're only thinking of "unreasoned judgement/preujdice" when talking about bias. If that was all, sure, there might be texts which are unbiased about something (but not, in general, unbiased about everything)*. Was that the debate topic using such a narrow definition? If not, Everyone has biases: tendencies to favour or disfavour things. Now: 

Note: I'm not a professional historian, so my knowledge of the times is a bit vague and from school textbooks. The events of Estha and Rahel's childhood takes place in the 1960s. That is more than ten years since India gained Independence, and thirty years since the death of Sri Narayana Guru. Sri Narayana Guru had started a social reform movement in Kerala rejecting casteism and aiming for emancipation of the lower castes and casteless people. Mahatma Gandhi also strongly supported uplifting the untouchables, as did a number of other leaders of the Indian Independence movement. The net effect was that, officially, there was no discrimination towards them, and indeed, the government had to undertake various measures for their welfare. While there was a lot of discrimination, the lower castes were not actively prohibited from education, or even prestigious jobs. Progress was slow, but there was progress. Further, Velutha's age makes it likely that his birth or childhood coincided with Sri Narayana Guru's life, so Velutha may have been a direct beneficiary of his movement. Another factor would be the Communist movement. Kerala, the Indian state where the story takes place, was officially created in 1956, and has always alternated between Congress and Communist governments since. Kerala's first government was Communist, which started radical reforms. Lower-caste leaders of the time, like Dr. Ambedkar, had complained about the paternalistic attitude of the upper-caste people towards those beneath, so it may also be possible that Ammu's family maybe indulging in this by "letting" the untouchable get a good job. To conclude, the events of The God of Small Things takes place in a Kerala that was well on the way to social reform. 

One example is August Strindberg, who translated some of his works into French, and even wrote some original works directly in French. One of the works he translated is The Father, in his transaltion called Le Père, and in a more recent translation Père (at least if I interpret French Wikipedia correctly). From what I understand from secondary sources, Strindberg's French was passable, but it was hardly of the quality that his translation was as readable as they would have been if someone more capable had done them. Normal translations usually age, so that a work needs a new translation every fifty years or so, even if the original might only need small adjustments in spelling. Whether this is also true for self-translations is doubtful, but this might also be an issue. 

Remember chapter 17, when Elinor and Marianne discussed what money they hoped for after their marriages? Marianne thought 2000 pounds a year would be sufficient. Elinor thought that 1000 pounds would be "wealth". Well, she didn't quite reach that, but she did get almost there. Sources The answer owes a lot to John Mullan's What matters in Jane Austen?, which reminded me of details and gave some useful comparisons. 

As for the nationality of the Academy, I have not been able to find the statutes, but this LTE makes it clear that only people of Swedish nationality are eligible (and thus not, e.g. Swedish-speaking Finns). They could, I guess, involve more non-members in the preparatory work, but I think it would be hard to wiggle away from the wording of the will, even if it is clearly the work of Nobel's own hand, not a lawyer. In the end, it is the Swedish Academy, and no other body, that is responsible for awarding the prize. Also, remember that there was actually an uproar about the fact that the awards should be granted "without regards to nationality" when the contents of the will first became known. Even so, while the prizes have always been of a very substantial sum, it was in no way clear from the start that they would take on the significance they have today. Sources