One is simply not touched. Who should be touched. Things are arising, stay a little and decay. Its often described with the hide of a cow, replaced and put on the cow again. So here an Exhortation (Note: this answer has not been given with the agreement to be means of trade or the purpose of/for trade and/or keep people trapped and bound. How you handle it lies in your sphere, but does not excuse the deed here either.) 

Maybe Mr/Mrs Wally likes to start with "The Truth of Rebirth: And Why it Matters for Buddhist Practice". Its based on the Buddhas Leagcy and leads - in a direct way, without holding something back - to them in detail. (Note: this answer has not been given with the agreement to be means of trade or the purpose of/for trade and/or keep people trapped and bound. How you handle it lies in your sphere, but does not excuse the deed here either.) 

It will depend on the individual attentiveness on Dhamma. And what Buddha taught is volition depend on this one will have kusala or akusala. And mind(either kusala or akusala) is occurring once at a specific moment. If it is akusala, it can be called kusala. So in your action of every day activity interspersed every fine moment with dhamma, you will be getting kusala but not uninterrupted ones(sometimes it is better while there is absolutely not). Even animals listening attentively (though not knowingly the meaning), get kusala leading to higher abode. It is not brain washing. With these knowledge, contemplate the arising piti on what has done, will surely lead to higher nana stage. Mind matter most. 

It is the matter of concentration. Whenever thinking of "where am I" arise, try to focus on meditation with what you start. If you start noticing breathing in and out at the tip of nose , just start it again. But it is not meant that you are not making progress. Mind used to get wander like that. All the things whatever happen , just focus simply on the meditation with what you start. It is better noting mindfully "breathing in, know it, breathing out , know it". Whenever you noticed wandering thoughts, just focus again on this "breathing in, know it, breathing out , know it". 

In Tibetan buddhism there are a set of practices calles the six yogas of Naropa. They are specially important in the Karma Kagyu School of Tibetan Buddhism. One of these yogas is called the Dream Yoga and its purpose is to develop awareness during your dreaming time. The masters of this meditation never lose counciousness. When they go to sleep the know they are falling sleep. Later they recognize that they are sleeping without dreams. Then they recognize their dreams and are able to modify them as they wish. Finally the wake up are are able to remember everything that happened during their sleeping time. To do the six yogas of Naropa you need advance training and be in retreat. Usually you are required to do at least one meditation retreat that lasts three years, three months, three weeks and three days. You definitely need a teacher, this is not something you can learn by reading. Best luck in your meditations. 

These are not the paradigm. All these are karmic results. Karmic results depend on the degree of intention while doing such good or bad deed. And those bhava after bhava (not reincarnation) depend on the suti mind(seven stages in detail) just before dying. If one know such dreadful samsara, one should better focus only at insight meditation to get liberated. 

Depends on the achievement of nirvana, either monk or not, in case of sotapanna, sakadagami, anagami,arahant, if they say with good intention, it is ok referring to Thera Theri Apadana. GOOD INTENTION means not for fame, not for offerings , only for the laymen to follow the proper path of Magga and attain nirvana. 

Whenever Buddha taught, nibbana is the aim, without nibbana, it is not Buddha teaching. For ordinary people, to achieve nibbana, attachment for worldly goods must be reduced, after that observing good virtue and only after that developing insight meditation, i.e, step by step approach for some but not all people. And also whoever prefer dana, talking about dana would lead to piti feeling based on this concentration and insight toward nibbana. The same applies to sila. It is not bribing the ordinary people. Some said ordinary people are bribed by celestial abodes and frightened by hell, it is totally wrong. All the dhamma talk aimed at some person to achieve nibbana. If somebody would achieve nibbana, in some instances, Buddha knowingly did give such dhamma even some other people would turn against Him. Regarding insight meditation, noting rupa(matter),50 million merit occurring in a wink of time, while noting nama(mind), one billion merit in a wink of time, topmost dana, unsurpassable dana, dhamma dana, Buddha and arahant used to praise such dana because by insight meditation, one is just giving away, not taking for himself with delusion for all these mind and matter that come and go unnoticeably, it is the highest dana of all only with such dana one will definitely lead to nibbana. 

I use an APP called Meditation Helper. It is very useful. I has a nice bell sound. You can program the total time and also interval times. I also like the "reminder" function that you can program, the App will remind you to meditate every day. 

Yes, some schools say that, but according to Tibetan Buddhism the teachings of Mahayana were actually given by Buddha, during the second turning of the wheel, at the Vultures Peak. The emphasis is in the concept of emptiness and boddhichita or universal compassion. In the third turning of the wheel, there is not a specific place mentioned. They deal specially with the Buddha Nature that all sentient beings possess. 

There is no such thing as a physical mind. The mind has no form, color, size, smell, etc. The brain is the organ that controls the body. A thought is always a mental process originated in the mind. Once a thougth arises it can create an emotion and from that comes the "motion" or action. The mind control the brain and the brain controls the body. 

Once got the knowledge of review, there is reflection on realizing mind and body but this time is not the same as one underwent in the very beginning. Clearer and vivid as it is. Once attain enlightenment i.e, got through all 16 stages of nana thoroughly preferably fully guided by the well-learned meditation master how to recognize the changes of nana, next time meditation will begin with knowledge of arising and passing away and then going step by step upward. Please refer to insight meditation practice by mahasi sayadaw. 

You must understand the karma and its result. It depends on the intention one make to do the karma and on what person one did this karma. It is not like in front of the jury plea guilty or not giving excuses. If you would like to apologize, directly do it to that person explaining and admitting sincerely with all your heart. If that person is no more, you can do it through an Arya (and/or Triple gems). Only thing is not to do bad karma, if done it apologize sincerely, even then it is not enough so that to achieve more good karma, work hard at insight meditation because good karma will make bad one less and less as the dew disappear as the sun shine. The stone that sink under water could be carried in the boat big enough to carry it. 

In Tibetan Buddhism there are many examples of yogis that didn´t live a monastic life but achieved enlighten during their lives. The most revered of them is Milarepa, who after murdering family members in his early life, later became a Buddhist yogi and got enlighten. Marpa is another good example; he had an ordinary life with wife, son, properties, etc. and got enlightened. Milarepa and Marpa are both from the Kagyu school, but in all four schools of Tibetan Buddhism (Nyigma, Sakya, Kagyu and Gelupa) are examples of yogis, not living the monastic life and getting enlighten. 

You can use it if it serves you the purpose of one-pointedness attention. But you should remember the benefits of using the breath as your point of attention. The breath is both a concious and unconcious function and because of that it serves as a bridge bwtween them. Also in Tibetan Buddhism conciouness is said to "ride" in the winds (prana) of the body so by focusing in the breath you are also focusing in your mind. Once you have achieved mindfulness thru the attention to your heart beat, it is better to switch to your breath.