So in 1903 Barringer's mining company, the Standard Iron Company, purchased the land with the idea that due to ~30 tons of iron meteorite fragments laying about the basin, the meteor itself must be buried somewhere under the crater floor. Barringer spent 27 years searching, but no significant iron deposits were ever found. Where was the giant meteor? It would take several decades before science matured enough to answer. $E=mc^2$ or, the equivalence of mass and energy Einstein to the rescue! This equation may be so familiar to most people by now that it's jaw-dropping, awe-inspiring everyday significance must be lost on you. But take another moment right now to really let it soak in. This mind-bogglingly simple equation is telling us that energy and mass are equivalent. To put it another way, mass is energy. (And energy has mass. If you stretched out a rubber band, and somehow were able to weigh it like that, the rubber band would weigh more while stretched out than it would at rest.) Speed is also energy And in space with nothing to slow you down, objects can get thrown around at scary-fast speeds, right? Speeds so fast we usually measure them in km/s, or kilometers per second. So what happens when a meteor already traveling at several dozen km/s gets pulled in even faster by the Moon's gravity? It literally explodes. To put it in technical terms, the impact force is so great it breaks apart the bonds of the atoms holding the meteor together, and all that mass gets converted to energy. Take a look at the Moon's craters again. Yes, they're all perfectly round, but that's because each time an impactor hit, it exploded like TNT. The Moon is showing scars of literal bombardment. Why did Daniel Barringer never find his giant meteorite? Because we wouldn't discover until later that when a meteor hits at high speed, it hits with so much force that most of its mass vaporizes into energy. Kinetic kill weapons The irony of weapons in space is that in space everything is a weapon. If you have the capability to get up to orbital speed, or even faster, your vehicle itself is a weapon. If you could for example, approach the speed of light, your vehicle could easily destroy an entire planet. You don't need bombs or warheads, any regular matter like debris or asteroids will do. It's worth mentioning that the Chinese have already done tests like this on their own satellites. No warhead required, just a big, pointy steel rod, AKA a "kinetic kill vehicle". (Also worth noting that this test in particular did not vaporize everything, it actually scattered large pieces of debris everywhere much to the dislike of every nation with a space agency.) The rule of cool To answer your question, it doesn't really matter if capacitors explode when being shot at, because everything explodes if it's going fast enough! (As long as it has mass, i.e. a projectile, not a laser weapon) Use this to your advantage when designing, or ignore it if it's not. If this is for a game most people won't notice anyways. The reality is even tiny micro-meteorites can turn into bombs if you're traveling fast through space, leaving Moon-like craters in the hull of your ship. (You'd need auto-targeting lasers or something to handle micro-meteorites and debris while traveling fast through interstellar space.) I hope this answer was helpful and added some things you haven't considered yet. Cheers! 

Alternative viewpoint: Maybe we shouldn't assert that behavior of aliens is in all situations so different from ours. Aliens, if they are evolved creatures like us, probably evolved their psychology to best serve evolution strategy they need. We can notice that dogs, for example, behave not so differently from us. Probably because they are pack animals, same as we are. Cats on the other hand, are solitary predators, and they may be quite inscrutable - their evolutionary strategy is different than ours. There is interesting (although very speculative) hypothesis how our psychology and morality is shaped by our evolutionary origins. It is called Moral Foundations Theory (more here and here). It assumes that morality of almost any society of humans contains elements of five pillars, which have quite clear evolutionary origin: 

Local features Mountains Apart from the global circulation of the atmosphere, there is lot of local features, that can create deserts, for example. In my opinion, one should roughly imagine where the clouds are coming from and where do they go. Clouds appear above oceans, the warmer the region, the more clouds appear. Then, they follow the prevailing direction of winds. (See the discussion above.) If there are high mountains between, there will be a lot of precipitation on the side from where the clouds go, and dry region, possibly desert, after that. Continents The water slowly rains away above the land. Hundreds or thousands of kilometers in the middle of large continent, there will be a dry region with big temperature differences between summer and winter. (Or even within one day for slowly rotating planets.) This might go to extremes for large continents. 

With these assumptions, we can calculate how does the portal behave now. If previously, we calculated the difference in potential $\Delta \Phi = g h$, now this difference is reduced by the potential gain inside the portal equal to $a_g L$. So we have $$ \Delta \Phi=gh - a_g L\;. $$ With this assumption, now have to update the formula for $m_f$ to $$ m_f=\frac{2d(gh-a_g L)}{G}\;, $$ which leads to $$ a_g=\frac{2d(gh-a_g L)}{G} \cdot \frac{G}{r_g^2}\;. $$ By solving these two equations, we obtain the final formulas $$ \begin{align} a_g &= \frac{2 d g h}{2 d L+r_g^2}\;,\\ m_f &= \frac{2 d g h r_g^2}{2 d G L+G r_g^2}\;. \end{align} $$ As we can see, with large inner length $L$, the forces near the portals can be made arbitrarily small. It is still true that if you are going from the lower portal mouth to the higher one, you are going "uphill" and you must exert work. How does it look inside the portal? Interestingly, there would be no walls. The space wraps into itself, so it looks like if you are standing between four mirrors: all around, there are images of yourself and of other things inside the portal, just they are not images, but they are really there. You could see your own back. Conservation of Momentum The solution above conserves the energy properly. However, the energy is not the only thing that should be conserved. There is also momentum. With momentum, I do not have any nice idea how to put it into equations. But similarly to the previous case, I guess there would be forces acting on any entering object that change its momentum as it is passing through the portal. The forces would act both on the passing object and on the portal gates. If it is easier to rotate the portal gate so that the object would not change its direction of motion (yes, it could be easy - the portal gates could have negligible inertial mass), they would rotate to a proper position. If they are somehow fixed, the passing object would get strong kick from the portal and its momentum would be transferred to the portal gates. This would definitely not be pleasant experience if you are entering quickly - probably like hitting a concrete wall. Note I do not know if this is the solution you wanted, but it seems quite self-consistent to me. I definitely do not guarantee that it is consistent with the general relativity - it is probably not. (On one side because the portal gates are curvature o space and require extreme exotic mass, which brings additional effects. On the other side because the proposed model is not the only one - I know at least about one more consistent possibility, that is probably the case for wormholes. If you want to go this deep, you should be asking about wormholes, not portals. 

I have a species with mostly avoidant and introverted personalities. They prefer to stay in small, nomadic groups and flee when the surrounding population becomes too large. The criterion for "too many people" is met internally by measuring the intensity and duration of surrounding stimuli, especially noise. Too much noise and the creature attempts to find a way out. Why would this happen? What evolutionary advantages does this provide for a creature with human-level intelligence? 

See this question for what I'm talking about: Realism of this Respawning Creature How would these people view death and future events? They would probably have two or more words for it, one being impermanent and the other lasting and unchangeable. How would they talk about/refer to death and the passage of time? 

I'm a xenobiologist going on an expedition to a habitable planet about 14 LY away. We don't expect to find anything amazing - maybe some bacteria to study - but lo and behold, the place is teeming with all sorts of complex life. Looks like I'll be busy. How do I classify these creatures? Do I use the old naming conventions from Earth? They won't fit well, because most of them can't be strictly placed under "plant" or "animal" and they exhibit...well, alien behaviors. Should I just slap another term on (Origin, Kingdom, Phylum, etc.) to specify the planet of origin and make up new terms for these aliens, or start from scratch with something new and more fitting, possibly causing a great upheaval in the world of nomenclature as I do so? Or should I just use plain English for now and let someone else give them fancy names later? 

The body is, by itself, a terrible conduit for magical energy. It's not that it can't conduct the energy; it just has a nasty habit of heating up and spontaneously combusting if you go too far. Naturally, a way around this would be to use a rod of some sort of magically conductive material (say, a wooden staff with a thin gold interior) to focus your energy and enhance your "I'm not exploding yet" threshold. Another work-around might be to have multiple people and divvy up the total energy between them or their staves. Think of magic like water pressure. The human body is very weak: even a little bit of pressure and it pops (sorry for that image). A rod of precious metals or gems (if that's what you want to use) can store and focus higher magical pressures without being structurally compromised. So a staff would provide both focus of energy (you are emitting the same amount of energy from a smaller aperture, so more like a knife than a skimpy punch) and storage of energy (more pressure, less exploding) for its user. (Also a staff of precious metals would be sheathed in something natural like wood. Carrying around a thick piece of metal in your bare hands would be torture in colder regions.) EDIT: Certain base materials could also have specialties in the sense that they can do one of these things more effectively: 

To some extent, you can create your own star system also in Space Engine. It has beatiful graphics, it allows you to make videos or photos from the surfaces of planets in various angles, but it is not so interactive as the Universe Sandbox. This basically means that you have to input the parameters in text format and you cannot just add them by clicking. The Space Engine is free. I have also heard that AstroSynthesis is quite good, but I have no experience with it myself. 

The theory of Late Heavy Bombardment says that approximately 4 billions of years ago, something disturbed the orbits of asteroids in the Kuiper belt, which caused extremely heavy bombardment of Earth by asteroids. This probably brought many heavy elements to Earth's surface. The heavy elements that were here previously, during the Earth's formation, sank to the core when the Earth was liquid which made them out of reach. In other words, if there was no Late Heavy Bombardment, the surface of Earth might have been almost without elements much heavier than silicon. (Iron, gold, silver, platinum and others would be extremely rare.) My question: If humans developed the same way they did, what kind of technology would be achievable almost without elements much heavier than silicon? 

Representation of the torus by massive points. The torus is in fact elliptical. Then, I included a centrifugal force potential and I was looking for surface of constant potential, which would enclose the massive points and which could represent the surface of the planet. At the surface, I calculated the force field. 

There is very detailed discussion about this issue in the field of Astrobiology. There is many constrains for "reasonable" life. I will try to go through most of them in short points. Let me use following approximate definition of life in my answer: 

Gravitational force field on the torus surface. Inner side of the torus is right, outer side is left. It may be counter-intuitive that the potential energy is equal on the whole surface, but the gravity strength is changing. Equal potential energy only means that the force always points into the surface and walking around does not require work. But the gravitational force will change. It is strongest inside the torus where the centrifugal and the gravitational forces add up. It is weakest at the outside, where they subtract. Results The most important result is that if you precisely balance the gravitational and the centrifugal force, the toroidal planet can indeed be stable. The planet must rotate very quickly, otherwise it will collapse to a sphere. In this case once in 2.65 hours. Other parameters valid for my planet are listed below, but there can probably be many others that work as well.