The nuclear family we see today is basically the smallest most regular social structure. Others exist like the company or the church, but at the end of the day most people ether live alone or within one of these family units. That said, I'd argue this is actually not the most ideal structure, as it often results in those who live in ways that differ (gays, unmarried, alone, single mothers, etc) being unfairly shunned simply for not conforming. With this, I'm just curious, Are there any examples in history of a family structure that could serve as a possible replacement for the nuclear family? ps: Apologies if my questions suck, I'm new to this part of stackexchange. 

photo taken from this forum So my question is, when was the Mosque inside the parthenon actually demolished? Do we have a date for it? Also a bonus question, do we know if the original photo taken by Pierre-Gustave Joly de Lotbinière in October, 1839 still exists? or has that since been lost? 

Source While Alexander is known for kick-starting Hellenization in Asia, he did not live long enough to have a significant effect. It was in fact, the people who succeeded him (Greek migrants, Intellectuals, successor kings) who were the ones that continued the process and gave a lasting effect. Migrants who came from the Greek states and settled in Asian settlements brought with them their culture and religion. Natives often assimilated into this Greek culture and often opposed it. The Greeks who came to Asia did not however stamp out the religions and cultures of the natives. In some cases they actually adopted foreign elements into their own religion. There are several examples of Greek deities who have mixed Greek/barbarian origins such as Serapis. 

The answer to that is difficult. It has to do mainly with technological limitations and fluid dynamics. In fact, you should ask about time to flank speed, as this would be your only measure of maximum output shaft horsepower (shafts, actually). The power delivered to the shaft is just enough to propel ship at desired speed. For example, could cruise at 14 knots using less than 18% of nominal power, yet reaching 22 knots required her full (nominal) power of over 38k shp (303 RPM). And during trials she exceeded 24 knots, at 52.6k shp (and propeller shaft RPM exceeded 335). At those speeds water is... hard would be one way of putting it. Another is: when one goes that fast it's not a lubricant anymore... See "British Battleships of World War One: New Revised Edition" for more details. Another problem is cavitation, which was recognized well after 1960s, and which reduces the efficiency of powertrain. And last but not least... With the exception of nuclear-powered ships designed from keel as such, ships designs are optimized for cruising speed (which is not the max speed), and those designs are not as efficient at high speeds. There are ways to alleviate that, but obviously older designs would be deficient in that regard, sometimes greatly. This has to do with fuel consumption, which is not a concern for nuclear-powered vessels. So while it's not in your question, I would recommend to do any comparison on era-by-era basis. So. By now you should see the problem with your question... Typically battleships of that size (25-30k tons displacement) required about 50-60 min to reach maximum speed. They could reach maximum power only during max-speed runs, as power produced by the engines must be dumped somewhere, and you literally can't run ship's propeller shaft from start to 330RPM in no-time. It's same thing everywhere - when you want to burn tyres when accelerating in your car there are parts of the transmission system that would prevent engine from sending all it's power to the powertrain... There is a reason why new (that is new when they first unveiled the new generation) Nissan GTR had a caveat in warranty stating pressing "race mode" button voids it as it is likely to damage shaft. And the above numbers are nothing. , when on her trials, reached contracted 32.5 knots, what requried about 212k shp. And she was running light for that. How long it took is nowhere to be found (those numbers are classified), but since she was larger than or (and heavier) it would be definintely longer. For some basic info on British ships see here, for stats on here. CVNs have on hand even more: Truman is rated for 31 knots at 280k shp from 8 nuclear reactors. And one must not forget that was built with designed overload of 20%, so we don't really know how fast really she could go. Same thing would apply to most WWII-era ships. To show you how much power we're talking about has, if I remember correctly, 2 power plants of output of 86MW each. I can barely imagine how much power that is, and yet it's most certainly not a patch on BB class. But even then this is a lot and even with modern designs one cannot use all that pile of power immediately. 

According to the Public Record Office of Victoria website, the secretary of the Victorian Racing Club, R.C. Bagot asked for it from the Chief Secretary’s Department: 

Officially, If you were a Muslim in Greece, you could be exempt from compulsory deportation if you were: 

With the alliance in place, the Romans would have to further stretch their forces and resources to the east so as to counteract any possible Macedonian offensive. The Macedonians had numerous things to gain from the defeat of Rome: 

So it was Demetrius and Phillip's threat to Roman occupied Illyria and also to Italy itself which prompted the Romans to intervene militarily. 

The article does not list a source for this information and i cant seem to find any further information about it. Is there any evidence Hagia Sophia was built on the foundations of a pagan temple? 

Is the practice of mandating that a Muslim women wear some form of a Hijab or Burka a recent occurrence? In that, has the practice always been alive and well, or have countries like Saudi Arabia and Iran merely revived an otherwise dead practice as part of their uber-theistic method of controlling their people; with the practice then leaking into the more secular or liberal Muslim communities? I was born in '99, so I've only known the middle east for the mess it's become, and thus I'm curious if the Muslims of the 1700-1990 (or whatever), were just as into the veil as the Muslims today are. I mean, the Bible apparently says some stuff about covering your hair if you're a girl as a part of 'modest dress'; so seeing how most versions of Christianity today, even the really conservative strains, have grown to ignore these more 'annoying' parts, I'm curious if Islam did the same. 

Many surviving classical temples and palaces in the Levant and Asia appear to have been built by the Romans. Are there any notable ones that still survive today that where built specifically during the reign of the Seleucid kings (312 BC- 63BC)? 

Here is a byzantine mosaic map. The city at the bottom (ΙΕΡΙΧW) is Jericho and the Sea on the right is the Dead Sea. I wasnt able to find a source of this map. 

A map manuscript of the world by the monk Cosmas Indicopleustes (Cosmas "the one who sailed to India") survives today: Wikipedia describes the map as follows: 

I recently came across an article about the Byzantine historian Theophylact Simocattis and learned that he wrote about the reunification of China by Emperor Wen. I also know that Cosmas Indicopleustes wrote somewhat about China 60-90 years earlier than Simocattis. Were their any historians in the Greco-Roman world that preceded the two above that gave anything more than a mere mention to the societies of China? 

Did the Nazis ever cite Martin Luther's "The Jews and their lies" to justify the holocaust and their generally antisemitic ideas? I've been looking and thus far haven't found much, just wondering if there are any records of something like this happening or not. 

People today think for some reason that the founding fathers were religious men, you know "Good-old Christians" and the sort. Of course this isn't exactly true. Sure, they did think a god of some sort existed, but if they said things like "It's made one half the world fools and the other half hypocrites", and "Lighthouses are more useful then churches", then it's safe to assume that they were for the most part deists, merely using a god to "Fill in the gaps" if you will. That said, they were also part of the upper class, a position that often buys you a chance to doubt your faith in a way the more desperate lower class folk often couldn't or didn't want to. Thus, it's safe to assume most people were more religious at the time. But I'm curious, what exactly did the poorer majority think of their dear founding fathers religious stance(s)? Did they know of their doubts and if so did they think less of them for that? Or is it like today, where most people wrongly assume the founding fathers to be faithful men of the book, oblivious to their actual alignment?