Work with your history. You do have a history, right? If not, go and write one now, then come back to this answer. While it is true that many holidays are religious - in fact the word derives from "Holy Day" - holidays are also inspired by other events such as military victories or defeats (such as ANZAC Day or Remembrance day), or by important milestones in public history, such as gaining the right to an 8-hour working day as opposed to a former 12-hour working day, or by sporting events (such as Melbourne Cup Day or AFL Grand Final Day) that people ignore work to attend anyway. Most of your holidays will be annual events on a given date, but some that date back to events that occurred before the modern calendar was developed (for whatever value of 'modern' your world's calendar has) may be associated with particular seasons and/or astronomical events such as the phases of the moon(s), and may or may not occur every year, and thus may not occur on a single date. For example, a certain important religious event may have happened as the first snow fell in the Holy City one year, and the holiday that is associated with this event may occur each year with the first snowfall of the year - either on the Holy City (in which case, people celebrate when they hear that snow has fallen there), or in their own location (what happens when there is no snow in that location - ever?). Our Christmas is traditionally a winter festival, so there is a certain amount of dissonance when celebrated in the hemisphere opposite to that in which it was conceived - Consider the incongruity of singing carols about snow in furnace-like summer heat. In these sorts of cases, it is important to know not only when a holiday was conceived, but where, and to where has it spread since its conception. I've heard stories about a Japanese department store wanting to celebrate Easter one year, and because of the inexperience of the (primarily Shinto) staff in charge of setting up the Easter display with Christian traditions, the store set up a display of a crucified Easter bunny, which remained in place until it was pointed out to them that this was in fact inappropriate. However, your world may not have had someone to correct a holiday's misconceptions, and a holiday in this particular place and those settled from it may have what other people consider quite outrageous features as a consequence. 

I was reading Flatland, and the thought occurred to me that interaction between an n-dimensional being and a n+1+-dimensional being may not only be difficult but dangerous, that Flatland contains errors of logic. Assuming that our n-dimensional universe is a brane wrapped around an immaterial n+1-dimensional sphere (a 2-d universe would be wrapped around a sphere, its matter stuck to the brane like an atom-thick fridge magnet to a steel surface), an n+-dimensional being could move through the n-brane at will and interact with the inhabitants of the n-brane, potentially removing the n-dimensional being from their n-brane to an n+-brane. So, the question: How could n- and n+- dimensional beings interact, and what would the hazards be for each being, including removal of an n-dimensional being from the n-brane to a higher dimensional brane. What would each experience assuming that the interaction could occur safely? 

The matter spontaneously generated in a vacuum will be accelerated toward the nearest clump of matter. The velocities involved can result in atomic fusion and the synthesis of heavier elements. At this point, we have a universe that will simply fill up with matter that will gradually transmute to heavier elements, with a few bubble-like voids. 

This is a problem of mining air flow. When tunnels exist where there is no circular path allowing air flow, the air can become contaminated by outgassing from the walls of the mine and the activities of the inhabitants. The length of tunnels as described that would result in the air becoming unbreathable would depend on the nature of the material being mined, the processes that were taking place within the mine (i.e. human activity and/or combustion-powered machines), the frequency of that activity, and the distance from ventilated spaces, as well as the speed of airflow through those ventilated spaces (i.e. the potential for eddies to cause air exchange). From soldiers' experiences in World War two escape tunnel mining, problems with air supply where humans are working in areas where there is only one exit can become significant over distances of a few tens of meters such that it was necessary to install ventilation apparatus to provide workers at the head of the tunnel with fresh air. In a deep mine through material prone to outgassing, a lack of human activity and artificial ventilation could result in an area becoming uninhabitable within as little as a few days. The sustainability of mining depends then upon the material being mined, the nature of the activities being performed in the mine, and the technological level of its creators. This is too broad a question to answer with a definitive distance given that these factors are neither stated in the question nor likely to be a constant over time. EDIT Given the edit to the question specifying the nature of the caves: Since we are talking about sandstone that is presumably not prone to outgassing, we can discount that as part of the problem. Since many of the main chambers described appear to be interconnected, each of these could be described as existing in a loop connected to outside air at at least two points. This would mean that outside wind is likely to cause a draught and air exchange, meaning that these main chambers would likely be habitable in the long-term by a small population without any particular ventilation apparatus. With a larger population, something as simple as sails to catch the wind and direct it into the tunnels would probably suffice. Any main chambers which did not have a tunnel loop may suffer from air stagnation, as would the dead-end tunnels. This all depends on the size of the tunnels to the main chambers, as larger tunnels allows air eddies to penetrate more deeply. The smaller the tunnels, the lower the population the main chamber would support. However, the traversal of the tunnels by humans would to some degree provide impetus for ventilation, but it would not be as effective as wind ventilation. The simple provision of a chimney in each main chamber would probably provide all the ventilation needed - the fire maintained in each chamber would cause the hot air at the top of the chamber to rise up the chimney and draw in fresh air from the tunnels. My estimate would be that the main chambers that exist in a loop would be occupiable by perhaps 20-30 humans. However, dead-end tunnels more than ten metres or so long would be suitable only for occasional use without artificial ventilation. Main chambers that exist as a dead-end would be occupiable by far fewer humans, probably less than 10. Chimneys and fires would make all these main chambers occupiable by perhaps 30 humans. It would probably be possible to make a dead-end tunnel several hundred metres long before lack of air exchange made breathing there impractical without artificial means of providing ventilation. The exact distance would depend on the activity to be performed in the tunnel. However, these tunnels could be made habitable simply by boring a small shaft to the surface. 

You describe aliens that are armoured to a degree that infantry rifle ammunition will not penetrate, but can be penetrated by an anti-material rifle, probably .50 calibre, as that is a typical round used by such weapons. .50 cal and larger anti-material weapons may be issued to infantry soldiers in greater numbers, but their numbers would be initially limited, and a large anti-material rifle has the disadvantage that it cannot readily be fired from a standing position. To cover the need for a shorter-ranged weapon that would be effective against these aliens, and is available now in significant quantities, let me suggest the 40mm grenade system. 40mm grenades are in use by a wide variety of military forces around the world, 40mm grenade launchers are available that can be attached to existing infantry rifles or as stand-alone infantry weapons, and are also available as larger, crew-served belt-fed weapons. The 40mm grenade system includes a number of different rounds for different purposes, but includes the M433 round, which is a HEDP explosive round that can penetrate 50mm of hard steel armour plate, as well as causing casualties from shrapnel. This can be fired from any 40mm grenade launcher. M430 rounds are higher velocity rounds that are more limited in the weapons that can fire it, and can also penetrate 50mm of hard steel armour, or in their M430A1 variant, 76mm of armour. Given the high availability of these weapons and their ammunition, and the fact that ammunition exists that should be capable of dealing with the armoured aliens in question, would make them an ideal fall-back weapon that can be issued quickly to deal with the threat. 

Unfortunately, what you describe is radioactive decay if atoms become other atoms. This may be accelerated using a neutron beam. As atomic nuclei capture additional neutrons, they become increasingly more unstable and likely to decay. It would take a lot of neutrons though. On the other hand, if you're talking about disassembling molecular structures, but leaving the atoms untouched, just separated from one-another, that's a lot easier. Electromagnetic radiation will do it, but has to be tuned to the molecules in question for the greatest efficiency, and you need a lot of it. Heat will do it, but you need a lot of that too. If you want to get exotic, a positron beam will strip the electrons off any atoms it encounters, which would cause matter to disintegrate, but that would include those atoms right in front of the positron accelerator, so this would work best in space. The reason that we don't have disintegrators - other than high explosives - is the sheer amount of energy it takes to disintegrate something. It is far easier to cause a smaller amount of damage which is still effectively lethal. 

Have a look at Rod Logic. This is a technology that uses moving molecular rods in a solid matrix to perform logical operations by the expedient of the rods having side groups opening or closing channels. It can be implemented from the macroscopic scale (with Lego as one example) to the atomic scale. Such a nanoscale computer with a power equivalent to our silicon-based electronics would be positively tiny, on the order of cubic nanometres, and memory densities extremely high, say 10^20 bits (86.74 exbibytes or 100 exabytes) per cubic centimetre. Power requirements would be extremely low too. This would allow the construction of personal computers of a power almost incomprehensible to us now, or manufacturing nanoscale robots that could be injected into the body to perform medical tasks. So, yes, you'd be able to reach 1950's electronic computing power - and much, much more. EDIT nano-scale Rod Logic is currently theoretical, but has been implemented in macro-scale using tools such as Lego. I won't go into how you'd build it, since - as with our own computers - you use the computers you have to help build the next generation in an iterative process. The logical endpoint of the development of mechanical computing is likely some variant on rod logic. There would be a lot of intermediate-capability designs between early Babbage engines and a nano-scale rod logic machine. I dare say that there are very few people who really understand how a modern CPU does what it does. 

I am writing a story where we have our real science-based world, and a parallel world where magic is the more dominant principle. In fact the principle of magic is so dominant, that one cannot travel long distances without looping back to where you started from, each realm or kingdom being effectively an isolated world to those who do not use magic. However, with magic, one can step from one realm to another by using correspondences. The defining characteristic of a correspondence is similarity of appearance. More magically powerful individuals can use less similar correspondences to less magically powerful individuals, but the more similarity, the easier it is to take the step. To give examples, a cave is a correspondence to a similar cave in an adjoining realm, as can an oak forest be to another oak forest, or one grassy plain to another, etcetera. For example, an individual is travelling from Point X in Realm A to Point Y in Realm D If Point X is a city, and Point Y is a frozen mountain-top, then no direct correspondence exists. However, by travelling out of Realm A's city to the surrounding farmland, the traveler could use the farmland to find a correspondence to Realm B, where the corresponding environment would also be farmland with a similar crop/livestock, only close to mountains. The traveler would then go to Realm B's mountains and use a correspondence to go to a colder mountain-side in Realm C. The traveler could then go uphill a way until the environment was sufficiently cold that the ground was icy, and use that as a correspondence to travel to Realm D, where they would be near the frozen summit (Point Y) they sought to reach. The more powerful an individual's ability to use correspondences, the less exactly they have to match, however using less exact correspondences exhausts them more physically than a more exact match. For example, a river could be a correspondence. However, a river has characteristics such as speed, colour, its' banks, the surrounding vegetation, and so on. The more the characteristics differ, the more difficult the correspondence is to use. On the other hand, the more knowledgeable an individual is, the more correspondences they will know, and may be able to use them to travel more quickly, needing less non-magical travel to get to a suitable place to use another correspondence. The problem I have is that my characters (who are pretty far up the scale in terms of power and knowledge) need to go from Australia's magical parallel realm (which looks pretty much like the Australian Aboriginal dreamtime and Australia prior to the extinction of the indigenous mega-fauna) to Europe's magical parallel realm, which is pretty much like Europe of a few hundred to a thousand years or so ago. This means that the landscapes look pretty different. Australian plants do not correspond well to any European plants for the most part, effectively eliminating easy correspondences. What correspondences could be found to allow the most rapid possible travel, assuming logical geography? 

To add to Tim B's answer, rather than to compete with it: Eyes: Eyes do not generally scale with the rest of an animal. If you examine a mouse, it has eyes that are proportionally bigger than those of a cat, which are proportionally bigger than those of a human, which are proportionally bigger than those of a whale. Eyes have an optimum size, above which there is no significant advantage in a further increase in size, however when smaller than optimum, any increase in size is significant. 

If the earth was solid and the same low temperature as the surface regions of the current crust, the whole way through, a hole could theoretically be bored completely from one side of the world to the other. Air pressure could be an issue for unprotected humans, but suits like deep-sea rigid exoskeletons could be used to protect workers from the air pressure, or else the project could be carried out in a vacuum (which would be even more useful) with the workers carrying their own air supply. The machinery involved, if electrically powered, could easily be made to function in whatever atmosphere that was allowed to exist. The advantage of an atmosphere-evacuated hole through earth would be that a sealed capsule carrying a payload could be dropped into it, and with minimal air resistance, would require very little net energy to reach the other side of the world if it relied on gravitic acceleration alone. Compared with airliners, it could well be worth the investment. The main issue would be that the pressure of the overlying strata on deeper strata would tend to make solid stone and metal flow into the hole at sufficient depths. The question then becomes, "At what rate does this occur, can it be retarded, and what rate of collapse is acceptable?".