I am attempting to make a keytab using . I get to choose the encryption type, but the man page does not offer a list of possible choices. I also don't know which encryption method is the best! How can I find out both of these? I want the strongest encryption available. 

Without this the client will reject the server because Kerberos tickets may only come from explicitly permitted realms. I hope this information helps others out there! 

I've run into a perplexing problem where user permissions are not being respected on a Linux computer. Other users are able to move and delete files they don't own. Is there a way to restrict this? Why is this happening? Here's an example. 

Python will be reinstalled with all of its prerequisites which is what I'm assuming was all the associated programs your speaking about? 

I'd like to know if I were to add additional drives to an existing Raid 10 if this would increase the speed of the entire array? 

I've recently suffered from a power outage on one of my monitoring servers at the office. The result of that outage caused for some database tables to get corrupted. I've successfully repaired 3-4 tables by using the "use_frm" option however there are still 3 that seem to be badly corrupted and are not responding to the mysql REPAIR command (with or without use_frm) 

However, when I attempt to log in to the website (from another Desktop with username 'Jeff') my Kerberos credentials are not automatically accepted by the web server. It should grant me access immediately after that, but it does not. The only information I get from the mod_auth_kerb logs is: 

After digging through a lot more log information I was able to discover that the client machine was not responding properly to the server's ticket. The way you can tell something is wrong on the client machine is that you will see the Apache server's error message "failed to verify krb5 credentials: Server not found in Kerberos database". In the file on the client machine you have to make sure the web domain name maps to the proper Kerberos realm: 

I recently installed unison version 2.32.52 on a one of my CentOS 5.x boxes. With unison its important to note that all servers that will be synchronizing together will need to be running the exact same version. Unison won't work when linked to other unison versions older and newer. For myself I found that this rpm $URL$ worked for me running on centos 5.8 As for lsync I wouldn't be able to tell you much about it as I have never personally used it. I can however say that Unison when used properly is a fantastic tool. You can set Unison on a crontab to check for changes every 1-10 minutes. 

I understand that "auth" means this rule is applied to authentication. I also get that "pam_krb5.so" means "use Kerberos to authenticate". The part I don't understand is . What does that mean? 

What should I do to make Linux Capabilities work correctly and allow the program to bind to a privileged port? A quick search suggests that a mount with the flag can prevent Capabilities from functioning, and I verified that it's not interfering in this case. 

I would like to compile OpenSSL from source. There are a number of configuration options I can use when compiling it. I prefer it to be as secure and hardened as possible, and it will eventually be used when compiling Apache HTTPD. There are some configuration options that seem obvious for this goal, such as and . What other options should I use and why? The options are all documented on the OpenSSL website, but for some of them it difficult for me to discern the effects, or pros and cons, of using each one. What are the pragmatic options to choose that will make OpenSSL hardened? 

I have two internal networks that are connected to each other 10.10.10.1 and 10.10.11.1 I am trying to make devices on the 10.10.10.1 network be able to access the devices on the 10.10.11.1 network and vice versa. My questions is what is the networking term used to "bridge/route" traffic between the two networks making each other available to one another. Also what is the process in getting this going using iptables? 

Alright guys (and girls?), After a long search I finally found out what this issue was being caused by. There is a third party module that can be installed on php called suhosin. More information about the project can be found here $URL$ Anyway you need to open up your php.ini and find these following 3 line. If they do not exist then you need to create them with the proper variables 

I have a website running on a Linux computer using Apache. I've employed mod_auth_kerb for single-sign-on Kerberos authentication against a Windows Active Directory server. In order for Kerberos to work correctly, I've created a service account in Active Directory called . I've generated a keytab for the Linux web server using ktpass.exe on the Windows AD server using this command: 

When I attempt to start the program, it exits because it cannot bind to the required port. I discovered this using : reveals "permission denied, can't bind, shutting down": 

I'm trying to use Linux Capabilities to allow a program (httpd) to bind to a privileged port (443) as a non-privileged user. I set the capabilities for the program using this command: 

I currently have Unison installed as a one way sync (mirroring) between a CentOS/Win7 box. When configured as a one way sync what happens if I change a filename on the source box? Will unison delete the file on the mirroring box and then recopy the file over or is it smart enough to simply rename the file? Also, what happens if I rename a file on the Mirroring box? Will Unison simply rename that file back to its proper name or will it delete it and resync the file from the "master" box? I am currently running unison version 2.32.52 on both boxes. Thanks 

Ended up figuring it out. I'm posting here so it helps future readers! There are two things to be done. Fedora 18 does not have the proper package dependencies for sssd (which controls authentication and user/group look-up). Therefore, if you are using LDAP, run the command: 

Additionally, you will need to edit . Under the section, add the option . See this link for details on the enumerate option. Also, if you are using Kerberos for authentication, you will also need to run: 

What am I missing? I've studied a lot of online tutorials and cannot find a reason why the Kerberos credentials are not allowing access.