humans would make good mercenaries there are billions of us and we're clever. regular guns might not do much but humans only use those becasue that is all you need to kill people. we have created so truly spectacular WMD's, and it sounds like a lot of the anti-armor inventions might work well. Traps would likely be popular, anti tank landmines seem like a wonderfully since human could walk around will little risk of setting them off. the biggest thing is whether humans and these two have been interacting all along or if modern human tech would be new or strange to them. 

Earth fungi are made of chitin, which is plenty durable enough to build housing and furniture out of, although it will not be as strong as actual wood, and you will not be able to build tools out of it, although you could say they are made of a denser chitin than earth fungi. Of course as aliens fungi-like things and not actually earth fungi you could just say they are actually made of cellulose instead of chitin (or both), there is no reason they have to be made of chitin only, it is a fluke of evolution. Biologically there is not much difference between the two materials as far as production goes so you would be fine having them made of cellulose (wood). Nearly anything organic will burn so it is fine as fuel. However it will burn like a light wood not a dense one. the real trick is they will not be all that common since they are not primary producers they need to get the energy to grow from something else, like dead plants, so using them for fuel will be tricky just logistically. 

The Mayan created "floating" farms called Chinampa. But you want real floating farms to handle flooding, the good news is they already exist and have for centuries. Actual floating farms to deal with massive flooding has been used extensively in Bangladesh for centuries. First you make a bed of reeds and bamboo and a thin almost sprinkling of soil followed by another layer of reeds and farm similar to hydroponics. You can read a more detailed account of how they are made and used here. $URL$ $URL$ and a great cross section here $URL$ Note that besides vegetables floating platforms also make for very good fish farms. 

to Question 2, you could expand a bullet until it has the density of styrofoam, in which case it can't hurt you and air resistance stops it dead in a few inches. If mass is maintained expanding it drops its density. to clarify a 9mm bullet would have to be expanded until its about 10 inches cubed (roughly the size of a small coffee cup.) to reach this density, at which point it would either be stopped by air resistance or bounce harmlessly off of you. shrinking a bullet would not make it less dangerous. The hole it makes would just get smaller and deeper. 

It may not be effective at all depending on their diet, The loss of taste occurs in cetacea and seals, but not manatee. So if you're mermaids are purely carnivorous they will likely lose everything but saltiness, loss of certain tastes are fairly common in hyper-carnivores even on land. But if they are omnivores they should still be able to taste normally, taste is more useful when eating plants. 

if those points are that big they will not be moving very fast, they will not be able to pull those out at the end of stride without being slowed down significantly. There is such a thing as too much traction for running creatures. Second blades make for poor grip, traction claws are triangular with a flat side towards the ground for a reason. Claws that cut make for very poor traction. 

Short answer not much would happen. There just is not enough of them and even in the worst case breakdown they don't release that much radiation. most reactors aren't designed to be be giant pressure bombs/cannons which spread radioactive material over a wide area like the early russian designs. Many reactors have a negative void coefficient of reactivity and thus lose reactivity without coolant unlike the Chernobyl design. Others like breeders and gas cooled reactors don't have the issue to begin with. You would see death in the immediate area for some sure but on a global scale all you might see a slight global uptick in cancer rates and that's about it. The sudden failure of global power grids and evacuation effects would be a bigger problem. Lets try the impossible hypothetical scenario, all 433 reactors pull a chernobyl, Most can't but let's ignore that. if you pretend none of their exclusions zones overlap and even include some addition area for secondary zone overlap. you end up making an area roughly the size of Alaska unlivable. That is a a lot of land, but it is nowhere near close to making the planet unlivable. . people just don't understand radiation, or how much you are already dosed with $URL$ 

Wars with yesterday's mentality and tomorrow's technology, tend to be very brutal. Wars that happen during a major advancement in technology tend to be brutal on their own, WW1 were not particularly brutal (in terms of decisions made) compared to the wars that came before, but the brutality feels unprecedented due to scale and efficiency new technology enabled. Technology also enabling non-combatants to see the brutality in a very visceral manner unlike the detached manner it would have reached a wider audience before, photographs over written accounts, video over pictures, ect. Technology can even change how the populace feels about violence in general, increased availability of printed word for instance is believed to have made people more empathetic and less accepting of violence by inadvertently training people to see things from someone else's perspective. Additionally wars in which the populace of both sides are committed tend to be very brutal , the crusades are a great example, wars in which both side are extremely committed leads to disorganized fighting on many levels. this mixture of poor troops and trained troops makes slaughter and confusion more easy. (the last batch were pushover why are these ones giving us so much trouble, well because the last attack was disorganized rabble and this time it is seasoned troops. Nobody can really gauge the other sides strength well so total clusterfuffles become rampant. A civil war started by the populace (as opposed to a coup) will tend towards this. To add to this if both sides feel completely justified you get less compromise, more stand offs and on an individual level more justification of atrocities. religion can be a good example of this but any ideology will fit the bill just as well, no horror compares to those done by men of conviction doing the right thing. In the american civil war and WW1 it was freedom vs freedom, and was brutal because of it. The longer a war stretches on the worse this will get, and propaganda can easily make it worse, there is a reason the christmas truce was an early in the war event. 

Rape would still have evolved becasue it is still a successful way to reproduce offspring, that is the only thing required, The dominance aspect would likely remain unaltered as well for the same reason. Without sexual attraction you can still have pedophialia, although it should be rarer. Pedophilia is not only sexual attraction to children it can also be non-sexual attraction, which since love exists still exists in your species. Although the question of where to draw the line between attraction, love, and sexual attraction is not something we can do, they are just too intermeshed to be treated as completely distinct. But lets pretend we can for the hypothetical. Men and women will still behave much the same becasue the man can still impregnate multiple women and women can not. Changing the mechanics of it actually makes it easier, or at least harder to get caught. Although you are right teen pregnancy would drop like a stone. As for hiding where babies come from, there is no reason to do that now, so the same arbitrary religious reasons could pop up in your species. Both aversion to nakedness and keeping your offspring purposefully uniformed is a wholly cultural phenomenon, not biological. The only real change you see in clothing is it becomes unisex and bland, without any of the alterations we make to enhance sexual attractiveness. The big question is how did your species evolve, if reproduction isn't pleasurable then there is little drive to reproduce, so birth rates in general plummet. Worse since just like with human they would not understand what leads to offspring your species would never have had consistent reproduction needed to actually perpetuate the species prior to acquiring higher intelligence. And without sexual attractiveness you species has no way to weed out the majority of damaged or detrimental genes, which show up in things as wide ranging as asymmetry, smell, and body proportions. So your species is begging for a huge number of genetic conditions and diseases. There is also no way to to breed for intelligence as our ancestors unconsciously did since intelligence is no longer attractive. Your humans should never have made it to the fire and stone toops stage of development much less clothing. The mechanics of sex are largely irrelevant, but eliminating pleasure and attraction have huge effects, few of them good. so really aside from dooming your species all you have really eliminated is pornography, teen pregnancy, and prostitution.