Jacques Derrida addresses this in Of Grammatology, here quoting Rousseau discussing man as ignorant savage. (Same logic applies for lions.) It is not "just because something is instinctive" that one is absolved, but because he is incapable of reflection and so it is incapable of good or evil. 

On the other hand, if one "believes that the term "God" has no definable referent" then it could be atheism :- 

Some religious flavours are not motivated by egoism in the way you describe. Here is an example from the Lankavatara Sutra --"notably an important sūtra in Chinese Chán and its Japanese version, Zen" - Wikipedia :- 

You might find interesting Trigant Burrow's "Preconscious Foundations of Human Experience", (1964). One of his observations was that language, i.e. voices, are late additions to human interaction, in evolutionary terms. He contends that the artificiality language imposes messes up people's intuition and then their general equilibrium. It's quite obvious in retrospect, when you think how people twist their sense of reality to align with some literal interpretation, or misinterpretation, of the world. 

For free-will it is essential that a person does not believe the future is written. The future should be believed to be open, as your diagram depicts. 

Human evolved as tribal people, so being in a tribe is in our instincts. See Freud's Group Psychology and the Analysis of the Ego. Cults are obviously rather like tribes. 

No, it is not correct, but the "notion of what is present to me now, ... or everywhere" is fixed by modern presentism, as described. Although the distant present is unobservable, (and if it does later become observable cannot be agreed on for retrospective simultaneity due to observers having no privileged frame), it has temporal simultaneity, otherwise different times could exist at the same time, as in recipe for time-travel. 

The verse in John Coltrane's album Om is vividly descriptive. Quoting from 'The Dawn of Indian Music in the West' by Peter Lavezzoli: 

On the other hand, there is little doubt about language's coevolution with emotions and culture. E.g. The co-evolution of language and emotions (PDF) 

Presumably the rebels were placed on the establishment's left side, the "sinister" (sinistro) side, for nuanced effect, while the authoritarian loyalists were on the honoured right. By contrast, in reference to the Tâo Te Ching, Chapter 31, C. Spurgeon Medhurst (trans.) writes: 

"For distant places ... " - in the present moment they are unobservable, but exist nevertheless. "Which are moving ..." - movement does not affect the "plane of simultaneity". Nothing can move anywhere in 'a moment', and the present is a moment. As for "presentism". With the discovery of relativity one form of presentism was ended. Nevertheless, another remains. The superseded form is summed up by Vesselin Petkov in this article: Is There an Alternative to the Block Universe View? 

source: A Most Incomprehensible Thing Surely we're not concerned with things relative to the speed of light. We're talking about the moon in the present instant. The thing is, one needs to update the idea that there is an 'instantaneously' connected field of points constituting the present by appreciating that the speed of light is itself instantaneous, i.e. at the speed of light no time passes. One cannot view relativity as if the speed of light is a speed like the speed of sound, beyond which one could go faster, eventually to 'instantaneous' in the limit. The speed of light is absolutely the limit, and so the 'present' is relative. There is no underlying unobservable or superluminally connected present. Mind blown. So the observer, the moon and everything else exists in temporally simultaneity, but only at the speed of light. Below that speed everything is pulled apart in time and space. In fact, at the speed of light there is no past or future either, so it wouldn't be right to call it the present - only Now. Elaboration on the speed of light from someone's blog 

If you were designed with a purpose, by a designer, for example to have a special blood type or be super-intelligent to solve a critical planetary problem, would this control your consciousness so that you could not be anything else? The designer can have his intended purpose for you, and you may fulfill it, but if you can gain an introspective self-consciousness (apperception) you are not bound by another's purpose for you, and you can create your own meaning and purpose in life. Conjuring up a book quote for you, regarding deterministic existence, implied by exterior purpose. Jacques Derrida, A Taste for the Secret, page 20 

Plato's Simile of the Cave (c. 380 BC) is the earliest I know of. The inhabitants of the cave think the shadows cast by the fire are the real phenomena, but it isn't until they leave the cave and see things in sunlight that they discover the truth. 

Such a reading should re-locate your object of atheistic unbelief to a more conceivable place, although it won't stop you disagreeing with most of the theists you previously disagreed with. It's the development of a more useful, nuanced and uncommon view. Nevertheless, you may find it a self-emptying concept, like the Gateless Gate or even Tâo. Edit However, Tâo is more like negative theology, i.e. "The name that can be named is not the enduring and unchanging name." 

Marion's theistic phenomenology should pose hardly any problem, judging by this book summary:- God Without Being, by Jean-Luc Marion 

So if there were only a few stationary atoms in empty space there would be no time, and the atoms would not be "subject to time". On the other hand, if the atoms were moving they would create time and be subject to time. Also, if there were a few stationary atoms but something else was moving, time would exist and the stationary atoms would again be subject to time. Note further to down-vote The link to motion can be observed in that at high speed all mechanisms are slowed down due to their constituent sub-atomic particles being inhibited by the light-speed limit. So time is not universal, (although the moment is). At the speed of light time stops, i.e. there is no time. All this is incidental to my post, which about time in a more fundamental, definitive sense. That is to say, while a mechanism moving at the speed of light (if it could) would be totally pressed against the light-speed limit and would be frozen "in time", i.e. no motion, elsewhere in the universe someone could be observing so the mechanism would be in time. However in the hypothecated heat-death of the universe there would be only radiation and therefore no time. Returning to the OP's question: 

Since presumably 'rights' are social(-legal) constructs, if someone believed something blatantly anti-social, such as 'good is evil', would this violate anything conceptually in the social construction of the idea of what constitutes a right? Edit Wikipedia - First-generation_rights 

The answer to your question is that you cannot give up self and cling to will. Relinquishing will is part of no-self in Buddhism, e.g. 

Freud wrote about the death drive, Thanatos, in Beyond the Pleasure Principle. Prior to that he theorised that the pleasure principal motivated behaviour. Also of relevance in the context is the Nirvana Principal: 

"If something can happen, it does?" That is technically true, and it would happen without delay. No Wile E. Coyote standing in mid-air off the edge of a cliff. If something is preventing a possible event, then is not truly a possible event. To take your example: This house could collapse, if it were not stable. But it is stable so there is no simple hypothesis that it could collapse. Statements of possibility, ordinarily speaking, are contingent on their barriers. They are contingent possibilities. "The house could collapse, (if ...)". How about "The house could collapse if the conditions are right."? If the conditions are right it not only could, but does collapse. If they are not right it could not collapse. Even seemingly chaotic, random events (e.g. radioactive dacay) presumably have unseen deterministic reasons for happening, so the logic is universal. 

If any kind of being is supposed to exist that can see the 'written' future, and free-will is to exist, it would have to be from a dimensional perspective outside of time. For example, if the humans are brains-in-vats and all their life and free-will is played out in a virtual environment which another type of being can view at any time-frame. There may be some irony that a promise of divine justice casts one's life into a virtual environment. As if to say one is not in the real world. Here is a follow-on Derria quote, for your interest: 

Regarding your statement about Buddhism I would refer you to this passage from the Pāli Canon, (the most complete extant early Buddhist canon). In contradition to your statement, it shows that Buddha expressly does not speculate on cosmology. 

These religious perspectives advocate for equanimity. Not only is a calm state of mind obviously preferable to a neurotically worried one, but it is also conducive to more organised living. Nevertheless, this advocacy is concerned with worrying itself; not about failing to prepare for the future or being hedonistic. Delinquency 'today' is not ethically supported. Knowing the evolutionary reasons for wanting "all the jam today" leads to an understanding of what is required to compensate for that predisposition, and responsibly save some jam for tomorrow. These reasons were very well articulated by Nate Hagens on the Oil Drum, quoted below. The ethical implication is that is it is ethical to compensate for the predisposition, and that excessive immediate gratification while knowing the causes and faults is unethical. Someone who doesn't know any better is unethically negligent. Living for the Moment while Devaluing the Future (2007) 

I have frequently noticed a Buddhist influence in Heidegger's philosophy. A poignant case is Zen's focus on 'nothing', also aligning with aspects of negative theology, for example Meister Eckhard's philosophy, about which Heidegger writes 

* A quotation from the Tao Te Ching, chapter 14. The OP asks for "any philosophers in Antiquity". While obviously not greek, The Tao Te Ching (6th c. BCE) and Chuang Tzu (4th c. BCE) are quite contemporaneous with Parmenides, (5th c. BCE). Also, it does not seem unreasonable to suppose these ideas could travel. The quoted text certainly seems to directly meditate upon the existence of space, rather than its non-existence. Elsewhere in the Tao Te Ching the void is a rather key phenomenon -- almost "the womb of possibility". However, it is difficult to gauge modern interpretation in the process of translation. (A chinese version can be found here.) 

So a great deal revolves around this multiply extended proto-Indo-European root word 'gheis', all in a very nondual manner. 

Incidentally, the first line on the page elucidates a certain chapter of the The Tâo Te Ching: 'Minimising the Light' 

I would recommend Jacques Derrida's short book On Cosmopolitanism and Forgiveness. $URL$ Untypically, Derrida has written this book in a completely clear style. 

ref. Gayatri Spivak, Translator's Preface to Of Grammatology By "precomprehended" it is meant that an understanding of Being has been assumed, but as further investigation finds, it is far from understood. Therefore it is signified under erasure. 

From Thomas Sheehan's translation of Martin Heidegger's, "On the Essence and Concept of Physis in Aristotle’s Physics B, 1", PDF page 33. In section: "translations, 1998" : $URL$ 

Statement: "Some would argue that radical skepticism of the kind I have been talking about is meaningless." Conclusion: "2. No, this argument is NOT good, unless reality [can be defined as what we can] observe." Elaboration: Reality is not defined as what we can observe and radical skepticism is not meaningless. Observations can be misleading and different interpretations from observations of the same thing lead to the conclusion that the underlying reality has not been discovered. 

This answer specifically addresses the common temporality of existence of the observer and the moon In special relativity observers' experience of what is present looks something like this: 

M. Heidegger: On The Essence and Concept of Physis in Aristotle's Physics, pages 26-27 Note, the Roman Catholics have for God, Actus Purus. 

The instinct to strive for survival is built into the aim for mastery of environment. Every lifeform needs to manage its environment, from the basics of moving towards light to photosynthesize to hunting prey or synthesizing genetic vaccines and/or nuclear weapons. Mastery of environment is the base drive. Once it is operational, survival follows without further volition. As the base drive, the drive for mastery is quite tricky. It is largely unconscious and has a flip-side. Obsessive compulsive behaviour arises from this drive, because the drive for mastery really is obsessive and compulsive, only usually that's a good thing, not pathological like OCD. For example, the urge to master a puzzle can become problematic when it interferes with other tasks. It can easily get out of control because of its unconscious dimension. In life, the drive to master environment can spill over into invading others' environments. Whether this is called pathological or fair-game warrior behaviour is a moot point. Freud wrote about the (obsessive) repetition compulsion and Thanatos, the death (war) drive. Derrida took Freud's theories further in The Postcard, specifically in the essay To Speculate--on "Freud", an extended commentary on Beyond the Pleasure Principle. In the essay Derrida concluded that Freud's death drive is the flip-side of the life drive and drew equivalences to Nietzsche's Will to Power. Here is a quote from To Speculate--on "Freud". It's rather late in the essay so a lot of context is lost. Nevertheless, some flavour :-