I was searching for an article on fairness in a couple of online encyclopedias but had no success. There seem to be entries for various sorts of justice though, like the two I came across: distributive justice and procedural justice. I'm assuming there are other ones as well? Anyhow, as I understand it, fairness and justice are not exactly the same, the former being more subjective and depending more on gaining the satisfaction of the parties involved and the latter being more about decision being made according to certain ethical/moral/legal principles. This is of course my limited understanding of it, and I'm aware also of a lot of overlap between the two, as those ethical or legal principles can be created with concern for what people consider what is fair, and vice versa, people might accept something as being fair partly because certain decision was reached by impartial people who were guided by these ethically guided principles. But where does this leave me with philosophy of fairness? Does it become a psychological question, something purely subjective, like an empirical question about what different people consider fair? Is it a question of deserving, with its potential humanistic or religious dimension of human worth and value? Does the answer depend on culture and society, on politics, on economy? And on and on and on.... I appreciate any suggestions or references to help me 

Would there be two of me, or none of 'new' individuals could be considered as me? Who would have right to my belongings (job,...) and the right to be me, none or both? How things would change if we would implant both parts of brain into different bodies? 

I would argue against that fear of failure is as good of a motivator as confidence in oneself's success and domination. Let's consider following situation: Game is won by best of 5 Player1 has 2 victories. Player2 has 0 and 2 losses. Player2 is driven by fear of loss as he is only one game away from defeat. Player1 is driven by confidence as he need to fail all 3 games in a row to loose. In given scenario Player1 will benefit more from employing risky strategy because if he losses it's not tragic - he has 2 more games. Player2 on the other hand does not have this luxury and will try to play most standard game because of his fear of loss and therefore is more likely to loose to 'all in' strategy. 

This way, zero is , one is , two is , three is , etc. This doesn't explicitly have zero as a base case, but it is the only set that is not required to contain other sets, so it prevents expressions from being infinite. This representation has the advantage that m < n is represented as m ∈ n (since n contains all the naturals less than it). We can define the successor of n to be n ∪ {n}, which defines a new set with the elements of n, plus n itself. 

I am having some doubts in understanding universalisation of maxims in Kants Categorical Imperative. 

This question is coming out from our conversation with @Conifold: He believes that for creation of another omnipotent being 'strong' omnipotence is required. 

Considering that I can survive with only half of my brain, and I am a mind living in a body. If we would split my brain in two and then implant one part into some other body and leave other half in my head: 

When you would read this book for the first time it would be able to predict your thoughts exactly. Then as you would go amazed with it trying to figure out where the catch is - you would do the guessing game, by thinking of the sentence in your mind then reading same exact sentence by opening the page you haven't read before... and book would not miss once.... At this point you should conclude that ether you are high on psychedelics, or suffering from acute schizophrenia.... Book cannot prove God... EDIT: The point I am trying to make is since you cannot trust your senses (Descartes) no external source (including books) will be reliable to prove/disprove God... 

Relative to sciences, measuring (or defining) progress in philosophy seems more complilcated. I also presume that more so than in sciences, what pushes a particular philosophical view/approach out of the mainstream may not be directly related to its merits as a theory but be due to other factors like sociopolitical ones (e.g. philosophy of religion). But of course, it could be that the nature of the problem is such that no meaningful progress can be made at this point in time (consciousness?) And so here my question is whether progress in ethics has been made. Myself I imagine there has been some, because even if there are (and will always be) disagreements about values, we can still make progress by logically working out the consequences of adopting some, check how coherent the particular ethical stance is, etc. And what about all the recent work on animal ethics, is that not progress forward from the philosophy of human rights and that too being progress itself? At the same time, I am aware that many religions and older philosophical systems hundreds of years ago too had their views about proper treatment of animals and people too and that it may be merely a reflection of our time and place (me in US in 2000s, for example) and not sign of philosophy's progress that this kind of work is being done now. In other words, progress in applied ethics and not other areas. Anyhow, appreciate your views. 

Are there any other things we can be certain of? Are there any 'hooks' that can be hooked into 'I think therefore I am', that one could be 100% certain are truthful as 'I think therefore I am' itself? 

I have done some reading around philosophy SO and found a lot of known logical 'fallacies'. I have noticed them being used by quite a few individuals around me. I am looking to get as complete as possible list of argument fallacies, as it is a very useful to identify them being used in an argument ASAP. The ones that I have found: Ad hominem: Latin for "to the man." An arguer who uses ad hominems attacks the person instead of the argument. Whenever an arguer cannot defend his position with evidence, facts or reason, he or she may resort to attacking an opponent either through: labelling, straw man arguments, name calling, offensive remarks and anger. Appeal to ignorance (argumentum ex silentio) appealing to ignorance as evidence for something. (e.g., We have no evidence that God doesn't exist, therefore, he must exist. Or: Because we have no knowledge of alien visitors, that means they do not exist). Ignorance about something says nothing about its existence or non-existence. Argument from omniscience: (e.g., All people believe in something. Everyone knows that.) An arguer would need omniscience to know about everyone's beliefs or disbeliefs or about their knowledge. Beware of words like "all," "everyone," "everything," "absolute." Appeal to faith: (e.g., if you have no faith, you cannot learn) if the arguer relies on faith as the bases of his argument, then you can gain little from further discussion. Faith, by definition, relies on a belief that does not rest on logic or evidence. Faith depends on irrational thought and produces intransigence. Appeal to tradition (similar to the bandwagon fallacy): (e.g., astrology, religion, slavery) just because people practice a tradition, says nothing about its viability. Argument from authority (argumentum ad verecundiam): using the words of an "expert" or authority as the bases of the argument instead of using the logic or evidence that supports an argument. (e.g., Professor so-and-so believes in creation-science.) Simply because an authority makes a claim does not necessarily mean he got it right. If an arguer presents the testimony from an expert, look to see if it accompanies reason and sources of evidence behind it. Appeal to consequences (argumentum ad consequentiam): an argument that concludes a premise (usually a belief) as either true or false based on whether the premise leads to desirable or undesirable consequences. Example: some religious people believe that knowledge of evolution leads to immorality, therefore evolution proves false. Even if teaching evolution did lead to immorality, it would not imply a falsehood of evolution. Argument from adverse consequences: (e.g., We should judge the accused as guilty, otherwise others will commit similar crimes) Just because a repugnant crime or act occurred, does not necessarily mean that a defendant committed the crime or that we should judge him guilty. (Or: disasters occur because God punishes non-believers; therefore, we should all believe in God) Just because calamities or tragedies occur, says nothing about the existence of gods or that we should believe in a certain way. Argumentum ad baculum: An argument based on an appeal to fear or a threat. (e.g., If you don't believe in God, you'll burn in hell) Argumentum ad ignorantiam: A misleading argument used in reliance on people's ignorance. Argumentum ad populum: An argument aimed to sway popular support by appealing to sentimental weakness rather than facts and reasons. Bandwagon fallacy: concluding that an idea has merit simply because many people believe it or practice it. (e.g., Most people believe in a god; therefore, it must prove true.) Simply because many people may believe something says nothing about the fact of that something. For example many people during the Black plague believed that demons caused disease. The number of believers say nothing at all about the cause of disease. Begging the question (or assuming the answer): (e.g., We must encourage our youth to worship God to instill moral behavior.) But does religion and worship actually produce moral behavior? Circular reasoning: stating in one's proposition that which one aims to prove. (e.g. God exists because the Bible says so; the Bible exists because God influenced it.) Composition fallacy: when the conclusion of an argument depends on an erroneous characteristic from parts of something to the whole or vice versa. (e.g., Humans have consciousness and human bodies and brains consist of atoms; therefore, atoms have consciousness. Or: a word processor program consists of many bytes; therefore a byte forms a fraction of a word processor.) Confirmation bias (similar to observational selection): This refers to a form of selective thinking that focuses on evidence that supports what believers already believe while ignoring evidence that refutes their beliefs. Confirmation bias plays a stronger role when people base their beliefs upon faith, tradition and prejudice. For example, if someone believes in the power of prayer, the believer will notice the few "answered" prayers while ignoring the majority of unanswered prayers (which would indicate that prayer has no more value than random chance at worst or a placebo effect, when applied to health effects, at best). Confusion of correlation and causation: (e.g., More men play chess than women, therefore, men make better chess players than women. Or: Children who watch violence on TV tend to act violently when they grow up.) But does television programming cause violence or do violence oriented children prefer to watch violent programs? Perhaps an entirely different reason creates violence not related to television at all. Stephen Jay Gould called the invalid assumption that correlation implies cause as "probably among the two or three most serious and common errors of human reasoning" (The Mismeasure of Man). Excluded middle (or false dichotomy): considering only the extremes. Many people use Aristotelian either/or logic tending to describe in terms of up/down, black/white, true/false, love/hate, etc. (e.g., You either like it or you don't. He either stands guilty or not guilty.) Many times, a continuum occurs between the extremes that people fail to see. The universe also contains many "maybes." Half truths (suppressed evidence): A statement usually intended to deceive that omits some of the facts necessary for an accurate description. Loaded questions: embodies an assumption that, if answered, indicates an implied agreement. (e.g., Have you stopped beating your wife yet?) Meaningless question: (e.g., "How high is up?" "Is everything possible?") "Up" describes a direction, not a measurable entity. If everything proved possible, then the possibility exists for the impossible, a contradiction. Although everything may not prove possible, there may occur an infinite number of possibilities as well as an infinite number of impossibilities. Many meaningless questions include empty words such as "is," "are," "were," "was," "am," "be," or "been." Misunderstanding the nature of statistics: (e.g., the majority of people in the United States die in hospitals, therefore, stay out of them.) "Statistics show that of those who contract the habit of eating, very few survive." -- Wallace Irwin Non sequitur: Latin for "It does not follow." An inference or conclusion that does not follow from established premises or evidence. (e.g., there occured an increase of births during the full moon. Conclusion: full moons cause birth rates to rise.) But does a full moon actually cause more births, or did it occur for other reasons, perhaps from expected statistical variations? No true Christian (no true Scotsman): an informal logical fallacy, an ad hoc attempt to retain an unreasoned assertion. When faced with an example, rather than denying it, this fallacy excludes the specific case without reference to any objective rule. Example: Many Christians in history have started wars. Reply: Well no true Christian would ever start a war. Observational selection (similar to confirmation bias): pointing out favorable circumstances while ignoring the unfavorable. Anyone who goes to Las Vegas gambling casinos will see people winning at the tables and slots. The casino managers make sure to install bells and whistles to announce the victors, while the losers never get mentioned. This may lead one to conclude that the chances of winning appear good while in actually just the reverse holds true. Post hoc, ergo propter hoc: Latin for "It happened after, so it was caused by." Similar to a non sequitur, but time dependent. (e.g. She got sick after she visited China, so something in China caused her sickness.) Perhaps her sickness derived from something entirely independent from China. Proving non-existence: when an arguer cannot provide the evidence for his claims, he may challenge his opponent to prove it doesn't exist (e.g., prove God doesn't exist; prove UFO's haven't visited earth, etc.). Although one may prove non-existence in special limitations, such as showing that a box does not contain certain items, one cannot prove universal or absolute non-existence, or non-existence out of ignorance. One cannot prove something that does not exist. The proof of existence must come from those who make the claims. Red herring: when the arguer diverts the attention by changing the subject. Reification fallacy: when people treat an abstract belief or hypothetical construct as if it represented a concrete event or physical entity. Examples: IQ tests as an actual measure of intelligence; the concept of race (even though genetic attributes exist), from the chosen combination of attributes or the labeling of a group of people, come from abstract social constructs; Astrology; god(s); Jesus; Santa Claus, black race, white race, etc. Slippery slope: a change in procedure, law, or action, will result in adverse consequences. (e.g., If we allow doctor assisted suicide, then eventually the government will control how we die.) It does not necessarily follow that just because we make changes that a slippery slope will occur. Special pleading: the assertion of new or special matter to offset the opposing party's allegations. A presentation of an argument that emphasizes only a favorable or single aspect of the question at issue. (e.g. How can God create so much suffering in the world? Answer: You have to understand that God moves in mysterious ways and we have no privilege to this knowledge. Or: Horoscopes work, but you have to understand the theory behind it.) Statistics of small numbers: similar to observational selection (e.g., My parents smoked all their lives and they never got cancer. Or: I don't care what others say about Yugos, my Yugo has never had a problem.) Simply because someone can point to a few favorable numbers says nothing about the overall chances. Straw man: creating a false or made up scenario and then attacking it. (e.g., Evolutionists think that everything came about by random chance.) Most evolutionists think in terms of natural selection which may involve incidental elements, but does not depend entirely on random chance. Painting your opponent with false colors only deflects the purpose of the argument. Two wrongs make a right: trying to justify what we did by accusing someone else of doing the same. (e.g. how can you judge my actions when you do exactly the same thing?) The guilt of the accuser has no relevance to the discussion. Use-mention error: confusing a word or a concept with something that supposedly exists. For example an essay on THE HISTORY OF GOD does not refer to an actual god, but rather the history of the concept of god in human culture. (To avoid confusion, people usually put the word or phrase in quotations. Source False Dilemma/Dichotomy - Sometimes referred to as Bifurcation, this type of fallacy occurs when someone presents their argument in such a way that there are only two possible options. For example: “If you don’t vote for this candidate, you must be a Communist.” Source Appeal to Pity --Urging the hearer to accept the argument based upon an appeal to emotions, sympathy, etc. Example: You owe me big time because I really stuck my neck out for you. Example: Oh come on, I've been sick. That's why I missed the deadline. Fallacy of Division--Assuming that what is true of the whole is true for the parts. Example: That car is blue. Therefore, its engine is blue. Example: Your family is weird. That means that you are weird, too. Fallacy of Equivocation--Using the same term in an argument in different places but the word has different meanings. Example: A bird in the hand is worth two in the bush. Therefore, a bird is worth more than President Bush. Example: Evolution states that one species can change into another. We see that cars have evolved into different styles. Therefore, since evolution is a fact in cars, it is true in species. Source 

It is certainly possible to overcomplicate a complex system to the point where it is detrimental. This is often the case with rule systems (where a set of rules needs to be simple enough to be learnable by the players and prevent misunderstandings). Complexity per se is not good nor bad. However, it is often necessary when the problem being solved is complex. In Google's case, the complex problem is "How do I return a list of results for this query that the user is likely to regard as useful to them?" Sites that attempt to game the system by exploiting Google's rating algorithm are a loophole in the system that must be dealt with, because such sites are not what the user will regard as useful. Google solves this problem by adding complexity, in the hope that their algorithm will then achieve their goal better by delivering more useful results. Google's changes to its algorithm would always be to block illegitimate sites by making the system harder to game. Legitimate sites shouldn't be affected because they are not attempting to game the system. If Google did end up accidentally lowering the score of legitimate sites because of that, that would constitute a bug in their algorithm, but not a bug inherent in too much complexity. 

How would I apply in cases like: Should I eat meat, or should I drive under speed limit? How does one universalize a maxim? 

One of such could be British cult of Queen, on the other hand it could be considered part of British brand along with Union Jack, red buses and postal poles. I think every nation's 'heroes' will be portrayed in too much light and all the traitors and tyrants vilified, which makes it so much harder to draw the line where 'history' ends and 'civic religion' starts. 

Basically idea is that if you will convince yourself that you will get cancer you will get it, and if you will convince yourself that you have pockets full of cash then they will become full. EDIT: One shouldn't be able to attract something that he is not aware of in a frame that things only happen when one convinces himself of them being true. Is there possible logical explanation for person 'attracting' cancer (in 'law of attraction' frame) if he does not know what cancer is?