It's really simple, like the others said: DON'T DO IT ! My father had a friend that worked in a company that handled a part of the finances of other companies (don't know exactly how this works, not very familiar with this field). When he was hired, he lied about graduating from college. They discovered this 7 years later (don't know how) and, even though he had excellent job performance, they fired him. It's more likely that this will be discovered than it is to go unnoticed. Even if it's reasonable to believe that, after 8 months of unemployment, he's getting kind of desperate, don't encourage him to do it. If you're a true friend, do anything to stop him from this course of action. Slap him if you have to. Slap him again if he doesn't get it. 

Now, if the date is recent enough (and sufficiently visible), then it can help with this. Personally, using this technique, I've noticed a drop in the number of questions I had to answer about my past employment, university and so on. Obviously it won't make the inconvenience completely go away. But there's a reasonable chance that it will be significantly reduced. Give it a try. 

I think it's very reasonable and can be used as a substitution for a signing bonus. It won't hurt you if you ask. The worst thing that can happen is that they'll refuse. However I would only do it when you get to the "offer" stage and you know for sure they're interested in hiring you. 

As a side-note / personal comment: I too think such videos are kind of a waste of time and frankly quite pathetic. Managers / executives simply want to portray an image of "look how fun we are and what a great place to work this is", but it's simply fake and everyone sees through it... or they should. 

For reasons that are not relevant for this question, I went to several interviews at multiple companies in the past few months. What I noticed is that, in the vast majority of cases, interviewers have absolutely no idea about what's on my resume. They just print it out right before the interview and bring it with them. I reached this conclusion by mentioning very significant aspects about my work history and / or extra activities and getting genuine surprise emotions in return: 

Now on with your question: it's good that you have these concerns, it shows that you are concious about the potential problems that can arise from you or your employer being associated with such a product. I would put it on my resume, but ONLY if it was a project for a client, not something I worked on completely on my own. Also, I would leave out anything about the site's name or its type of content. Instead I would say something like: 

I want to apologize in advance if I come up as offensive; trust me, offending you with what I'm about to say is not my goal here. With that in mind, I would like to point out that any software developer with "senior" in the title should understand that, at least from time-to-time, you have to do unpleasant tasks. It's just a normal and extremely common part of the job in the software development industry1. I doubt it's the first time you have to handle unpleasant or boring tasks and it probably won't be the last either. Like @Chris said, keep in mind that the situation is temporary. It's also a great opportunity to show your bosses that, when it's really needed, they can rely on you to step-up and help. This will make you even more valueable to the company. I recommend to go through with it. You'll see that it's not so bad. 1 = especially if you work in a startup, where you almost always have to wear multiple hats 

It happens frequently that CVs and information on LinkedIn and other such sites is outdated for many people. Even if such information is available there, they'd rather confirm that as opposed to operating using information that is 5+ years old or something. That's why you keep having to repeat the same information over-and-over. I've dealt with something similar in the past. What I did was, I added on my CV somewhere in the corner a line like: 

If I were to guess, I'd say they refuse because they don't want to set a precedent for something like this: they give you a 2nd monitor and, by next month, 80 other people will make the same request. They wouldn't have a reasonable reason to refuse those extra requests, so they would have to honor them, which in turn would generate a lot more cost for the company. Usually, the best way to achieve such a goal is by showing them they'll save money in the long-run due to increased productivity. Look for studies and articles online that handle this subject and show them to your boss. Maybe he'll agree to let you try out with a 2nd monitor for a few weeks to see if it actually increases your output. This applies to a lot of other equipment (office chairs, keyboards etc.), not just extra monitors. 

1). It would be best to abandon the use of emails for this. Use Skype or other IM software, it's much more real-time and tends to keep people engaged once it got their attention. 2). Talk to your boss and/or the product manager. Let them know about this issue, but be careful about pointing fingers. They should be aware that this process is what's causing you to work slower. If you don't raise this issue, they might just think that you're not a productive employee or good at your job. 3). Do what @Julia Hayward said and mock every call to this 3rd-party library. When you finish your code, you can then test on their machine. 4). You don't provide many details about all this, but do you require seeing and interacting with a GUI on the remote machine in order to do the tests ? If not, then I would suggest asking them for SSH access on that machine for the testing purposes. You can also do it via a VPN connection between your company and the client. This way, you don't have to rely on them, you can just connect and disconnect to the machine all day long. It would even allow you to transfer files between the 2 computers. 5). Is it really that expensive to buy a license for that program/library ? I think that, whatever the cost, your increased productivity will pay it off; this obviously depends on the cost and the size of the project. 6). If your company and the client are geographically close (let's say 30 miles), wouldn't it be possible to work at the client's site 1 day per week ? From Monday to Thursady write all your code and mock the calls to the 3rd-party library and on Friday go to the client's headquarters and test it. This is obviously something that I would never do unless absolutely necessary, there are other cheaper and more convenient technical solutions to this. But if nothing else works, it might not be so bad. 

Do I talk to my manager about it ? If yes, what should I ask for ? Should I ask that the company buy me a new phone ? Or should I instead talk directly to my colleagues and try to leave management out of it ? The problem is that, due to the "heat of the moment", I don't remember with 100 % accuracy which colleagues were involved in this and I really don't want to wrongfully point fingers at people. Who should I talk to ? And what exactly should I say ? I want to solve this but without damaging my relationship with the people involved. I'm interested in solving my personal situation, obviously, but I would also like to see some general guidelines about how to approach such issues. PS: I dried the phone as best as I could, I even let it stay covered in rice for about 48 hours. After a total of about 5 days it still doesn't work. I don't think it can be fixed with a cost that is smaller than a new phone... 

Third, if the term is used incorrectly in some wikis or some internal documentation of the company, then try your best to correct it there as well. Yes, except for new hires, people rarely read those; but it's good way to stop it from spreading among those new hires. Also, it's possible chunks from that documentation will get copy-pasted into other documentation, parts of which may end up outside of the company's servers (like clients). 

If you ever want to apply for a work visa, lacking a formal education can be very limiting since most countries require such applicants to have a diploma in the field that the they wish to work in within the new country. I don't exactly know if you consider this to be limiting from a career progression point of view, but it very well can be for some people. 

We went on a Team-Building activity this past weekend, payed by the company. There was a swimming pool there and a few of my coworkers thought it would be a good idea to pick people at random and throw them in the water. I was one of the "victims", obviously, and I can't get upset about it since I do understand the entertainment factor that something like this provides. The problem was that I had my smartphone in my pocket, a fact that I forgot to mention during those moments. It instantly died... I immediately got out of the pool and got the phone out of my pocket. Everyone there saw this and acknowledged that the phone might be dead. Now, obviously, it wasn't my colleagues's intentions to damage it, but something has to be done about it; after all, it wasn't a $50 phone... I don't have any insurrance or warranty for this phone, otherwise I wouldn't bother with the whole situation. Some alcohol was consumed, but people were not drunk, they were just a little heated. The alcohol was not provided by the company, everyone bought their own. 

If you feel you can safely pull this off, then go ahead. Otherwise, if you have a dozen other projects you worked on, I wouldn't bother; those other projects will probably be enough to demonstrate your skills. A final point I want to make: if you leave it out of your resume, your interviewer(s) might ask what you did in that 6-month gap of your work history. You could tell them you spent that time learning new technologies and improving your skills. This is technically not a lie and it's a good answer in this situation. 

Another possibility why they might ask for something like this is that maybe, before they proceed with the actual interview, they might want you to sign an NDA. I have never signed one of those and I have no idea what documents are required for something like this, but it is a possibility. Although, afaik, they usually mention this on the phone or in an email message, a step which maybe was skipped accidentally. If I were you, I would go to the interview and take these documents with me. When/if they ask for them, I would ask what they're needed for and evaluate the situation on the spot. These are important documents which contain a lot of personally identifiable information; it's very reasonable to inquire into why they need them. 

From what I saw, companies rarely care about jobs that you had more than 10 - 15 years ago. I wouldn't even bother putting those jobs there, you probably could make better use of the limited space of a CV to put more relevant stuff in there. I don't know in what industry you work in, so I don't know exactly what "more relevant stuff" could mean in your case. 

You have to remember what a resume is: a means to sell yourself by listing your relevant skills and accomplishments. It's not a bibliography. If you think putting an internship there would harm your chances of getting hired, then don't do it. BUT be prepared to explain that gap in your work history. 

Programmers do have the tendency to over-correct others, especially other non-technical people. In general, it's best to force yourself to abstain doing it for 2 reasons: it breaks the natural flow of the conversation and it actually does come off as being a bit arrogant. Now, in this case, we're probably not talking about a simple and harmless conversation, like your uncle asking details about what you do for a living. In your case, a misuse of an important term in a professional context does bring with it significant ramifications, like people purchasing the wrong product or communicating it wrongly to (potential) customers. This is amplified because people do have a hard time letting go of terminology they got used to. As a side-note, my coworkers all have such a habit and it sounds really weird when you hear it the first few times. So it's not at all uncommon to have such a problem. 

If you really can't find this information, then don't worry too much about it. Just put down only the years, if you remember them. Like "1979 - 1983" or something similar. Trust me, given the length of time since then, it won't really matter (a lot of your coworkers and bosses are already probably dead). 

I recommend finding the manager in charge of the project(s) or the head of the department or someone similar, schedule a meeting with them and discuss these concerns. Based on what he/she has to say about your situation, you can then decide what to do about this. This can include of course quitting from that company since, from what you say, it's kind of a regressive career move for you if the situation doesn't change. An important mention is to be very calm and respectful in this discussion, don't get angry or assign any blame, even if it is a frustrating situation for you. Approaching this calmly significantly increases the odds of a more happy ending. 

I'd suggest a different approach to the situation. Such videos also need much more than "actors in them". They need someone: 

As far as I know, it's very common in the western world (North America + Europe). It's also part of work legislation in most jurisdictions. Therefore it's part of the company's policy and you will usually find it written in your work contract as well. The main reason behind this is to maintain the employee's mental health and optimum productivity. You just can not stay focused and "in the zone" for an entire work-day, you need a mental break that's longer than the usual 5 minutes. Personally, I also find it to be a great social opportunity. Bonding with coworkers and having conversations during lunch comes much more naturally for me (and I think for most people). 

There's a lot of stuff that needs to be done so that such a video is a "successfull" one. If you don't want to risk being seen as "not a team player", then you can participate in such a video without being an "actor". Just suggest it to your manager or whoever is responsible for it. 

Generally, in such cases, potential employers want to see a portfolio of what you've done until that point, or at least the most impressive/relevant works. Even if you didn't work as a graphics designer or did such projects for clients, you should at least have some personal projects to show, things you did in your free time to learn the skills and/or improve them. They will look at them and probably ask you a bunch of questions about how you did what you did and why you did it that way. Also, you should probably not cheat and show other people's stuff; even if you get away with it, it will come to bite you later. So I recommend having some proof that you are the author of the works (still having the Photoshop projects on your computer should be sufficient for this). If you still don't manage to get jobs this way, try to pursue more junior positions or even internships in that field, instead of higher profile positions; you probably have better chances that way. 

The whole idea is that you prove your technical skills (which is what the interview is all about) without damaging your image. When asked for a link to the website or more details about it, tell them that it's a porn site but put very very strong emphasis on the fact that: 

I would definitely put the job on the CV. You say it's your first job and you're concerned you'll look like a job hopper. Let me just tell you not to worry about it. Job hopping can be recognized only through a pattern of jobs that lasted a short period of time. If you had 4 or 5 of them, then it would be a problem. But if we're talking about just one... believe me, anyone who would label you as a job hopper would be totally wrong.