My opinion, you're overthinking this. Breaks in monotony are work time just as much as typing in the editor. It's part of the creative process. So, chatting with teammates, getting a snack, checking SO while waiting for a build to complete just come with the territory. The situation is the same for ancillary distractions such as random phone calls and such. No one stops the clock for two minutes to answer a call from their mother. Over time, you'll develop a professional sense of what a work-break (billable) vs. a break in work (not billable). Yes, this is different then task based work, such as answering phones or data entry. Also keep in mind that tracking such trivial 'breaks' can take as much time as the breaks themselves. Finally, this is an impossible thing to judge. Some very productive people don't appear to do much work while some other work hard for relative average output. Lunch is a grey area. If you billing as an FTE, then the daily rate may include that but generally, you don't bill the hour you take for lunch just as you would bill any time taken for doing random errands during the day. 

You're not actually getting the benefits, are you? It sounds like you're just being shown the benefit information you'll have if you accept the job. It seems like HR is trying to sell you even more on the job before they make an official offer. This has happened to me before, as well. It doesn't seem particularly out of the ordinary. 

You mentioned that the interviewer told you the starting wage "plus or minus a few dollars". It sounds to me like you were being given the acceptable range of wages specifically because you would not be able to negotiate something closer to what you wanted. That was the interviewer basically asking you if she was about to waste her time on a non-viable candidate. Had your wage expectations been more in line with theirs, I doubt it would have come up so early. Basically I see three possibilities here: 

For organizations that use the 'Expert Model' documenting the state is more important than the process because process is secondary to the result. Unfortunately, this is a cultural shift very few organizations can accomplish. 

You have to look at this in the abstract. If you feel the employee was truly negligent in handling company resources, then you can discipline them on that basis. It doesn't matter what they were handling or the value. You would have to prove a very high level of negligence, in the US at least, to get the employee to actually pay for the loss. Leaving the money next to the other money would sound perfectly reasonable to most people. 

Unless there are significant legal (DUI, criminal investigation, insurance fraud) or regulatory issues surrounding the test, no one will be watching you ;) Being alone in the contribution room (bathroom) is usually enough for a regular employment drug screening. If you've given a sample to you doctor, it's pretty much the same thing. 

I have a friend who currently works at Prestigious Company A, but he is in the process of interviewing for More Prestigious Company B. The interviews are going well, and now Company B wants him to come in for an in-person interview. The main problem is that Company B is in a totally different part of the country (USA) from Company A. Barring a weekend interview, which I don't think is too likely, the only option is to take vacation days to travel to Company B's location. Company A is probably going to ask why these vacation days are being taken, and my friend doesn't want to lie to them, but he also doesn't want them to know the real reason for the trip, lest there be consequences. How can my friend attend this in-person interview without tipping off his current employer? Barring that, how could he work out an interview time that wouldn't require the vacation days? 

Bluntly, yes. But, neither of you are at fault. In the case you describe, you work style and the professor's management style simply do not blend well and this is not at all uncommon. The long term problem is that it's highly unlikely either of you will change. 

You're being too sensitive. If someone wants to break into the employee records, someone's password is not the vector they would choose. And if they do try, there is a near 100% chance someone's administrative password is far less 'secure' than anything you would choose. If it's a 'large company', their internal security personnel, auditors and lawyers are probably aware of this and are ok with it. A 'large company' is not going to change their policy over this, sorry :( 

Unfortunately, what you describe is not at all uncommon. If a "Knowledge Transfer" covers 30% of the job, that's pretty awesome. The most important thing to do is identify other people in the area/department who are also versed in whatever you're doing. 

Check your company policy. I've worked at companies that allow personal use of company laptops, but only to a certain extent. There should be a long list of things you obviously don't do (porn, torrenting, mining Bitcoins) and naturally you need to be extra cautious so that you don't catch a virus or get hacked. But whether or not personal use is outright banned is going to depend on your employer. Ask your manager. 

I think you are setting yourself up to be fired. First, and most importantly, you have broken the contingency on which your higher salary rests. Your manager laid out the conditions for your increased salary and you violated them in less than a year. By bringing up the other job offer in any capacity, you will be showing your manager that he cannot trust you. Second, I wouldn't expect that you could negotiate a higher salary twice in five years, let alone one. You would be sending a message that you are not committed to the company at best, and that you are manipulating them for higher salaries, at worst. I would not bother with an employee who threatens to leave twice in one year. I'd either let them leave or shove them out the door myself. So the short answer is you don't negotiate for a higher salary twice in one year. You did a good job of it the first time around, but that is the kind of move you only get to pull a handful of times in your career. If you want a higher salary, then you're probably going to have to leave your job to get it. I don't know how you are going to do that without burning bridges with your current manager/employer, for the reasons outlined above. 

For clarity, the composition of the project, Agile, Waterfall, Milestone, Current Trendy Method, don't make much difference. 

This question can only be answered by the appropriate departments within your company, Legal, HR, etc. In the interim, you only practical option may be to assign tasks that are not on any critical path and have very flexible delivery dates. The 'nice to have' features that can be shipped whenever they're done. 

For organizations that subscribe to the 'Process Model', yes, and 99% of the time, the documentation has 0 ROI due to the exact circumstances you describe. This is just bureaucracy. Keep in mind though that there may be some regulatory benefit to such schemes and that should be well known to everyone. 

You can address the "unprofessional" comment by essentially conspiring with your manager to have them close the door. Meaning, you manager can swing by a couple of times for whatever reason, then on the way out ask "open or closed?". The three of you say "closed". Manager, hearing the clear majority says "no problem, thanks for the...whatever..." then closes the door.