The northerly winds have been in place for a while back in Kazakhstan and Uzbekistan have brought slightly cooler temperatures down from the north, whereas the flow into China is less consistent and has only recently started shifting. Even in the summer, wind changes and even fronts are still often very important in the temperature layout. 

(Source: What is a Supercell Thunderstorm, by Dennis Mersereau, on Vane) Most (though not all) supercells move approximately northeast. So knowing that, as the day evolves, a typical chaser will make choices to help end up on the south half of the storm so their visibility and path are not blocked by the stronger rain and hail. Then it comes down to road options, and paying attention to the storm and environment around you to watch whether the rotation is tightening up in the cloud base, as well as being aware of the temperature and wind for indications of how the storm may evolve. When it comes to models, you're right that they absolutely can't identify the tornado. However, convective models (like the HRRR) do often indicate the approximate areas where storms will develop a few hours ahead of time. But it doesn't appear models will be forecasting where tornadoes will form with any great reliability for quite a while still. But in terms of hunting down tornadic storms, convective models, and for that matter any large deal of real-time data, certainly aren't a necessity. People have been chasing storms quite successfully long before all that was available. It's more reasonable than most realize. You choose the climatologically favorable tornado seasons to start, then seek out favorable areas within the large-scale pattern, and then refine your target by interpreting the conditions until you find yourself magically on the southern end of a hook, even without radar help. For more input, I also suggest Mike Hollingshead's amazing high quality graphic tutorial, with a very useful snippet available on his StormAndSky website. It looks like tornadoes are quite regular occurrences around China. I know of chasers around Europe, Australia, and South America, but am surprised there aren't more in China. Maybe that is soon to change? 

So just maybe model and satellite can offer to bypass some of the flaws of radar data (though just may add their own challenges). All of it is likely better than relying on the town's reporting station... it's unfortunate there's a lack of reliable reporting stations on mountains (but it's a problem we have here too, and a matter of simple economics/utility). But hopefully those help you better get the data you wish for! Happy skiing :-p 

So there is 500+ times more water than air... and 4000+ times more "land" than water. Or in percents, the mass is: 

The lack of consistent and widespread surface wind fields favorable to tornadoes... due to a combination of the lack of the big lee cyclogenesis seen east of the Rockies, along with the complex topography. The rarity of regular low-level moisture significant enough to allow for low LCLs. The higher the storm base is above the ground, the less likely a tornado [in figure 6 of Edwards and Thompson 2000, all the red boxes showing tornadoes are on the left side, which are lower LCLs] 

Otherwise, if it isn't leaving the system, it could only build up in the atmosphere... potentially until reaching a level where the air could hold no more. Theoretically that'd be at 100% relative humidity. Unfortunately the troposphere can only hold the equivalent of a layer of a couple inches\few cm of water. Additionally water tends to leaves the air when enough areas of it reach 100% RH, through processes like dew and precipitation. And so over the long run, it can only reach an equilibrium, where the amount of water the air held was in balance with the amount it lost. And that seems in line with what we see. Moisture levels vary, but aren't rapidly changing in any direction. Considering that there's 96000 times more water in the oceans than there is in the air currently, the atmosphere surely couldn't hold it all anyways! If it can't leave, and the atmosphere cannot hold it all... well, it has to stay on the Earth. Certainly we see the equilibrium in practice too, as sea\lake levels aren't dropping consistently. Lake levels actually vary quite a bit, showing evaporation has the ability to drain at least the lakes fairly fast. Yet they aren't dropping consistently in any noticeable way. We're very dry in Florida right now, and lakes are way down... but in places like California and the Piedmont they've been seeing great flooding. But neither lasts in the long run. Looks like studies do estimate that the Earth has lost 1/4 of its water in its estimated lifetime. So indeed it's not that nothing leaves. It's just that it's very slow. If it wasn't... well we'd be seeing it quickly change now! Over our lifetimes, over the past few thousand years. But there's no indications that general lake/ocean levels have drastically changed. I do really get that there can be skepticism at billions of years. It's certainly something we can't verify too easily, visually, personally. And with Biblical\other religious sources casting potential dispute upon it, that increases the question. Honestly, a reasonable scientist should welcome skepticism and try to address it with fairness and levelheadedness. Unfortunately there certainly are plenty who are dismissive and belittling, either openly, or in their attitudes. But while questioning is a very worthwhile endeavor, this particular line of reasoning doesn't appear to hold much mustard. Be wary not to jump too quickly on any potential disagreements you see to accepted theories and thus run hard with them, or you're no different from those overly rigid scientists. Keep seeking for the truth as something of the greatest value. Regardless of what it is, and in the end it alone shall stand, and shall set you free! 

They use just four cloud coverage icon categories, while their forecast wording options include clear, cloudy, mostly cloudy, mostly sunny, partly cloudy, partly sunny, and scattered clouds. So they don't appear to match the standard NWS table. So long story short: There are some historical standards, but sites can take liberties in reporting it how they wish. Looking through some of the APIs, it would definitely be nice if they would better indicate the actual criteria they use! 

FlightAware suggests there are no non-stop flights from LA to Delhi. Was certainly going to point out that we're pretty limited on ultra long-haul flights still, and it'd take a very special flight setup to make your scenario. You'd need both: 

Basically latitudinal differences are due to temperature. Lower temperature means greater air density means more air (and oxygen). See PV=nRT\Charles' Law. I played with latitudinal cross-sections to see if I could spot any geographic issues, but this image from 30 north (which crosses the dry\arid US desert southwest, the fairly green US southeast, the northern Sahara, dry areas of the Arabian desert, Iran, and Tibet, and then fairly green southeast China: 

So it sounds like the barometer is often not on site, and there are indeed no specifications for height. But since it's reduced to sea level regardless, the elevation is all that really matters to reduce it to MSLP, and so some variation in height of the sensor shouldn't matter. 

The summary is that the majority of places see peaks during the afternoon, but there is variation, including perhaps a few parts of New York. Generally, the mechanism responsible for the majority of storms heavily determines when peak times occur: 

Doesn't appear to be great sources out there for some of this info! (But then, that's what StackExchange has great promise in being!) In the US, this manual for the official instrument setup, as well as this old manual on how to take observations gives quite a bit of good detail on how wind observations are done... In the US, wind speed is the most recent 2 minute average. A thorough explanation for gusts for ASOS, which is about as readable as syrup: 

But for what it's worth, whether it's the extra attention garnered or the belief it's helping in disseminating storm information, 2017-18 marks the sixth year that The Weather Channel has named storms. (See also: naming tropical cyclones) 

It appears that a large part of the increase in tropical storms lines up with a coincident decrease in tropical depressions (shown in green). It's notable that tropical depressions only start appearing in the dataset starting in 1963. I don't know it for a fact, but because the timing lines up with the advent of satellite weather data it suggests TDs may have been added once satellite offered a better picture to find and analyze weaker systems. Therefore, it would seem one possible theory might be that there was an initial predilection to hold less organized systems at tropical depression status, but as data has increased from hurricane hunters, satellite resolution upgrades, and additional/more rapid data reports, more of these systems were progressively graded as tropical storms. Looking into the data at full resolution, it appears the trend may be greatest in weak and moderate tropical storms (focus on the lesser change in dark blue colors, and in most of the pink bands): 

What are these towns? Red: Wendover, Utah (elevation 4,291', latitude 40.73° N) Blue: Latrobe, Pennsylvania (elevation 997', 40.32° N) Over a km difference in height. So you'd expect Latrobe to be about 18°F warmer. But it isn't. Instead it's cooler (especially during summer afternoons, which average up around 10 degrees apart). Why? Because a lot of the intermountain west is actually quite a wide flat elevated basin\plateau. So in the central part of this area, there isn't as much exposure to the colder air coming in from places with lower topography. Rest assured, it was very hard to find examples like this. You need a very wide flat elevated area, which is fairly uncommon. Plus just the right place to compare to for emphasis. There are other common factors that do enhance the cold predilection on mountains, including the lower moisture content at elevation, the often lighter land color of raised terrain, and the increased cloud coverage due to air rising orographically. But the fundamental reason it is colder on mountains is adiabatic cooling and the exposure of raised locations to that colder air. 

Does this pattern also match the rest of the year? I'd suggest yes and no. Here's the corresponding graph for the late parts of the season: 

To compare these directly, the volume of land is 20+ times larger than the atmosphere (or 40+ times larger than the troposphere+stratosphere), and 750+ times larger than the Earth's water. Or as percentages, the volume is: 

It should also be noted that Europe has a history of applying names to historic storms... though the practice has only started to become a bit more formalized recently, driven in part by confusion between inconsistent names and notability. Media in Germany started naming storms in the 1950s, but their process has had plenty of controversy along the way... (apparently now a storm's naming rights can now be purchased by companies or citizens!?!) The UK and Ireland started naming strong extratropical cyclones a few years ago, joined by France, Spain, and Portugal this season. As mentioned in BarocliniCplusplus's answer, many amateur and professional meteorologists have shown a range of dissatisfaction with the Weather Channel naming these systems, for reasons including: