I'll start by saying that I can't prove it to you. For all you know, your experience constitutes the entirety of existence. That's not inconceivable. All you can really do is use inductive reasoning. For one thing, you know that you have reactions to external stimuli, and those reactions are driven by your experience. For example, when you are hit, you experience pain. And when you experience pain, you express it in certain ways. Others follow a similar pattern. External stimuli that would cause you pain, when imposed on others, cause them to express themselves in a similar manner as you would. The only thing missing from your perspective is their pain. However, you know that, for yourself, that pain is a necessary link in the causal chain from the external stimuli to the pained reaction. So you might infer that pain is part of the process for them too, even though you can't observe it. In science we often deduce things that are hidden from our senses when they're the best explanation for something. For example, the concentrated positive charge and dispersed negative charge of an atom was the best explanation for many experiment results, such as the Rutherford scattering experiment. So we deduced the structure of an atom without being able to see it directly. We simply accept it as the best explanation for the structure, until a better explanation comes along. Others' reactions to painful stimuli, and its consistency with your experience is one of many methods in which you can infer that something you don't observe - the others' pain - is present. There are other examples. You know, for one thing, that if a concept you're unfamiliar with is introduced to you and after a short time you make an inference that couldn't be made without understanding of said concept, then you necessarily had the conscious experience of deliberating on this concept. So if you introduce a concept to another individual, and after a short time, they make an inference that requires understanding of said concept, you might infer that the necessary step of conscious deliberation was involved. It's not necessarily the case, but it is another hint that others have a conscious experience. If things like this doesn't convince you that there are other conscious experiences besides your own, there are still other ways that there is still existence beyond your own experience. For example, as far as you're aware, humans can only come into existence through the birthing process performed by other humans, before that human is born. You are human, and you know that you didn't have conscious experience before you were born. Inductive reasoning would lead you to conclude that you likely came into existence by a process performed before you were born, which implies that events happened independent of your conscious experience. However, this is still inductive reasoning; it's possible that you're the sole exception to this rule, despite what your parents tell you. Similarly, you observe that existence carries on when others die, so you might infer that the same would be the case for yourself. Again, though, you might be the sole exception. There's plenty of other ways you can infer that existence occurs independently of your experience, but only through inductive reasoning. Again, existence outside your experience is a phenomenon you don't observe, and, as with scientific phenomena, we can only infer things about the world that we don't observe through inductive reasoning. But we cannot disprove solipsism, so you have to live knowing that it is a possibility, however remote. 

In a sense - I remember one book which treated contradictions as such, though it was in the context of zeroth-order logic -, contradictions are the opposite of tautologies, i.e. sentences which are always false, regardless of the truth values of the propositions. The first sentence translates to "there exists an x such that Mx & not(Mx)" (M being the 'is married' predicate), which is false because there doesn't exist such x 

Not the movement, but the transitory perception of that, in modern Western buddhism/Eastern-spiritual-practices followers and the psychedelic community is referred to as "ego death". I don't think there is a movement solely for that, it is more of a paradigm found in both ancient Eastern philosophies/religions and, with the advent of Ram Dass, a few modern 'schools of thought'. 

There seems to be a confusion in the way you're phrasing the question. It is true for all moral systems that their imperative is imposed (almost) entirely upon humans. However, contrary to what you seem to be asserting, it's not true of all moral systems that the subject of their obligations is entirely humans. (In fact, it's not even true often.) In your hypothetical scenario where you're the only human alive, there are plenty of moral systems that would still apply to you, because the subject of their obligation is not necessarily humans. However, they would only apply to you because humans are still the object of those moral codes. Examples of moral systems that don't always impose obligations towards humans: -Western religions consider actions that are an affront to God to be immoral. This includes cursing in his name, according to the Jews, or desecrating a holy book, according to Muslims. -Utilitarians, such as Peter Singer, according to his book "Practical Ethics", believe that we have moral obligations towards animals that can be considered self aware and aware of their potential future. As do many vegans. So if your question is why are humans the subject of moral obligations for all moral systems, the premise is wrong. You can still ask why humans are the object of (almost) all moral obligations for all moral systems. As it stands, we never had a situation in which we ought to apply moral obligations to non-humans because we cannot practically impose a system of justice towards such. We can pragmatically account for the way non-humans behave, such as wearing protective gear against bears. However it is practically useless to come up with a system of ethical codes for bears to follow, which is based on concepts of deterrence or retribution. I did say "almost" all, because even then it's not true that all moral systems have only humans as the object of their code. You can consider a system in which the behavior of a pet is rewarded or punished with the intent of a Pavlovian response system to be a very rudimentary form of a moral code. As well, a new burgeoning field in philosophy is surfacing called machine ethics, which is primarily concerned about the ethics of AI. If we anticipate a society in which many of the rational actors will be AI, there is obviously a need for an ethical system to be imposed upon them. 

Samuel could argue back that Paul doubts the answer, or feels the need to point out this possibility, only because he is unhappy with the current answer, and asking the star student again gives Paul another chance to win. This would refute Paul's argument that Samuel doesn't want to ask out of fear, in the sense that both have a bias against losing. Given that, Paul, if he wants, should go and check for himself, it's in HIS best interests to do so, and trying to persuade Samuel with cheap arguments is not honest game. 

Depends on the probability distribution and the sampling procedure. If your samples are IID then no, it is impossible. IID is an acronym for "independent and identically distributed". The "independent" part means that the probability of draw for a given sample doesn't depend on the outcome of any other sample. (E.g. rolls of a die or flips of a coin are independent. Picking a card from a deck is not independent, because it depends on what you drew from the deck earlier. Picking a card from the deck with constant replacement and reshuffling after each draw is independent.) "Identical" means the probability distribution from which a sample is drawn is the same for all samples. For example, two separate rolls of a 6-sided die is considered two identically distributed samples. If you roll a 6-sided die and an 8-sided die, these rolls are independent, but not identically distributed. It's easy to prove that infinite IID samples from a distribution, whose probability of success is , cannot possibly have any number of finite successes. Simply take the limit of the Binomial distribution for any positive integer , in the limit as the number of samples approach infinity and you'll get zero. (Sorry if this paragraph was hard to read; the first sentence is really the key point, the second is only in case you want to try and prove it yourself, but can be ignored.) You can get one positive sample out of infinite rolls if the distribution is either not independent or not identically distributed. If it's not independent, you need only set it up as a Markov chain (which, loosely speaking, is essentially sequential probability distribution where each draw depends on earlier draws in some manner) that's set so that the probability of drawing a "success" doesn't start at zero, but can be irreversibly set to zero at some point in the sequence. (For example, this can easily be achieved by something called a "Hidden Markov Model".) If the samples are independent, but not identical then the answer is even simpler. Only have one sample draw from a probability distribution for which a success is possible, and all other samples drawn from a distribution from which a success is not possible. Though I suspect that this scheme would violate a certain implicit assumption in your original question. 

We view derealisation and depersonalisation as pathological because it causes psychological distress. In this context, 'unreal' is just a word which happens to be used to describe the quality of the conscious experience of the sufferer, and it doesn't have much epistemological considerations (but rather, phenomenogical), IMO. For instance, many other adjectives could be used instead, such as 'dull', 'foggy', etc... (I am afflicted by derealisation). Diminished visual-limbic connectivity has been observed in the brains of people with derealisation/depersonalisation, which is regarded as a marker that the subjective experience of those individuals is less 'emotionally colored'. Here's a reference: $URL$ (full text link at the end) If anything it tells you that even notions that we take for granted such as things being 'real' or you being yourself are fragile enough. It reinforces the idea of numenum vs. phenomenon IMO 

Free will is a good effective theory for describing how humans behave. To summarize, an "effective theory" is a theory we can use to describe a system, that works and is accurate, even if it doesn't work when you probe the system at a more fundamental level. For example, temperature flow, which satisfies the "heat equation", acts like a fluid with partial differential equations describing how a room that's hot at one end and cold at the other, will smoothly flow towards an equilibrium over time. This is a perfectly effective way to describe temperature, yet this is only the statistically most likely thing that will happen. When probing it deeper, you see that this is the result of a bunch of particles that move and collide in certain ways. You would see that there's no fundamental guarantee that the macroscopic properties of a system will evolve in such a way that is compatible with the heat equation, even if you do the experiment 1000 times and find that it's consistent. The heat equation will simply be violated when you probe to a small enough volume at a small enough time scale, and you'll realize that it's only being satisfied at the macroscopic level because that's what tends to happen on average. Other similar examples are classical electrodynamics to describe how charges work in electric and magnetic fields, or Newtonian gravity to describe how to get into a stable orbit around a foreign planet. Any time you probe deeper, you find that these widely accepted theories of physics are violated. So is that a reason to blow the whistle and tell the world that physicists are wrong? Shouldn't we be changing all the physics classes to tell students the "true" theory? Well... we don't actually know the "true" theory (if that can be properly defined philosophically). The most accurate and advanced modern theory of how the world works, the Standard Model, is something that we know is wrong! (Here, by "wrong", I mean insufficient to explain certain things.) But even if the Standard Model was the correct, perfect description of the physical world, it still wouldn't be realistic to use for things like, say, biology, sociology, or even some branches of physics. Yes, technically you can derive all of biology from the standard model of physics, but doing so would be such a grand enterprise that it's just not worth it. Nor is it a worthwhile way of seeing the world and developing your epistemology, from the perspective of a biologist. It is useful to describe biology in terms of cells, protein molecules, DNA and RNA, and the way these things tend to behave in relation with each other. An omniscient being might find the biologists' way of describing things to be far too limiting, and prefer to look at a biological system at a more fundamental level. They might, for example, use the Standard Model to determine what will happen in a biological system by calculating the behavior of all the fundamental particles in that system. But, because of our limitations, we cannot adopt the epistemological style of an omniscient being. If you do want to say that it's all "wrong" (including the Standard Model of particle physics), you have to adopt an unusual epistemological style that we don't usually adopt for most things in our life. If something is only right because it can be perfectly, consistently described by the physical theory that works in all domains of inquiry, then everything we have ever believed or known is wrong. When Isaac Newton discovers the equation for how a satellite orbits a planet, and then uses it to predict how an object in orbit will behave, anyone who says that he is "correct" is bound to a definition of "correct" that allows an effective theory to be correct even if it would turn out to be wrong if probed at a different scale of time or size. I would argue that this is a perfectly good and reasonable way for determining whether something is "right" or "wrong". For any good effective theory of human beings and how they act, it is useful to describe, and think about each other as beings for whom there is a set of possible actions we can take, and treat the specific actions that we do take as a choice. A choice is made by a source that sees a set of possible actions and selects one. In that sense, "freedom" is just a measure of the volume of possible choices that can be made. Again, an omniscient being would see how all our actions are carried out due to the behavior of all quarks, leptons, gluons, photons, W-bosons and Z-bosons in our body and would see this as a far less limiting way of perceiving things than our "free will" macroscopic model. But, based on the standard that I argued from in the previous paragraph, that doesn't make the latter perspective "wrong". If you're not satisfied with this answer, then I argue that you shouldn't be satisfied with most of the descriptions we have about the real world. After all, they are all simply effective theories which would be too limiting a description for an omniscient being. 

Apparently, this feeling/way of thinking is common and diverse enough as to not be associated with the name of a single school of thought. I think movements such as the boy scouts and people like Bear Grylls show/reflect that - although they may not be as deep and philosophically developed, they seem to have the same essential feeling. Thoreau is the main figure that comes to mind when the subject is mentioned, although my take on "Walden" - the book where he describes his two years, two months and two days long experience living on his own in the woods - is that he did not immediately reject civilisation or technology as bad, but rather that he believed that, in his civilisation (19th century US), the technology was 'poorly employed' - something along the lines of "if the civilised man is that superior to the wild man [having native Americans in mind] then why in the civilised society there are several men without homes, while in the Indian tribes every family has a comfortable enough house to keep them warm in the winter? Why does the civilised man has to work his entire life to be the owner of his house, while the natives can build their tents in a few hours, camp there for how long as they want, put the tent down again in a few hours and leave when they please?" or "they're building a railroad from Texas to Maine, but Texas doesn't have anything important to say to Maine". You might also wanna keep reading Jack London: it looks like he has similar ideas in more of his works - although, not as worried about the practical and economical aspects of it as Thoreau, but more on the mystical, individual aspects (not-that-informed opinion) -, I believe that "White Fang" inspired the guy from "Into the Wild" into doing what he did, among other things of course. The author from the book that John S mentioned (in the referenced thread) also seems to be along those lines. I would think that "simple living" would be a closely related and common term, although it doesn't seem to put as much emphasis on the reverence to nature part. "Simple living" makes Epicurus and Diogenes of Synope come to mind, although one might say that they don't mention nature as much because in their society they were already living close enough to it. Lastly, I don't see much of those ideas in modern environmental movements, which seem to be more about keeping civilisation and a certain amount of technology without destroying nature while doing it. 

To be clear, I am not asking if laws are moral, or even a good approximation for a moral system. We understand that there can be moral laws and immoral laws. For example, the law prohibiting murder is considered, by almost everyone, to be moral. On the other hand, a law that requires you to stone a woman to death for being suspected of witchcraft is considered, by almost everyone, to not be a moral law. Or there could be laws that aren't explicitly immoral, but that can be immoral in specific circumstances. For example, the law against stealing others' property, while not a bad law on its own, made it illegal for one to free slaves. So when I say something like "immoral law", that's just a shorthand way of saying that, in a specific context, the act that adheres to that law is less moral than the act that breaks that law. What I am asking is: Is there moral value to obeying the law that's independent of the moral value of the law itself? Suppose we took, for example, a law that is completely amoral. Whether it's obeyed or not has no moral value whatsoever, according to whatever moral theory you subscribe. (One example might be driving through a red light in a circumstance where it's perfectly clear that you won't hit or inconvenience anybody.) Could an argument still be made that it's moral to obey that law, or immoral to disobey that law? Furthermore, if there was a law which you determined to have some negative moral value, should you obviously disobey it, or is there still some inherent moral value in "obeying the law" against which you must weigh the negative moral value of the law itself? In the second last chapter of Peter Singer's Practical Ethics he touches upon this briefly. He offers an argument for why there's some moral value in following the law (though, as a utilitarian, he still maintains that you ought to weigh that value against other consequences of following/breaking a law). His argument, as I can best describe it (though I risk misrepresenting his argument with my flawed interpretation), is as follows: A system of laws, where policies are put in place by elected officials and disputes are settled by people with expertise in said policy, while flawed, is better than any alternative method of being systematically moral that we know about. Because we don't know of a better alternative (though they likely exist), if we deviate from this system, we will most likely devolve to a worse system (for example, one in which disputes are settled by force). So, from a purely consequential standpoint, there is moral value in maintaining this system, even if our laws are not ideal. This system is maintained by people obeying the law and maintaining its integrity. If people disobey the law often, it will set a negative example for others and weaken people's conviction in the law itself. So obeying the law is tantamount to maintaining the integrity of this system that's imperfect but "better than the alternatives". This argument makes some sense to me, though it feels a little weak. I'm not sure if it addresses any inherent wrongness of disobeying the law. Singer himself acknowledges that this only means that there's moral value in obeying the law if others are looking. According to this argument, if you can disobey the law without anybody knowing about it, there's no moral wrong in the disobeying of that law. (Again, this is independent of whether or not there's a moral wrong in the actual illegal thing that you did.) I would like to know if there has been other work done on this question in the ethics literature that offers alternative answers that are satisfying.