I've had periods in time where I'm just sitting in the office and all of the sudden one of triceps would start twitching like once per second or a bit more spread out. It doesn't hurt, but it's somewhat "annoying" cause it won't stop no matter what I do. I has happened to my triceps, my biceps, shoulders, and one of my legs. Not all together but those are the muscles were this has happened. These "episodes" happen on a period at least 13 hours after my last workout. But I haven't found a relationship between the last workout and the muscle that twitches(If I do leg the day before, is not necessarily my leg that is twitching). Although they don't hurt, should I be concerned? Is it an intake deficit of something or just aftermath of previous workouts? 

One muscle per day, this was a bit tiring since I was able to do around 5-6 exercises per muscle/area(chest, back, shoulders, arms, legs). After a month I switched to series, but still one muscle per day. 

Due to recently events back at my parents house, I decided to help with some of the expenses, this lead me to sacrificing my membership to the gym. I know there are at-home workouts, but I am unsure of which one to follow since I am so used to lifting weights. I kinda regret cancelling that payment, but family comes first. I really don't know for how long I am going to keep my account cancelled. Buying weights it's an option, but again I'm pretty tight budget wise and it would take time for me to get everything I would want to have. Any recommendations for an at-home workouts that can tire me as much as lifting? 

In general, I don't think that whether you're hungry or not is relevant at all. Just because you're hungry doesn't mean that you don't have sufficient glycogen stores for a run. If you are hungry, the hunger will probably subside once you start running as exercise causes you to have an increase in insulin. Any increase in insulin is followed by a low, at which point you'll feel the hunger return. This may be after you're run, or if you're exercising for a longer period, it could be before your workout is over. Cardio for weight loss is often suggested to be done first thing in the morning on an empty stomach, that way you will start burning stored glycogen immediately, and if you're eating a low carb diet, possibly go directly to burning fat for energy. Again, whether you're hungry or not is still irrelevant. If you just ate, you will burn sugar in the bloodstream first when you run. Depending on your metabolism, and how long since your last meal, you might not even digest that last meal yet because blood will be pulled to the extremities during your run, and away from the stomach in order to supply oxygen to the muscles working during exercise. 

Squat down with your feet flat on the ground, your back almost swayed in a neutral position, and your elbows on your quads a few inches above your knee. Without changing the position of your hips or arms, slowly straighten your legs at the knee. Try it...it works. 

If you want to lose weight, the bottom line will always be calories, so if you're eating extra carbs to help with your runs, you'll have to eat less calories to balance it back out. As was already stated, fats aren't as readily available for energy as carbohydrates, so they are ideal for low intensity exercise like walking and doing normal daily activities. I am a bodybuilder (used to be a runner) - The most important time for a bodybuilder to take in carbohydrates is post workout because when the body is depleted it needs to absorb nutrients like amino acids. Carbohydrates increase insulin levels which in turn increases the body's ability to uptake nutrients. So, bodybuilders take in protein with carbohydrates post workout. The second most important time for bodybuilders to take in carbs is pre workout for all the same reasons that a runner takes in carbs before their workout. Disclaimer...The following is just my loose interpretation of what's going on in your body during a run. When you take off for a run and are full of nervous energy and maybe a little jumpy, you're running on sugar in the bloodstream. That doesn't last very long before you "settle into a pace" and start burning glycogen that is stored in your muscles when you eat carbohydrates. When a runner "hits the wall" it feels like a sudden loss of energy as if you can not possibly go any further. I believe this to be the point at which glycogen has become depleted. If you push past the wall and maintain a strong pace despite all the signals your body is telling you, you'll "get your second wind". At this point, I believe your body has transitioned from burning glycogen to metabolizing protein for energy. When exercising at a high intensity, fat is not as efficient an energy source as muscle tissue, so it is not likely that fat is being burned primarily. Sometimes you can "hit the wall" again. If you continue to push past that for very long and get a third wind, you'll get "runner's high" which is your body releasing endorphins because that's all you have left to run on. I miss runner's high. 

It would also be a good idea to find a partner to do this with you. You would then have the reassurance that there is another person there in case of emergency and it's great for morale and comradery. 

Keep exercising. Do whatever your body will let you do - you're still burning more calories than you would if you did nothing. Plus there are benefits to your heart, lungs, metabolism, etc. Running is a great overall workout, and it's a perfectly good exercise regimine for lots of folks. Personally I like circuit training the best to get the most out of my workouts (cardio plus weight training). Many people find that trying new things (yoga, swimming, dancing, weight lifting, etc) keeps them interested and also keeps their body guessing. Whatever works for you, as long as you keep moving. 

While that person is technically right (kind of), working out a single part of your body like that is generally a bad idea. If you are adding leg training exercises to your normal routine it is probably fine, but working out only an isolated muscle group does not maximize your fat burn. In fact, it is quite the opposite - the more muscle groups you can hit with sustained intensity the better your burn will be. If you're going to focus on just your legs (which I suggest you don't for the reasons stated above), at least add in some upper body and other exercises to achieve better balance and burn. For example, if you're doing side lunges you can throw in a tricep kickback with some dumbells, or add an overhead press to your squats. There are tons of combinations you can do that will boost your fat burning potential and help you build muscle. 

Due to hormonal issues(hypothyroidism) I stopped working out around a week after my last post here (feb 17 2016). When the levels of the thyroid hormone are low, the person becomes more lethargic, always feeling tired, the metabolism slows down, and more prone to feel like a Debbie-Downer, although I wasn't too deep in this situation, recovering from it takes a while. I changed my dosage and I'm starting to feel better again, more energized and less tired. I put on a couple of pounds and I'm pretty sure my resistance has decreased as well. Now I don't want to wait any longer and I want to hit the gym again, so after all the background I've given you, I wanted to ask if its advisable to go straight back to my old routines(I mentally feel like I have the strength to do it, but I don't know if my muscles feel the same way) or should I tone it down the first weeks? 

I've been quite enjoying my tiring lifting routines, and I feel really good about developing muscle and strength, but I still want to lose body fat, not really for looking slimmer, just to look more toned. I was wondering if I could do my 3 day routine on Monday, Wednesday and Friday while having some full body workouts on Tuesdays and Thursdays without involving any lifting, and focus more on reps and body-weight exercises. Is this advisable? if so, I read swimming is one the best full body exercises, but I have no access to a pool. What would be some replacements for it? 

I've always wanted to incorporate daily jogs to my schedule, but at first I would get tired very quickly, out of breath, and I could feel my ankles aching so I assumed it was due to the over weight. Then when I finally committed to working out and eating right back in 2014 I did a lot of lifting but oriented towards resistance(more reps than weight) and also every Wednesday was HIIT followed by a tabata session day(which was quite the cardio workout). During that time I still tried to incorporate the jogging but 10 min is as long as I could jog without stopping. Even at my lowest weight 218 lbs(from 250 ish) and I didn't understand why if I was able to workout for even 2 hours with me ending up drenched in sweat. I thought that with my routine I would boost up my overall resistance, but running has never been my thing, I can't do it for long like I would want to. Right now I'm 221lbs and I'm still considering incorporating jogging but I can already taste the failure. Does lifting(not heavy, just enough for me to do some effort, more focused into reps and short 30 sec breaks between sets) not help with developing a good/healthy lung capacity for jogging? 

For your quads and glutes, you can vary your squat stance between close to wide from week to week. Adding weighted lunges would be a movement that will target your glutes a little more. Plyometrics are also a great way to target fast twitch muscle groups and you can hit lots of different angles this way. I also thought that a row movement for the back was missing. What do you mean by "incline dumbbell raise" for the serratus? Did you mean a dumbbell pullover? 

Reverse curls are done with the palm down. They primarily work the brachialis and the brachioradialis. Hammer curls are done with the the palm facing inward. They work the biceps brachii, the brachialis, and the brachioradialis more equally than the other two positions. The standard curl is done with the palms facing up. They primarily work the biceps brachii. 

In my experience, runner's high is only obtained after you "hit the wall" and get your "second wind". You have to run past the wall and hit a second wall before you get "runner's high". I always thought it was a result of the release of endorphins. In order to reach a runner's high faster, you have to run at a high level of intensity for an extended period of time. The more you train, the better level of conditioning you reach, which means you have to continue to push yourself even harder to reach a real runner's high. Evolutionarily, I think it's a survival mechanism. It allows you to push past all feedback from your body that tells you to stop, and continue anyway. 

I'm surprised to see that there is such a debate concerning types of fats. I don't think there are really different opinion camps on this. The following is not nuance. It is just the same information that you'd get if you asked any personal trainer or bodybuilder this question. Saturated fats are from pigs, cows, and egg yolks. Saturated fats are saturated with hydrogen atoms. They are a very stable molecules that do not react very readily in the body, and are more difficult to access for energy, so they are more likely to be stored for later use. These can be stored where ever your body stores fat and can also be stored along artery walls, and can cause heart disease. These types of fats should be limited. Fats in red meat and pork products should be limited, but that does not mean it's necessary to eliminate all red meat and pork products rather limit the fat content by choosing lean cuts of these meats. Also remember that dairy products that are not fat free contain a considerable amount of saturated fats. Primarily cheese, even white cheeses contain a lot of saturated fat and should be minimized. Although some people eat cheese as a protein source, I do not believe it should be considered as such. The amount of calories from fat in cheese is well over half even in a low fat cheese. Egg yolks have notable amounts of cholesterol in addition to saturated fat. Cholesterol has been credited with increasing levels of testosterone, so it may be worth taking in a moderate amount for this purpose. Unsaturated fats are from fish and plant sources. They are called essential fatty acids because your body does not make them on its own, so you have to take them in through your diet. Unsaturated fats have fewer hydrogem molecules than saturated fats, so they will contain one or more double bonds which makes them a polarized molecule thus more reactive in the body. This means your body can break it down more readily to use it for energy. Polyunsaturated fats are unsaturated fats that have 2 or more double bonds. In addition, unsaturated fats can combine with saturated fats and pull away a hydrogen atom converting it to an unsaturated fat. In this manner unsaturated fats can help you both burn stored fat and break down fatty acids in the blood stream for a healthier cardiovascular system. I suggest taking in unsaturated fats at least once or twice a day. The best sources are nuts and plant oils including peanuts, almonds, cashews, sunflower seeds, olive oil, sunflower oil, safflower oil, flax oil, etc. You'd be hard pressed to eliminate saturated fats completely from your diet because most unsaturated fats have some amount of saturated fats in addition and vise versa. You just have to read labels and consider how much you are getting of one compared to the other. I should also include a note about trans fats which are a chemically created form of saturated fats. Trans fats should not just be limited but avoided completely. They have been proven to not only increase bad cholesterol, but to decrease good cholesterol. Trans fats can be found in icings, cooking lard like crisco, and many processed foods because they also act as a preservative. 

Yesterday during my workout (chest, shoulder, triceps) something really odd happened, while doing incline bench press, one of my shoulders "popped" it didn't hurt, I was able to finish my reps. Then it popped again while doing dips, no pain, just an odd feeling. Today I'm not aching or anything but I'm concerned I might be pushing my shoulders to the limit and raising the risk of an actual injury. Are these type of events normal? I've been working out for a while, but I've never heard/felt my shoulder pop before. PS It was the left shoulder, and I'm left-handed, I don't know if that's a relevant detail. 

This week I started doing the StrongLifts 5X5 program but I already have some questions regarding 2 situations. I know posting 2 questions is not very well received but I'd hate to post 2 questions back to back about the same program. 

I have finally come back into meal prep mode, and before I never actually gave thought of the order of my snacks or if it matters at all, I usually have a protein or carb snack with some green tea. The time I'm aiming for is 11am for first snack and 5pm for second snack. But I was wondering, does it matter if I eat the protein snack first? or should I eat the carb one first? I go to the gym around 7pm, if that helps to give some insight. Other than my whey protein I haven't found a good substitute to consider switching the protein snack options. So any suggestions will be greatly appreciated as well. 

I recently restarted my gym lifestyle and as expected DOMS made their appearance, specially chest shoulder area, now my issue is not how to deal with them on a daily basis but specifically when I require those muscles to do another exercise in my case, squats; I've been trying to stretch my shoulders all day trying to reach a similar position as if I was holding the bar behind my neck(like for squatting) but the discomfort is really bad. I was wondering how can I deal with DOMs while working out, stretching, avoid movements that cause aching, or just suck it up and do the routine.