As is always the case for push-ups, you can do progressions for any given step by having your arms start at a more elevated position. I personally skipped steps 1 and 2 when I started, because I was unaware of them, and started by doing one-armed pushups on a counter-top, then a chair, then a low platform, then the floor. Back Lever Your first step, as with most planche and lever moves, is to start with a tucked version. Grab hold of your bar, or rings, and bring your legs up and through your legs. Get used to hanging upside down for a time. Then, start extending your legs further, controlling your movement. Your first step will probably be a "skin the cat" where you let your legs go down past the horizontal into vertical. By doing that repeatedly in a slow and controlled manner, you will build up the core and shoulder strength to do the back lever. Front Lever Human Flag One arm pull up Full Planche 

The standard protocol for networked fitness devices is is ANT, with ANT+ typically implemented for interoperability. The standard for heart rate devices is to send full pages of compiled data from the device. Thus, it is extremely likely that both the treadmill and your watch are receiving the same data from your monitor. Unless they are changing that data (for example, smoothing out the data to guard against infrequent messages, or modifying the displayed heart rate data based on other information) or displaying different fields (the standard page only has the timing, count, and computer heart rate, but you could have a sensor that sends additional information), the odds are that both devices are accurately displaying the data given. The most likely case I can think of is data latency. Either your watch or the treadmill may be operating at a different speed, either delaying the readout of your heart rate or displaying a smoothed value based on multiple inputs during the time frame between updates. If you were to catalog the values from both devices, I suspect that the answer would probably jump out in the data, but ultimately, I think the biggest takeaway here is that the data you are being given is accurate, just not necessarily in the same time frame. 

Another, "Injury Rate and Patterns Among CrossFit Athletes", from 2014, used the same survey method. 

Technically speaking, that's two questions and you should split them apart, but they're also likely pretty easy to answer. 

They also have a list of recommended exercises at the bottom (site provides links, which I am too lazy to provide here): 

TL;DR, locking your elbows is fine. "Locking" one's joints is simply bringing them to the maximum range of motion. It is the strongest position that you can be in, because you are using your body's full strength and durability (you are also more safely strengthening the connective tissue). The one exception is where you're applying sudden force to the limb where you need to absorb some of that force. The classic example there is bending your knees when landing from a jump. For a static hold like a handstand, you want to lock your elbows. Under general caveats, as mentioned below, it can be a bad idea to lock your knees on something like a weighted leg press. This is in part because knees hyperextend relatively easily, and the amount of weight can cause damage if it bends them backwards. In general, maintaining hyper-extension is a bad idea, but it tends to feel so uncomfortable that most people won't stay in that position for long (leg presses can be dangerous in that respect because you're used to bearing weight on your legs due to standing, so it's easier to "hold" there and not realize the discomfort). Also, while the mechanism is sometimes debated, standing with locked knees can lead to fainting. My best understanding is that it actually has less to do with locked knees than it does standing too still, causing blood to pool, or with general over-exertion such as hot weather and heavy uniforms. With locked knees, you're not moving your muscles to encourage blood flow, and you may be less likely to realize that you are getting faint because your knees don't start to buckle first, which means it hits you all at once. Another caveat, while I'm at it, although I don't think it applies to you, not everyone can lock their joints in a straight position. Some people aren't flexible enough, or are too flexible, and have to work in a less than fully-extended stance. 

It all depends on what you're looking for in terms of what to include or not include about the stair-climbing experience. If it's things like the stairwells themselves, there are machines ranging from the omnipresent StairMaster to Stepmills. If you're looking to avoid machines and stairwells, there's also simple box routines. Put a box out. Step up on it. Step down. Repeat ad nauseam. That will get you some similar benefits in terms of building your leg muscles and cardio-vascular health without putting you on actual stairs or hitting the gym. If it's the resistance of lifting your body, bicycles exercise some of the same muscles and will help with the cardio. If it's just the monotony of the stairs, I'd advise doing something to break up that monotony. Music can help. Some people have no problem reading or listening to a book while doing the stair-climbing. And, of course, there's always doing variations such as skipping steps whether going up or down, hopping up and down the steps, or changing your body orientation while traversing them (these, of course, start to shade into changing your type of exercise entirely, especially if you get into more exotic variations such as quadrupedal movement up and down stairs, head up or down). 

Personally, I think that none of these ascend to the height of being important enough to avoid bare feet, especially since shoes are dank caverns that incubate mold and bacteria. 

This may seem like an odd question, but outside of exercise, when I have to run, I usually don't have an opportunity to warm up. It's jogging down to the store during my lunch break, or running to catch a bus, things like that. I would like to be able to run those short distances with less sweat and heavy breathing. The rule of thumb I keep hearing for exercise is that you train for what you want to attain, but I also know that jumping into an exercise without warming up is a good way to get injured through exertion of cold muscles. Is my best recourse to just increase my general endurance by running in a conventional manner and hope that the effects bleed over, or is there a better way to train for spontaneous effort? 

One minor thing to add to the existing answers, when doing a handstand press, particularly when doing so slowly, is that the shoulders will typically wind up in front of the hands so that your torso can create a counter-balance with your legs. A common rookie mistake is to have the shoulders stacked above the hands as they tend to be at the pinnacle of the handstand, or even behind them (if you're used to "kicking up" into the handstand, particularly from a standing or a lunged position, having your shoulders a bit behind your hands allows you to compensate for kicking too far). One way to work past this is to put your hands and feet down and the gradually shift your weight forward, letting your shoulders move past your planted hands, and to feel the "weight" of your feet decrease as your center of balance shifts forward. As with learning the yoga crow position, be careful about doing this on hard surfaces, as you're likely to fall forward or have your arms buckle at first, sending you headfirst into the ground. 

I have been attempting to get the hang of various flips off of the diving board into the pool. One of the problems I run into is that I'm very bad at tracking where I am in a flip so as to know when to pull out for the landing. It's possibly complicated by the fact that I'm over a relatively trackless surface (the water) and I'm pretty much forced to do the flips without my glasses (I'm myopic with a fair amount of astigmatism), but I suspect that, as much as anything, I'm just not keeping track of where I am very well. It just all goes by so fast from jump to spinning to landing. Are there any tricks to improving tracking? Repeated attempts don't seem to be bearing much fruit, as I'm getting a consistent timing, but not one that's well-suited to adapting if distances change (such as with a new swimming pool) or being able to adapt my technique for a new move. 

It's difficult to get any sort of professional review because the general agreement among the consumer review sites is that body fat scales are inaccurate as a rule. 

Overall, exercise generally lowers one's starting heart rate. HIIT may provide superior benefits to continuous training (although some disagree, saying that it's more useful when you're already at a lower HR). Overtraining can raise one's resting heart rate due to increased stress from your body trying to soldier on without sufficient recovery time. It sounds like you may be experiencing that. Try taking a few days rest without much exercise at all and see if that improves your morning resting Heart Rate values. 

Hyperventilation is a legitimate method for increasing the proportion of oxygen in the blood for the purpose of things like holding one's breath. However, there is a caveat to it, namely that the body tracks both carbon dioxide levels and oxygen levels, and with what's essentially two different mechanisms. Hyperventilation decreases CO2 faster than it increases oxygen, which means extensive hyperventilation can lead to a situation where, while holding your breath, your oxygen levels drop too low, leading to a black-out, but the CO2 levels are not elevated enough to trigger the breathing reflex. This has a practical benefit in that, if it happens when you are swimming, you don't immediately start inhaling water. However, due to the different parts of the brain and when they shut down, people will often continue swimming while unconscious, and risk injury from running into walls and the like. Additionally, the period of time between when your body is starved for oxygen and when you start breathing again can lead to a situation of hypoxia, a lack of oxygen in the tissues. This generally does not cause brain damage, because the body begins to horde the remaining oxygen to preserve your brain, but the resultant lack of oxygenation in the extremities can lead to painful cramping. More anecdotally, I've heard that repeated hyperventilation can change the point at which your body believes it needs more oxygen, which can eventually lead to not getting sufficient oxygenation because you've effectively trained your brain into believing that famine is the new norm. However, I can't find any actual scientific proof of that online, so that could be a wives tale. As for whether it works as an exercise, I can't really say. The general use of it is instead to facilitate being able to hold one's breath, or to artificially boost performance by putting the body into a state of hyperoxygenation, done as a preparation for an exercise rather than an exercise itself. 

Results are mixed, even within the same experiment. One of the most common studies to be cited, "Intermittent fasting dissociates beneficial effects of dietary restriction on glucose metabolism and neuronal resistance to injury from calorie intake", found that, in lab rats, the opposite seemed to be happening. They had rats on a regular feeding schedule, rats on an overall reduced caloric intake, and rat who were fed the same number of calories as the second case but with intermittent fasting periods. The greatest weight loss was in the consistent reduction with the intermittently fasting rats gaining weight at the same rate as the rats who were being consistently fed more calories. The researchers involved quickly backpedaled, claiming that this must be a result of the rat's gorging behavior and that the results aren't applicable to humans, but it seems consistent with the dieting data for the last several decades which seem to show that fasting makes the body conserve calories rather than burn them faster, and the more often you bounce between reduced and normal caloric intake, the less effect the periods of reduced caloric intake have. So yeah, no magic shortcuts when it comes to dieting, just consistently taking in fewer calories at a reasonable rate. Sorry.