This might sound like I live in the magic land of licorns and hugbears, but that seems like the best first step to me, albeit maybe a possibly uncomfortable one. Then, depending on the outcome, you can consider other options. 

Take any good rejection letter you received, and invert it to fit. That would do just fine, as long as it's civil and to the point. You don't need to give justification. You can if you really want and feel the need to, but it's unlikely they will be hurt if you don't, and care if you do. Keep it short and professional. 

But note the term employer. As far as I understand it, except if your employment status is carried by the recruitment agency, you should NOT feel obligated to give it to them. Yet again, as mentioned earlier regarding convenience for you, maybe it's out of convenience for the employers who go through this agency and want to let them handle as much of the background work as possible. I'd recommend to discuss it with them and see if it's a show-stopper or not. Government Checklists and Regulations Regarding what the employer can request, I'd recommend to check this governmental page: $URL$ Check Conditions for Yourself with this Official Tool! There's also this tool to check which documents need to be requested by the employer and under which conditions, so check it out for yourself! $URL$ 

The same way you can have a short and a long version of your resume, or a resume and a full CV, you can use different online profiles to give a short overview or a full-view window to your professional life. I tend to think it's best to give a full-detailed version, and that if they're not interested in looking in there for what they need, then it's their issue. Plus it makes you more marketable as you register on more people's radars, by way of having more surface for matching keywords. Unfortunately LinkedIn doesn't provide the option to have a short view and long view, so if you really need this, I'd say host a short version on your personal site or Google+ page, or on StackOverflow Careers, and the long version on LinkedIn. Or the other way around. If you have a personal page, it's actually probably best to have it become the "focus point", and to have all other online profiles be short versions pointing to it. Makes it easier to maintain and avoids too much duplication. 

But mostly just team bonding and a sense of closure, really. They're NOT Enough. Not by a Long Shot. Comapnies that do just before and after parties do it wrong. They're generally overly cheap and they won't offset the efforts the employees put in. Especially if they went extra miles, fixed problems that weren't theirs (X got sick, fired, left, or messed up and they picked up the mess), put in some overtime, etc... What you want is to make hard-work feel like good work, not like busy work. Improve their working experience and time at the office. You don't do that by almost forcing them to come to another company event (especially if it's during their free time...). Alternatives There are countless other things you can do: 

Keep Ignoring Him Keep ignoring him as you do and eventually he'll stop. He has no incentive to keep doing this for ever, so he'll stop. For the most part. Do Your Job And if you do good work eventually your output will speak for itself and show - if not to him, at least to others - that you don't need grooming anyways. 

The 1st Rule of Damage Control... The first rule of damage control is to get stuff out in the open first, yourself, and on your terms. Talk to your boss. Or you can hope it didn't see the notification. Or that he saw it and might be bitter about it (bad) or that he might think "hey I don't want to lose that guy, what do I do now?" (good). But being in the dark is not so great, so I'd rather address it and make sure where people stand. Clear the Air If you think your boss saw it, have a 1-on-1 meeting with him, tell him "look, you may have seen that I had a phone interview with a recruiter and I want to clear the air." Tell him what you just said: you have no plans and don't intend on leaving, but you've been contacted and it was a potentially interesting position and there's no harm in keeping an eye out. End it at that, as anything else about the future is speculation. If he/she asks, make sure to clarify that you will give plenty of time in your notice and will do your best ot ensure a transition, and also that you will give them the chance to offer a competitive option. Congratulations: You Just Got Leverage!! Keep in mind that interviewing for other companies can also be a positive thing, in terms of negotiations. Be Nice! Of course, interviewing somewhere else shows your heart might not be 100% in it anymore, so that's the point you need to stress: that you have fun at your job, that you like the job and the people, but that life is what it is and it doesn't mean there aren't any other jobs for you out there. It might also come across as you trying to force their hand into promoting you or raising your salary. Which is kind of true, even if non-intentional. They'll let it go (if you don't do that every year, of course). What Next? Grossly over-simplified, but... 

In essence: be Zen. Be a rock. The path of least resistance is also the one of least annoyance, at least in the long run. Sounds a bit guru-ish, but that never fails, whether it's with this kind of co-workers, bullies, etc... 

Personal Experience and Anecdotes While the above is a general question, I've had some experience with this from both the worker's and the manager's perspective. As a Worker I've never been keen on taking sick-leaves in the first place but I've gotten used to the idea that I shouldn't contaminate my co-workers even if I strongly feel that I should keep working. Depending on the infrastructure of the company and security policies, I'd occasionally remote-work in these occasions. Lately, I've been tele-commuting almost full-time. On the rare occasions where I felt indisposed I've noticed that I felt strangely guilty about requesting a day off. This may be partly due to my aversion for taking leaves, but the feeling is definitely stronger since I've been working from home, and it definitely wasn't for slacking off: when I request a day off, it means I'm in a really pretty bad shape. Also, I almost invariably get a snicker or joke from co-workers - with whom I have a good working relationship - the next day about me just wanting to stay in bed or probably having to take care of some other business. It's a harmless joke once, but when 5 co-workers do it, and it happens on your next sickness request as well, there's obviously a pattern that feels like it's more due to resentment than to harmless office banter. As a Manager From the other side of the fence, I've felt that people reporting to me and requesting sick-days never bothered me, as everybody deals with being sick differently and you shouldn't expect the same behavior from everybody. I put sufficient trust in everybody, especially if I know they've got a condition and I'm happy with their work, even the odd ones who take a crazy amount of half-days off per year for things that are difficult to control or verify. We all have stuff to deal with, and I'd rather believe it's best to let them handle it and come back happy to work than for them to stay there even if they aren't really sick but are in a bad state of mind to work that day. However, when it happened that the request came from someone working remotely, I noticed myself that it did immediately cast the shadow of a doubt and I was asking myself if they were really sick. Which bothers me, because I don't like the idea that my mind is tricking me into considering them differently from on-site workers. Though maybe my mind's right. 

Just say neither of you are in a rush, and there's no particular reason. I don't see why anyone would really fire a follow-up question to that. I'm not engaged, but I've been living with someone for 8 years and we have 2 kids, and I occasionally had people asking me when we'd get married. I simply said neither of us wanted to, for too many reasons to get into. And it's not like I didn't want to talk about it, it's really just that I didn't want to spend the time to talk about it. Or actually simply said neither of us wanted to. Period. Also: 

Many people disagree with that, as they feel bad about getting many "level 1" entries on their resumes as it seems to make them look bad. However, if you clarify the scale, it's a pretty strong statement if you managed to have 2 and even only one 3. Of course, it's not to be taken litteraly. You could have written extensive blog entries and stuff, for instance. I like this scale both as a user, and as a recruiter, by the way. And I hate the ones who attempt to bullshit their way through it when they show up with 2s and 3s all over and are just "normal" in the end. That doesn't help either one of us :) 

Salary: Ask Early! Personally, I've always at least evocated salary right from the first face-to-face interview, if not during the phone screening. And if going through an agency, I set a base salary and I explicitely say I won't look at the ones that are below this threshold. It may sound harsh and cocky, but in the end you save everybody's time, and it's better to be told "I'm sorry, but I'm not the person you should talk to for salary negotiations, this is handled later on during the process", than to indeed show up in vain. I'm not saying that I downright demand to negociate it on the stop, but I request to know their ballpark (they may not have thought of one yet), and may give them my ballpark. You can bet they'll write that down and discuss it amongst themselves afterwards, which is what you want in the end. Be upfront, be professional, and there's no harm done and no hard feelings. The thing most people fail to understand when interviewing, is that the applicant is here to interview the company and its employees just as much as they are here to interview him/her. You're not hurting them, you are just openly discussing conditions. It's called communication, and it's healthy, as long as you keep it civil. Salary Threshold Tips Additionally, I'd recommend putting this salary threshold relatively higher than the actual salary I'd settle for, for multiple reasons: 

Golden Rule of Skills on Resumes If it's on It, it's fair game during your interview! Plain and simple. While I'm not exactly a HR manager or in charge of recruiting by role, I've had to hire a lot of people, and if there's one thing that brushes me the wrong way it's people who oversell themselves. If you put it on your resume, I'll ask you about it. So, except if it's a job that requires a Spanish and/or Hebrew level in the ballpark of "have forgotten most of it", I wouldn't recommend putting it on. I'd say I can be a bit more lenient with online resumes, as they tend to be the longer kind, as long as you clarify your levels truthfully. Personal Experience I speak German and English fluently. My German used to be way better than my English, but it's the other way around now as I lived in English-speaking countries for a while and stopped speaking German for a while. So I tuned down my German level from bilingual to "proficient". I also had learned enough Chinese to get by in China 6 years ago and can't remember how to write my freaking name now. Sad, but true: haven't spoken it more than 3 or 4 times since I left, so that goes very quickly. Do you think I should put that on my resume? I also have rudiments of Spanish, but nowadays they're pretty much back to the kind of conversation you'd see in an entry-level class book, where conversations revolve around saying your name, what time it is (and barely that). Unless it's for jobs where it would matter (job in a Chinese- or Spanish-speaking environment, or involving dealing with contacts who speak it or where the culture would be beneficial), it has nothing to do on my resume. 

I thought I'd just add another answer because I don't see any that offers what seems the best option to me... and that honestly baffles me. TALK TO THE GUY!! Pros: