You most likely don't have a slow metabolism, as this is quite rare. To lose weight you need to establish your BMR - Basal Metabolic Rate. Your BMR is dependent on your body size: the more mass you have, the more energy you use; and composition, muscle requires much more energy than fat. To lose weight you simply need to be in a state of caloric deficit. Meaning to lose weight you have to consume less than what you use on a daily basis. Anything you eat or drink - save for water -contains energy. Hence, if you eat a caloric surplus - be it from healthy food or unhealthy food - you will gain weight. You see that in essence it is quite simple. Consume more than what you use => gain weight, consume less than what you use => lose weight. So far, I mentioned losing weight and not losing fat. What weight (fat or muscle) you lose depends on what type of exercise you do and at what intensity. Something to consider: many studies have confirmed that one loses more fat and less muscle if they do strength training in combination with diet vs diet alone. And this is where protein becomes handy as it preserves muscle mass during a caloric deficit if one exercises the muscles. Also, keep in mind that whey protein is a supplement, no more no less. This means it is not necessary at all if you consume enough protein via your diet alone. However, it can be an easy way of protein supplementation if you don't consume adequate amounts of protein. Hope this was clear. 

Actually, I do both. I run 5 minutes on the treadmill to get my heart active from a long day at the office, get the blood pumping through my body, fresh oxygen in the muscles. Then, before I work on a certain group of muscles, my first set of the exercise consists of doing 10 - 15 quick reps with a light weight, just to make sure the muscles I will be using have blood pumping through them, and are "warmed up", so I can't injure a muscle. 

As weeks and months passed, I increased speed and jogged longer periods before slowing down pace to walking speed. I always kept this interval principal as it allowed my recovering to improve. I think it is important to push your limits, but don't exagerate as it will do you more harm than good. I quit smoking for over 8 months now, and am able to run 45 minutes on average 12km/h. I do sweat a lot, however I am recovered within ten minutes of rest. This improvement has made me determined to stay off cigarettes and live a healthy life. 

"Toning" your muscles is not something that is possible and it a very confusing term. It simply does not exist. The idea of a toned image is one that is (1) lean with some (2) muscle definition, or put otherwise: you will have a "toned" look if you lose fat and build muscle. This simply means that you need to build muscle and shred fat. No more, no less. You seem to know that to lose fat you need to have a caloric deficit, meaning you use more energy than you consume, so that is great. The second part is to build muscle, and this you can do in many ways. Bodyweight exercises are a good start, squats, lunges, push ups, planches, box jumps are some exercises that come into mind you could do easily at home. I believe you want to have an overall healthy look, so I'd suggest working out all your body parts. Last note: you won't get "bulging" abs from simple strength training. Getting that muscular look you are afraid of requires lots of dedication and knowledge and you won't just transform into a she-hulk the moment you touch some weights. So you don't have to stress about that. EDIT: as for the second part of your question. You can increase your agility by increasing your balance, explosiveness, strength and range of motion. Something you can achieve with strength training and proper stretching 

I'll try to answer your question from my own experiences. I used to smoke a lot, almost a package of cigarettes daily. I still had a fair amount of strength, and am a slim person by natural. At some point, I decided to work on my endurance, my stamina. I ran on the treadmill next to an overweight woman, and couldn't run more than five minutes without gasping for air. My heart was pumping so hard it made me dizzy. That made me realise - being 24 years old at that time - that it was time to change my life drastically. How did I accomplish this? Build up gradually, and be determined. The mental conquer was - for me - far greater than the physical, as you have to keep pushing yourself further, even though it aches, burns in your lungs. I started riding a stationary bike, as the running was too intense at first. I didn't ride it daily but every other day, as I wanted to allow my slowly recovering physique and muscles to recover fully before the next workout. After two months, I started jogging on the treadmill, doing intervals. This way, I could push my endurance further and further, whilst giving myself time to recover. I followed this scheme: 

I do not know where you got it from that you should not increase the weight if you cannot do it, this is simply not true. You need to achieve some form of progressive overload. The idea of progressive overload is to try just a little more each time. If you keep benching the same weight at the same intensity, your body will adapt to it and you won't see any improvement. No more, no less. Many tried and true programs incorporate this principle in their programming. For example: Stronglifts,Starting Strength, Wendler 5/3/1, Sheiko, Johnny Candito's programmes, etc. Normally, a program already instructs on increasing the weight if you can perform the exercise as stated. For example, in the case of Stronglifts, you increase the weight by 2.5 kg the next time you do it if you can do a certain weight 5 x 5. If your program does not incorporate progressive overload in some form or another, it is a bad program and you will need to introduce progressive overload. So in your example, if you can bench 70 kg for 3 sets and 8 reps, try to do 3 x 8 at 72.5 kg the next time you do it. If you fail at rep 6, that is fine, try it again the following 2 workouts. You should be able to perform it within the following workouts. If you cannot, you simply lower the weight and slowly increase again. I hope this answers you question a little.