What is said Nagel's statement on materialism? Daniel Dennett is a famous philosopher and computational functionalist who believes that computers may in principle be conscious in the fullest sense. He expressed his position clearly in The Zombic Hunch: $URL$ (The painting by Steinberg to which Dennett is referring to in his paper is the following: $URL$ From my experience most philosophers, and overwhelmingly most people, who have their bearings on this subject agree with Dennett. I would be interested to know what you think of Dennett's position after reading his paper: a) I think that Dennett is right. Nagel just confused me for a while. b) I think that Dennett is as blind as a bat. What on earth is going on? 

The philosopher of science David Albert applied catuskoti to superposition in Quantum mechanics, in his book Quantum Mechanics and Experience: 

It seems to me the answer to your question is straight forward and can be found in a quote by Elie Wiesel: "The opposite of love is not hate, it's indifference." The fear is not that robots will be evil, but that they will be indifferent to our fate, just as a human can be indifferent to the fate of a mosquito or a cockroach. On the other hand, I don't really accept or understand the way that problem of singularity is usually presented; as one example, the being that will supposedly create and control the "singularity" machine will not be a human being, but a society, which is already a super human being; in fact, a being potentially 1B times smarter and resourceful than any single scientist. 

You (originally) asked how we identify the algorithm, and I would like to suggest that the focus of functionalism in general, and computational theory of mind (CTM) in particular, are functions, not algorithms; here is an excerpt from the SEP essay on Functionalism: 

Can you provide a reference to criticism of his opinion, explaining why he was wrong (except for dismissing him as a finitist)? 

Here is a speculative solution to the paradox: There is "oneness in all the matter and energy around us", but consciousness is an exception to that oneness; you can observe this if you realize that there is no apparent continuum between your consciousness and another's; therefore consciousness is like a singularity point in the oneness which surrounds it. Now, by consciousness I refer to the so called qualia, or to what is possibly referred to as watching in some eastern philosophies; it doesn't include ones psychology and cognition, which relative to watching are part of the "external" oneness and the continuum. to make a metaphor, think of the galaxies in our universe, where each galaxy consists of hundreds of millions of stars orbiting a central massive black hole, which is a singularity in spacetime; these galaxies are part of an ever changing continuum, and yet each black hole is a separate singularity; a person is such a galaxy, and in its center there exists a singularity we call consciousness or watching. Now, not only is that singularity separate, it also does not seem to change; this is because we can ascribe to it no attributes, and therefore we cannot say it ever changes; so watching is both separate and constant. This seems to be in conflict with Buddhism, which I believe preaches that everything is in constant change, and nothing is separate; therefore, it seems as if Buddhism rejects the existence of watching, just as so many contemporary philosophers and scientists reject the existence of qualia (e.g. Dennet, and most physicists); could this view of Buddhism be the influence of a single philosopher such as Nagarjuna? I am aware that this is all free-styling speculative, but I have not stumbled on similar ideas or discussion elsewhere, and I welcome corrections and comments. 

Wittgenstein investigates these words throughout his Philosophical Investigations and I highly recommend reading it. A method that he advocates repeatedly is to investigate and look how words are used in the language: 

As for your question, the words know and understand are used in many different ways, and often looking at how they are used disperses a lot of the mystery. The following are just some (counter) examples... "Do you know Jack?" — "Yes, I think we have met once last year." "Do you understand Jack?" — "Listen, I don't care what his reasons were!" — or "No, he mumbles. Tell him to speak up." "Do you know OOP?" — "Sure, I've coded in C++ and OOP daily at Guugleples." "Do you understand OOP?" — "Do you mean to ask if I know it well?" As for the Chinese room: "Do you know Chinese?" — indicates a mastery of a language — "Yes, no problem I can take his phone call." "Do you understand Chinese?" — could be used to indicate a lesser mastery of a language — "I cannot talk Chinese, but I will probably understand what he says." 

This is probably a question for non-materialists. I think I have heard the opinion that for anything of which we are phenomenally conscious there exists a neural correlate. For example, If I am phenomenally conscious of a blinking pixel on the screen, then there should be a neural correlate for that blinking pixel in my brain. But I can also be phenomenally conscious of being phenomenally conscious. What could possibly be a neural correlate for that? 

Interestingly, it is an extremely valuable principle in professional software development too, where I have learnt Googling things up effectively, since that's 80% of getting the job done; so thank you for this question! 

I believe consciousness is obviously a natural phenomena, but that nevertheless, it cannot be described physically. 

Have you heard of Descartes' cogito ergo sum? I think therefore I am? In the Meditations, Descartes asks and answers your very question. The 350 years old text is very readable and exciting and you can find it here: $URL$ He deals with your specific question in the second meditation; here is an excerpt: 

In some traditions that "thing" is called Godliness or the true nature of consciousness. In the Tibetan Mahamudra tradition of Buddhism that "thing" is to be found within what they refer to as "meditation" or in fact what they refer to as non-meditation, which makes it interesting to compare Wittgenstein's quote with how Osho described "meditation" (which I put in quotes since he is not speaking of what is typically understood by the word meditation in the West, rather he is in fact speaking of the "thing"): 

The words without form and void correspond to תֹהוּ (tohu) and בֹהוּ (bohu) respectively. bohu is traditionally translated by religious scholars as desolation or emptiness. In modern hebrew the two words taken together form an idiom that roughly means chaos. Interestingly these two words taken alone, correspond roughly to two states of consciousness, namely to wonder or to ponder (lithot) and to stare or to gaze (libhot). One can find mentions of this relation by searching google for "תוהו ובוהו" together with "תהיה ובהיה" or "תוהה ובוהה", where the later two pairs correspond to the cognitive meanings. There are also two traditional sources that point out the cognitive sense. One is Midrash Rabah from around 3rd century AD which explains the two words as bewilderment and astonishment. The other is the 1000-year-old Rashi who notes that tohu connotes wonderment. I personally like to interpret these words to mean that when God first created the universe it consisted of consciousness.