I would spin this in the experience/project sections where you're stating what you accomplished: "Reporting to/Working under John Smith, Ph.D., I defined parts of the Curriculum Vitae where it would be appropriate to name drop." If they're influential in the field, you'll (A) know this, and (B) benefit from the association in part. Don't tell us everyone you've ever worked with, though, because name-dropping becomes tiring at a point and not every association will benefit you. 

My understanding with hiring in the UK is that government directives require the hiring body to verify your eligibility to work. I think a copy of the passport has become a standard formality, though I saw this interesting column on using DoB to age-discriminate. I would be reluctant to hand over any identification to a recruiter or agency with no job offer or prospect on the table, however, the key here is your employer has offered you a job and is going through the recruitment agency to get the hiring process done. The employer would have obtained these documents, anyways, but at this point it seems like a checkbox for the recruiting agency to move ahead. Of course, don't do anything you're uncomfortable with, but also realize there may be no other option (that doesn't involve even more sensitive docs, at least), if you want to move ahead with this employer. 

I've never heard of this situation before. Since you will be rescinding your acceptance, it wouldn't hurt for you to ask them for the reason, but you may not receive a truthful answer. The only thing I can think of is that right after giving you the offer, the company found another candidate for the position who indicated they would accept a salary 10% lower than yours. The company decided to lower your offer by 10%, knowing that if you decline, then they will just hire the other person. Whether or not it's ethical, be grateful that they decided to reduce your salary before you quit your current job. Imagine how you would feel if you quit your current job, got settled in with this company, and then they gave you a pay cut. 

Worst case scenario you change something behind you manager's back, and he doesn't know what's going on suddenly. Makes him look bad, makes you look bad. Draft your methods going forward and present your plan to your manager, and ask that you take charge under his supervision. This is an opportunity as a junior to take on a project you're interested in. But, your manager may also have valuable input, mentoring or advisory to complement whatever it is you draft. Granted, it doesn't guarantee you'll lead those changes. I think it goes without saying, however, that in most cases you shouldn't subvert your manager. 

The "tell me about yourself" question is usually just used by interviewers to gauge your social/conversational skills. There really isn't a right or wrong answer for it, but since you are seeking a job at the company, use that question to your advantage. You can tell them about about what you studied in school, what skills you have, give them a brief summary of all of your previous jobs, and then tell them how your skills and experience are a good fit for the position. Remember what skills and other requirements they mentioned in the job ad, and if you have those skills, be sure to mention that. I wouldn't bother with mentioning any personal hobbies or interests, unless they are relevant to the job. For example if you like to work on open-source software projects in your free time, then definitely mention that. But don't waste the interviewer's time by mentioning that you like to go horseback riding or anything that's not related to the job. "Tell me about yourself" is such an open-ended question that it's a great opportunity to tell them your skills and experience and to sell yourself for the job. It's the best question you could ask for in an interview. I've interviewed many people and asked that question, and a few people seemed intimidated by the question and didn't know what to say. They really blew a golden opportunity to tell me why we should hire them. 

First and foremost**, you can't be retaliated against for anything that you told HR then or now, or any time for that matter. If this ex-manager (I'll refer to them as XMAN) has some kind of vendetta against you or anyone else due to numerous like-minded claims against them, chances are they're already on thin ice. Furthermore, on the merit of "they threw me under the bus in an exit interview," to disapprove of rehiring that person is also unprofessional, since they shouldn't really know what you said to begin. Being said, you don't know what XMAN knows, only that some people left, and some changes got made that perhaps made them a little bitter. Unless they query you directly, you have no reason to believe there's a specific problem, and that it could just be that XMAN didn't like you as an employee to begin with. XMAN certainly doesn't have any obligation to know the events of the exit interview explicitly, so you have no obligation to tell them anything. In fact, as your ex-manager, they really have no reason to speak to you unless they're part of the interview and/or hiring process or somehow supervise you again. If you're being harassed by someone not on your team, go to your new manager and they should go and say "hey, you can't harass my team members." That would represent the most professional environment. **Referring mainly from the US. 

Next time you walk by his desk and he's not there, look at the phone on his desk. If it has an LCD display on it, it might show his name. If not, it will probably show his phone number. Memorize the last 4 or however many digits you need to make an intraoffice call. When you know he's not at his desk, call his number and wait for his voicemail. (You'll probably want to make the call from a conference room phone so that his phone doesn't tell him he has a missed call from you.) Hopefully he will have customized his voicemail greeting to say his name. 

Document the frequency and nature of the interruptions. You can actually create two categories for most interruptions: reasonable and unreasonable. Reasonable interruptions are those that are defined in the scope of your job but also that a given employee cannot on their own accomplish with their skills, time or effort. Unreasonable interruptions would be those that don't fit your criteria: okay so you have to help people, they ask you a question and you answer it. Then, the same person keeps asking you about the same thing over and over. This is an example of unreasonable! Take the unreasonable interruptions and put together some tutorials/FAQ/manuals either in a server folder or a binder, and get everyone into a team meeting. Tell them exactly what kind of interruptions are unreasonable, and in the aforementioned materials they can find most of their answers without having to come find you. Reasonable interruptions, however, no matter how many you get will still need to be tackled based on their priority. You can also implement a sort of ticket system. Tell people they will need to email you with their questions or issues so that you can make structured time to go out and help them. IMO these are good steps you can take without escalating the issue to management and essentially take control of the issue yourself. 

Assuming you are still interested in the position, then I think you should email the manager, but not to say "thank you" for preparing to speak with you. Instead, you should email him/her and say that you are sorry that you didn't get a chance to talk to him/her during the phone interview. Express your interest in the position, and make an offer to set up another phone interview with him. As the hiring manager, he/she would surely like to get to know a person who will potentially join his/her team. Obviously he/she will find out about you by speaking to the person who conducted the phone interview, but nothing beats talking to you directly. I think offering to speak with him/her in another phone interview will impress him/her with your initiative and indicate that you really are interested in the position. 

IANAL Employers have the almost unlimited rights to monitor or modify anything being used on their computer system. The computer system could include: devices the employer owns, software or cloud-based systems the employer owns or administers, or any devices connected to the employers network. The idea is to protect the employer's information and intellectual property. First and foremost you can assume any electronic communication being sent over an employer's network is property of the employer, and may be privileged/confidential. The other thing that I'd assume is that because you've linked your work and personal accounts, you've also compromised your personal account. I think this is a misstep. Keep in mind that company bring-your-own-device and electronic use policies waive a lot of your rights to privacy. This could be as extreme as giving the company implicit access and permission to your personal data in pursuit of securing their information systems. That's why it's of paramount importance to carefully consider what you do with your work devices. While it's ethically wrong to access an employees private email, I think the company has a potential argument here that your "work" and "personal-work" email accounts are somehow administered under the same blanket account as your "work" email and thus all accounts need to be scrutinized. It may also be problematic for them that you're accessing personal email on the company information system. You would have been wise to completely separate your personal email account and refrain from associating it for with any work accounts at all. 

You made a correct statement. As an interviewee, you have no idea who the other candidates are and therefore you couldn't possibly know if you are the best person for the job. I think the interviewer was taken aback because he had probably never heard a candidate start off their answer to that particular question like that. There is probably a lot of people out there who try to inflate their skills and abilities during interviews. The honesty and modesty that you exhibited is not the norm, especially for a question like that where you have to sell yourself. Since you got the job, your preface obviously didn't hurt. I think it could have been a positive - the interviewer may have appreciated your honesty. It's not always easy for interviewers to tell if a candidate is being honest. 

You have a set amount of work to be done by a deadline, and a set amount of staff doing the work. You can look at it this way for any number of projects. So take the amount of work, and divide it by the number of people doing the work: can it be done if everyone works an even 40hr week? How people handle their time will depend largely on a number of factors, but work:staff vs. deadline is an underlying principle. For example: For some jobs, working harder during the same shift doesn't net you the same effect as working longer hours, and for others, taking your work home as opposed to burning yourself out terribly during one, long shift is desirable.