There's more of these I assume, but we have important information from this: the enclosed spaces are nowhere near as large as the space your dome encloses. Since its maximum depth is about 450m, we can assume the areas inside are going to be less tall and your dome is 6 times taller (or 4 if it's 2km). Since you're in a tundra it's cold enough to have vapors condense. Also, it's as long as your city but still a cave - so your city will have more enclosed space that that entire beast of a cave in total - I'd assume about 10-20 times as much, all in one area. The question is, does sunlight change this? I'd assume not since clouds generally don't seem to care about sunlight, nor does the cave, but I'm no meteorologist. It may cause a warmer climate inside though. You could have a greenhouse effect on your hands, but the temperature (I assume) shouldn't be too high. A lot of humidity and heat will be trapped due to the people (assuming they're warmblooded) and water, but you need some filtration and conditioning for the air anyway, just in case, so that might be able to regulate things. Considering you'll have weather though, it might (again, I assume) not be as critical since there's plenty of space for circulation. Also, you might want to expect birds :P At 10x40km (400 km^2) and considering this and this we can see that the New York metropolitan area covers about 34km^2 and your city is over 10 times as big. That's pretty big and I'd assume that its microclimate will be closer to an actual climate, who's nature will depend heavily on what activities take place within. An interesting aside - the buckyball guy had proposed a dome for New York back in the 60s. 

The magic of the transformation could be linked to competence of using it and to organic materials. I will elaborate on this below and hopefully it not only solves the question but provides some extra narrative ideas. Fuzzyness The definition of self is inherently vague, so it's difficult, even before you get to clothes, to be clear on what is part of the organism that transforms and what isn't. For example, does the outer skin layer count? It consists of dead cells. You might argue that the genetic material matches, but it may be slightly mutated, much like the cells of another similar organism might be. What counts as the organism's self in this case? What's the threshold of difference that makes it count as part of this organism versus belonging to something else or nothing at all? Also, what about dust, contaminants (water, airborne chemicals etc.), the air in the organism's lungs (if it has them) and other surrounding materials? What about a severed arm? We can take advantage of this vagueness and solve it at the same time by specifying that the magic has an origin point and its effect has a shape and/or radius, including some things and excluding others. Organic chemistry has priority If you can decide upon the origin of the magic itself (which perhaps should be answered anyway considering that you need to explain why magic is part of some humanoid species, but fish or whales can't use it, nor can plants - and if they can, why don't rocks have it?), perhaps some internal organ or structure that allows control of it or contains it, the position and characteristics of that origin can determine how it operates on its surroundings. My preferred idea on this is that, assuming magic is: 

Now we need to check distribution of these across people and cars. I'm electing to use US numbers here since they're more readily available and the US seems to have both lots of cars and consume lots of gasoline, so if the numbers work out for the US, they should work in an apocalypse - if not, we can adjust them downwards to see how far we'd have to go until it's workable. US numbers usage: 

While a species on a rogue planet wouldn't have the usual reference points for time, there are still many ways to track time and many reference points for it and all it requires is having a sense of the passage of time. Environmental indicators Assuming the planet is kept warm through internal processes, if these have a periodicity, they could serve as a reference. For example, if the planet has a liquid mantle that causes volcanic activity, they could use eruptions, earthquakes and the like as reference points, provided their is periodicity to them. The same can happen with the biosphere as it forms a complex system. In systems and control theory, we study the behaviors of simpler systems and how they react mathematically: 

The ISS (as celtschk mentions in the comments) employs a lot of solutions that can give us an idea of what problems have to be solved in order to get furniture to work. Lets start with the nasties - A toilet - in SPAAAAACE[2] 

Now, I know nothing about average compatibility of parts between automobiles. It might be high or low, or anything in between, so I'm not going to include it now. There are obviously other factors that influence maintenance and usage: battery lifetime and wear, makeshift solutions, alternatives used, dangers and vast numbers of cars destroyed. I'm going to assume none of these factors play a role for now. What I am going to assume is that the world goes to hell pretty quickly - in a matter of days. Lets be generous and say that despite the bombardment, we get 2 days worth of production done before production stops abruptly. Lets also assume, all cars in the world have half their tank full and assume that this means they have about 8 gallons in there[7]. Since major cities are completely obliterated, we have to find out what percentage of people and cars are left. Lets say 20% of people and cars are outside city centers[8][9]. Of that 20%, we'll assume 5% survives the bombardment, since most of the surface is destroyed. That leaves: 

From all of these, I don't see how capping the sides can be avoided. You might not have to enclose it on all directions, but you would have to enclose the sides - otherwise the spillage will get rid of most of the atmosphere and other environmental elements pretty quickly. We can't get around this through artificial gravity, unless it works around the rim as well, which would create an inner perpetual-day world and an outer perpetual-night world with some transitional regions over the edge. Day and night An extra issue would be the aforementioned day-night cycle - perhaps a solution would be to have an inner half-circle ring, turning everything under it into night, orbiting closer to the star. The problem however, is that you might lose heat very very quickly under shadow - it's possible that the "underground" surface would require heating at least during the artificial night. There might also be a big issue with visibility of the sky. You might be able to reflect the celestial surroundings using the inner ring, but that's a confusing solution. You might also skip over the need for it by using satellites or rim-mounted telescopes. The ideal solution would be to make the sides transparent to the same wavelengths as the atmosphere. The tech needed From what I can tell, you need enough technology to create the scaffolding for two rings, cap the outer ring appropriately, then terraform it and control its environment carefully enough to maintain it stable. This requires both knowledge and equipment that would mean whoever attempts to create such a thing or maintain it would have a very deep understanding of both the physics but also the biology, ecology and geology involved in stabilizing it as a habitat. I haven't crunched the numbers for this kind of thing yet, but they're bound to be astronomical :) 

Decide how large your area is and what the environment is like. Decide how rich each environment is. Then decide the technological level of the time. Match the technological level to a historical one and find out how large cities were. Make an estimate of the habitable area and then divide to see how many cities would exist in it. Halve that number to make room for empty space and concentration of populations (population densities per period will be helpful -> link to pdf of study). Multiply the average city population for the technological level with the cities to get the world population Rearrange population numbers based on technological success of each nation/race/area Reallocate the cities to match the new population numbers. Provide enough space for the cities to each race and arrange cities relatively evenly. 

In any case, considering that metals are pretty important to biology and that despite needing trace amounts, they have to be pretty abundant in nature, I'd say that it isn't likely that you have biology like ours but so little metal on a world that it's practically non-existent. You could have a world where the metal on the upper layers has been stripped by previous inhabitants and the present ones use the metals in the biosphere's cycle to survive, completely unaware of what a metal even is. It is however unlikely that you could get very far without thinking of, or trying metallurgy, even if there's very little metal around. As you can see, you still need to be able to work a forge of sorts. Heating materials is a great way to remove impurities, reform and combine them, so you'd have the necessary technology eventually no matter what. If it was just some rogue group that was trying out the tabooed practice of smelting metals from ores and using them to craft tools or weapons, they'd eventually motivate everyone to do that - it would be too effective. Imagine medical tools for instance. 

While skin color may not differentiate race in their case (although I'd assume it would amongst other characteristics that also change between races for us), I'd say it's nearly impossible for them to not have different races in the dominant species. Does it ever happen? I argue from example here, since I'm not an evolutionary biologist or a biologist at all. How many species do not have races? Of all the large mammals I can think of, there isn't any that has one variation, while many are genetically compatible - some produce sterile offspring but it's usually when the distance is so large they can be considered different species (see Liger and other cat hybrids - Ligers where considered to be sterile, but other hybrids are not). The same applies from reptiles to insects to fish etc. What's different about sapient species? With sapient species it's even less likely. Once the species is competent enough, it's likely groups, early in its maturation, will migrate, while others will stay put - all of this due to resource scarcity or the need to move to more resource-rich land (or water). At that point it's exactly the same race and species - yet by the time resources are not a problem anymore, the phenotype has time to change, but the species as a whole doesn't. Hence, you get races in the same species, due to the speed of advancement for a sapient species (especially considering that sexual selection is less likely to produce incompatible offspring or radical changes - by the time sapience comes around, its possession and the capacity for it become strong selection drives). Now I'm making some unfounded assumptions here (obviously) but I think they're warranted considering that current science on these matters hasn't studied other sapient species. edit - I'd like to add that, for an earth-like planet, we have to ask, what's the likelihood of the planet developing life that isn't indistinguishable from ours? 

There's Universe Sandbox, which while considered and marketed as a game and using some orbital calculation approaches that are outdated by modern astronomical standards, should work great for worldbuilding and simulating celestial bodies and events. It's paid software, but it does allow you to simulate the Solar System, albeit without much accuracy very far into the future. The current version is Windows only, with the next one being made for OSX and Linux apparently. There's a free version but you can't add objects. 

At this point, you can add sky-wolves etc. to create a more complete ecosystem (as well as other birds that regularly land as usual). Birth At this point the answer is already quite clear: balloon-whales are born floating, the goblin-hawks on their backs are born on the backs of the whales and can grow strong enough for flight, assisted or not, before they make their first attempts and the sky-sharks are, like sharks, born ready. Of course, you could have offspring be born in flight and only ready enough to climb on to the parent's back and cling their until they're strong enough (which would require a long and flexible neck on the parent's side in order to be able to feed it, which is convenient here). As they cling, they learn. Pouches would work as well. Size Unfortunately I'm way too sleep deprived to get into research and math here, so I'll just make some wild guesses. A large wingspan would most likely be required, hence the sky-sharks would have to be large. How large exactly would depend on atmospheric properties, the amount of food they get and how high they fly (I think). However, if we allow for some creative adaptations, perhaps their size can be increased. In particular, we know that planes are massive and heavy, but can still fly just fine and even glide. The requirement is speed (as far as I understand). If they can find enough strong winds, drafts and currents, have enough of a wingspan to take advantage of these to lose as little speed as possible and have some form of propulsion to compensate, it may be achievable. Propulsion could take the form of air sacs that fill up as they fly and are used as an afterburner. Or they could expel bowel gases. Considering we already have assumed balloon-whales that fly with the power of hot air, it isn't nearly as ridiculous as it would otherwise be to assume that the sky-sharks have a similar adaptation. Some sea-creatures use water propulsion (as in, not just swimming through water) and I think some microbial life does as well, so it is possible at least in theory fantasy. Perhaps they ignite it too :P. 

We need a force field to cover that are and be essentially impassable. I can think of two ways to do this - an actual plot-field, which would be hard to explain but actually is a "field" and an alternative approach using a combination of a physical dome, with gaps that it can fill with fields or material to give the same effect. Plot-field Since we need a force-field that would block everything, we basically need it to behave like matter. Very tough matter, but matter nonetheless. That means getting through the field should be no different than trying to break through titanium or something like that, albeit thick and tough titanium that can fix itself. I don't know of any plausible physics that can create such a field - if we could do that, we could create matter out of thin air. However, we can assume you civilization has mastered the means of creating fields that mimic the way that matter works and can project them. Considering the shape of the field, we'd have to place the generator very far underground to get the intended result (it's effectively a shell of a large sphere). We could alternatively place multiple generators across the city's foundations and create a composite field that would have approximately that shape, but that would be crude for someone who can already create matter fields and placing it underground gives the city the massive advantage of protecting itself from all directions even underground - in other words, enemies can't even dig a tunnel under it to get around the shield. The problem is, we can't just have a spherical field underground because, to get this dome shape, it would have to be 72km underground: 

The problem remains - water gets everywhere and the excess humidity would be a huge problem, so you make the process as efficient as possible. If you don't however have an issue with water supply, power to pump the water to high pressure and your air conditioning is super-efficient, you could probably have a regular shower. You can't be up all day 

That means the Sun would evaporate the atmosphere and hence you get less protection from solar and cosmic radiation. You also get less weather, such as lightning, rain etc. - without these, you don't get much chance for evolution of complex life, though of course extremophile bacteria can still survive. So you might have "life" in the strict sense, such as bacteria landing through space, but you wouldn't call the planet "alive" in any sense. Liquid water is somewhat related. Considering that the primitive Earth is assumed to not have water the way we have it today, but a much more toxic mix that slowly got changed into a combination of mostly water, due to environmental change which came about from terraforming bacteria (this is how I remember it roughly, not sure on the details), I'd say we're back at square one - you won't have vast populations of microorganisms doing their business on a planet unshielded from solar radiation (especially when the temperature range would be much more than 5-10 degrees Celsius between night and day - it'd be closer to 100 or more, making any adaptation difficult). You could however have ices, accumulating from space debris over a long period of time. The extra problem here is, where would it collect? The reason we have vast oceans is due to mantle activity - tectonics, volcanos etc. Without a liquid mantle, you don't have those as far as we can understand. So you'd just be a smooth rocky planet like Mars. No basins. The last but not least problem I can think of is the evolutionary cycle. Major extinction events have been linked to the emergence of new and more complex life. In our case it was probably related to environmental changes, correlated with environmental weather and atmosphere cycles, as well as solar cycles. This requires enough stability to preserve life after a disaster, but not enough to prevent the cycle from moving on, to allow newer life to take over. In other words, even if you got to dinosaurs, they could just stay like that for much longer (assuming extinction events are not caused by biological populations and instabilities inherent to evolutionary stages). A planet without an atmosphere, no mantle movement and eruptions and little shielding would be pretty much like Mars - rocky, barren, relatively smooth and practically lifeless.