Reproduction: Most plants reproduce using insects to transfer vital bits of DNA (trying not to be too graphic). Much of the plant's structure is devoted to this - in fact, anything that isn't root or leaf is probably connected to reproduction. So fruits, flowers, sugar-filled-liquid-producing organs, and bright colors would probably cease to exist if plants had a different way of reproducing. Food: Plants can mostly make their own food. But to do this, they need periods of sun and darkness. Also water, CO2, and O2, if my memory serves correctly. You'll also need a pretty large amount of sun-facing surface. The nice thing with a plant is that mostly they need to make sugar, so carbon, oxygen, and hydrogen are pretty much all they need to function nicely. For repairs, they will need other elements, but these are largely gotten from soil and seem to be widely available. So making food isn't a problem, but storing food could be. Your plant-people will need some type of "camel hump" for sugars. Many plants use roots for this. Water: Plants need a pretty steady supply of water. This seems to be the biggest problem preventing plants from moving - traditionally, a massive root system ensures a steady water supply. Trouble is, massive root systems are hard to move. Plant Society I'm going to keep my imaginary Plantains pretty "planty." Of course, if you want to slap some chloroplasts on an animal, I'm cool with that. But then, it wouldn't really be flora would it? I can see two possible primitive plant societies. Later histories could be extrapolated from these initial points. 

Rivendell, or Imladris in its original Elvish tongue, is the realm of Elrond Half-Elven that was first described in The Hobbit and later expanded upon in The Lord of the Rings. To convey the elegance of the elves, Alan Lee created Rivendell for the movies using art nouveau, which isn't often used in architecture. It's more associated with the artwork done by French painters at the turn of the 20th century, though its origins actually started a bit earlier. Using art nouveau as architecture seems solely decorative and not used for practical uses, like defense. Then again, it could be both decorative and useful, like Gothic architecture. So if Rivendell ever were to exist in real life, would art nouveau architecture be too decorative to use in a city, or would it be both ornate and practical? If the latter is possible, then how? 

In a hibernating speculative evolution project called The Speculative Dinosaur Project, the "speccers" feature a species of shark called Jasconius pelaganax, the Gigamouth, which is basically a megamouth the size of a Blue Whale. Want visual proof? Here it is: 

I think you can look for guidance to the big cats of our own time, which do (infrequently, but more in the past) prey on people. In order to survive long enough for human sensibilities to want to "preserve the noble creatures," the species will need to have a few characteristics: 

Because you're beings are spread out over such a large area, external causes are really not going to be feasible on that scale, unless you somehow localize them (all within a galaxy, with no method of long-distance travel etc). The likely means of wreaking havoc on galactic or even cluster scale would probably destroy everything on seeded planets as well. So you're looking for an inexorable internal killer. You have a couple of options: Disease Your population unleashes a disease that is passed from mother to child, infects the population before it is identified, and is incurable. Maybe it's a side effect of a longevity drug that is taken by the entire race in hopes of attaining longer lives. It grows in potency with each generation, so that it is maybe 100 generations before the disease is identified. By that time everyone is infected, and they can determine the exact date of extinction. You're going to need a slow moving disease (unlike bubonic plague) so that they have time to contemplate really complex cures. But the slower it is, the more likely it is that a work around can be developed. Half a trillion years is on a stellar time scale - if something is impossible, throw enough time at it, and it can become a matter of probability. Genetic Factors It's also possible that extinction is implied in the very DNA of the species. This is not really that far fetched - for example, Y-chromosome degradation could feasibly have destroyed humanity if it had continued. Imagine a mitochondrial disorder that can't be checked, or something makes more and more anencephalic (warning:graphic) members. In either genetic or disease causes, you're going to be looking for something that affects a system that can't be easily replaced by machines, like: 

Marsupials have been around for 65 million years, and they are all that's left of a much larger clade called Metatheria, the entire bag of pouch-bearing mammals. However, Australia is also home to a smaller, more ancient order of mammals--the monotremes, the only extant mammals to retain their reptilian ancestral trait of laying eggs. 

Ecologically, when you're within the latitudes of 23.5 degrees, you'd find yourself in rainforests rich in diversity but poor in nutrition. The forest floor is a barren mess simply because the canopy is so thick that one to two percent of sunlight ever breaks through it into the floor. As a result, you'd consider yourself lucky if you ever felt a breeze on the forest floor. In this alternate Earth, if we are to clump together the plants that make up the jungles of South America, Africa and sub-Himalayan Asia for the last four million years, it might look a little like this: 

Since its initial discovery in Germany's Neander Valley in 1848, Homo neandertalensis, the Neandertal, had undergone quite a dubious reputation. From sensationalist beginnings as big, hairy apes, they had, for the longest time, become the stereotypical caveman--big-boned, brutish and all-out primitive. But in recent years, the image had undergone a renaissance. We have found evidence pointing out possibilities of omnivory (evidence of chewing medicinal plants), arbitration (art used for purposes that aren't necessarily practical) and even display construction (The Astonishing Age of a Neandertal Cave in France). So culturally, technologically and dietarily, Neandertals were no different from us. So why did they vanish 30,000 years ago? We can't say with 100% certainty. The most traditional assumption is that their brutish appearance, actually a necessity to deal with the hostile, frigid environment of Ice Age Europe, made them too specialized to deal with change. Maybe it was our sexual joie de vivre that bred them into extinction, absorbing their genes into ours. (Which would make sense, considering that 1-4% of Eurasia's genetic population was found to come from Neandertals.) But perhaps the most overlooked reason may be that they never expanded their social structures beyond clans (small groups tied together by descent.) Their particularly small population densities meant that they could not expand their numbers to the extent that tribes do. But let's say they do. In this alternate scenario, Neandertals ruled Europe in a higher population density, numerically, culturally and technologically akin to Native American or African tribes. When Homo sapiens made their first steps to Europe to cross paths with Neandertal towns or villages, would this change the course of genetic admixture between species in any way? 

We all have seen gobs of energy beings in movies - but one thing that's always bothered me is how an energy being lives. What's life like in the energy world? The Ergs are energy beings on some planet. They're pretty standard shiny-type. They have the ability to manipulate matter, but they can also move through any physical material at will. They aren't omnipotent like the Q; they have strength and intelligence limits similar to a human, except that they are made of energy. They prefer to live at or near the surface of the planet, though gravity seems to have negligible impact on them. Like any advanced society, there is a whole continuum of creatures of various sizes and intelligence levels - wildlife similar to the beings themselves, but far less advanced. I'm trying to get at how an energy being is structured - presumably not with cells. What do energy-bacteria look like? This question started out in the sandbox: $URL$ 

My starting place was to determine what made a sentient plant different from an animal (maybe I'm dense? Took me a while). Here's a starting place for differences between the two. $URL$ Basically: A. Plants don't move B. Plants make their own food C. Plants give off oxygen and take in CO2 D. Plant cells have cell walls and other "planty" structures E. Plants have only basic abilities to sense Of course, I can think of exceptions, for example, some carnivorous plants don't make their own food, can move, and can sense objects pretty well. Because they're sentient, they need to be able to interact with their environment (smart, paralyzed races don't seem likely to last, and are unlikely to be intergalactic), so A and E are out. So let's say that to make a plant, we'll need them to make their own food from the sun, and they need planty-parts in their cells, viz. chloroplasts to make food and cell walls. So they're going to be a lot more animal-like than some animals, but with ability to make their own food. Plants (along with...pretty much any other life form) have 3 major needs: 

Word on the street is that using recycled plastic to make roads can help reduce carbon emissions, improve road quality by making it longer-lasting and less susceptible to potholing. This revolutionary idea has me thinking. Plastic has been used for thousands of years--it's just that the modern definition and composition of "plastic" did not start until 1907. A good example of "plastic" is rubber used from a rubber tree. It was used by the Mesoamerican tribes as far away as the third millennium BCE. The problem is that natural rubber trees are indigenous to the jungles of Latin America, and the rubber tree plantations used in India and China were cultivated from seeds taken by British scientists and financiers. Let us pretend, then, that in an alternate Earth, a species of wild rubber is common in the Mediterranean coastlines of southern Europe and had been used by the Romans for cultivation for their sap. This would be the sort of natural plastic to be used for concrete construction, to make the structure last longer against the elements than subsequent "Portland reinforced" concrete. In OTL, volcanic ash already added resistance to Roman concrete, but in this alternate Earth, could using rubber, one of the most natural of plastics, have the same effect? 

Seeds. They take a bit longer to deploy but they're easily portable, and a little engineering and pink light should make them grow pretty quickly. They have the added bonus of being easily concealable and very tough until they're deployed. Then the window to kill them would be brief. Drop them wrapped in a soil mat into the ocean (if applicable), let them grow, then send teams in to maneuver them into position. You can also feed them to indigenous wildlife to infiltrate the enemy's camps. You could even drop trillions of them on the homeworld from orbit - there'd be no way to find them all until it was too late. I used to work in a greenhouse. Ever dropped a packet of geranium seeds? 

Most plants that grow foods are herbaceous, meaning that they have supple stems and die each year, but also that they generally grow relatively fast. Herbaceous plants focus their growth on fruit production at the end of each season. Trees have woody, stiff stems, which allows them to grow taller and survive multiple seasons. They generally grow slower. Trees focus on long-term growth and fruit production is not as important. So plants that stay small and focus on fruit production are good for people food. Plants that focus on growing large don't have excess energy for large-scale fruit production. You're going to need a very specific combination of factors to make this happen. A specific kind of GMO: a tree that has been designed to have the characteristics of an herbaceous plant like fast growth, but later grow stiffer cell walls to help it stay strong and survive multiple seasons (think of tomato plants - they get very large, but crawl or must be supported). A very specific food source: high-density energy sources, either from a very very sunny area or special mineral deposits. But, it's going to need to be in the tropical latitudes. Up in the north there just isn't enough sun to facilitate fast plant growth. 

Having escaped Isengard and left Rivendell, we are off to destroy the Ring. Our first stop--Khazad-dum, known contemporarily as "Moria". Being a Dwarvish kingdom, the problems I see with Moria are identical to those with Erebor in The Hobbit. Hollowing out a small piece of a mountain to build a mine is no big deal, but the dwarves have hollowed out the entire mountain to build a kingdom. In real life, that would be turning Everest, the second-tallest mountain in the world (if only Mauna Kea weren't an iceberg), as hollow as a discarded snail shell. In real life, such things would have the following problems: 

In one of my alternate Earths, I have created a climate so warm that the dominant feature of the Arctic isn't ice, but forests. They consist of the following trees: Pine Oak Araucaria Sequoia Fir Douglas fir Cedar Spruce Yew Maple Cottonwood Alder Rowan Birch Beech Aspen Elm Hazel Apple Pear Plum Peach Apricot Ginkgo Using these trees as clues, what kind of climate have I created? 

According to Moore & Giles, the Egyptians invented the first leather as early as 5000 BCE. And now word on the street is that a new kind of leather is being developed, made not from the hides of cattle, but the heads of mushrooms. It was already described as being breathable, pliable, naturally water-repellant and suitable for direct contact with human skin. Now, Egypt doesn't have the right conditions for mushrooms to flourish, so let me ask you this--would a different Mediterranean civilization make leather from mushrooms around the fifth millennium BCE? 

As Tim stated, there aren't really going to be any catastrophic problems from spinning a bit faster - although you might want to consider that the Earth slows down slightly each year due to the friction of the Moon dragging the oceans around it. The effect of two moons will be somewhat more pronounced based on the amount of water moving around each day. You tagged this weather, so to address weather specifics, you'll have a stronger Coriolis effect which will cause wind bands to be more pronounced. In particular, there will be less mixing of polar and tropical air, and much more pronounced climate bands at each latitude. Wind-related weather in general will be more severe, though I don't have any guess as to how much. Knock-on effects will make things like evaporation happen faster, but also more intense rains from the more powerful storms. In general, everything will be stockier to deal with the more intense winds, which might be the most noticeable difference to a traveler, as wind speeds and storms will probably trend only toward the top of normal ranges. Of course, you might be able to adjust the wind speeds to a normal range by increasing the atmospheric pressure by increasing the size of the planet...but that could get really complicated. In general, just saying "it's windier" should be sufficient for weather. As far as effects on people, there have been studies that vary the length of the day. I can't find any of the short-day studies, but attempts to live according to Martian sols suggest that humans are pretty well wired for 24 hour days. 

Let me clarify on the title, because this is important. In recent years, people have been feeling less comfortable calling the only natural satellite orbiting Earth a moon. It may not be the largest satellite in the solar system, but in proportion to its mother planet, it takes top billing. In fact, there's been talk that we should start calling Earth and moon "a binary planet". Also in relation to this question is iron. This metal makes up 84% of the Earth's core, and it's known to have magnetic properties. There is recent evidence saying that the moon also has iron in its core, but its smaller size means that it orbits the blue planet, not the other way around. But if our recent exploration into the universe is any indication, there are some things in the cosmos that defy explanation and conventional understanding. So is it possible for a large planet the size of Earth with a core that is 84% iron to orbit a smaller planetary body the size of Ganymede with a core that is 100% iron from a distance of, say, 426,000 miles? 

The circulatory and even muscular systems could potentially be replaced given the technology. But there is some question whether consciousness can be replaced or emulated, and without the ability to reproduce it's just a matter of time. In any case, it will be overwhelming depressing. But what mass extinction isn't? 

Plant Nomads. A group of (probably) small sentient plants with minimal root systems that move around, following water sources and rainy seasons. Stationary Plant Societies. Plants develop a way to pass along knowledge to seeds and send them out, much like coral polyps, to establish new colonies. The older plants would be stationary once their roots developed. Some motion might be possible by selective growth and allowing parts to die. But that would be on a months-to-centuries timescale. 

Imagine, if you will, a world where aural communication is impossible. Everything is done through gesture - sign language and written language are common, but the spoken word is not used, and using any sound for communication is not possible. Now, the obvious solution would be to simply make everyone deaf, but that doesn't really sound like fun. I'd like environmental factors to make communication through atmospheric compression (sound waves) impossible. The environment needs to support human life. What atmospheric conditions could cause disruption to compression waves to the point where they could not be used for communication?