I am a reasonably experienced swimmer and I was swimming in the nearby lake almost every day through the summer and autumn. I live in northern Europe, and I was still swimming occasionally in October when the water was around 15 degrees Celsius, and had no problem with it. Yesterday the weather was nice and sunny, so I thought I would give it a try and dip in the water, which was around 1-2 degrees Celsius (the nearby puddles were frozen). I read a lot about the benefits of cold water, and was curious to try. I am generally fit and healthy and many people do ice dipping around this time of the year, so I thought why not. I was only able to stay in about a minute as it was very cold, but I felt very good afterwards so I went in for another minute. Then I covered myself if a thermo blanket, drank some hot tea, walked home, and took a warm shower. However, I got very exhausted and slept for the rest of the day, and also through the night (around 12 hours, which is unusual). Cold water therapy is reported to have an energising effect and a positive impact on fitness: 

These two functions are pronounced differently, depending on how deep the muscle is. The main function of the more superficial muscles (the rectus abdominis and the external obliques) is bending and twisting, and the main function of the deepest muscles (mainly the transverse abdominis) is compression and forced exhalation. Given this complexity, it is not surprising, that when people say they are "contracting the abs", they can mean different things. Some people mean as if they are trying to do a crunch (bending the spine), some mean exhalation. Of course, most people always do a bit of both, as it is not easy to isolate the abdominal muscles (though it is definitely possible to isolate them, and it looks super weird). But people can be using different muscles slightly differently, according to their natural disposition. When lifting heavy objects, like squatting with weight, it is natural to hold the breath. As described in Christian's answer, the Valsalva maneuver is forced exhalation without letting the air out. It increases abdominal pressure, like an inflated tire, it makes the torso more rigid and stable. Many people do this naturally without being told. The main muscle responsible for increasing this intra-abdominal pressure will be the transverse abdominis: 

If you feel sharp pain in the lower back, then you need to adjust the exercise. The reason why lying leg raises are often painful, is that the lower back gets pinched and compressed as the weight of the legs tilts the hip and pulls the lower back upwards. The main leg lifting muscle is the psoas major, which connects your thigh bone directly to your spine. Resisting the anterior pelvic tilt in the lying leg raise is very difficult, as the forces on the hip and spine are very strong because of the leverage of the legs. The only way to fight those forces is bracing the abdominal muscles, those, that in a neutral position would bend the spine forward (in the opposite direction). However, most people do not have the abdominal strength to counterbalance the weight of the legs when they are lowered, a very disadvantaged position because of the leverage of the legs on the psoas (and thus, the spine). This is the reason why putting your hand under the back works, because it supports the back and decreases leverage. However, this is not the way I recommend approaching this exercise. It is better to gradually approach it by doing "one-leg raises" (with the other leg bent and supporting), making sure your abdominals are braced and the lower back is flat on the floor throughout. When you can do as many of these as you want with control, tension in the abdomen, and pain free, then progress to two leg raises, but lower them only to 60 degrees (lower back always flat on the floor), then 45 degrees, and so on. Only progress if you are completely pain free and easily in control of your legs and spine. Hope it helps. 

It is normal, that, when the intra-abdominal pressure increases, the abdomen is pushed out a little bit. The stomach being pushed out a little bit does not mean, that the transverse abdominis is inactive, it is still working to balance out the pressure, which helps a lot with squatting. I suspect, that when you say you are contracting your belly consciously, you are actually contracting the more superficial muscles, like when doing a crunch. They do not help much with squatting, in fact, they can make it harder, because they work to bend the spine forward, so you are working against yourself in the squat. Also, when you say you are doing front squats with "belly relaxed", you are probably contracting the deeper muscles, you are just less conscious of it. 

What is the correct way to perform cuban rotation with a single dumbbell? I am experimenting with cuban rotation as an assistance exercise for olympic lifting and gymnastic arm balances. My current exercise plan is 3x per week olympic lifting plus handstand skill work every other day (not really structured) plus some light yoga in the mornings. I have no shoulder injuries or mobility problems, I want to use this exercise primarily to increase strength. I have seen cuban rotations performed in a number of ways: 

You need to work on something that is easier and you can hold for longer time. 6 seconds is really not enough volume to really start improving. See, you are not even on the chart in the (excellent) article you are referencing, which starts at a max hold of 8s: 

Do not stick with preparatory exercises, work up progressively to the full bodyweight squat. But always work pain free. Avoid exercises which do not work the full range of motion. For example, I've been told by some physios to squat but don't bend the knees less than 90 degrees, and don't let the knees over the ankles. Such partial squats, together with cycling, have been major contributors to my knee pain. Since I'm working on full squats, my knee problems have completely went away. My knee feels the best after back squatting with 80kg! 

In addition to supporting the back, like sitting in front of a wall, you can also try to elevate the pelvis, eg. by sitting on a pillow. That allows the pelvis to tilt, while you are upright. You can also use a strap (but only to stabilize, not to pull yourself forward). 

The knee is very complex and it can be difficult to say what is good/bad for yours specifically. What is good/bad entirely depends on your condition and strength level. To make matters worse, even physios can disagree (depending on where and when they learnt, and how much they keep up with their science). For example, I've been told by some doctors and physios that cycling would be good for my knee (I had chondromalacia patellae) when in fact it has been detrimental. 

I'd suggest to start with a system which has fixed sequences. It helps with the discipline, and there's less to think about. Ashtanga yoga has fixed sequences, but the ashtanga sequences are long (up to 90-120 min). David Swenson has a number of 15, 30, 45 minute routines which are cut-down versions of the ashtanga series, designed for people short on time. You'll probably need to start practicing along with a book or dvd until you remember the poses. There's an ocean of material out there, just a few: 

If your goal is to relax fully in a passive way, the best is to put a pillow under the knees. This allows for the spine to relax on the floor, with the abdominals, back, hips, and legs relaxed. 

If your practice includes a proper cool-down sequence, then, by the end of your session, your heart rate, blood pressure, and breath rate should be close to their resting values already. So physiologically, no, you are not missing anything. A longer stay in the dead body pose is recommended for deep relaxation, it is a form of meditation, a form of mindfulness. The reason for its inclusion at the end of yoga sequences is symbolic, to emphasize, that yoga is mental as well as physical training. Staying completely still is a challenge for many people. There is a lot of value in developing a meditative practice, including increased concentration, increased mental clarity. These skills are very useful especially when you are hard-pressed for time. If you have time constraints, you could always let your instructor know that beforehand so she could help you and recommend how to organize and perhaps split your routine. 

If your goal is to exercise, then activate the abdominals and force the spine flat on the floor. Start with the legs 90 degrees from the floor and lower them gradually. Most people will find it very difficult to let the legs below 30 degrees and keep the spine on the floor. This is because the abdominal muscles are not strong enough to keep the hips from tilting from the leverage of the legs.