Yes, the original atomic theory, usually attributed to Leucippus and Democritus, was formed in part as a response to Parmenides' arguments against the reality of movement, and to the related paradoxes of Zeno's. The Democratic atom possesses some of the properties of the Parmenidian One: It is neither created, nor destroyed. It also never changes, intrinsically, but only in relations to other atoms. One could say that while Parmenides rejected the reality of relations altogether, Democritus made them the basis of contingency and movement, keeping intrinsic properties fixed. 

Descartes formulated, in fact, a small "moral code", which he pledged to hold, regardless of the turn of his skeptical questioning. 

These are just a few of many, many passages in the Christian Bible regarding the ongoing theme of the covenant between God and humanity. This overarching theme of Scripture strongly suggests that in Christian philosophy and theology God's primary purpose in creating humans is not to give them dominion, but rather to establish a covenantal relationship with them. Relationship is God's purpose in creating humanity. Swedenborg picks up this theme of relationship as God's purpose in creating humanity in the most philosophical of his theological works, Divine Love and Wisdom: 

What Swedenborg is saying here, in brief, is that the nature of love itself, and especially of divine love, is that it must have others to love, and that love must be mutual, and that it was therefore necessary for God to create finite (non-God) beings whom God could love, and who could love God in return. Another way Swedenborg formulates this, much more briefly, is found in Divine Providence, which forms a sequel to Divine Love and Wisdom: 

From within a wide offer, here are references to two classic philosophical works, that discuss predestination and freedom extensively, one ancient and one modern: 

Bergson's thesis was not that time is space-like, but that time understood "in the common way" is space-like. Bergson argued that practical reasons cause us to regard time as space, but that strictly speaking, the thesis that time is space-like is not merely wrong, but self contradictory. Influences from Aristotle and Kant can be detected in Bergson. For example, Bergson's reaction to Zeno's paradoxes is similar to Aristotle's: that motion is essentially continuous, and cannot be broken into separate moments. 

From the perspective of the Christian philosophy of Emanuel Swedenborg, then, God's purpose in creating humans is to have beings with whom God can be in a freely chosen and mutual loving relationship. God's purpose in creating humans requires humans to have the ability to reject that relationship. Finally, to take up the issue of whether or not God created humans "perfectly": Obviously there is much evil and imperfection in human life, both individually and collectively. The issue of God's perfection, and perfect love, in the face of the existence of evil in God's creation, and particularly in the human element of God's creation, is a vast subject both in philosophy and theology, covered generally under the term "theodicy." Though we cannot fully cover such a vast topic here, the basics, from the perspective of Swedenborg's philosophy, are these: For a relationship to be truly loving and mutual, it must be freely chosen. If humans were created so that we could do nothing but love God (and one another), we would be mere robots, or mere extensions of God. Our love would be no more real or mutual than that of a computer programmed to display "I love you" on its screen. For humans to be able to freely and mutually return God's love, then, we must also have the ability to reject God's love, and refuse a mutual, loving relationship with God. And yet, if everything good is from God, and is God, as Swedenborg's philosophy states, then rejecting God also means rejecting what is good. And rejecting what is good means opting for evil over good. Therefore in order to fulfill God's purpose of creating a human race with which God could be in mutual, loving relationship, God had to create humans with the ability to reject God, love, and goodness. God therefore had to create humans with the ability to choose, "create," and perpetrate evil instead of good. This means that the existence of evil in human life and society is not an imperfection in God's creation. Rather, it was necessary for God to allow for it (not create it) in order for God to achieve God's primary purpose in creation of being in mutual, loving relationship with beings other than God's own self. Conclusion Based on the above reasoning: Premise #2, "God made humans for the purpose of ruling over His creation," is false. Premise #4, "Humans are not perfectly suited toward their purpose," is also false. According to the Christian philosophy of Emanuel Swedenborg, humans are created perfectly by God to accomplish God's purpose for them. That perfection, however, requires human to have moral and spiritual freedom, so that we can reject God's goodness, and choose evil instead. The fact that we humans are capable of rejecting God's purpose for us is essential to our very humanity, and to our ability to freely choose to fulfill God's purpose for us, which is to be in a mutually loving relationship with God and with our fellow human beings. 

I would highly recommend reading Spitzer's "New Proofs for The Existence of God" which takes into account modern physics (and goes far further in depth than most books of its genre). There are multiple arguments presented in the book, such as the fact that irrespective of which scientific theory you follow (short of a theory of a multiverse where every mathematical possibility exists because it has to [which has far more philosophical issues]), there has to be a reason for why the universe is an instance of that theory (supposing we actually arrive at a theory that truly models reality) and how it is actually material (Actual) as opposed to a Potentiality. Stephen Hawking (before he started trying to figure out loopholes in the problem) phrased this in the question: 

However, neither of these passages states that ruling over God's creation is God's purpose in creating humans. They simply state that giving humans dominion over the remainder of creation is something God has done. It could just as well be said that God's purpose in creating humans is for them to "be fruitful and multiply," or to be "a little lower than God, and crowned with glory and honor"–which God is also said in these passages to do for human beings. In short, what God does for humans is not necessarily God's purpose in creating humans. Scripture suggests that God's purpose in creating humans is to be in relationship with them. Taking any one or a few verses from Scripture in isolation and using them as the basis for major conclusions about God's actions and God's purposes is a fundamentally faulty way of reading Scripture. Especially considering that much of Scripture consists, not of philosophy and theology, but of a narrative, a better approach would be to look at the overall themes of Scripture for clues as to why God created humans. And a key theme of Scripture overall is the concept of "covenant." In fact, this concept is so central to Scripture that Christians have actually named the two major divisions of their scriptures after the covenant between God and humanity: "The Old Testament" and "The New Testament." "Testament" is another word for "covenant." Now, a covenant is a relationship between two parties–in this case, God and humanity. And if we follow the biblical narrative, we see that God is continually making and renewing covenants with humanity. For example (emphasis added in all cases): God made a covenant with Noah: 

Yes, there are similarity relations where one can describe a common factor that underlies the similarity. A mother and a daughter may share same eye colors, nose shapes, etc (the analogy in the bbc episode seems indeed faulty). Wittgenstein's claim seems to be that the picturing relation is just not one of these relations. There is no describable common factor to that similarly. To inquire why this might be, let's take an example. How does the sentence 

Plato's and Aristotle's views on politics were very different. Aristotle rejected many of the building blocks of Plato's politics: the theory of Forms (in the Metaphysics), the universal idea of the Good (in the Ethics), the value of Communes (in the Politics). Further, unlike Plato, Aristotle distinguished "theoretical" philosophy (physics, metaphysics) from "practical" philosophy (ethics, politics). Aristotle agreed with Plato that theoretical philosophy was part of the highest (and potentially happiest) form of human life. But unlike Plato, Aristotle held that theoretical philosophy had no practical value. He even saw its impracticality as a sign of its value: theoretical philosophy has no goal outside of itself. Accordingly, theoretical philosophy played almost no part in Aristotle's ethics and in his politics. 

Heaven, in Swedenborg's conception of it, consists of people who have freely chosen to be in mutual, loving relationship with God and with one another. This is in line with Jesus' pithy distillation of the entire Scriptures into the two Great Commandments: 

And in the New Testament, Jesus, who is viewed by Christians as "God with us" (Matthew 1:23), renewed that blood covenant in symbolic fashion: 

This answer comes from the perspective of the Christian philosophy and theology of Emanuel Swedenborg (1688–1772). Key point: The false premise is #2. God made humans for the purpose of ruling over His creation. This also falsifies premise #4. Scripture does not say that God's purpose in creating humans is for them to rule over God's creation. The idea that God created humans for the purpose of ruling over his creation is based especially on Bible passages such as: