I agree with Peter, to some extent. While she might have the technical chops for copy editing, if she were actually a good copy editor, she wouldn't be the cause of your projects missing their deadlines. It also sounds like this isn't really considered part of her job duties, but rather something she or others might feel is a tremendous favor to you, and, because of that, she feels that she's somewhat above accountability. What can you do to make her get it to you in a more timely fashion? I'm guessing that there's nothing you can do. What you can do is talk to your boss about reassigning that work to someone who will have it as part of their job duties/description. You need someone who is invested and feels accountable to your team. Maybe the person won't have the technical skills, at first, but if they get the work to you under deadline, then you'll have time to correct any issues and still get it back without grinding your projects to a halt, or forcing people so sit around in wait mode, and then have to shift into hurried panic mode because they're scrambling to minimize the amount of time the deadline is missed by. And if the person is invested in doing this work, their skills will improve rapidly. Replace the current person, she's not interested in being part of your team, even in a tangential way. 

More likely you have to take it as unpaid leave. This will obviously have an unhappy impact on your paycheck. Taking unpaid leave can also impact your accrual/earning of future paid leave, employer share of benefits like health insurance, etc, which can also impact the paycheck. Also, if you've already used up all of your leave and need to take even more, the company might scrutinize your work attendance and determine if you have an issue with chronic "absenteeism," which can affect evaluations and even your future employment. 

Are you the company owner, or are you an employee who is working under an agreement to supply quality work product for fair compensation? Obviously, a rhetorical question. Obviously, you care about your co-workers. That is admirable and commendable. But, ultimately, it's not your responsibility to make your own life miserable to make theirs a bit more manageable. People leave positions for other positions. Often, key people do. Just like companies firing and "re-organizing," it's a normal part of business. Companies have and will continue to deal with it, and it's accepted as part of doing business. As such, you don't have any particular obligation to stay just to make the sinking with the ship and drowning in icy waters a slightly more positive drowning experience for your friends/co-workers. You are not the captain leaving a sinking ship. If you were the captain, you'd have the authority to change the course of the ship. You tried to do that, and the captains said "full steam ahead!" Let's put it this way, if/when the company fails because this mission critical project, that had almost no chance to succeed, fails as you fear it might, what will look worse for your career and potential employers? Situation #1, you see the writing on the wall, and get out now. 

Here is an aspect to consider - Only one person showed, he was late, he was unprepared, the other person didn't show, and had to be reminded, a week later, that you were supposed to talk. Now, that might not be indicative of a company in trouble, but, clearly, we can safely say their recruiting and talent acquisition process is dysfunctional. What is the purpose of the recruiting process? To identify and bring on board the best talent possible. If the process for identifying the right people for the company is a complete crap-show of a mess, what are the odds that they are employing the best people and the best fits for the company? This company is going to be filled with employees gathered through this mess of a process. Chances are they will have missed or turned-off some of the best candidates out there. Chances are they will have hired people who are either not good workers or possibly not even technically competent. You can't take a process that clearly doesn't work and expect it to get results that a working, competent process would. This is like Demming's red-ball/white-ball experiment. The people working at the company are likely to be a random reflection of the applicant pool, with some very, very minimal screening out of the most obvious non-fits. Since this is the process for selecting the employee pool with which you will be working with and interacting, it's difficult to imagine that it not effecting the company, overall, unless this position and these specific people assigned are uniquely new or inexperienced at the task. How do you deal with this? Hard to say. If they are interested, find out what the next steps are (good luck with that). If they kind of stammer, don't know, or seem to be making it up on the spot, then maybe you should just walk away. If it's just the same two people saying they'll talk some more or make a decision, request some kind of brief interaction with someone higher up the food chain. A director, VP, or executive level person. A lot of companies do this anyway, so that would be ideal. When you get in that room, after the usual back and forth, that person will ask you your impressions and if you have questions. Be very frank and raise the issue exactly as you did here - you like the concept, location, the job seems appealing, but then detail what happened in the interview process and tell him you are unsure if this was just a bad instance, or a reflection on the organization. His answer will either reassure you are leave you still doubting. Maybe he'll take offense and decline to hire, but I don't think you'll be worse off than just hoping for the best. 

He's asking if it's okay - whether it's a matter of minor inconvenience or something relatively important. If it was not an option, the email would probably be informing you that you'd be getting one with a French keyboard layout, not asking if you'd be okay with it. It is entirely possible that his email is "telling" you, but he's too polite to be that direct. Respond with what you told us - that it is kind of a big deal for how you've been acclimated to working, and that it would make a difference in your work productivity. Request, "if at all possible" that they get one with the setup you requested. Maybe throw in a "if it's not possible, and your note was more telling me vs asking me, I understand. However, if we do have a genuine option, US keyboard layout, please." 

Seems like the greater issue is not having someone available just before a launch date, which seems reasonable, but accepting the other last-minute requests for new features. THOSE should be refused as "too late for this release." Having said that, asking for additional weekend hours, while "reasonable," according to me, doesn't necessarily mean "free." If there isn't a specific documented process for defining features for new releases and how (and when) they get added, that process should be formalized, ASAP. Most probably, if features are already well-planned, developed and tested, the urgency of having someone on call, as well as the likelihood of them needing to put out fires, will diminish. 

If you were a director or executive level person, then the fact that you chose struggling companies might factor in if they fancied themselves a high-achievement group. Being with that mediocre company isn't going to be a big deal if you have a position that requires that you exercise relevant and valuable work skills. The mediocrity of that company is more a reflection on management. If it does come up, no one is going to hold "I wanted to be working, and though the company was on shaky ground, there was a trade-off in higher compensation, so I felt that it was an acceptable career choice" against you. The days of someone starting and finishing with the same company are pretty much gone. Staying with a company for "only" two to three years, especially as a software engineer, is not considered "job-hopping." All in all, I think HR and managers generally have less questions about someone steadily employed with mediocre companies (most companies are, by definition, not elite) vs someone with gaps. 

I think I would have answered "there are too many factors outside of my control for me to possibly answer that. However, as long as my work is challenging and rewarding, and the company has a bright future, I don't see any reason why I would look to leave after a set time span." 

This is a job with a company you wanted to work for before, in a role you wanted before, and you state, yourself, that you think the job would be interesting,a good fit, and you have a good feeling about the company culture. Sounds like an ideal position, and the company is actively asking your to apply - they are courting you for this position! So, what's the hold up? 

(A) If you are going to move from one position to the next, it's normal to ask for a modest increase in pay, so you erred slightly in asking for the same pay. (B) Companies know that people aren't going to want to move backwards in compensation as they progress through their careers. Quite simply, tell them "no." If they ask why, tell them the compensation is less than your target range for a new position, and what you feel your value is on the job market. You don't even need to tell them that it would represent a pay cut. What you make now is really none of their business. 

Be honest. One reason that I don't believe has been touched upon is this: There might have been discussions about whether going with a more expensive event, and asking employees to pick up the costs, would force workers to decline and be excluded. The fact is, it is the cost that is making you decline. Let them know that. Perhaps in the future they will opt for smaller, simpler, less expensive but more inclusive events when planning. As simple - 

It can be "normal," but usually they have that later start date defined up front. Accepting an "offer," and then hearing nothing but excuses for almost a month, with no tangible action? No, that's not usual for a real, legitimate position. Usually "accepting a position" includes a written portion from the company, that includes the details of employment, including pay rate, etc. If you haven't received one, then, yes, start looking for an actual job, and not just a vague promise of one, as well as asking for the details in writing, to confirm the agreement between you two of an accepted employment offer. Insist that you need one in writing. If you didn't have a formal, detailed written offer, you really didn't accept anything of substance. If they keep delaying and deflecting, than hopefully your re-started job search will have you in a position with someone who has their act together, before the wait (which may never turn into a start) becomes more damaging to you, financially and professionally. Hope they turn it around quickly, so this doesn't turn into a hard lesson-learned.