This clearly doesn't apply to PLBs. A report that distinguishes PLBs from other EPIRBs is a January 2014 report by ICOA which says 

You need to know whether the magnetic declination you have was measured from Grid North or from True North. 

In that year, the "beacon false alert rate" is listed at 0.4% for PLBs, compared to 0.9% for other EPIRBs and 4.9% for the old 121.5 MHz ELTs (i.e. one in 250 PLBs in the world transmitted a false alert; we can estimate that one in 5000 beacons was used in a real emergency in that year). 

A gallon size water jug like this works well, too, although I did have a bear tear apart one in a geocache because it apparently associated that kind of plastic with food. 

Aerobic conditioning will help a little with the altitude. You can practice walking / running on a treadmill at 15% incline. You can practice walking with a loaded backpack. Bonus points for doing it on an inclined treadmill. 

How long can you leave a synthetic sleeping bag in compressed its stuff sack before you lose insulation? 2 days? 2 weeks? 2 months? The manufacturers say "long periods", but don't define it. 

I find bows are more challenging. Plus, in Ohio for whitetail deer, the archery season last from end the of September through February. The gun season lasts only a week and then an extra weekend. So comparatively, there is a lot more time you can spend in the woods if you're an archer. For the pricing bit of archery vs guns. Well, my bow (Matthews Z2) cost me 2x what my shotgun (Remington 870 express) cost. Of course, my buddy just bought a turkey shotgun that dwarfs my box cost so that part is all a matter of preference. Arrows themselves are probably about 2-3x the cost of each sabot shotgun slug. Then you need to tack on another $10-20 for broadheads for your arrows. Now yes, arrows can be reused where slugs cannot. Accessories are probably similarly priced for each item when all accounted. I personally think it is all a matter of preference and how long your seasons last. Plus, it is fair easier (and cheaper) to do more target shooting with a bow than it is with a gun. Even if you're reloading rifle ammo, you're still gonna surpass the cost of arrows rather quickly. People may be recoil sensitive so they may go archery instead. Others may be felons and not able to buy a gun. We have background checks for guns, but you can pick a bow off the shelve here. As for the noise part of it, should you really be looking to fire multiple shots? Guns make it easier for multiple since they're quicker (mostly), but I don't think you should go into it with the notion that you'll want to fire multiple shots. 

There are a few methods of rolling a kayak upright. You can find the most popular on Youtube -- they're a little odd to explain in words. Rolling a kayak is more common with whitewater kayaks, where you may need to do it immediately, and the kayak is smaller. With a sea kayak you can usually jump out, pump out the water, and climb back in (steps two and three can be reversed). Some sea kayaks are so stable and wide that they're really hard to roll. In fact, most of them are pretty difficult compared to whitewater kayaks. 

As always with such general questions, "It depends". In a lightning storm, you should always get well clear of any trees. The reason for this isn't that trees are necessarily the most likely place for lighting to strike but because, when they are hit, the water inside tends to boil, exploding the tree. Being hit by burning fragments of timber will likely Ruin Your Day. Having pitched your tent clear of trees, the most likely risk is from ground path current; the hammock has a slight advantage here, as the current must go up and down the poles to go through you, and everything between the poles is dry (if your tarp is working). In a tent, you're lying directly on the damp ground with just a thin groundsheet in between. Ground path currents tend to be much lower than the main strike current (if it was to dissipate evenly across the ground surface, then the current would be inversely proportional to the distance from the strike). Depending on what kind of poles you use for your hammock, you may be increasing the likelihood of a direct strike, but the good news is that such a strike should go straight through that pole to ground. It might melt the pole as it does so, which wouldn't be fun. Perhaps pole caps made of old tennis balls may help protect against that. A really bad position to pitch a hammock would be across a rock cleft - if the two lumps of rock are at different potentials, then the lowest-resistance path may well be through you. Never stretch your hammock across a gap that doesn't have an obviously better electrical bypass very close by. 

I wear hats and try to cover most of my body when going through thicker brush. I personally don't like when burrs, pricker bushes, or any of the other a-hole plants out there lash out on my head. Hats allow me to charge head first into some of those in order to help shield my face from them as well. Plus, depending on the climate, hats are good for both keeping me warm and keeping sweat out of my eyes. I also prefer brimmed hats for sun protection since I don't often wear sunglasses while trekking through the woods. Then, there are a select group of people who always wear hats. As in, they never go anywhere without one on. Whether they just like the feeling or they're trying to cover up some balding, they're a group of people manufacturers aren't likely to forget about. 

Breathing is the largest single source of moisture in a tent, followed by cooking. A common mistake is to close the tent completely, without providing ventilation to (sufficiently) carry your moist air out, and allow drier air from outside to enter. I've found that when I've had condensation problems, it can generally be improved by adjusting the ventilation. It may take some experimentation to find the optimum balance between keeping warmth in and letting moisture out, but at +15°C, you're unlikely to feel cold, so I'd start by opening up quite a bit. 

Set the anchor by reversing the engine until the anchor chain is tight, and then run the engine at medium speed to make sure the anchor has dug in. You can watch a GPS to make sure the speed is around zero (and the anchor is not dragging) when you're doing this. However, if the tide and/or wind changes, it can pull out a set anchor. If you use a LOT of chain and it's not too windy and the current is not too swift, the boat will only drag the chain around and won't actually pull on the anchor. Also, if it does pull the anchor up and you have a lot of chain out, it's likely to catch again somewhere nearby (unless it goes over a ledge into deep water). Some people will set two anchors, one in each direction of the tide. I don't think I could do that without ending up with a tangled mess of chain. Maybe you could get a wireless anchor alarm that goes off in your tent when the boat moves. 

The top pocket is a good place for things you don't expect to need, but must be quickly/easily accessible in extremis, by touch alone, without opening your sack: things you must be able to get at without soaking the rest of your stuff or losing it in a gale, and that you might need before you can find shelter. In my top pocket, I usually have (when not on my person): 

In 2003, the International Maritime Organisation stated in 2003 that fewer than 1 in 20 alerts related to persons genuinely in distress: 

Here in Ohio we allow both rifle/shotgun and bow hunting. I think part of it comes down to the power in each of the two items. We have 40 pound minimum draw weights on the bows here for hunting. So these bows should be able to pack a bit more of a punch when they hit. Couple that with a larger cutting surface, and the game should go down after a while. Now, this after a while bit is probably where compassionate lawmakers disagree. Hitting a whitetail with a bow has many different recommended times to let the deer scamper off and bleed out. I think the minimum recommended time to go chasing after it is approximately an hour. In that time, the deer may be bedded down and bleeding out. Some people may cringe at that thought. Now let us transfer over to the gun part of things. Guns pack a good bit of power in them. I have seen a well place shot drop a whitetail in its tracks. From initial stun to death in mere seconds. I am not saying that 100% of the time gun will beat out bow though. It is all in the hands of the hunter. We assume everyone will be ethical about it. Let's not try a bow shot of 100 yards or let's not try 200 yards on a shotgun. Both can be made, but not by all hunters. I think lawmakers take that into account somewhat. I would assume the terrain would also play into it more as well for safety reasons. For example, we're only allowed straight-walled cartridges in Ohio for hunting. We are not as isolated though and a 30-06 round might end up going a bit too far for safety reasons. Lastly, another reason to only allow bow/gun or gun could be related to hunter safety. I don't particularly mean hunter shooting hunter as anyone donning the blaze orange knows that is a distinct possibility. I am meaning when hunting predatory game like bears. I have seen YouTubers do it, but I would not want to try to take a bear with my bow. I can guarantee that if I shot a bear with my bow and angered it, I would not have enough time to get another arrow and draw before its upon me with all its fury. Of course, there are others different than I, and they would gladly accept that challenge. These are just reasons off the top of my head why one might allow only certain items for hunting. The main thing to remember is that laws apply to everyone, regardless of skill. So, you really need to take that into account like the lawmakers hopefully did. You might get lucky and be able to find some write up by the legislative or judicial bodies as to their justification in certain laws or decrees. 

Beware that the top pocket is usually less waterproof than the main body, so consider using small drybags for the stuff you put there. Also, it's more exposed to impact, so some items may need protective cases. 

Cave photographers have to deal with a similar problem, where thin steam that's normally invisible can be seen in photographs taken with flash. Steam is composed of fairly spherical droplets of water. These act in a similar way to road studs of the "cat's-eye" type - they reflect light directly back to its source. The solution is to move the light off-axis, so the reflection is no longer aimed at your camera (eye). So take your head-torch off, and hold or attach it away from your line of sight. Attaching it to your belt is ideal, if you want to illuminate the ground - you now have less distance between the light and the target (though if you get it too low, you'll find that every rock casts a huge shadow, hiding your route). This is the same principle as front fog lights on motor vehicles, which are low-mounted for the same reasons.