In the US, the government does not attempt to prevent businesses from making foolish mistakes like this. I don't know of any industry that provides any sort of "protection" from such behavior. I can't imagine what such protection could be, even if they wanted to do so. 

Tell your manager now that your examination of the code leads you to believe you will not be able to meet the deadline and why, but that you'll do your best anyway. Also, tell them now what your approach will be and how long you think it will take to complete the task, and that you'll update your estimate as you learn more. It's silly that your manager believes a signed document will make any difference. But you owe the company your best efforts and your best estimate. And perhaps your manager will come to his senses and accept reality, perhaps not. Note that in the end it may not matter. You may miss the deadline on the signed document, and your employer may choose to let you go and start all over with another new hire. But you should give it your best shot anyway. 

Wait a week. If you haven't heard from them, just send a normal follow-up note indicating your continued interest. Something similar to what you said before: "Thank you for speaking with me again... I'm very interested in working with you... I look forward to hearing from you..." 

Employers don't need grounds for revocation (at least not in the US). Since the requirement in your offer mentioned only the GPA, it seems unlikely that they would care about an F on one particular class (even if part of your major). But if they really want to change their mind about you, they can. And you could change your mind about them, should you choose to do so. It doesn't sound like it matters much either way at this point. You should do whatever you can do to turn this grade into something better than an F, but otherwise there isn't anything you can do but wait and see. Only your employer knows for sure how bad this F will be for you. 

When asked, you provide a clear and cogent reason why you declined last time and why you believe this time is different. If staying late was the only factor involved in your prior decision, make sure you can explain specifically why this won't be a problem this time around. Think it through ahead of time because the question is likely to arise. Practice your answer if necessary, perhaps with a friend you can help evaluate your answer and throw additional questions your way. 

Not really. You are legally entitled to be paid for the days you work, plus any accrued vacation days. If you work through the end of the pay period, you'll receive your normal check. Then separately you'll receive accrued vacation pay. But if you don't work through the end of the period, you'll likely be paid only for those days you actually worked. The company could, of course, choose to pay you for the entire period, but they aren't required to do so. In most at-will states, the employer could tell you to leave the same day you give your notice and not have to pay you through the end of the pay period. Disclosure: I'm not a lawyer. That's my understanding of the laws in my state. But check with your local Department of Labor to be sure how the rules apply to you. If you are really living paycheck-to-paycheck, you should save enough money to cover the unlikely case where you are dismissed immediately before you hand in your notice. You don't want to miss a rent payment if it isn't necessary. And although I wouldn't recommend it, in most at-will situations, you could work right up through the last day of the pay period, announce your departure on your way out the door and never return. Giving no notice at all isn't considered very professional, and will certainly burn bridges, but legally you would be assured of a full paycheck. 

Simply bring the letter to HR, explain your concerns and listen to what they say. It's their job to either tell you to disregard the fraudulent mail (and then track down how it happened and deal with it), or to explain how this is non-fraudulent mail and clear up your confusion. No big deal here - just let HR handle it. 

Sadly your management is clueless. They are the ones who desire increasing engagement of employees. They are the ones who will have something to gain from such increased engagement. Thus any company event must be paid for by the company. 

If your goal was not to get fired, then clearly you made a mistake. You may be inexperienced in these matters, but it's not surprising to me that they got rid of you as soon as you openly declared your intentions. While some companies would work with you to understand, and perhaps overcome, your dissatisfaction, many would not. Clearly yours was in the latter camp. Perhaps you came across as so dissatisfied that you were looking for another job and couldn't be "saved". So the company figured - why prolong the misery when you were leaving in the next few months anyway? Certainly managers are reluctant to give important work to someone who won't be around long. 

I suspect you do know that they would react poorly. Otherwise, you could just tell them both "Hey, I'm accepting your job offer, and I'm also accepting another one at the same time. Good luck". If a company learns that you have accepted another offer (even if you have already accepted theirs), I would expect them to withdraw their offer immediately, and move on to another candidate. In this case, that could happen with both hiring companies at the same time. If you accept an offer, the company goes through the process of clearing your background check, and then you withdraw your acceptance, your professional reputation will suffer in the eyes of everyone who knows you did this. That list includes people at the company you turned down, and anyone else who learns of your behavior. This will make people wary of hiring you or recommending you for a position in the future. Don't be that guy/gal. 

I'm not sure I'd use the word "confront" here. Instead, start with a "conversation". Talk to him and try to understand things from his point of view. Perhaps he needs you to set some sort of example for others on the team to adjust their behavior. (Perhaps the people you lead aren't doing what he expects once you have left for the day. Perhaps you can explore ways to improve their behavior without sacrificing all of your evenings.) Perhaps he feels you are "watching the clock" when you "leave right at 5", and he would rather have you demonstrate expected behavior by working until you reach a logical break point. Confrontation is unlikely to get you what you want. And avoidance is unlikely to help either. Talk to your manager instead. Then you can decide how to deal with the real issues. 

This would be completely appropriate. You might say something like: "I really like working for company x. I even asked them about relocating to City B. Unfortunately, they don't have any openings here, so that isn't an option. I've heard great things about your company, and I would really like to work in City B." This way, you aren't saying anything bad about your current company, are demonstrating that you are a loyal employee, and indicating that locating to City B is really important to you. All of these things are perfectly understandable for a hiring manager, in my experience. 

You should indeed consider this as a fresh job offer, with one difference - you know something more about this company than you would about most others. In particular, you know the reasons why you left in the first place. Something was lacking at that time, or you wouldn't have moved on. You didn't mention how long ago it was when you left, but you need to consider: have things changed since then, or will I be moving back into the same situation that I decided to leave? In my personal experience, most folks who go back to a former employer end up leaving again within a few years. My friends who have done this tell me that nothing really changes, that the "freshness" wears off very quickly, and that the real reasons behind their original desire to leave resurface. Your situation may be different, but it would make sense to think this through. I don't think it would look too bad on a resume, but it may indeed be something you'll have to explain to potential future employers. Just make sure your reasons are clear, so you don't come off as "flighty". 

You might be able to conclude that they haven't yet rejected you completely. But even that isn't assured. Some companies conduct long interviews with many folks involved, some don't. Some companies will immediately end the planned interviews if someone feels that the candidate doesn't fit, but most won't. Some poor companies conduct extremely lengthy interviews, some great companies conduct short interviews. In reality, the length of the interview might be significant, but it might not. The only way you'll know for sure is if you get hired, and get exposed to their interview practices. 

You indicate why this doesn't work for you. And if pressed, you make it clear that this is so important that you will be forced to leave the company. 

If letters of recommendation are standard in your field of work, your lawyer did you a serious disservice by not advising you how you should deal with the need for one. If it were me, I'd go back to my lawyer and ask what they recommend now. (And I might consider changing lawyers in the future). Aside form that your only choice now is to explain to prospective employers that you don't have such a letter. If you cannot convince yourself to go back and attempt to get a letter now, then you will need to hope that potential employers will waive the requirement, or that you can find an employer who won't ask for one. 

I can't see that it is better to resign first, unless you have a new job in hand. If you can, find your next job quickly, then hand in your resignation before you are fired. You'll need to be ready to answer the question "Why did you leave this job?" or "Why do you want to leave your current job?" either way. Be prepared with whatever answer you want to supply.