Cover the rim all around the valve with a thick layer of duct tape until the tape is almost level with the exposed surface of the valve. Then put one more piece of duct tape over the top of the valve. Draw a line across the top pf the valve with a marker pen. Get a miniature hack-saw and very gently start cutting a groove down into the top of the valve (perpendicular to the rim). Use a competent friend to hold the wheel upright and very still while doing this (may even help to add more duct tape to hold the wheel down on the floor). Once the groove is deep enough to hold the blade, remove enough of the duct tape so you can see how far down the rim is. Keep cutting down to the limit of your confidence (i.e. don't cut into the rim). Now use a thin-ended screw-driver to unscrew the valve. If the cut is to narrow to easily fit your screw-driver into, use a narrower blade (like a bread knife) until you have the valve down almost flush with the rim. If that is all too scary, take it to your LBS. 

After a long bike tour through south east Asia (Thailand, Malaysia, and Indonesia totaling ~5000 km) we were flying back to NZ with our bikes. NZ customs has very stringent requirements that no dirt/bugs/diseases comes in to the country on used sports gear, so we got the bikes sparkling clean by smuggling them up to our hotel room and putting them into the shower. Nice low pressure, warm water. Good drainage for the dust/dirt. Soap and a flannel to clean up the frames. No mess to clean up afterwards. 

Simplest solution would be to ride to the start of the ride, with a detour if you live/work too close to the start of the ride. 

In practice, I use them when I am touring (long distances in the saddle - so reason 2 above), and when I am mountain-cycling competitively (reasons 1 and 3), but don't wear them when I am on my daily commute. 

You could easily throw a pair of shorts on over your jeans. It would look silly, but it'd get the job done. 

A number of the Continental models actually have two small divets in them that you can use to gauge the wear level of the tire. If present, I use those. Otherwise I look for excessive numbers of deep cuts in the tire, or some of the tire fabric showing through through the rubber. 

I typically eat Powerbars or gels like GU if I need more intake on the bike. Additionally, I have a electrolyte mix like Cytomax in my water bottles which keeps me ingesting salts and calories. Bananas are also great, though I eat so many post-ride that I typically don't eat them on the bike unless it's a really long ride. If you're slowly eating throughout the ride, I see no reason to need a "quick boost". 

At the end of one particularly hard road racing season, I felt pretty tired as well. I decided to take about 3-4 days completely off the bike and by the end of that I felt good again and ready to go. If you haven't even taken that off you might try. Also be sure to eat right and get enough sleep if you're not. But everyone's body is different. Attempting to build form back up "from the beginning" seems like a strong initial reaction if you haven't tried more simple R&R first. 

In addition to brushing your tires as soon as it happens (as soon as it's safe to stop and do so of course), checking your tires before every ride and picking out small peices of glass is also important (there's often glass on the road that gets picked up by your tire that you don't visually see of course). I follow this simple procedure and I haven't gotten a flat on my road bike in 2 years, and only get flats on my commuter once every year or so (it goes through much more glass). 

I've recently started commuting to work 3 times a week and my commute is about 8 miles each way. I've found if I roll my clothes rather than fold them and pack just before I leave, there are no creases when I get to work. I always put my shoes at the bottom of my bag, then trousers rolled up then shirt. I leave my ties in my desk draw and leave my suit jacket at work. It takes me about 45 minutes to get to work and I make sure I take the last mile easy so I don't arrive out of breath. I then spend about 10 minutes in my cycling clothes (making sure the kettle is boiled and quickly checking emails) to give me time to "cool down" before I go and get changed in to my work clothes. I've found I'm completely "dry" by then but if not I use wet wipes. Liberal use of deodorant and I'm good to go. On the way home I just do the reverse. I attack the route home faster for a work out as I can have a shower when I get home. I believe that as you get fitter you'll sweat less too, so it gets easier. 

I'm a complete beginner cycling and I've recently started 3 times a week commuting on a hybrid 8 miles to work and 8 miles back. On the way there is a 5% gradient hill about half a mile long which is great fun to whizz down at 30mph on the way to work. It really puts a smile on my face! It's not so fun on the way back though! Every day I end up having to get off the bike and walk up the steepest part of the hill as I find my legs just give up the ghost - despite my bike having 27 gears, and I've used them all. What can I do to train to get up the hill? Is it just a matter of keep on trying or is there something specific I can do to help me conquer this hill? I'm assuming it's just my poor level of fitness that means I can't keep it up. It doesn't help that I'm 220lbs - which is why I have started cycling to get that number down as much as possible. Any tips greatly appreciated For reference the bike is a Giant Escape 1 (2016) Chain ring: 26/36/48 and cassette 9/11-34 Gear Calc here