At best, the answer to this question will be an apples and oranges comparison. Comparing the distribution of a static book to that of a constantly fluctuating periodical is unlikely to produce anything very meaningful. However it is amusing and I like both apples and oranges. So what can we do? Start with the easy apples The IKEA side of things is relatively easy. Because of their corporate business structure, the figures are centralized. 

Again I think it's fair to lump NT and full Bibles together, but for reference the overall ratio for the Gideons appears to be about 8 to 1 (source, only USA distribution break down available). That would put The Gideons at about 10 million full Bibles and 70 million New Testaments per year. For ideological reasons, as an organization they are pretty focused on Bibles rather than partial printings. They do a lot more NT's than even all of UBS combined, but they don't do as many excerpt printings such as Gospel of John tracts. And some smaller fish to fry There are other players as well. Several other large Bible producers including the International Bible Society, The Catholic Bible Federation and The Trinitarian Bible Society are not part of UBS. I was unable to find concrete numbers for many of these. I think there are a couple 5 million range players. Dozens of smaller ones appear to distribute in the 0.5-2 million Bibles per year range. An oddball I couldn't place above is Zondervan publishing who sells a lot of English and some other language Bibles, but it's hard to get a breakdown of Bibles vs. other materials. The NIV translation which they own the publishing rights to used to be the highest selling translation in English, but I don't know to translate that to Bibles per year worldwide. It's hard to put a number on it, but realistically I think counting UBS and Gideons as the lions share at a total of 120 Million per year is a reasonable baseline. Those two alone do put current numbers in the "over 100M per year" ball park thrown around by the media. Trying to add up numbers for all the small fish is harder, but in order to beat out the IKEA catalog, all the small guys would need to add up to at least 60 million/year. In adding up onezyes and twozies, I got to a possible 25 million more, but was running low on sources. I can only account for up to about 150 million Bibles distributed per year. Conclusion of Rosaceae vs. Rutaceae, or "How about them apples?" Clearly 150-200 million IKEA catalogs beats out a max of about 150 million print Bibles distributed per year. Just as clearly, if you include partial printings that are portions of Scripture such as The Gospel of John booklets, the catalog figure is dwarfed by the 500+ million number of the UBS alone. If you include such partial printings from all sources, the number might be pushing a billion and IKEA catalogs aren't in the same order of magnitude. Why the question is flawed In the end it isn't the apples to oranges nature of the numbers that is this question's achiles heel. It is the implication that the numbers point to something else. Note this quote from the question: 

Very simply, it could but with modern electrical safety systems, it's unlikely. A modern television is not earthed, as the casing is usually plastic, although some bigger sets have grounds. The reason for this is because the class Y capacitors used to filter EMI require an earth conductor. Bigger sets emit more EMI because they use more power, thus can require an earth connector. In which case, earth must be connected to exposed metal parts, if any. If they have a direct ground, water is likely to short live to the earthed case and trip the RCD/GFCI within 30 ms, with a current as low as 30mA. A general rule is that you can feel 1mA, 10mA is painful and 100mA can stop the heart. As you can't get out, this leads to death... and it's not nice. If not, then it could be fatal if the bathtub is not correctly earthed which according to regulations it must be. If the bathtub is earthed, the water will allow enough current to flow from live to earth to trip the RCD/GFCI. It would hurt, but you'd be able to get out usually. Modern household RCD/GFCI devices will trip on the current required to cause fibrilation - often much lower to make it safer. Note that RCD/GFCI devices don't measure earth current but instead the imbalance between live and neutral so even without a proper mains earth for the bath they will work. All that is important is that the current has some way to avoid going from live to neutral. If that is through the plumbing, it could save your life, though any assailant throwing TVs at you is likely to have more devious plans in mind. 

Short answer: No. Long answer: A heater is about as efficient as you can possibly get for an electrical device. Almost 100% of the input energy that goes in is converted to heat[1]. For a newer heater to be 50% more efficient, it would have to use about 67% of the energy to give the same heat - which is difficult, because the original heater is already 100% efficient, so this new one would have to be 150% efficient. Ceramic materials are very good electrical insulators and have excellent thermal conductivity. The only difference between his ceramic heater and your normal electric heater is the element is probably wrapped around a ceramic core and this then heats up the outer plate, whereas yours just has elements and relies on natural convection to circulate and spread the heat. Both will be equally efficient at providing heat energy, but they provide it in different ways. Maybe the heat plate is better for heating up one part of a room, but the convection heater is good for the whole room, for example. If you were only using one part of the room, then it would be less efficient to heat up all of it. There are heating systems that are more than 100% efficient - they are known as heat pumps. They are typically in excess of 300% efficient. However, a heat pump would require an external connection to outside the building to work, as it works by using the thermal energy from outside (and electricity is only drawn to move the heat one way.) And, they are very expensive. 

I'll try and take a stab at this, though I don't know if I have found enough non-circumstantial evidence to prove my conclusion. However, I also doubt that anyone without knowing Arabic or French and having access to select universities around the world could come up with more, as those are the only translations of Ibn Fadi's book I could find. My conclusion: That this is a false claim based on research of the supposed source of the claim Ibn Fadl Al-Umari. My only clear evidence comes from here: Cartographic-Images.net. As you can see on the maps in the text there is no mention or thought of anything to the west of Africa. Reading though the text, which is about the veracity of a specific set of maps. The maps are attributed to our above author Ibn Fadl Al-Umari, and an encyclopedia he compiled in 1342 from papers he had written in the late 1330's. The thought is that the maps are authentic and accurate copies of the originals. It seems odd to me that someone who is the only attributed source for this claim, and someone who is a known important source of information on the African kingdoms of the time, would leave out any and all indication of a land to the west of Africa if he had a credible enough source to include the story in his encyclopedia. (Alright so that wasn't as solid as I wanted but its only source material from his encyclopedia I could get my hands on.) Source 2:A search of Literature of Travel and Exploration: An Encyclopedia edited by Jennifer Speake. This encyclopedia cites our author (Ibn Fadi) serval times in her work, not surprising since he had created his own maps and encyclopedia, and makes no mention to any expedition in 1311 by the Mali to the Americas. Source 3: It is curious that a search for the author brings up many references to his work and autobiographies, clearly he is known in historical circles, yet none of them from legitimate sources mention his supposed story of the huge discovery of a land to the west by the Mali. Obviously a lack of evidence is not clear proof of no evidence but it does seem suspicious.* Source 4: This focuses on a general search of medieval Mali. If the claim that Mali found the Americas is not included in a search then the single most mentioned Masa (king) from this time period is Masa Musa, and his incredible pilgrimage to Mecca. It is remarkable that such a well written about king does not get introduced (as far as I could find in several hours of research) with the story of his predecessor abdicating his throne to him so that he could travel across the atlantic to a new world. As for the wikipedia article quoted above, according to the encyclopedia britannica Ibn Fadi did not come to Cairo until 12 years after Musa Mansa, and so could not have heard the story directly from the King, further casting doubt on the veracity of the story. Finally I'll finish with the great find from @Tor-Einar Jarnbjo: 

Let's see (US perspective on this issue): A hand dryer probably uses around 3000W to run the motor and the heater. It might be on for about 30 seconds. During that time, it consumes 1.5 kWm (kilowatt-minutes) or about 25 watt-hours. According to this source, about 45% of the US energy supply (the largest proportion) comes from coal as of 2010. (185 GWh / 412 GWh = 44.9%), so I'll pretend that the energy comes from coal. Of course, if it comes from wind turbines, then CO2 production will be almost nil. This source tells us how much using 1 kWh of energy contributes to production of CO2 from coal (this is the latest data I can get, but it shouldn't drift too much): 

There is an interesting trend in test scores in exams (GCSE and A-level) in the UK: they are increasing, or so the trend in the grades would tend to show. This is known as grade inflation and affects other countries, too. Why is this? I have heard several reasons. The first is that students are just generally getting smarter. The second reason I have heard is that exams are getting easier. To me (as a student), it personally seems like the exams are getting easier, although it is hard to judge. What independent research has been performed to determine if it is exams or students? 

I've heard this from almost every domain name registrar: your domain name "needs to propagate through the DNS and may take 24-48 hours to do so." And yet, bar a few registrations (which might take half a day), they all are ready within 1-2 hours, in my experience. For example, on a recent registration with DreamHost, emphasis mine: 

I'm somewhat sceptical of the claims of fuel companies, especially given the price of premium fuel. Have independent tests been performed?