A paper titled "Monte Carlo Models of the dust environment of a sample of comets from the Oort Cloud to the outer Main Asteroid Belt" (PDF also here) (2014) studied the behaviour of P/2013 P5 using models and concluded that 

The process whereby the Sun will become a red giant and then turn into a white dwarf is neither short nor simple. It's absolutely not the case that it will expand, blow away a chunk of its mass, contract again, and that will be it. According to Wikipedia (emphasis mine): 

So the simple answer to your question is: as the Sun loses mass, the orbits of the outer planets will become larger. When they become wide enough, they will escape into interstellar space. If the hypothesized Planet Nine exists, it could help kick out Uranus and Neptune. Jupiter (and Mars, I guess) may or may not remain. Earth will in all likelihood be dragged into the Sun during the red giant phase as the Sun's outer layers expand to fill its orbit. 

I'd use a visual here - just tape some Lego people to a basketball, then explain that down is to the center of the basketball, and it only looks to him that there is a "universal down" because he too is standing on a much larger basketball. For someone that young, and for people of any age, a demonstration like that will make more sense than any explanation. 

xkcd worked this out! It was part of a related question: what if you pointed an infinite power laser in random directions, how much damage would happen? I'll try to summarize the parts of his analysis relevant to this question. If you choose a truly random direction, you'd have about a 50% chance of hitting the Earth. For the times you don't hit Earth, 89,999 times out of 90,000 your beam will pass out of the Milky Way without hitting anything. The objects you have the highest chance of hitting are the Sun or Moon, but the odds of hitting either of them is about 1 in 180,000. He goes on to show that your odds of hitting one of Jupiter's moons is about 1 in 1 trillion. Hitting a star is even harder, "even if you aim for the core [of the Milky Way]." He doesn't seem to have worked it out to the level of individual photons hitting individual hydrogen atoms, but given that space is mostly empty anyway the angular size method he uses should be a reasonable approximation. 

The asteroid is loosely bound (a "rubble pile") and spinning fast, so everytime some of the boulders which form it shift a bit, some material may escape into space and form a small tail. 

I have managed to find two hypotheses for Uranus's tilt that explain why its moons are also orbiting on a tilted plane. The multiple impacts hypotheses lies on the fact that, if Uranus had become tilted by the force of a single large impact (as was commonly believed), then the moons should have stayed on their original plane. A corrected version of this hypothesis said that, if the accretion disc from which Uranus was forming was still around, an impact would have destroyed it and recreated it on the same place as the new equator. The moons would then have accreted from the disc on that plane. This, however, would have produced moons with retrograde motion (which is not the case for most). So the latest idea is that Uranus suffered multiple impacts, which, according to the simulations, works to produce the planetary system as we see it today. (There's another problem with this hypothesis.) The collision-free theory (or collissionless scenario as described in the paper) proposes that Uranus could have become tilted progressively as it formed without the need to postulate an impact (or series of impacts), if it had an additional satellite and started with a large inclination (which is allowed by current models); the extra moon could have been ejected later. The simulations worked for an initial inclination of more 17 degrees and a moon of 0.01 Uranian mass and at 50 Uranian radii. 

I'm far from an expert in this, but I have a reasonable guess at an answer. The White Dwarf page on Wikipedia describes what would probably happen. It seems that the WD would consume mass from the companion star until it can either sustain fusion, or fuse so much so quickly that it explodes into a Type 1a supernova. 

(Emphasis mine) The idea that the core is "rocky" or composed of metallic hydrogen is still unknown. Determining more about this is one of the objectives of the Juno mission currently in orbit. We may obtain better models of Jupiter's internal structure in the coming years, but at this point we just don't know. 

There's a good lengthy coverage of the last days of the Sun here. It cites a study and then concludes that 

The rate of star formation in the universe peaked about 3.5 billion years after the Big Bang, or 2.7 billion years after it, according to a different study—in any case, for most of the universe's lifetime fewer and fewer stars have been forming each year. Though I don't have precise data on the death rate, on the whole the number of stars is decreasing as more old stars die than new ones form. Meanwhile, the light from old stars is being redshifted out of existence by the expansion of the universe, which is itself accelerating. I'm sure there's a mathematical model that can quantify this properly, but I think those two facts, combined, must be the answer to why the sky isn't getting brighter. 

It does appear to depend on the mass of the companion, and whether they actually collide or merely pass close. If they didn't form together, it is unlikely that they will be captured in each other's orbit later on, so the WD might just pass through the system, disrupting planets as it goes but leaving the other star unharmed. There doesn't appear to be a one-size-fits-all answer here. 

If you're like me and you just want lots of interesting facts about space without all of the academic level of complexity, you may enjoy watching the Crash Course Astronomy series. There are a lot of other good resources on YouTube, such as Deep Sky Videos or Deep Astronomy. If you want something more fun and interactive, may I suggest playing Kerbal Space Program. I've learned a lot about how orbital mechanics, aerodynamics, and engineering just from playing this game. There is a question on the Space Exporation Stack Exchange that does a good job of covering how much can be learned from playing. 

The recent approval of a NASA mission to study the asteroid 16 Psyche brought to my attention that Psyche (about 200 km in diameter) is thought to be the exposed iron core left over from a protoplanet (theorized as being about 500 km in diameter). My question is: what is the mechanism by which a body of that size can accrete, differentiate as thoroughly as Psyche apparently did, and then completely lose its mantle? I have a basic understanding of planetary differentiation and I had the impression that the migration of iron and nickel to the core took a long time, and that by that time major impacts capable of shattering large bodies must have been rare. 

xkcd also shows an approximation of what it would look like if you tried to take a picture of an average desk from orbit. It is just a smear of colors, devoid of any discernible detail. I tried attaching the pictures here, but SE doesn't like the png files for some reason and I don't have time to do the file conversion. Just check out the first link to see what it looks like, plus a more detailed explanation of why. 

An answer to your question is not known at this time. From the Internal Structure section of Jupiter's Wikipedia page, 

xkcd already did the math on this one! Like Gauti's answer, xkcd also links to this question on Hubble's website. Hubble moves too fast for its minimum exposure time to be able to focus on anything on the surface. He goes one step further, linking to this article on Bad Astronomy that points out that Hubble frequently points at the sunlight side of Earth to help calibrate its WFPC2 camera. 

Aurorae are caused by energetic particles interacting with planetary atmospheres. Part of this flux comes from the Sun (solar wind) while the rest is cosmic radiation. My main question is: could a planetary body located far away from the Sun (or any other star), with a suitable atmosphere and magnetosphere, have noticeable* aurorae, just from being exposed to cosmic rays? A related question would be: do we know how much of the aurora is caused by the solar wind, and how much by cosmic rays? And thirdly: is there any other way that a planetary body could produce aurorae, such as its own electromagnetic emissions? *I know "noticeable" doesn't really work as a limit, but for the time being, I'm talking of electromagnetic radiation that can be distinguished clearly from the background of a planet's disc using instruments not more advanced than our current telescopes at interplanetary distances.