Which, in English is: The Romans, to this day in the city had maintained a fleet, to oppose the incursions of the barbarians. With this fleet, With this fleet, it was still easy to make an expedition by water, this path not having been closed by the enemy. Genevieve offered to leave and promised to go up to Arcis sur-Aube buy food needed to supply the city. This proposal, on its part, was regarded as a stroke of Providence. We granted his request with joy, and the Parisians felt to revived in their spirits, and hope reborn in their heart, seeing Genevieve with eleven small vessels intended to bring ample supplies. The Franks, as we have said, had no fleet, and we [can still see today] the point they tried to oppose this company. It was presumed that the Saint was accompanied by distinguished persons of the city, and in particular there is mentioned a priest, called Bessus, who was part of the expedition. 

In addition to these permanent types of storage, I might also mention two traveling or semi-permanent methods. One is called the scrinium, which is a leather (usually) case, like a modern map case, which is a cylinder with a cap on it. The other is a librarium, which is leather (usually) portfolio with ties. 

Over the centuries the original Latin gens were diluted. Even in late Roman times such names were not common. In many cases Latin families married into the families of leaders of barbarians and their name was lost as a surname. Latin names do tend to persist as first names, however, indicating the continuation of their cultural heritage. For example, the names Julius/Julia and Cornelius/Cornelia are Latin names common in everyday families. Latin surnames have survived sporadically. For example, there is one guy in the United States with the last name of Chrysogonus, one of the Cornelian gens. It is possible that many old Latin names exist in mutated form. For example, the common upper class Italian name, Schiapelli, may be derived from Scipio, another Cornelian gens. Due to the use of different dialects and languages in Italy old names have in some cases undergone considerable alterations. 

Chess and science are two totally different. In any case, if you are talking about England the answer is no. The only reliable way to make money at chess in England in those days was to play in coffeehouses for small stakes. The pre-eminent example of this type of player was Joseph Henry Blackburne. The general social conditions in those days would the likelihood of somebody starting off as a chessplayer and ending up as an advisor to the high and might extremely unlikely to say the least. In Germany chess was more popular and there were regular clubs and teams so it was considerably easier for someone to make a living at it there, but even so, chess was no path to the upper classes by any means. Also, in 1880 the distinction between "nobles" and the well-off was decreasing significantly. 

The age of the old testament The age of John the Baptist The age of Christ The age of the Christian Empires The age of Tyranny 

The Amarna letters and other associated documents indicate the existence of permanent embassies in Egypt in the 14th century BC. As a matter of practicality it has always been the practice to demand hostages among states in tension. For example, one king will send his son to be a hostage in the court of the other king. This son acts as a sort of an embassy. This practice can be considered to be primordial. 

This seems more like a technical question than a historical one, but anyway, "splash some oil and throw a torch" will not burn down a large door or any large piece of wood for that matter. Starting a fire requires a certain amount of heat, so you need a large mass of flammable tinder to get something started. The larger the door, the more tinder you will need. A splash of oil will not do it. This being said, fire can be used against any exposed door or wooden structure in a siege. You make a large ball of rags and dry wood, set it on fire, then push it against the structure. As long as the fire ball is big enough you will burn down the target structure. This exact procedure was commonly followed in sieges throughout history. For example, in the American frontier Indians would often try to burn down block houses by gathering a big bundle of brush, piling it against a door or wall, and setting it on fire. The blockhouses had to keep water on hand to prevent this. They also had to have special ports for water and guns in the walls to make such an operation very dangerous for the attackers. In large castles the standard method for preventing this kind of attack is to put an iron gate in front of the door. This prevents any accumulation of wood from being placed directly against the door. Also, such gates, like block houses, always have overhangs with down ports so that water can be poured down onto the gate. 

On researching the Black Plague I have a few times run into the name of "Heckler" who supposedly is the source for the information that 25% of the population of Europe was killed by the plague. For example, one mention is as follows: 

All falconers in Central Asia, not just Mongolia, carry the falcon on the right arm (the "good" arm), I would guess because that is the stronger arm. You can read, for example, the account of William of Rubruck (c. 1220 – c. 1293) who wrote definitively that the falcon is always carried on the right arm and it is the same way throughout Persia as well. 

-- Current Literature, April, 1912 In 1928 Admiral Byrd started a series of explorations to remap the continent. He side-stepped the issue and simply labeled the area as the "Polar Plateau" on his maps. Later, by the time of the International Geophysical Year, it was realized that "Antarctic Plateau" was necessary because "Polar Plateau" is ambiguous (which pole?) 

Originally, the blood was the sacrificial commodity, being drained from the body of the person or animal being sacrificed. In the Masoretic text, the word "blood" was deleted to try to hide this fact, but in the Samaritan text the word was never removed. 

The number of legs is correct. It's the number of heads that is wrong. The chariot depicted is an Olympic quadriga which was driven by four horses. The artist probably found it difficult to make a design that included all four horse heads, so he just drew two of them. 

During the occupation of defeated Germany in 1945 the allied forces, including those of the United States, Britain and the Soviet Union, seized and occupied thousands of private homes and other private property. A typical example of this was the private home of General Gerd Rundstedt in Kassel, which American troops seized, occupied and looted. This was just one of thousands of such homes that American troops treated the same way, the house of Rommel being another example. In Rommel's case, his wife was expelled from the house by soldiers and it was turned over to French-African soldiers who looted it. Was this type of property eventually returned to the original owners of the homes after the founding of the Republic of Germany? I would be interested also specifically in whether the Rundstedts ever got their home back. 

My understanding is that the former government of Poland, the second Polish Republic, never formally declared war on the National Socialist Republic of Germany, and it was a de facto war. The People's Republic of Poland was not reconstituted until 1952. By that time the Third Reich was long gone and there was nothing to declare war on. Note that the former government of Poland, in exile in London during the war, was never restored to power. So, the bottom line here is that both the governments of Germany and Poland were eliminated during the war and by the time the countries had new governments (and borders) a state of peace existed. You are making the mistake of thinking that "countries" declare war. That is not how it works in diplomacy. People in the form of their governments declare war on each other. The land has nothing to do with it. For example, if you read the declaration of war by the United States Congress it specifically is against the government of Germany, not Germany, the GOVERNMENT of Germany. 

This baldric (on the left) is a modern reproduction of the type of baldric used by British soldiers during the War of the American Revolution (1770s). The frog is just a loop at the bottom. Swords can be hung off a waist belt, but that is less common. An example is shown in the belt on the right which is a reproduction of a type of sword belt used in the 1740s. In some cases, no sword, but a bayonet would be held in the frog. Here is an example: 

Now, of whom is Fletcher speaking? Who is the "very wise man"? It is, of course, Sir Phillip Sydney (1554-1586), the English poet who came to completely dominate the court of Queen Elizabeth even though he was only in his 20s. Sydney is the one who originated the phrase "Let me make the ballads of a nation, and I care not who makes its laws." 

Farming isn't a matter of what you "require", it's a matter of how much you can get. When you are a farmer, you are always trying to grow more, because the more you can grow, the more you can sell, and the more you sell, the more money you have. Non-farmers sometimes have nutty ideas like the idea that farmers are some kind of self-reliant hermits who grow their own food, make their own clothes and tools. This is not true. Most of the food farmers eat is grown by other farmers, not themselves. To get meat, vegetables, apples, nails, knives, pottery, cloth, etc, etc, a wheat farmer has to sell his wheat. Likewise, a man who keeps, say, an apple orchard has to sell his apples to get everything else. So, when you are a farmer you are always trying to get more land and grow more. As for acreage, old-time American farms typically ranged from 50 to 300 acres. Fifty acres was enough to get by with a family. Three hundred is about as big as one guy could manage himself with the help of farmhands. Of course, there were larger plantations, but over 300 acres and you start requiring overseers and other employees, and it turns into a big business, no longer a "family" farm. Indian farms tended to be much smaller, maybe 2-15 acres, per family/man. The reason for this is that the Indians did not have the capital, tools and draft animals to farm more than that. For example, hitching up a yoke, harness and plow to a draft horse would involve money and technology way beyond the ability of an Indian. You may think, yoke and plow, no big deal, what a simple thing, but you just try to make a yoke and harness yourself and try to use it on a real animal and you will soon find out how complex it is. Of course, the total amount of Indian farm land was much greater in the beginning than that of the Europeans, but this was because there were a lot more Indians than Englishmen. 

Hitler was not particularly patronizing, but he definitely supported people he liked from his early life. For example, as a young man he reportedly had an affair with a French girl named Charlotte Lobjoie by whom he had a son, and she told her son that Hitler always sent her money. Hitler was kind of a loner, so he didn't have many friends when he was young. His best friend, August Kubizek, he fell out of touch with during the War, but in the 1930s they were briefly reacquainted and he offered him a valuable position and money to educate his children. If you are interested in Hitler's personality you might want to read Kubizek's book. Hitler was way too idealistic to hold petty grudges. He viewed himself as the savior of the German people. His mind was filled with delusions of grandeur, not revenge fantasies. 

To answer your question more fully you may want to get this 350-page book, published by the United States Naval Institute Press. 

Unfortunately, since kaleidoscopes are usually made from brass and wood, the materials alone will be difficult to provide a dating. Normally a dealer will learn stylistically what is typical for each time period. Using style recognition, however, is not proof against forgery or a reproduction. I would recommend looking very closely at the metal working in the kaleidoscope, especially the fittings (screws if there are any). In Victorian times it was much more common to use files. In modern times we tend to use grinders. So, if you find file marks on the metal, it is sign of an antique. A related sign is the use of emery. Nowadays, emery is rarely used as an abrasive, but it was universally used in Victorian times, so if you learn the difference between emery scratches and aluminum oxide or carbide scratches, that can be a tell-tale. The fittings are also a giveaway. Since about WWI, all screws have been standardized and brads are made to machine standards. In Victorian times, screws were irregular and there were many different types. Also, things like brads were often handmade or made by one-off machines to no particular standard. 

I submitted the photos to a dealer and he said the sword is, as Mario Elocio said, of North African make. He said it was made sometime between 1900-1950 and would be worth $100 to $200 on eBay. 

Well, since Crassus died prematurely (at the Battle of Carrhae) during a rebellion that would seem to be unlikely. After all, if he were to have built a tomb it would have been in Italy, not Syria, and since he never got to retire to Rome because the Parthians unexpectedly killed him in battle, I think we can safely assume that whatever plans he had for his final resting place, they were unfulfilled. 

To go from Scandinavia to Ireland including various stops and diversions might be approximately 900 nautical miles. Good rowers can make about 60 nautical miles per day in ocean conditions. Assuming no stops are made it would therefore take about 15 days to make the trip. To get to Iceland from Norway took about 10 to 12 days. 

It is from the 26th Chapter of Matthew and says: Jesus however said to them "I am" and you will see the Son of Man sitting at the right hand of the Almighty and coming on the clouds of heaven. Note that it is the Vulgate, so you can always find an approximate transcript by referring to standard editions of the Vulgate, although there will be minor differences and alterations. For example in the usual Vulgate it gives either "virtutis Dei" or just "virtutis" but in the Book of Kells it says "virtutas". 

Henry III would certainly not be my pick. His mother was French, he married a fully French wife and he spoke French and the normal language of his court was French. The first glimmerings of an English king was Edward IV who (horror of horrors) married an English woman (Elizabeth Woodville). Up to this time virtually every single queen was born and raised French. Marrying an "ordinary" English woman was a huge scandal and it alienated him from the court which was mostly composed of French-speaking nobles many with French wives. Edward IV was born in France, but having an English wife who turned out to be a very successful woman, having 10 children, introduced an English component to the court for the first time. The first kings to be more English than French were the Tudors starting with Henry VII. The Tudors married real English women, not French-bred women imported from the continent. They also started passing laws requiring people to speak English. One of the wierd side effects of the court speaking French was that non-English languages like Scottish, Welsh, Irish and Cornish flourished. After all, you can hardly require people to speak English when the whole court is speaking French! The Tudors changed all this. They made English the language of court and they also began requiring everyone in the kingdom to speak English. The law courts and universities also switched to English under the Tudors. There was still a lot of lingering French among the nobles, but the tide had turned and English became the standard. This is what one scholar wrote: 

There is a certain kind of woody shrub that when dry and rubbed together will quickly make a fire. I forget the species. Such plants were used before flint and steel were common. In ancient Gaelic custom there was a holiday pronounced "Shabane", which occurred on November 1, meaning the "Feast of Fire". On this day all the fires were put out and each householder would have to buy fire from the sacred temples and altars of the druids, thus each hearth was spawned from the holy fire. (See "Old Scottish Customs, Local and General" by Guthrie) After Christianization this holiday was turned into "All Saints Day", the day before being "all hallow's eve" or Halloween, as it is now known.