References don't have to be managers, they probably should not be. Managers are usually contacted separately in the background check whether you use them as a reference or not. Often they are constrained from saying anything other than your dates of employment and may possibly answer if they would rehire you. If you have no coworkers who can vouch for the quality of your work, then you have a real problem as you are not as well qualified as you seem to think. If necessary, at this stage of your career, you could get some academic references. YOU can explain the difficulties you had in your previous jobs and what you have learned to do differently and someone might take a chance on you if they believe you have learned to do better. Have read the question before it was edited, you need to grow up and learn that your first priority at work is to make your boss happy. EVERYTHING else is secondary to that. Since you have had two unsuccessful attempts at a job (And you are blaming everyone except yourself), you are in the bottom 5% of people most good companies would want to hire. You are going to need to find a less picky place and then you are going to need to do everything in your power to work cooperatively with your colleagues and particularly your boss. As a junior with a poor track record, you need to stop making suggestions for improvement. Period. None at all. This is because you have no track record to give people reason to believe you are right and you have to learn to get along with people as your first priority. Then you need to learn more effective methods for presenting suggestions for change and you need to earn that no one has 100% of those suggestions accepted so you need to learn to take a rejection of a possible change gracefully. Workplaces are not test beds where you get to do whatever you want, you need to learn to take direction before you try to give direction. There is no perfect workplaces, no places that do nothing that you will disagree with. This is true for everyone. 

First it somewhat depends on how far you have gotten towards filling her position and whether her notice period was over. If she has already left, she is no longer an employee and deserves no more consideration than any other candidate for the vacancy. in this case: 

It's harder to make a good impression on people when they only know you from remote work. In an internship, part of what you want is a recommendation or a job offer. Interns who are present may make a stronger impression on the hiring managers than someone who is only a disembodied line of text. I'm not saying you can't make a good impression working remotely, only that you will have to work much harder to do so. Further, you, as a person early in his or her career, need to get a feeling for office politics and how that affects work decisions and, most importantly, how to play the game effectively yourself. It is far easier to learn this stuff when not working remote. Most people coming out of school don't have any feel for this at all and it is critical to your workplace success. From a programming perspective, you are less likely to be in on a lot of the discussions of what to do and how to do it that are made in the architecture of a new project. Even if you are on the phone, it is harder to get a chance to speak and easier for people to forget you are there or were there and had something to contribute. So even if you do contribute, you are less likely to get credited in people's minds. You won't be there for the informal discussions either where people throw ideas around and you won't be sought out informally as a source of ideas. Part of that is because people tend to seek ideas from other people that they know and as an intern working remotely, no one will know you. So you are more likely to be given routine tasks that no one else wants to do because you aren't in on the conversations where this stuff gets divvied up and because people will forget you are there because they don't physically see you. You need to use the internship to learn to work professionally with a team. You need to see how your work affects others and how others' affects you. As an intern, it is easier to dismiss you from consideration and just let you work your time out remotely than to try to mentor you if you have difficulties in this area. People in the office are likely to get more guidance on working together as their presence can be disruptive if they don't play well with others. The remote person can just be ignored. They don't necessarily plan to keep you as an employee, so there is less incentive to try to help you when they don't know you personally or have to deal with you in the office (where you might be affecting others). Now some of this is mitigated if the office has a lot of good remote workers as the management is more used to dealing with people remotely. However, as an intern you are lowest on the totem pole and won't automatically have the respect that new co-worker with 10 years of experience who starts out working remotely has. An additional consideration is that as an intern you will be learning how to program professionally and how the real world of paid programming works. If you are remote, you also have to learn how to effectively work remotely. That means you have twice as much to learn as someone who is working in the office. That might work for you if you have the right personality type, but it is more likely that you will end up learning less by being remote in both arenas and thus not gain what you want to gain from the internship. 

First, what is your excuse for not digging in and learning the database? I have worked with many complex undocumented databases (that had no one available to explain them) and have been able to figure out the structure and relationships in less than a week. If the person is not available, then you dig in a try and when he becomes available, you show him what you have and get him to show you what else you might need and then you document that. 

A couple of things you need to assess. First is your current position more or less likely to be deemed redundant than the new one by the outside agency doing the assessment and if it is, do you have the seniorirty to keep the postion or would you be the one who is moved out? The one you choose could have great deal to do with whether you have a job this time next year. But you not only need to assess the likelihood, but the job prospects if you become laid off (It is a bad sign that they have an outside group doing an assesment and a hiring freeze, they are clearly looking to cut costs) and which professional area you want to continue to work in. If Media Specialist is the area you want to go towards, you will find it eaiser to qualify for other government postions in this area if you have held the title. If your current profession is where you woudl more easily find a new job, you might not want to do that. 

You should talk to the employee about what schedule he would be willing to go with. What is reasonable to someone with a family may be entirely different than what is reasonable to a single parent whcih may be entirely differnt to someone who is single or someone who has some outside commitment the day before or after. You can't know his lifestyle constraints unless you ask. You definitely should send him the day before if possible just to ensure he actually gets there in time for the training (cancelled flights and delayed flights are common and this schedule has no room for error). The employee might prefer to come back that night and be allowed to come in late the next morning rather that spend another night in a hotel. I would also suggest that the person who came up with this schedule be required to follow it and take the same course! 

I can think of a lot of words to describe peer review but fun is most certainly not one of them. If you want your workplace to become a Darwinian hot-bed of survival of the fittest, go with peer review. People will rip each other to shreds to preserve their own place in the hierarchy. Worse, the worst employees (but the most political) are the ones who will be believed over eveyone else. Peer review is a cancer in an organization. Now code review (evaluate the code not the people) and peers being able to nominate people for awards, those things work fine, but specifically evaluating the performance of the people you are in competition with for raises? That is the bound to end badly. 

You do the same thing you do when you walk into a workplace where your predecessor is unavailable. First you look for any requirements documents and read them if available. If the predecessor never got any training on the requirements, it may be possible these don't exist. Then you prioritize learning based on the areas most commonly changed (your source control can help you here) and most important to the business (your users can help you here and your manager) and the current items in the queue for support. Everything else can be learned as it comes up. Once you have a list, discuss the priority of learning with your boss. Take those things, read the code for the sections in priority order and try to understand what it does right now. Document that. Discuss what you found with users, account managers, business analysts, your boss, whoever the stakeholders are. In an undocumented system, you are likely to find that what the code does and what the users think it does are two very different things. Do not change the code based on these documents without an official request in your ticketing system. If things are very far off, set up a meeting to discuss that and what should be done about it, but it is up to the business to decide if they want to make a change at this time. 

Make a case for the additional duties you have taken on and why that makes you more valuable and ask for a promotion with a raise. If your workplace has a formal system for pay bands based on job duties, asking to have your job duties re-evaluated by HR can also work (generally only in large organizations though). You are not likely to get 25% in any event because they don't have that in the budget. If you feel you really need that much, then you will likely need to find another employer. 

One of our tech leads has a great policy, the third time she gets the same question, she writes up the answer and emails it to the person asking and to the knowlege wiki we have set up. Since she was probably going to write that email anyway, the only additional work is to add the address for the Wiki. 

How do you know that is why they are rejecting you? It is perfectly possible that they are asking you a question about why you left and you are assuming that is why you are not chosen. But the chances are you will be asked that question. It is the answer that is important not the question. There are also many other reasons why you might not be chosen and companies will virtually never tell you exactly why you were not chosen. I would expect that most interviewers would want to know the reason why you left and would look to see if you have a pattern of leaving after a short time in muliptle jobs. Those things can be overcome but they depend on why you left and how legitimate that reason is to the interviewer. The number of jobs you have left without another job could be a factor as well. Their concerns are that you are someone who can't work anywhere that is not perfect and no job is perfect. Why should they take the risk on you - you have to give them a reason to do so. So first look at how you answer that question. If you are saying something negative about the previous employer that is not entirely understandable (and in a relatively neutral tone) then you have failed the question and may not get the job. If you quit for a flightly reason or because you got angry or when the timing was especially bad, then they will likely heavily discount you as a possible employee. Who wants someone who leaves the week before launch because he wasnts to go hike the mountains in the Himalayas. Who can predict when you might get it into your head to decide to take a 3 month trip to Antartica and quit. Who wants the guy who quits every time things don't go his way? Project managers are not thrilled about hiring someone they think won't be there for the long haul. If you quit because they were planning a layoff and you knew you financially could survive better than some of the others, that would be ok. If you quit because you had a sick spouse to take care of, that would be ok if you let them know the sickness problem is fixed. If you quit because you needed to start maternity leave early due to pregnancy related complications and they told you to quit or be fired, that would be acceptable unless they were also the kind of company who wouldn't work around an employee's personal problems. If working conditions were such that you could not continue to work there and these same working conditions sound horrific to the person interviewing you, then you might be ok as long as you talk about it terms of how these conditions were and why it wasn't a good fit for you and not bad mouth the company. Quitting because you were working too many hours to look for another job is a case in point. If you are interviewing at another place where they think working 90 hour weeks is acceptable, they will reject you if you say that (and hey wouldn't you really rather that they did?). But if you tell some place that expects 40-50 hour weeks from you that you couldn't handle physically working 90 hours weeks every week, the person is likely to be more sympathetic. But if you say "Company X was a sweatshop and I hated every minute I working for those jerks", then, not so much. 

Suppose your company has 100 employees and the mean salary is 60,000. A ten percent raise all round is a cost of the company in salaries of 6,600,000. a 2% raise is 6,120,000. Which do you think the Finance department is going to let them do? That said, you have new responsibilities, you might be able to get your boss to offically promote you (getting a new title is key) so that you personally can get a higher raise. But I wouldn't count on it since most of the raise budget for the year will be used up in the raise all around. And it may be that they will not even give everyone a raise. I know of one place where only those people who had a superior performance rating got raises the first year after their pay freeze ended. 

My way of handling this has several steps. First, for the ones that are clearly not meant as anything except a joke and which you do not personally find upsetting, laugh out loud. Make a self-deprecating joke if you can. This is important as a first step because then when you object to certain other phrases, people are not going to be afraid to talk in front of you. The next step could be to make a mild joke back at them that is exactly as insulting to their maleness as what they said is to your femaleness. They comment on your bust size, you comment on their "small hands". Do it with a smile and if they say anything respond with, "It was just a joke, can't you take a joke?" Or just make a statement that will remind them that you are a woman and that what they are saying might not be appropriate without coming straight out and telling them to shut up. I came across my team speculating on my bra size once and they didn't know I had entered the room. So the first thing they heard from me was "You are all wrong." and then I smiled at them and walked into my office without another word. Nobody got punished, nobody got reported to HR. Nobody brought up the topic in my hearing again either. Use this technique only for stuff you find mildly annoying or as a first step towards getting them to stop the bad stuff if you want to be nice enough to give them a chance to get the point before you fire back stronger. For the really egregious stuff, hit back hard. Someone meows at me, I would say something like, "We are trying to adult here, can you take that out to the playground?" It helps to accompany this with a disgusted stare and then look away from them and return to the original conversation immediately as if they are so childish that it isn't even worth your time to wait for their reaction. Someone makes a joke about "no means no" and I look at them very seriously and say in a very flat tone of voice, "I was raped and I don't find that very funny." Of course I can pull this off more easily because I was raped so it takes no acting skill at all. The idea is to make them feel as uncomfortable about what they said as you do. And for them to realize that you will stand up for yourself when they go over the line. What you don't do is let it slide for one person that you like but not for another that you don't like. (Exception is that you can let it slide for people significantly higher in the work hierarchy than you are, everybody understands that confronting the CEO in public may not be a good choice.) People get uncomfortable when they can't figure out where you will draw the line specifically for them. Yes I know that people you are flirting with seem less upsetting when they make sexist jokes, but trust me, if you let it slide for the guy you want to date and not the creepy guy you don't want to date, it will backfire on you. I have also seen some particularly religious women be able to tell people gently that something offended them and would they please not do that in front of them and have it work because they were well-known to be a fundamentalist Christian (or other religion, but it is Fundamentalist Christian women I have seen be able to pull this off.) before the objection. Again, this doesn't work if you only object to some people and not others. In this case, I have observed that the more quietly they asked that the behavior not happen around them, the more people took it seriously as a religious objection and complied. Another thing that tends to be ineffective and career-harming is to complain to HR. It is far better to handle it yourself with humor and little push back. Every single woman I have known at work has been harassed. It comes with the territory unfortunately. The ones able to get past that and succeed had thicker skins, a sense of humor, and were able to to turn the really bad stuff off without formally complaining. The ones who complained to HR tended to get escalations of the bad behavior or found that no one wanted to work with them or had people actively try to sabotage them.