I also map my rides using $URL$ to combine my year's ride. That shows where I have ridden, and what roads I have missed this year. This helps by showing roads I haven't used, so are candidates for the next big route. 

Lace the wheel three-cross like normal, but leave every 4th hole empty. Downside is this will give a terrible lacing pattern, and you may need to buy a mix of longer and shorter spokes to do it half-decent. Simply threadding the nipples on further or less, may work for some spokes, but there will be insufficient thread engagement on some spokes. Surprisingly, a set of spokes costs more than a rim, so there's no cost saving. And this will build a wheel that is not as strong as a properly spaced 36 spoke rim. Buy the right rim and do it properly. A 36 hole rim would be much better, and will only use two lengths of spoke (longer on left, slightly shorter on the right.) 

I have a folder, and its not fast. Riding at about my FTP for an hour returns an average speed of "high twenties km/h" where the same power does mid to high thirties km/h on a normal road bike. My generic main-beam steel folder has 20" wheels and weighs 15 kilos which is on the high side, and its effectively too small for me. It has a 46 tooth single chainring and now has 11-34 tooth 8 speed. It start as a 14-28 six speed freewheel, which was limiting at the top and bottom of the range. Now all I need is a longer seatpost. By comparison, I have access to a 3 speed situp bike at work, and suspect that's more like your boris bike. Riding FTP on that definitely goes faster with about 30 km/h. 

However the images show standard bike pedals with 9/16" standard threads. You should be able to fit whatever pedals you like. 

So I'd reason that most/all bicycle tires are Cross Ply in build, and not Radial. My google-fu does return these points: 

Long term free things: Carry less weight - Develop and implement a weight loss plan. I started at 105 kilos and have dropped to 95 over two years. This has certainly helped. However a lot of the weight loss has been offset with muscle mass. Ride more/train more - Developing both fast and slow twitch muscle fibres will help with your raw burst power and your endurance respectively. This is not an overnight process, but better legs will totally help you go faster for longer. Ride with others - Some of my best times have been gained while in pursuit of other riders. Organised rides help keep the motivation up, and show you routes or methods that could help you. Plus draughting/drafting can be a good 30% saving on your power input. 

Then I used a self-powered punch to put a divot in the center of the tube. Be accurate! Upper seattube hole is drilled, lower one is part drilled. I started with a 2mm bit, then stepped straight to a 5mm and finished with a 7mm. Probably better to go 2mm, 4mm, 6mm, 7mm. I tried to catch the swarf with grease, which was only moderately successful. I also tried a magnet, and a greasy paperclip in the hole to fish out swarf and chips. See painting comment. Close up of hole. The edges are slightly raised, and as Mikes pointed out its not a flat contact area. So (no pic) but I gently filed that lip off, and flattened the edges of the hole at the 12 and 6 oclock position to help the insert sit flatter. It worked well. 

As @dancek says, the home screen is not configurable, so you will only see average speed for the whole ride, and instant heart rate/cadence rate if you have the sensors. Time and Distance are counters 

Sorry it doesn't look like anything particularly special. The rear wheel is very likely a freewheel as opposed to a more modern cassette and freehub. That means you're unlikely to find a replacement that has much bigger or smaller gears, so its hard to ride up steep grades, and its easy to spin out riding fast in a tailwind. Fortunately it appears to have normal plastic platform pedals. Many Chinese folding bikes have folding pedals, which are okay for gentle riding. You shouldn't stand on folding pedals, and they have a disconcerting flex under load. The frame looks like steel, confirm that with a magnet. The hinge clamps look to be threadded, which is a bit more reassuring than a bifold clamp like some bikes have. In short it looks like a loverly bike, ride it and enjoy it, and you can use busses or trains or cars for part of your journey, and then ride the last bit. 

so expressed another way, here are your overlaps, where 1 is the biggest cog and 8 is the smallest. (42/13 is almost the same as 52/16) 

Example Buzzy Here are two stills cropped to show lights at night. The road is chip-seal which is quite common locally. 

Here's the sole Colnago road tandem picture I could find anywhere. Is your bike anything like this ? 

Chains wear out no matter what you do. Grit from roads, salt, and plain old usage wear a chain. You're recommended to fit a new one every 2000 km, but different brands have different numbers, plus your usage comes into it. If you ignore the chain then it will slowly wear out the rear cassette, and then starts on the front chainrings. A $30 chain a year is cheaper than a new cassette and chain every two years. 

This one attempts to find a path that minimises elevation change, without being excessively long. I've also disabled "most-popular" 

So this bike is 18 kilos, I'm 100, add a trailer at 8 kilos is not a lot more, but add 90 kilos of load on top and then you've essentially got a bike that outweighs the rider. A small incline up to a railway crossing was hard work, and even crossing through some traffic lights, the camber of the cross-road required a drop in gearing. Braking with the heavy trailer was reversed - normally road braking is 90+% from the front wheel, but with a hefty trailer it just pushes the whole bike over the front contact patch. So 90% of the braking here is done with the rear wheel. At one point I was standing astride the main bar with the brakes casually on, and teh trailer started pulling the unladen bike backwards down a slight slope. So I had to stay seated in the saddle even when stopped. tl;dr Low gearing is very handy when towing, exactly the same as in trucks.