The earliest use of magnets, according to this page, was by the ancient Greeks, some 4,000 years ago; they used magnetite, or lodestone, a naturally occurring magnet. Scandinavia has very large deposits, but it occurs naturally all over the world; shores with black sand usually contain at least some magnetite. Lava flows and other locations with previous volcanic activity are also a good place to look. If you have prior knowledge of an upcoming trip to the past, it would probably be wise to locate a map of known, accessible magnetite nearby, to save time. 

Zombies have no sense of self-preservation. If you tell a zombie to walk to the castle, they'll do it, even if there's a moat in the way. Or caltrops. Or fire. There is no difference between the actions of a normal zombie and a zombie on fire, unless given a specific order otherwise. A bleeding warrior will stop and get bandaged; a bleeding zombie will keep bleeding until they stop moving forever. While a zombie wouldn't suffer from an infection, losing all its blood because it stepped on a sharp rock is easily possible. Zombies are dumb as a box of rocks If you tell a hundred zombies to hit that guy over there, they'll do it... even if he's dead. Unless you have some really specific orders, zombies are going to react very slowly to surprises - if they react at all. If you don't tell a zombie to do something, it won't, even if that includes something as simple as "defend yourself". Zombies have absolutely no way to think for themselves, so the wizard will have to do all their thinking for them; not a big deal if all they're doing is moving rocks, but once every zombie is doing something different, it's going to be hard to coordinate. Tactics are limited to "overwhelm them". Zombies are super weak While an individual zombie may be as strong as a normal human, that only means zombies terrify farmers. It would take ages for human-like hands to beat on a heavily armored knight enough to actually do any damage; even a big sword or club would only do damage if it connected. Being unarmored, a single well-placed strike could disable a zombie enough to put it out of the battle. What's more, a quickly-reacting human will see any efforts made by the zombies to surround him and will simply move out of the way. A single fighter, given enough time and a good horse, should be able to destroy an unlimited number of undead with simple hit-and-run tactics. Killing blows don't have to fully disable a zombie; just slash it enough that it bleeds out, and move on. The rest of the zombies will probably stomp it into the dust anyway. Zombies might as well be deaf, blind, and mute While a zombie may be able to see or hear, or even speak, it won't do so unless ordered. If it can't speak, it has no way of relaying information. Without information from the front lines, the wizard will have no idea what's going on unless he uses other magical means. Even with a scrying pool or a crystal ball, he can only mentally focus on spot at a time. If a few strong, noisy, tough-looking guys get in front of the zombie horde, the wizard may be distracted enough watching them and telling the zombies how to fight that he'll miss the half-dozen men gutting zombies from behind. Even if the zombies see the rear attack, they have no way of telling the wizard, and without orders from the wizard, they'll just stand there and get slaughtered. Overall, I'm surprised it took that many troops. Trying to maneuver a thousand stupid zombies over hills and fields without getting any of them killed (rekilled? Un-undead-ed?) is hard enough; facing pre-built traps made with zombies in mind is nigh-on impossible. Maybe if the wizard had an army of millions and dozens of helpers, he might have had a chance, but with a paltry thousand? He didn't stand a chance. 

Pain In humans (and many other creatures as well), pain is tied very strongly with survival instincts, and with learning. If a baby (or a lab rat) touches something hot, that experience is burned into their memory because of the association with pain. Without pain to warn of danger, children would be prone to damaging or even destroying themselves. Young Golems would have to be protected to be able to survive long enough to learn how not to damage themselves, since pain would not be their tutor. Cleanliness is a part of this, as well. Humans have learned that dirty things can hold disease; without disease, there isn't any reason to wash your hands, bathe, or otherwise clean yourself up. Without the pain of illness, Golems wouldn't see the point in cleaning themselves until their sight is obscured or they can otherwise no longer function. Survival Survival is the basis for most of human society; humans working together have a much greater chance of living another year than humans working separately. Without death by exposure or starvation to band together a race, there is a large chance that the Golems will be solitary, rather than building societies. Without society, laws, culture, customs, and so on would only rarely be formed. War and Crime War is often a product of survival; one people group wants what another people group has, to ensure that they are stronger and thus have a higher chance of survival, so they go to war. Without any basic needs, there are very few reasons for a Golem to go to war, outside of facing total destruction. Similarly, crime can be a result of a survival need. Needing food (or other artificial needs, like drugs) can cause normally upstanding citizens to do terrible things, but without ever having those needs, those crimes would be nonexistent. Crime can also be a result of thrill-seeking: doing something dangerous or forbidden for an adrenaline high, or other pleasure. A race without pain would have no need for adrenaline, and thus thrill seeking behavior would never surface; the only drive for crime would be some sort of drugs, and then only if they existed. The Golems would probably not invent drugs themselves, and even if they did, the drugs would probably be freely available. Comfort Even the richest people feel pain, to some degree or another. Comfort is dictated by feeling the least amount of pain possible. It may not hurt much to stand up and get the TV remote, but it does cause a tiny amount of pain. Without pain to provide a contrast, comfort would have no meaning to a Golem. Why buy a plush chair, when a cheap box provides the same amount of support? Why invest in an expensive vehicle, when you can walk to work? Time Humans are influenced by time quite a bit. Due to sleep needs, a 24-hour day makes perfect sense. Because of metabolisms, meals happen at regular intervals throughout the day. Due to changing seasons, summer and winter clothing are exchanged, and festivals take place to mark time passing. As years pass, children age into adults, adults become elderly, and the elderly die. We've invented many sayings about time - time is fleeting, time flies, time is money. If we don't do anything for a long period of time, we get bored. However, without the need for sleep, or food, or even changing clothing, there is little difference between night and day apart from the amount of light. Seasons hold very little meaning; even planting seasons don't matter, since there is no reason to plant anything. Golems wouldn't get sick or feel overworked from working a 24-hour day. They wouldn't get bored, because not doing anything doesn't impact them at all. Since Golems don't age, they would never worry about the future; this year will be much like next year. Motivations So what would motivate a Golem? Without the most basic human survival instincts, the Golems would be dramatically different from humans, and indeed most creatures. Without a need to sleep, eat, or worry about their own survival, time would have very little meaning to them; apart from the sun providing light, day and night would be exactly the same, and since they will live forever, barring destruction, they won't care if something takes a long time. Days and weeks take just as long as years or decades. Even family would hold no meaning, since they are created, rather than birthed. Golems won't form emotional bonds well, if at all, since there is no reason to do so. Instead, Golems would be motivated by internal desires. They would be very single-minded, working on tasks non-stop for eons, if need be. They would most likely take pleasure in creating things, as they themselves were created; however, they would view everything around them as temporary. They would be able to follow human laws, but they wouldn't understand why they existed. Golem law would consist of one rule: Do Not Destroy. Since that's the only way Golems could be damaged, it stands to reason it would be very important. Much of human desire would be foreign to them, especially the need for urgency. To humans, they would seem slow, inefficient, and even stupid or lazy, and no amount of leverage could make them move faster or change course. To Golems, humans would be completely transient; why even bother learning someone's name, if they're going to be dead in the next hundred years? If they were created with built-in motivation, they will likely continue to follow that motivation. Otherwise, they will find something that interests them, and follow that path for eons. 

Would it work? The biggest disadvantage to wheels in nature is that wheels sink, get stuck, or otherwise slow you down. Wheel are terrible for climbing. Walking, slithering, and burrowing are all more reliable means of transportation. If wheeled creatures "won out," there would need to be a good reason. Large, flat spaces, with ample materials and good reason to have wheels. Of those I listed, the slug-in-a-tube is most likely the best possibility. It's not hard to tunnel out a branch or wrap a leaf into a tube, and if it protects its inhabitant, all the better! 

Water rapidly loses velocity and pressure in atmosphere. However, if the rules allow the water to be wrapped in a shell, you could create an extremely lethal device: a pressurized bullet. First, place the water in a spherical chamber. Using pistons, pressurize the water to the point the chamber can barely withstand the pressure. Plug the chamber (a metal plug already inside the chamber would work best). Then, fire the bullet. When the water-filled chamber impacts, the intense pressure will cause the sphere to rupture, spraying shrapnel and water. More importantly, if the bullet hit a fleshy target, it will do serious damage add the pressurized water decompresses. Alternately, the container could be a syringe; on impact, it drives a quantity of pressurized water into it's target. Essentially, this gun fires a water cutter. 

Free-motion wheels: these are round wheels with no driving force of their own. Instead, the wheel spins freely on a fixed axle. The rear wheels on a front-wheel-drive vehicle are like these. Multiple wheels would spin independently. Locked wheels: like the free-motion wheels, these have no driving force, but rather than spinning on a locked axle, these wheels are directly connected to the axle, which spins freely. Many children's toys have a system like this. Multiple wheels on a single axle would all turn at the same rate. Axle-drive wheels: these are the driven version of the locked wheels. Rotational force (torsion) from the axle causes the wheel(s) to turn. Direct-drive wheels: each individual wheel has a drive system internally. Thus, each wheel moves completely independently of other wheels. Large earth-moving equipment often has wheels like this. Treads: rather than a fixed round shape, trades are a flexible strip which is "pushed" by an internal drive system, usually wheels. 

Today, robots designed for a specific manual task are far better than humans at that task. Some of the examples you give are already true: manual labor, math, even robot design. Those are "grunt work" tasks; humans can do them, but don't excel at them. I could even believe that robots are better at making art, or providing jobs like counseling, simply because they have every reference material available, and the ability to see in real time what effect their work has on people, subtly modifying their counseling (or their art) to best fit an individual. I expect that in the future, robots will be better than humans at almost everything. For quite a lot of the population, that will be perfectly all right. There will always be a group of people who are completely lazy, and willing to let robots take care of them. There will be another group who enjoy manual labor, and even though they don't need to work, they'll plant gardens, build buildings, or fabricate parts, because that's what makes them happy. Another group likes to think, and will help the robots work out complex mathematical problems (even though the robots could do the math themselves). Yet another group may live to compete, participating in sports or chess, constantly trying to be better, smarter, or faster than the other team. And, most importantly, there will be a group who lives to be creative. Robots would find it very difficult to be creative; the creative process is incredibly inefficient, resulting in countless hours of wasted effort and materials for only a tiny benefit, if even that. Human brains are much better at the creative process; I mean, we invented boredom, and depression. What robot would ever even attempt something like that? So, for the most part, no. Humans would not interact meaningfully with the economy. Instead, they would do what makes them happy: manual labor, science, math, sports, art, and so on. Their work would be for themselves; it wouldn't really help society at all. However, there would always exist a tiny percentage of the population: elite "creators," people with a strong creative ability, who would truly help improve both humans and robots. 

Silica, or Silicon dioxide, is a major part of sand - very plentiful on Earth, and likely to be found anywhere with both silicon and oxygen. For humans, it is harmless to the touch, but dangerous if inhaled, leading to silicosis - scarring of the lungs, which can further lead to any number of problems. In cold, dry air, all you need is a light breeze to kick the dust into the air. Heavy snowfall wouldn't keep down the dust; in fact, at those temperatures, it may even make it worse, as the dust and snow would mix without the snow melting, and wind would toss both snow and dust around equally. The cold temperatures coupled with scarred lungs would make it difficult to survive. With enough dust and cold wind, the damage done to your lungs would be immense; without a basic breathing filter and goggles, you would quickly be unable to breathe. Even short-term exposure could lead to permanently damaged lungs. Worse, silica dust gets in everything. It's so tiny, sharp, and hard, it can scratch glass, ruin hinges, and generally destroy any equipment with moving parts... 

If the creature is overheated (maybe it's a particularly warm day), it can gently wave the tail to lose heat; in this case, since the body is not in "stalk" mode, it cools the blood a little more directly. Finally, the tail makes a great mating indicator. The larger or more rosily colored (rosy color = good blood flow) the tail, the better it is at cooling; better cooling means better hiding, better hiding means more kills, more kills means a better mate. This system allows the creature to finely control its own body temperature. If it gets very cold, the creature can furl its tail and trap in body heat; if it's a real scorcher of a day, it can unfurl the tail and quickly cool off. It also allows the creature to keep its body heat behind it, out of sight in even short grass; even on dry earth, it can fan its own heat-signature away. There is one downside: injury. The tail would be fairly fragile; tearing or cutting the tail would reduce its effectiveness, while a large injury has the possibility of quickly bleeding out. Luckily, the dual vascular system would have a built-in safeguard to keep blood loss to a minimum: clench the tail muscle (as would happen when in pain), and the blood flow stops.