You have a Shimano Positron shifter and derailleur. If you didn't know you own a bit of bicycle gear shifting history. See Sheldon Browns Shimano page and look for 'Positron'. Simply googling for 'shimano positron cable' should produce some hits. There appear to be some cables for sale on Ebay. You should probably try to find out more about the Positron system, especially if there are different variants that might require different cables. I think there were at least a couple of models. Update 1: I did some google image searching and I believe you have a Positron II Six Speed. Update 1.1: Further research reveals it's a Positron FH Six Speed. Positron II was 5 speed. Update 2: Looking at how the cable is attached to the shaft, I think it is soldered. You may be able to re-solder the cable using a small butane torch. Or even use high strength epoxy to glue it back. 

There is not much you can do to a downhill bike for better commuting beyond swapping out tires for narrower on-road ones. Weight and bouncy suspension are an intrinsic part of the bike. To go faster you will have to get fitter and stronger. 

A bike fit is not intended to make any position you can adopt on your bike work. If the bike fitter did their job correctly, then would have set you up for your current level of flexibility, strength and desired riding style. You say you are 'very comfortable', presumably in the position you ride in most of the time, so the bike fit should be good. If you have only been cycling regularly since the summer, starting from less than ideal physical condition, I would not be at all surprised that getting into a slammed position on the bike is going to feel pretty horrible. The good news is that you can lose weight and improve strength and flexibility over time, and you will be find it easier to adopt a more aggressive position. 

On finding the right handlebar height: There are guidelines for saddle height and fore-aft position relative to the bottom bracket because there is a general optimal position of a rider's butt relative to their feet. Handlebar position is a little different, different positions obviously suit different types of bike and of riding; some riders like to be a bit more upright, some like to be slammed down. Things you should consider: There is not a huge amount of height adjustment available by moving the stem on the steerer, or swapping the stem for a different one. If you felt you were really leant too far forward, perhaps you should consider another bike with a higher stack geometry. Buying a bike then desperately trying to modify it into a different bike is a horrible position to be in. Buy the right bike for you in the first place. You may get used to a more leant forward position. Having a stronger core enables a rider to support their upper torso and takes weight off their hands. What kind of riding do you want to do? Perhaps ultimately you will want the bars to be lower than what you are used to now. If you already have bike and are upgrading, what's the geometry difference between it and the Rockhopper? Are you looking to ride faster or on different trails? 

Commuter or city bikes are designed for paved surfaces. A suspension fork on such a bike is not going to add much comfort, except perhaps when riding over potholes or kerbs, which are avoidable. Suspension forks add weight, which brings a different type of discomfort as you have to exert effort to move that weight around. This gets worse the more inexpensive the bicycle is. Low end suspension forks are heavy and have poor performance. 

First, please do not ride the bike in it's current condition with the fork reversed or the front brake not functioning, it is dangerous. The steering will be unstable and you may not be able to stop quickly enough. You have two things to do: 1) Un-reversing the fork, obviously. 2) Adjusting the front brake (and checking the rear brake). To un-reverse the fork/handlebars. The 'quill' style stem must be loosened. Loosen the hex bolt in the top of the stem (you don't have to undo it all the way), the bars and stem will come loose from the fork steerer tube in the headtube, rotate the forks 180 degrees, replace the stem, align the bars and tighten the stem. A couple of things to be aware of: 

Terminal velocity is therefore √ ( 2 F / ( CdA × ρ ) ) which yields 41.3 m/s or about 149 km/h, 92.5 mph. 

I like @Criggie's answer and would encourage you to consider donating your unneeded parts. However, if you want to get some of the investment you made in them back, there are many places to sell bike components. Ebay and Craigslist are the most obvious choices. Pinkbike is a site I've used that has a 'classified' ads area. There are also more local options that you can seek out. In my area there are discussion lists and a Facebook group that allow one to buy and sell bikes and components. 

Update: Based on your other question: Possible to identify sprocket without taking the bike apart? - you have a Nexus internally geared hub, which would mean you may need a single speed chain. 

I would start by looking at the shift cable and housing. The housing may be flexing too much and the cable may be sticking in the housing. This causes cable movement at the shifter to not be reproduced at the derailleur. If you are replacing the shifter it's a good idea to replace the cable and housing at the same time. Assuming you have a 2016 Allant 7.4. That bike came with 9 speed Acera shifters and a Deore rear derailleur. The EF65 shifter is a Tourney level component - that's at the bottom of the Shimano hierarchy. That may also be contributing to the problem. I definitely recommend going with a better shifter that matches the rest of the drivetrain. If your bike repair shop has spent a month trying to get this right with no success I'd also consider trying a different shop. 

The real answer is you need inner tubes with longer valve stems. Tubes come with various length stems to accommodate deep section rims. There are screw-on valve stem extenders available for both Presta and Schrader that you could use to extend your stems. (I think some Schrader ones are actually for car tires, but they would still work for a bike.) With out an valve extension, to get started, try pressing down hard on the tire and tube where the valve stem is to press the it out of the rim so you can get the pump nozzle attached. Having someone to help you will make this easier. You can also thread a valve stem nut onto the stem to retain the stem when you try to get the nozzle on. Another approach to getting started, before getting the second tire bead onto the rim, reach inside the tire, press the valve stem out of the rim, clip on the pump, then fit the second tire bead. 

You should not have to replace the entire crank-set. In general, a 'mid-compact' 52/36 crank will have a 110mm BCD spider, which allows 50 and 34 tooth rings to be installed. The Ultegra FC-R8000 crank on the Canyon comes in 53-39, 52-36 and 50-34 versions, so you will be able to get the smaller rings for that specific crank. The front derailleur may need to be dropped down slightly to adjust for the slightly smaller rings. Front derailleurs have a 'max capacity' spec which is the difference in tooth counts between the rings - typically 16 for a road group-set. Obviously this is not changed between 52/36 and 50/34 so the derailleur does not have to be replaced. Updates: As mentioned in comments the chain may need shortening. You might need to remove the crank to get the small ring off, but no special tools are required with Shimano 2-piece cranks - just a couple of bolts on the non-drive side arm. 

If you need additional help, there are many bike maintenance videos and articles you can search for. Just Google for 'bicycle quill stem adjustment'. The front brake cable as shown in your picture is far too loose. Brake adjustment is too complicated for me to describe here so I recommend watching the Park Tool video on linear brake adjustment. Park Tool bike maintenance videos are generally well thought out and accessible. You should check the rear brake adjustment when you address the front brake, to verify it is working properly. 

Either: 1) The chain tension has become too loose. See this Park Tool video for checking proper chain tension, and how to adjust it. 2) The rear sprocket, or chainring (or both) are worn out. See answers to this question for diagnosing if you rear sprocket is worn out: How to tell when to replace cassette?. If the sprocket or chainring are worn and need to be replaced, the chain must be replaced also. 

It depends what 'worth it' means to you. Finding an buying replacement parts, and the tools required to install them can add up to more than a comparable used complete bike would cost you. Abandoned low end bikes with major parts missing were abandoned for a reason - it was not worth fixing them. If however you get a great deal of enjoyment from the process of finding deals on used parts, and learning how to wrench a bike back to working order, then go for it. 

This answer depends heavily on Shimano documentation and has a number of links to the Shimano website, which will inevitably suffer from rot. My apologies to all those reading this years from now when Shimano has changed all the URLs. 

No, it isn't. At all. The gear ratio is simply the number or teeth on the front sprocket divided by the number or teeth on the rear sprocket. A more useful calculation is length units of development - how far the bike moves per revolution of the cranks - which takes driving wheel size into account, and allows comparisons between bikes with different wheels and tires. Development is simply the gear ratio multiplied by the effective circumference of the driving wheel. 

I believe all drop-bar road bike brake levers designed for caliper brakes use the same cable pull ratio, so yes you can fit Ultegra calipers. Personal opinion follows ... I'm not a fan of installing individual components of a level many steps up from the rest of the components on a bike. You may not see the full performance benefits of the high-level calipers because the lower level Microshift levers will be the limiting factor. The Felt F95 has no-brand calipers I believe (at least the 2017 does, your link to Wiggle does not work), so even Claris or Sora level are going to be better. You may as well save a little money. 

Update: Wheel size swaps are generally not possible. Frames are designed around a certain wheel size and fitting a smaller rim size wheel generally negatively effects steering geometry and crank-ground clearance. I'd characterize the 700c to 650b swap with a substantially larger tire as 'workable' as the radius of rim and tire ends up approximately the same. Maybe no more difference that changing from 28mm tires to 35mm on the same rim. See this Sheldon Brown article. Whether this wheel substitution is possible does not necessarily make it a great idea, or the optimum thing to do. Many CX like 'adventure' or 'gravel' bikes will take a 42mm tire on a 700c rim anyway. 

Now that pictures are posted we can confirm that you do have levers intended for cantilever brakes. The levers are from the Alivio MC11 groupset which was offered in 1994. This must have had cantilever brakes as the first V-Brake equipped groupset was the XTR M950 which appeared 1996. V-brake levers are cheap and easy to install but you have a problem because you have integrated shift and brake lever units. However there are adapters available to convert short pull levers to long pull calipers. An example is Problem Solvers Travel Agent. 

Those might be difficult to obtain. The real problem is that many other major components would need to be replaced: 

The more general form of the questions is: is it worth upgrading a bike vs buying a whole new bike? In many cases it is not worth it. Individual upgraded components are compromised by remaining lower end ones. Full upgrading of components is as expensive as a new bike. The bike is still saddled with older technology (such as rim brakes). However, if the point is to mess around wrenching on a bike, give it a new lease of life, the components to be replaced are worn out anyway, and the limitations are well understood; then that in fine. Especially so if the builder is prepared to spend some time on Craigslist and Ebay finding cheap serviceable parts. [Full disclosure - I own a mountain bike with components spread over two decades.] 

High tensile or 'hi-ten' steel is the lowest end material used for inexpensive bikes. The next level up is so called 'cro-moly' steel (alloys using chromium and molybdenum). High tensile steel frames are relatively heavy because the steel is relatively weak necessitating thicker wall tubes be used. A steel frame is also more susceptible to corrosion, but this can be mitigated by taking care of the bike. Cro-moly steel or even aluminum framed bikes can still be heavy if they are equipped with inexpensive heavier components. If the bike works for you it's fine. If you had a aluminum framed bike some other friend would comment that they would prefer a bike with a carbon-fiber composite frame.