Yeah so, you obviously need to eat more. If I understand you correctly you fast for 24 hours per day, which in itself is fine, however it is VERY hard to get one day worth of food in one meal. Especially vegetarian meal. So you need at least one more meal per day, maybe even two more to get into caloric surplus. Think of it this way. To maintain your current weight you need to eat around 1200-1300 kcal/day, you would probably want to be around 1800kcal/day to start adding weight. I would guess you currently eat well below 1200kcal per day. So if you take you current portion size and just eat that amount once more every day you will at least hold your weight and probably gain some. If you are still not adding weight after a couple of weeks, add one more meal. On a pure plantbased vegan diet I would recommend you start stocking up on beans, lentils and nuts since it is full of protein and is fairly energy dense. Include that in you every meal. Prepare food to eat the next day at the same time you eat your dinner, then just bring that with you to college. Make a plan with times when you are going to eat your meals and be punctual with your meal time. You will feel stuffed the first couple of weeks, but make sure to eat your meals even if you have to divide it into smaller portions. If you keep to your new meal plan and eat at the same time every day, after a couple of weeks you will get hungry at that time and eating your meals will be easier. With a lowered immune system I would not recommend you start exercising right now, it will just make you ill. So start with fixing your energy intake. Then after a while you might want to take up some weight training to gain some muscles. You should also concider going to a doctor, not only for a check up on your overall health but also so a professional can determin if you need to be referred to a weight clinic or any other problems which can't be determined on a forum like this. 

The most effective dance form will be the one that you like the most. Zumba can definitely work up a sweat, but if you don't enjoy it and aren't motivated then you'll most likely give it up eventually or skip workouts. Something like ballet might not get you moving as fast, but the jumps and balance moves are going to probably build up stronger leg muscles, which will help you burn more calories when you're at rest. Again, it all depends on which form of dance you're most likely to stick with. A good idea might be to try several different forms. You can then either pick a favorite or keep with several different forms so that there's always some variety. This might also help due to the concept of muscle confusion. 

This comes with the standard warning - I am not a doctor, nor do I play one on TV... If you're simply changing portion sizes without changing the proportions of fat:carbs:protein in your diet then you could have less easily available energy which could cause some fatigue. It's not just a matter of how many calories you're getting, it also matter what form those calories are in that helps to determine your energy levels. You need a nice ratio. For higher energy I would suggest 40:40:20 protein:carbs:fat. Since you're decreasing your food intake, you should also check to make sure that you're still getting enough nutrients. This is especially true if you're eating a lot of restaurant food, which tends to go low on nutrient rich vegetables. It might be as simple as adding a daily multivitamin. Many nutrients are important in helping your body actually process the food to get energy out of it. A simple multivitamin is probably sufficient. Anything beyond that will probably be a waste if you're not doing very high stress training and don't have any known deficiencies. Also, while two miles of walking per day, five days per week (in addition to normal walking throughout the day) is probably adequate physical activity, I would suggest adding a bit of resistance training into the mix. It doesn't have to be anything serious, but 20 minutes of calisthenics or other light weight lifting every other day would likely improve your muscle tone and also give you additional energy. 

Cortisol is actually released in a diurnal rhythm with a spike when you wake up, and tapering off during the day until the time you go to sleep where it is at its lowest. Cortisol levels are also proportional to the intensity of the training as well as length. Elevated cortisol levels is linked to protein synthesis. A widely cited report is this one, which states that protein synthesis was impaired by 5-20% with higher (the highest is really high) cortisol levels. Elevated cortisol levels is also linked to gluconeogenesis (the conversion of protein to glucose). So by that rational an elevated level cortisol can not only reduce tissue growth but also break down tissue, as in cushing's syndrome. 

Training more do not necessarily give more gains. You don't gain mass DURING the training, you gain when you rest AFTER the training. When working out, regardless what type of training, your cortisol levels will rise. Cortisol is a hormone which is released during stress. Among other it will reduce protein synthesis and prevents muscle growth. When you rest, cortisol levels will slowly drop down to normal and your body will again be able to rebuild you muscles. If you just constantly adding more exercise your cortisol levels won't go back down to a normal level, and you will not be able to gain mass. If this is maintained for a prolonged time you will move into overreaching, where cortisol levels are chronically high. This will affect your overall health and can take months to come out of. A dead giveaway for this is when adding more then one workout per day. Here we are moving into elite athlete land. Full time athletes usually train more then once a day, and seem to be doing fine with that, right? But consider they are doing QUALITY rest between workouts (no work to go to), they have a physician who monitors their health on a weekly basis and they have ramped up training for several years (overreaching is also quite common and injuries is going to happen sooner or later). So, stick to your 5 times per week. Do moderate or no cardio. And monitor your weights closely, to stand still for a week or two is normal. Standing still or even decreasing your weights for several weeks, then you need to pull back and rest more. 

As long as your progress is still good, you should be fine. When it starts to slow, stop, or reverse then you want to consider the possibility that it's because of overtraining. Another thing to look for is pain that doesn't seem "quite right". It sounds like you've been working out enough to know the difference between normal muscle soreness and something like a muscle pull or other kind of strain. When in doubt, my suggestion is to err on the side of rest if it's a concern about pain. 

It sounds like it could be shin splints. Usually you'll experience the pain right in the front of the leg or sometimes on the sides of the shinbone. It's also usually a dull pain. Technically, shin splints can be caused by several different factors. I've experienced them as a result of over training. In that case, stretching and physical therapy worked after a couple of weeks. "Physical therapy" here was really just an exercise to increase the strength of the muscles so that they can keep up with the rest of your leg muscles. I would lay a towel out on the floor in front of me and put the toes of my feet on the edge of it. Then I would pull the towel in towards me by curling my toes. One time each night was plenty. Since you've noticed them after running on a hard surface it's more likely to be caused (in your case) by small stress fractures in the bone or as a result of over stretching the muscles (especially if you have flat feet). Icing should help there (20 minutes every 4 hours or so?) and an anti-inflammatory pain killer might as well. Stretching is of course helpful here if it's the second cause. Healing can take months and you need to make sure that you're not simply reinjuring them over and over again, so you should try to avoid exercise which puts stress on them until they are fully healed. I am NOT a doctor. Ideally, you should consult your physician, especially if the pain persists or is severe. 

Often a combination of all the above. There are a couple of ways to come around this. Firstly, in my experience there is no way to have long term weight loss without continous effort to keep yourself in caloric deficit. You will automatically start eating larger portions if you don't monitor what you eat. If you have a sort of stable eating habbit, where you eat more or less the same every day, you can just try removing something from your usual meal. I for example ate bread to every meal, by removing it I more or less cut back 200 kcal. By removing other such things from my diet I managed to put myself in caloric deficit without weighing a thing. Mostly though, the easiest way to remove all sort of biases is to simply weight everything you eat. This takes a lot of dedication, but it is a sure way of knowing exactly what is wrong with your diet. It makes it a lot easier to diagnose a meal plan. After a while you get a feel on how much you should eat and you only weight your food if you come to a sticky point. Whether you burn 1800, 2000, 2600 or any other calories per day is quite irrelevant. Just cut back on your calories until you lose weight and take it from there. 

Why not try a body recomposition program. A well defined six pack is well built muscles and a low fat percentage. A way to attain this is to eat 500kcal above maintenance levels on training days and 500kcal below maintenance on non training days, training each other day so that the net balance is zero over the week. To build the muscles you need to hit them with hypertrophy training. Cardio is detrimental towards that goal. It puts alot of stress on your body which really should be resting and building muscles. Try to eat somewhere around 1.5g protein per kg lean body mass, which also helps towards building muscles. As long as you hit your protein, the rest can be pasta, rice or whatever you like to eat which helps you keep the dietplan. As long as you are in a net equivalence, or in net deficit. This will, albeit slowly, gain you some muscles and lose fat leading towards a six pack. 

It's not precisely free weights, but if you have or use bands then you can attach one from your ankle to a stable spot near the floor and perform a "curling" motion. You'll need to be careful to make sure that you're stable throughout the exercise. If you truly want isolation though, then I don't know of anything outside of a leg curl machine. As Moz said, it's hard to get isolation strictly with free weights. Even something as simple as a bicep curl is going to be using your back and shoulders. If you start using a curl bench then is that really much different from using a machine? I mean, if you used a bench for your hamstrings that looked and acted exactly like a leg curl machine but with weights, is it really still "free weights" at that point? The only difference at that point is the angle of the resistance. 

I'm currently recovering from the same condition, which I've been dealing with for over a year now. I got orthotics two months ago, and they are helping immensely. If you're not seeing progress with them then definitely see your doctor again to see if the fit needs to be adjusted. Your doctor should have already been scheduling you for regular checks for this, at least early on in using them. Also, in addition to stretching in the mornings, you might want to try doing some calf stretches at night before bed as well. It can help to prevent your leg from stiffening up in your sleep, which can put strain on the tissue. Most of the major exercises have been covered (my first thoughts were cycling, rowing, and swimming). Rock climbing is another possibility as long as your careful about how you use your feet - no jarring motions. You might also consider turning some of your resistance workouts into a combination or cardio and strength training. Use lighter weights with a lot of reps or do calisthenic types of exercises (push-ups, pull-ups, etc.). Do bursts with brief rests in between and concentrate on keeping your heart rate in the target zone. You might not get optimum strength results, but I find these workouts to be a fun change of pace for me. Good luck!