How many video cameras are used for broadcasting an international cricket match? Especially for the current world T20i, they are covering the each and every corner of the stadium. I would like to know the number of cameras used for that including stump cameras and spider cams. I think these numbers will also be equal to IPL. Is it? 

AFAIK, yes it is allowed to wear baseball protective gear for cricket. You are discussing about the protective gears under the clothes in baseball, ie, specifically about the leg-pads. 

Only the wicket-keeper and the fielders in short leg and silly point are allowed to use the leg-pads in cricket, but the leg-pads used by Wicket Keepers in cricket is slightly big and goofy than baseball leg-pads. Since the cricket ball is more hard than baseball. So, that type of pads are preferred by cricketers. No rules were block them to wear baseball leg-pads. We can see some of the cricketers using baseball helmets in cricket. 

In the history of cricket there are only two times a batsman was out by this term retired-out. Both of them are Srilankan cricket players and both the instances were held in a same match. Generally, retired-outs are happened only in warm-up matches where the result is not as much important. So this dismissal term was not included in the standard dismissal terms. Retired not-outs are very common as you said, it may be due to any reason, since the batsman can re-enter at anytime. 

Batsmen can go for reverse sweep or switch hit any time during the match. Umpires have nothing to decide with it. ICC had already made this shot legal and the changes were done with the rules of LBW and wide for these shots. 

I couldn't see any football players wearing caps while playing international matches, but I could see some of them wearing large headbands. What's the rules for Football say about this? If the football players are not allowed to wear cap means, what is the reason for allowing large head-bands but not head caps? 

If a player gets injured in a match, there are substitutes to replace. What about umpires? I saw a news in BBC site dated 5 July 2009 that, 

I heard that two different jerseys are used for offense and defense in american-football. Is it so? If yes, 

I saw in the normal football matches that the goal-keeper worn different color jersey to differ from all others. 

I searched about that and yes, it's true that Ganguly had led the team in the last moments of his final match. -Source. What is the ICC rule about changing the captain in the middle of the match while the actual captain is on-field? Is it permitted in all matches or just for farewell matches? 

The punishments will be differ on the possibility of finding the player(s) responsible for that action. You can refer the ICC Playing conditions for test matches for the punishments on finding and not finding the player(s) responsible for tampering. 

What is the maximum number of runs allowed to take by running between the wickets per ball including overthrows in international cricket? If a batsman doubted that he or his partner didn't get reach any of the runs, are they allowed to run more than the maximum number? 

Maharashtra cricket team doesn't represent the whole Maharashtra state. The cricket team for the city of Pune was named as Maharashtra cricket team. There is an another cricket team named Vidarbha cricket team which is also from the state of Maharashtra. Mumbai and Maharashtra are only considered as an individual cricket teams, not a state and there is no restrictions that only one team should play from one state. There are three teams playing from Gujarat state. One of the team named Gujarat cricket team. 

So, the largest boundary length a cricket ground can have is 82.29 meters. The boundary line should be located according to that. 

Consider the situation, if a batsman was bowled on a no-ball and the bails were down the stumps then the batsmen are running for a run, at this time, how the fielders will try to run out the batsmen? Consider this situation, Batsmen are running between the wickets after hitting the ball inside the ground, the ball was thrown to the fielder/WK, he(WK) then hit the stumps with the ball, all the three stumps were pulled off the ground, but the batsman got reached and the ball slipped from his hand and gone for overthrows, now the batsmen started running between the wickets, now how the fielders will try to run out the batsmen? 

If the second batting captain declares the innings after the score gets level, then the match will get tie. But,this will not happen forever in an international cricket match. All the other factors will affect the result to be declared as tie. In the history of cricket, only two test matches got tied. 

It is permitted for a batsman to reverse or switch his bat from right to left or vice versa for getting runs. If they missed the ball means, what is the rule there regarding wide? To be more clear, for ex, If a batsman faces the ball with RHB and switch his bat to LHB and missed the ball, now the ball went outside the leg stump according to LHB, is this a wide ball? 

You can see this Wiki Link for some of the examples of the players who got punished for ball tampering. The most famous one is Shahid Afridi got banned for two matches for biting the ball. 

Yes, the runs will be given for this. But not a boundary will be given, the runs which were taken by the batsmen running between the wickets will be awarded for the batsman. The moment when the ball touches fielder will be noticed for deciding it a boundary or not. Touching the boundary rope or passing the boundary rope before or after getting touch with the ball will not cause any effect on the runs. The best example I can provide you is Bollinger of Chennai Super kings took an excellent catch for Yousuf Pathan at IPL 2010 at the boundary rope. See this youtube video for reference 

Is it allowed for a football player(including goal-keeper)to wear long shorts(below the knee like the image below) in international football matches? 

This is the fifth time it occurs that the defending champions knocked out in first round in the FIFA world cup history. The previous ones are Italy - 1950, Brazil - 1966, France - 2002 and Italy - 2010. Reference. 

Calculating the distance of the six hit by the batsmen is a new trend. I'd searched for longest six of cricket, some said it's from Shahid Afridi, some said, it's MSD and some saying Yuvi. I would like to know 

I have a doubt, if the bowler bowls a wide or no-ball, will it be considered as a maiden? The above statement only states about byes or leg-byes, wides and no-balls are also considered as extras. The wide can't be dealt with bat, but a no-ball can get contact with the bat. So, the clear question is, What are all the requirements for a maiden over? 

ICC has been conducting test cricket matches for women since 1934. We can also see some recent test matches for women. But, there is no official ICC rankings were provided by ICC for women's test cricket. Rankings are available only to ODIs and Twenty20I matches. Is there any particular reason for not having rankings for women in Test matches? or Does ICC has any limitations(no. of matches/ no. of nations) to provide ranks for particular format of cricket? 

Today, Malinga bowled an over with 4 leg-byes, but it was given a maiden over. Then I searched about that and got the details as, 

The principles behind the ODI Ratings are similar to those for the Test Ratings, with some differences. If you need more details, visit the official ICC rankings page. 

Each tournament will have its own playing conditions. I'm not sure about other tournaments, as per the playing conditions of IPL 

If the match abandoned due to rain, then the match will be postponed to May 28(reserve day for first qualifier match). If the match still abandoned on the reserve day, then the team(KXI Punjab) which finished in the higher position in the points table will be deemed the winner of the match. Ref: IPL Playing Conditions 21.10 

The cricket board of the country which is hosting the series, will discuss with the local cricket boards to decide the venues for the matches. You can refer this link for reference, that the cricket board of West indies made the venue decision for the ongoing test against NewZealand.(same for ODIs too). You can also refer this, that the cricket board of Australia made decisions about the venues for the matches which they are going to host on 2014/15.