There's only one formula for surviving a supernova--be where it isn't. Either move your planet out into interstellar space, or move your star away. The latter approach will take some of the mass off the star and thus buy you more time before the big boom, also. 

As others have said, you have a big stability problem here. While there are some situations in our solar system with objects with periodic close encounters all of them involve shepherd situations--there's another more massive body that's keeping the situation stable. I don't believe you can have a shepherd situation without the bodies being in similar orbits. Note, also, that if you're looking at travel between the worlds you have a very big problem. The fastest anyone has returned from space is 11 km/sec for the Apollo astronauts--a quick Google says 7.19g for Apollo 16. Earth's orbital velocity is 30 km/sec, though, and the other planet will have a like velocity. If I'm remembering my math right that means a spacecraft from one world will hit the atmosphere of the other at 42 km/sec. (And if my memory is wrong it's 60 km/sec.) Figuring the Apollo profile is about the best that can be done that comes out to 27.7g if my math is right, 39.2 if it's not. Even 27.7g for the duration of atmospheric entry carries a high probability of death. You can cut these numbers somewhat if you do it in two stages--the first passage to burn off some velocity and head back out into space at something below escape velocity. Keeping the peak gs down will limit how deep into the atmosphere you can go while pulling such a maneuver, though. If you want worlds that interact you want two worlds in a shepherding situation. The approach velocity is slow, Apollo-type spacecraft could make the crossing. 

How about a different approach: Lets go down the evolutionary tree to a very primitive basically immobile creature with the usual tube based digestive system. This creature has an asexual reproduction mechanism in addition to the usual sexual one--hence it can have offspring that are genetically identical to itself. Now, one of these creatures learned how to cooperate with offspring that had not wandered off. Eventually this cooperation became so complete that they fused into a single organism. (Remember, genetically identical, this wouldn't be unreasonable.) Now you have a single creature with multiple digestive tracts that can serve as the base for more complex multi-mouthed creatures to evolve. There must be some considerable advantage to it, though, or it's going to lose out to creatures without the duplicated digestive apparatus. 

Robert Forward's Camelot 30K. It's not quite your description because what I'm thinking about is a plant, not an animal. The plants will process anything that's a solid in their environment (and as the "30K" in the title refers to the temperature, that's most things). While they don't actually have a use for many of the elements they process them into berries that are desired by the species that farms them. While we never find out the true origin of the aliens it seems to me that they must be the product of some very advanced genetic engineering as there's simply no path by which they could possibly evolve. I would think the basic idea could apply to an animal as well, though--something engineered as a mining tool. Such a creature would be designed with metabolic pathways to handle as many elements as possible. 

Assuming high lift costs I must object to your plan. You should bring 50 female sheep from 50 separate sources. There's no good reason to boost a ram, for the same lift cost you can boost semen from thousands of different sheep--and there's the solution to your genetic diversity issue also. 

Assuming you know the person is a shifter: "Shift or die!" See what form they take. If it's smaller than a human you put it in an appropriate net. If it's bigger you demand he shift back and then you put him in a human-sized net. You'll need to carry a few sizes of net but not any huge amount. You'll also need a net made of metal to deal with gnawers. 

While I see no way for plants to evolve in this situation I see how you could have plants: The heart of the plant is a large hydrogen gas bag, the hydrogen being produced by disassociation of water. It has one or more roots, mostly a very tough fiber many miles long and arranged in a loop. Unlike traditional roots these do not draw up nutrients. Rather, there are nodules along the root that collects water and nutrients. The plant slowly draws the fiber around the loop, the force needed is only that needed to lift the collected material as other than that the two sides of the loop are of the same weight. Yes, this is energy intensive, the plant will obtain materials very slowly. It will have to be very good at not wasting anything drawn up from the roots. Cactuses would have a lot to learn from it and anything that can be obtained from the atmosphere will certainly have to be. Nitrogen can be had from the air, if it can keep it's moisture inside the biggest need from the roots will actually be hydrogen. (Unfortunately, probably drawn up as water due to the energy demands of separating it.) 

Another factor involved: NASA and the CDC are going to put some pretty major restrictions on dealings with alien planets that might be of colonization interest. NASA because they want to make sure there's no indigenous life before they allow you to land stuff that hasn't been highly sterilized, the CDC because they want to be sure there's no potentially dangerous local life before they allow you to return anything that hasn't been highly sterilized. Now, it's likely that alien bugs are harmless but the CDC won't go along with risking the human race until they're sure. And while it's unlikely that alien diseases will get us I would be much more worried about alien pests. Imagine a planet with a more evolved ecology than ours--the local plant-munchers need nothing but calories and trace minerals and can munch most anything organic to get it. They're at least mildly toxic and they have a considerable degree of cold tolerance (go passive but don't die.) Something like that without it's local enemies would redefine invasive species--and if not caught quickly enough it could become an extinction event. 

I think Uriel hit upon how it could happen--while we can be slow to realize we are in a destructive relationship, evolution can be much slower to recognize this. Thus picture a relationship that started out as a symbiotic relationship. Over the eons both sides of the relationship have evolved to exploit their partner to the point that both would be better off going it alone. However, the pairing behavior is programmed in and going it alone causes problems with attracting a mate, thus it's hard for it to evolve. (The odd animal that is born with a mutation that causes them to avoid the partner thrives but doesn't find a mate and thus doesn't pass on the mutation. To escape the trap you need not only the anti-partner mutation but one that removes whatever it is about the partner that's involved in mate attraction.) 

Multiple people have suggested bomb shelters. I think there's a perfectly viable answer that doesn't go quite that far and is far more livable: Concrete dome houses. Normally they are built with windows as per normal building codes but in this land I think a windowless version would be acceptable. You have a very tough door. They'll withstand anything short of the heaviest guns available to civilians (and even if a bullet comes through it's obviously unaimed and thus a very minimal threat), they'll shrug off any civilian low explosive device and it will take a fair charge of high explosives to breech them. Current versions are ordinary houses inside other than the shape of the roof, this wouldn't be something you have to retreat to. If this isn't enough defense take the same thing and bury it. Ideally, place it inside a hill and then replace the dirt so that while it's buried it's still at ground level or even a bit elevated. (Going entirely underground brings up drainage issues.) Build shotguns into the entryway that can be fired from inside--if the wolves try to force the door you turn the entryway into wolf steak tartare. Again, these exist in the real world. They're much less common because normal building codes do not permit living in such a structure but it certainly would be possible to design such a structure with an acceptable means of fire escape. People do it because if you put a moisture barrier in the dirt over the dome and bury suitable air ducting in the ground you can build a house that doesn't need more than a fan to provide heating and cooling. Given the werewolf threat I would expect at least the former to be the normal means of house construction, acquiring such a place should not be a problem. (Economically they are close to competitive with conventional house construction techniques and by the time you look at life cycle costs they're cheaper.) 

How about a twist on Selenor's answer: In the modern world things stand upon the shoulders of that which came before. It's an interconnected whole that you learn as pieces and put together. (A simple example: Lets look at something that is accelerating. The equation for it's distance is the integral of the equation for it's velocity which is the integral of the equation for it's acceleration.) However, magic dates from a time before we understood that there were a fairly small set of fairly simple rules underlying everything and that the complexity we see is the result of the combination of them. Thus while we might picture the Fireball spell as conjuring up some fire, containing it and projecting it to a target location that's not what the book does. Rather, it teaches you everything you need to know to make that ball of fire appear, without building upon any other magical knowledge the wizard had. Compare alchemy and chemistry--where the alchemists do not recognize that two different means of synthesis can produce the same end product. 

As has been pointed out you need more than a mask because you need to contain the pressure also. However, you can do it with a lot less than NASA-issue if you are in a reasonably hospitable environment. The thing is, the limbs do not need air, merely pressure. A very carefully fit compression garment will protect the arms and legs from vacuum, you only need a pressure vessel around the head and torso. Not only do the arms and legs not need to be completely airtight but there's an actual advantage from making them not perfect--our normal cooling system is by perspiration. If the limbs are a bit porous the body can cool itself. Such a lightweight suit does not provide cold protection or extreme heat protection, it's acceptable in somewhat controlled environments (say, inside a structure that doesn't have air) but not good if the temperature extremes are too harsh. It also provides very little protection against micrometeorites. Inside, however, it would be much preferred by the workers as it's not nearly so tiring to use as a regular space suit. 

The town you describe won't be buying his loot--a subsistence economy in a small town will have little money and what money there is will have to be spent on things of direct value to the people purchasing it. The only things they might consider purchasing from him are supplies--something they are unlikely to have in this scenario unless the monster itself meets that criteria. Expect him to get the value of any monster meat he brings in and if he makes it safe enough they don't need to man the watchtowers then he'll get the labor that would otherwise have gone into manning them but that's about it. They can't trade away what they need for survival, nor would there be anything in town to buy with that money even if they did. The town will of course be grateful and he will get whatever non-cost services they are capable of providing--he will, for example, never want for a place to sleep. Depending on the society he might also never want for a bed partner. 

As others have said, they die. Lets take a far easier scenario: The group has modern technology, all requisite skills and all relevant small scale tools. They still die. Consider the supplies they need: For drinking water alone we are looking at nearly 8000 pounds per person. For medical reasons I have for a period of months lived on some stuff that's basically pure nutrition with no waste. For a pretty much sedentary life in climate controlled conditions that's still about another 1000 pounds per person. They are going to be in a cold climate with no source of heat, they'll be eating considerably more. Furthermore, they won't have access to anything so concentrated. For a short period they could get away with eating things like butter (something that's sometimes done in extreme-environment travel because it packs so many calories per pound) but trying that for 2.5 years is suicide. Thus I would be shocked if the absolute minimum supplies could be gotten down below 10,000 pounds per person--and that doesn't count the weight of the containers that hold it. Storing it all in barrels seems to add 20% to the weight so we are up to 12,000 pounds per person--6 tons. (And given the limits of the available foodstuffs and the need to get the needed vitamins I think the the real number is considerably higher than this.) 6 tons * 40 people = 240 tons. Someone else mentioned the Santa Maria--nope, you'll need Columbus' whole fleet to do the job. That's just to get them to North America, they land with nothing but their clothes and they die. That's assuming they even get the ships built. I'm giving them a much better start than you are but they still need to build the drydocks to build the ships before they can even start construction and most of their time will have to be devoted to simple survival. Back then most people spent most all their hours on survival, you are asking them to produce at 1.5x the normal rate (2.5 years of extra supplies obtained over 5 years) while devoting a huge effort into building a drydock and then ships. A replica of the Santa Maria was built with modern tech--\$1.2 million. Lets take 10% off for taxes, all other costs are fundamentally labor at some point (if it's a material you're actually paying for someone else's labor). Lets assume a worker makes $50k/yr. That means we are looking at 22 man/years to build one ship--66 for the fleet. (Remember, this is with full modern tech!) Lets assume that 1/4 of the group is too young to contribute meaningful labor, that means we have 30 workers and I'll be very generous and assume they're working 80 hr weeks (I don't believe this is actually possible without decent artificial light) giving a total of 300 man-years of available labor. That's over 20% just for shipbuilding, not counting the dry dock. Still another problem: You didn't have them escaping with any large stock of food. Unless there's plenty of wild foodstuffs where they go to ground (and if it's that lush why isn't anyone living there already??) they are going to be in serious trouble while they get their first crop in. Trying to live by meat alone means nutritional deficiencies.