Oh boy, If given unlimited time, there is no extent to selective breeding. The trick is, the amount of time it takes to generate desirable mutations that can be passed on and further refined. You could eventually selectively breed cows with lizard skin given enough time. So the rule is: mutation -> selection = evolution The dairy cow is one such freak: over a millenia of selective breeding has created a creature that would die in the wild. They are breed to be docile (non -aggressive) and over produce milk. They litterally feel pain if not milked frequently enough. We accelerate mutation by inserting other genes into an animal through various methods. 

This is kind of an unanswerable question but wth, 1) in a medieval town why would fishing be zoned? Usually people fish wherever they feel like. Commercial fishing would lead to ports which is where towns would crop up. In this map I like the placement of your town however fishing would be going on in the stream and coastline which would also make for a nice harbor. In other words, towns dont make industry, industry makes towns. 2) You have what looks like a mountain followed by a quick transition into flatland for farming and then coastline. Normally, that terrain is to uneven for farming and better suited for animal husbandry. The area you zoned for fishing, being between 2 mountains would more reasonably be level enough for farming. EDIT: 3) I'd like to add, instead of the fishing industrial zone, what you would more likely see is a logging industrial zone. As the town grows from the fishing and farming, the need for building material would increase. There would probably be a satellite wood harvesting community north of the lake and hills but on the stream so they could float supplies into town. 

The answer is sure, but I'm going to say no because of your lack of understanding on how the chemistry works here [going to ignore nitrogen in this for simplicity] In photosynthesis plants take in water H2O, energy in the form of sunlight, and CO2 to form sugar compounds, basically hydrocarbon chains. A hydrocarbon chain is a molecule of carbon atoms connected to each other in a chain of any length and 2 hydrogen atoms connected to each carbon atom. When reacted with oxygen this releases energy. So the production of sugar is a means of storing energy. So going back the H20 and CO2 you can see there is a lot of O2 (oxygen) leftover from taking all those H's and C's. That is why O2 is byproduct. Without providing your organism an energy source and the oxygen containing chemicals to make its own hydrocarbon chain you will never be able to produce oxygen. In the circumstances you provide, I see the chances of this occurring to be very slim. There could be some potential radical ways to achieve this but it would take some radical changes to your concept. 

Propofol Dart gun load a dart gun with propofol and shoot your subject, they will go out like a light and wake up like nothing happened You can substitute a bunch of other anesthetics or barbiturates 

Those methods attract modest traffic, however there are other means that attract far more attention: 

Honestly, it's your creative choice you would have to decide if your orcs continuously grow tusks like or are they like teeth in the sense once removed they don't come back. What I'm trying to get at is, orcs are a fictitious creatures and their biology is largely the whimsy of the creative writer. It is reasonable to conclude their biology would do either or any of what you mention. 

Yes Terraforming is the process of making a planet habitable. Just because a planet is habitable does not mean it is entirely conducive to life. This is where mutation and evolution come in. If there are factors that make reproducing difficult then mutations that overcome those challenges will propagate more till eventually you have evolution. One reason the human liver is so good at metabolizing alcohol is because we have been drinking it for 10k years, so that trait has been refined and passed on. However, not all humans are efficient at metabolizing alcohol because it isn't a total barrier to reproduction and some communities didn't need or use it. So going back to your 'world': If there was a planet with semi toxic water, mutations could evolve creating superior kidneys and livers. If there was a habital planet with a thin dusty atmosphere, mutations could evolve creating superior lungs. A planet with thin ozone and primitive humans running through scraggly bushes would likely require tough resilient skin. Summation This process isn't fast however it is sped up by 'selection'. There is a sweet spot between maintaining just enough genetic diversity and culling the heard of counter productive traits. It takes many 10s of generations to develop and refine these traits all the while 'selection' is playing a critical role. Make no mistake these aren't happy conditions. For selection to play this big a role means life is hard with people not reproducing or living long enough to reproduce. This can be sped up by an intelligent emotionless race capable of resolving themselves to refine these traits in a form of pseudo selective breeding. NOTE: I do not believe an intelligent species can technically "selectively breed" itself. Selective breeding is a process where an outside influence determines what traits are 'desirable' and manually influences the genepool to proliferate that trait. Man cannot selectively breed man because man is a member of man and not an outside influence. If anything it would be an adapted quirk of mans mating habits. 

How long can solidstate tech last depends entirely on the engineering and exposure with respect to those factors. A well made Satellite can last for millennias provided its orbit is stable enough and isn't blasted by rocks. 

Is there something wrong with the obvious? Hospitals or long term care facilities (depending on country). You could also try crack houses, might be able to find some recently brain deceased people. 

There is no limit on how long this society can last Societies normally die from other factors like revolt, invasion, government collapse, apocalyptic event, disease, etc. The factors you posed do not directly affect the lifespan of such a society. Some things you did mention could but their effect is variable based on their magnitude. 

No this is not in the realm of scientifically possible First, A continent isn't simply a lump of rock above an ocean. Even though that's essentially how it's defined. Ever wonder why Mars doesn't have continents? A continent is a significant grouping of tectonic plates. Imagine a sea of lava with huge rocks floating on its surface. That sea of lava is the Earth's mantle and those rocks are tectonic plates that make the Earth's crust. Mars doesnt have continents because its mantle is dead so there are no plates to conglomerate continents and no Oceans to divide land masses into the groupings of continents. Now, You can't budge a tectonic plate without causing huge earthquakes. You cant overlap plates (this is called subduction and results in shoving crust into the mantle [sea of lava]).You can't lift a plate over another, causes volcanoes and new crust to form as well as a cataclysmic event (basaltic eruption) . What you could do: You could drill holes through the crust to the mantle to form volcanoes in the ocean bed which would create new land.This is far more sane/plausible than moving a plate. Or you could do it the current way and just dump tons of material in the ocean to form islands. China has been doing this a lot recently to expand their territory in the South China Sea. (dredging) 

I know this breaks your specified restrictions but I feel like it should be said. There is no reason to shut down the computer and would actually be unnecessarily detrimental to the mission. We have computers that can run on very small amounts of power and surely such a craft would have a solar panel. In our current progression of technology we are shoving censors into just about everything. A sophisticated spacecraft such as this would undoubtedly have censors monitoring critical systems and haul integrity. In current avionics we have programs called autopilots capable of maintaining a certain navigation. Now I am going to use the term AI but I don't mean one to the extent of Cortana I mean one simply capable of receiving input and enacting a response (we have things similar to this today). It would very simple to have an AI whose job it is to act as an auto pilot and monitor critical systems. It would also be likely that your crew would maintain a communication channel with the ship's AI so the crew could say "come pick me up" or the AI could say "the haul has a big hole in it what do I do?". This way you could park your ship wherever you wanted (within reason), your AI could be advanced or bare bones enough to achieve whatever story effects you want to achieve. And if the 20 year gap is a story element you could justify that the crew comm system got damaged and the ship's default protocol is to return after 20 years. It could also be programmed to avoid catastrophic collisions upon detection. But leaving your mother ship dead in orbit without any safety measures or monitoring is reckless. 

Your planet just needs to touch these factors in such a way the poles meet your temp needs. As for you other inaccuracies: 

Dark matter has nothing to do with baryonic material aka conventional matter. Anyways to answer your question, Same ways all the previous space mineral harvesting go 

Summation: Competition would be high, however resources would be limited and educational requirements would be high as well. Technology would greatly reduce the need for various on the ground disciplines. With such limited space the hirer would have first pick and would likely pick people who have the most diverse critical skills to reduce team size requirements. Basically it would be a game of how much science can you extract with as few people possible. The critical approach to this is what research do you need boots on the ground to conduct versus what can you get from automated censors because you can always collect things to bring back to an army of researchers. 

For every action there is an equal and opposite reaction Could a 500lb creature be strong enough to lift 4x its weight, maybe the biology of this is fuzzy. The real problem comes from physics. Throwing an object 4x heavier than you 10 ft is likely to send you flying 40 (dramatized). Your gorilla would need some way to increase its friction such that it can complete this action. Maybe dig its legs into the ground. It seems this is potentially possible, though I haven't found any credible source confirming a gorilla can lift 4x its weight nor do I think it can. 

On the healing aspect another critical factor is metabolism. The bodys ability to process energy which means: capacity of food consumptions, speed to process food into an energy store, distribution of your energy store (nutrients), efficiency of cells ability to use the energy store to achieve their biologic functions. 

In the neck near an artery A gun can be easily manufactured to safely implant such a device in the hands of a TRAINED individual. This is because it can be inserted relatively closely to the surface of the skin yet be in a place where unskilled extraction can be fatal. Digging around in the neck anywhere near major blood vessels is fatal. Anesthesia is unnecessary as this could be done as quickly as a vaccine injection and roughly at the same pain level. Places that are bad are: 

Most Effective: Through guidance of a deity There isn't a single classical religion on the planet that hasn't experienced fracturing. Even the Jews, who I'd argue have shown the most cohesion with respect to time, have differences in beliefs. The only assured way I'd see is if that religions deity periodically dropped down to answer questions and silence the non believers. Semi Effective: Religious Assimilation One semi-effective historical solution is what the Romans and the Greeks did which was have a polytheistic religion that could adopt and constantly redefine their gods as time and borders changed. This proved effective when conquering lands by allowing a route of direct integration for local deities and sub sequentially cultural adoption. Less Effective: Burn the Heretics There are instances where religious fracturing was prevented through creedocide. Needless to say if you manage to kill everyone with a different opinion then your option becomes 'right'. This is the least effective because it backfires all to often from the immorality of creedocide, the difficulty of finding and killing all the dissenters, etc. Side Note at Polytheism: Polytheism seems to be the most stable with respect to fracturing. Arguably, you could say the Hindus are the most 'unfractured' as they all share the same pantheon and relative mythology. The gray part comes in at who the focus is of which denomination [Vaishnavism, Shaivism, Shaktism, Smartis..]. This was also true for the Greeks and Romans. There is also the semi magic answer (hinted at by my first option) Since there are these 'magic' portals that can only be operated by priests. Why not have it so that the qualification to be a priest is granted solely by religious conformity moderated by divine approval. This way religious arguments are implicitly settled by divine intervention. If God does not like Priest bob's views he loses his power to the gate and everyone blames his ideological discrepancy for it. 

I think the success of such a man is largely the speculation of the creative writer Education is the first big question. -We know a great many things now days but a lot of it is specialized or relegated to hobbyist knowledge in lieu of industrial approaches. If he is a computer programmer who games in his spare time, chances are he is pretty screwed. Conversely, if he is a chemist with some survivalist hobbies he could dramatically change the course of human history. You might could argue that having basic general knowledge of modern things would be more than enough to change the medieval world but you would be mistaken. What good is knowing about disease transmission when you have to jump through these hoops to make it impactful: 

Sounds like you've answered your own question Man has concocted just about every melee weapon imaginable, what usually drives their acceptance is the their affectivity. First, biggest question is their hands. Do they have large obstructing claws or fingers. Kind of hard to grip a handle with hands like a bear. Next, as you have mentioned they strong natural armor so that rules out slashing weapons. But you have mentioned blunt weapons being effective so that rules in war hammers, maces, morning stars etc. You did say steal could pierce their armor though not likely. Historically there are a tree of swords like foils or bayonets designed primarily for piercing armor. The construction is basically a strong slender metal shaft with a strong point on it (basically a needle). So they could have a sort of a fencing sword art. These would certainly be used in addition to hammers. In terms of military composition Less trained troops would likely use impact weapons as they are easier to use. Highly trained troops would likely prefer a pierce weapon (which would require more skill) because they could more swiftly and efficiently kill their opponent. Update to modification: In relation to conflict with other species. As mentioned before effectiveness is one of the chief most factors (relevant to this question) for weapon adoption. The weapons mentioned previously would likely be their default weapons, anything they can master to kill themselves they can likely use to kill someone else. However If they are in a prolonged conflict with another species, they would inevitably adopt weapons more suited for killing that species. This progression usually happens with a relation to their existing abilities as well as their experiences. For instance: in fighting elves their fencing style would prove more effective than their blunt instruments while they notice the elves could be slashed as well. Thus they would then start adding edges to their pins making them more like sabers and traditional fencing swords increasing their overall lethality against the elves. They could also notice the elves use bows which can kill other creatures so they too decide to use bows against the elves. This sort of adoption is more character driven.