When it first happened, I played a little bit with the cable tension, but that effectively did nothing. This has never happened to me before, does anyone recognize these symptoms and should I attempt a repair or are the internals likely broken in the shifter? 

On my commute yesterday, I noticed that my right shifter was no longer 'clicking' when shifting my rear derailleur up into a larger sprocket. It still shifted fine, but I noted that I should look into it this weekend. On the commute in this morning, it stopped shifting altogether. Symptoms 

I recently picked up a powertap and have done a fair bit of riding around and a few races now with it on, so I've started to get familiar with some of the numbers. I would like to figure out what my functional threshold power (FTP) is and would like to know which methods are more accurate. I know a 40km time trial is sort of the gold standard, but I find these so mentally tough that it's nearly impossible for me to give an honest effort outside of a race situation. Nothing is going to be easy, I imagine as any interpolated ways of doing this will probably require maximum effort for a certain amount of time, but I'm hoping there is a reasonably accurate method that is easier mentally and physically. 

Maintenance is very, very low. You have to keep the tires and chain in good working order and, on a bike you ride on the road, hopefully some form of a brake. That's it. On most velodromes, you have to ride a fixed gear bike, so if you race track, you have no choice. There is something to be said for how a fixed gear will force you to develop a smoother pedaling style since you simply cannot stop. Due to this, they are somewhat popular for 'off season' training by serious road cyclists. (Hesitating to mention this...) There is a certain segment of the population that loves retro and simple things. In addition to being possibly the most efficient people moving device that exists, the fixed gear bicycle can be an important fashion accessory. 

As has been mentioned, the actual categories are fairly subjective. Things such as the fame of a climb as well as how the organizers feel about giving out King of the Mountain points on a given stage will affect rankings. That said, there are some general rules of thumb if you want to get an idea of how your local climb rates up to a given ranked climb in the tour though. There are always exceptions to climb rankings, but this should give you a basic list to start with. 

This will be a bit of a non answer as the question somewhat leads down the wrong path. The short summary is that with efficient training and a few seasons under your belt, you can be a successful cat 3 racer on 5-7 hours per week. Once you get above that level, you are entering into a completely different game and while more time will be needed, it will be highly dependent on your personal goals. Anecdotally regarding time trials, I'm a Cat 3 racer with a couple of wins and I have never done a 40km/h time trial for a flat 15km race, let alone a 40km race. I race with a lot of guys who could do a 40km/h TT without aero equipment. Time trial performance is at best a minor indicator of success in the amateur levels. It indicates potential, but little else. It really only helps in time trials, races with substantial climbing and some very specific situations in mass start road races. From a fitness standpoint, racing success is more about repeated high speed surges that you need to recover from. From a mental standpoint, you need to be able to conserve your energy as much as possible in a race until it's time to use all that energy. Knowing when that time comes is also a bit of a challenge. 

Short answer: Yes. You will notice a significant difference immediately by moving to a proper road tire. Unless you are doing significant amounts of riding of that bike on dirt or mud, you are better off going with the gators. Those tires are pretty tough and will do well even if you have some of your commute on gravel. (I have these on my commuter bike) 

The answer is, as often the case, 'it depends', but these are the guidelines I tend to go by: If you are new to clipless, I'd tend to leave them a bit loose, at least until you get past the 'in danger of tipping over at a stop sign' phase of clipless ownership. If they aren't causing you problems and you don't do much aggressive riding, I'd leave them setup at pretty loose. If you do any racing or spirited group rides, then it will probably be worth it to tighten them down some. Coming out of the pedals while standing and sprinting is a fairly good way to end up on the pavement or taking someone else out. If you are a mountain biker and you use this bike to alternate between cross country and commuting rides, then I personally would tighten the clips before doing any lengthy or technical offroad rides. 

Hard to get started/Hard to go fast? Yes. Generally someone who has a road worthy fixie will have selected a gear that works well for the terrain and speed that they like to ride at. I've only ridden fixed gear bikes on the track, but I'd imagine for a city fixie, you'd optimize for a fairly low speed but someone who takes these more seriously can answer better. 

I have a bike (Surly Crosscheck) that is used for commuting and cyclocross. As it's a bit older and disc brakes were not legal for 'cross until recently, it has cantilever brakes for optimal mud clearance. They also kind of suck for commuting in a rainy city with panniers. I have been debating doing a conversion to discs for this bike, but I don't really know what I'd need to replace, so a list would be highly helpful, then I can price it out and decide whether or not I should just buy a new bike... Possibly I could also keep the cantilever on the rear and just go with a disc on the front for good stopping. Presumably the wheels and front fork at the least would need to change. As would the brifters as those probably pull differently. What else would I need? 

So a couple of months ago, I bought a new front wheel from the local bike shop. It's a 28 spoke wheel, rims are the DT Swiss RR465 and the hub is a 240s. I put 500-600 km on it and noticed a rattle after a ride. After isolating it to the wheel, I noticed that 3 of the spokes were extremely loose with one of them basically hanging. (The nipple/screw thing appears to be inside the rim somewhere. Anyhow, I'm pretty sure I didn't hit anything and I'm not a terribly large guy. Are there things that can happen to new wheels/spokes, stretching or coming loose? Or is this a case of the LBS basically doing a crap job of building the wheel? I'm nearly positive I didn't do anything wrong here, but I'd like to know if there was any possible user error.