Newcomb's problem might help us understand our difficulties between freewill and determinism. There are two boxes; one box is opaque and the other is translucent. In the translucent box is one thousand pounds. The opaque box contains either a million pounds or nothing. There is an omniscient being capable of accurately predicting our choice before we execute it. If the being predicts we shall take only the contents of the opaque box, there shall be one million pounds in it for us to share. However, if we select the contents of both boxes, there will be nothing in the opaque box. According to the principle of maximizing expected utility, we should select only the contents of the opaque box and leave the other one alone. However, according to the principle of dominance, we should select the contents of both boxes because our action occurs after the contents of both boxes are already set up by the predictor. Here is the difficulty with the principle of maximizing expected utility: Suppose we decide to take the contents of only the opaque box. As we walk away with our loot, we look back at the transparent box and realize there is a thousand pounds in it. What is stopping us from going back and taking it? After all, we already received the million pounds and the thousand pounds in the translucent box just cannot disappear into thin air and we would also prove the predictor is unreliable. Suppose, we open the contents of just the opaque box and find nothing, then we can just leave the other box alone, it's just a paltry thousand pounds, to prove the predictor is unreliable. So, an omniscient being capable of accurately predicting our actions, in a deterministic universe, can easily be shown as being unreliable by doing as outlined above. I believe we have freewill (determinism doesn't pass muster), as we are able to outwit an omniscient being. 

The Questions: 1) Is any definition of objective reality really just a democracy or vote which is relying on the most popular perception? 2) If #1 is true, doesn't this just mean that reality is truly subjective, just there may be larger and smaller populations of people that basically agree on the same nature of reality? 3) If #1 is false, then how can it be explained that ideas like logic, empirical data from the 5 senses, the scientific method, and any other basis used to determine objective reality is true outside of an individual's perception of both these ideas and the other observers needed to verify them? 

Abstraction is not the same as commonality, because there is only one sun, yet “the sun” is an abstraction (as explained above). Commonality may inspire the creation of abstractions, because it can make clearer which details we should omit. By seeing a lot of stars, we can come up with the concept of star, by trying to articulate what all stars have in common. “Star” omits information about physical location, in constrast with “the sun” which is “the closest star to the Earth”. 

Mathematical definitions of quantity are irrelevant here, because even a layman's concept of quantity is abstract. “Three” is abstract, it omits saying what is counted. “Three oranges” is abstract, because it omits saying exactly which oranges are spoken of. “The sun” is abstract, because it omits a lot of details about the nature of the sun. According to this view, though, zero is not abstract, because it means “an empty quantity”, and there is no lacking information here, no need to wonder “an empty quantity of what?”. Similarly, the empty set is not abstract, because there is no need to answer the question “an empty set of what?”. That the empty set is not abstract may be the reason why it can be used as the “starting point” of mathematics. If you want zero or the empty set to be abstractions, you need to use another sense of the word “abstraction”, like “imaginary concept”. 

Assume the supernatural does exist, and consists of beings/forces that can interact with our natural universe in ways that are contrary to the natural laws of this universe (at least as we know them). Take any generic or historical example of the supernatural, such as miracles, spiritual/supernatural revelations, sixth senses (in some contexts), angels/demons, various explanations of God/gods, vampires/werewolves, etc. Whichever you like or is your favorite. In general, you just need a being which exists in another dimension/plane of existance, and can at least one-way interact with ours in a way that "breaks" the laws of nature. What evidence can exist or could be captured for these beings/forces/events truly being supernatural? Is it possible that they could be scientifically tested or proven? To what level or extent? Any supernatural event which is observable (a faith healing, for example) could have witnesses, which provides some amount of legal/historical evidence, but is there any way to extend this into a more rigorous scientific test? For example, if we were able to know that a supernatural event was going to occur at a given time, and capture whatever data we desire, can this ever rise to a higher level of proof than the courtroom style proof? 

Abstraction makes us more powerful by simplifying things and focusing exclusively on the most relevant details. Clear, simple thought, at an abstract level, can be more effective than confused, complicated thought, lost in details. Abstraction harnesses the power of focus. It allows us to step back and better see the big picture. It makes easier the wielding of complicated tools (conceptual tools in mathematics, physical tools in the physical world). The more complex something is, the more details we need to hide, and the more abstract the resulting concept. Mathematics involves objects more abstract than numbers. For example, sets of numbers can be manipulated without explicit references to the content of these sets. Hiding the least relevant details is especially helpful when dealing with complicated things like sets of sets of sets. Powerful abstractions allow saying vertiginous things with just a few symbols, by hiding all the work that has been done before to create these powerful abstractions in the first place. Mathematicians stand on the shoulders of giants. (And frequently also on their own shoulders! I guess mathematicians are contortionists.) Conceptual tools are not just used in mathematics, they are also used in natural languages. For example, the concept of “car” is a helpful abstraction: thankfully, we do not always need to mention brand, model and color when mentioning a car. This is especially useful when speaking of a lot of different cars. An important difference between abstractions for physical things and abstractions for mathematical things is that physical abstractions are usually simplistic (because the world is so complex), whereas mathematicians strive to make their abstractions “rigorous.” For example, the abstraction “planet Earth” assumes that there is a clear spatial boundary between the Earth and the rest of the cosmos. However, the real situation seems more complicated: does the Earth include its own atmosphere? If yes, where does its atmosphere precisely stop? Is the Earth an absolutely precise zone? I am no physicist, but the uncertainty principle seems to make that doubtful. In contrast, mathematical objects seem more docile when it comes to making abstractions based on them. Mathematicians try to make their abstractions simple, but not simplistic. 

Logically, it is a paradoxical statement. Paradoxical statements do not describe real situations or occurrences. They cannot be evaluated to either true or false because the thing they describe, according to the laws of logic, are not possible. Therefore "always is always wrong" is a nonsensical statement. It is not true, false, not-true, or not-false. It is paradoxical and describes nothing that is comprehensible. If you wish to allow irrationality to exist, of course, then it can exist - we just can make no statement definitive statement about it at all, as it does not conform to the existence/universe that we have knowledge of. 

Kant criticized Anselm's argument for the existence of God by counter arguing the expression 'God exists' adds nothing to our meaning of God and so it cannot be true a God that exists is greater than a god that does not exist. Yet, modern atheists, most frequently say such things as unicorns, dragons, fairies, ghosts, the great pumpkin, etc. do not exist. So it seems existence is a predicate according to them. Why is existence not a true predicate with respect to Anselm's argument? What is the main difficulty with his argument besides Kant's criticism? 

It appears that there is not an "agreed upon" definition of agnosticism (and to a lesser extent, atheism), even from a more narrow or formal philosophical perspective for the purpose of understanding one's epistemological position. Even so, there does appear to be commentary in the literature where attempts are made to create this distinction. 

Is there an agreed upon definition for Agnosticism from a philosophical perspective? Is there a proper philosophical categorization of it compared to theism/atheim? Looking through the literature I have so far, and questions/answers on this site, there seem to be many different definitions for the various combinations of theism/gnosticism and atheism/agnosticism. In fact, agnosticism itself can be defined as simply the state of being without knowledge (not-knowledge), compared to the the more conclusive position of believing it is not possible to ever have a certain knowledge. I would say the former is just a "weak" form of another belief (theism, atheism or agnosticism), while the latter is a proper understanding of agnosticism as a philosophical term. For example, in Bertrand Russell's description of his belief, he says he would describe to a philosopher that he is an agnostic, but to a man on the street, that he is an atheist. This seems to imply that the agnostic position is a philosophical one based on specific logic that the man on the street may not understand. Given Russell's comments, is the problem of defining agnosticism really due to the fact that these discussions often allow for or include the unphilosophical "man on the street" weak variants that are susceptible to slipping between theism/atheism/agnosticism? On the other hand, some claim that agnosticism is just a subset of atheism. Their argument rests of the definition of the term atheism to be everything that is not theism, rather than the belief that God does not exist - in other words, it can include any belief where one does not positively assert that God exists. I tend to think of agnosticism as a separate philosophical system of belief compared with positive atheism (i.e. I am convinced that God does not exist). That is because I believe an agnostic covers both sides - they do not believe that one can prove God exists, but also do not believe that one can prove God does not exist. Is there a philosophical means of settling this debate, or is this just a matter of term definition? Is there a definition of agnosticism which lends itself more to epistemological formulations? 

Abstraction allows generality. By omitting to mention which natural number a mathematician is studying, whatever she finds out about it is true of all natural numbers. For example, let n be a natural number; then the sum of n and its successor is odd, because n+(n+1) = (n+n)+1 = 2n+1. There is no need to take all natural numbers one by one, we can speak of them all simultaneously. This is very expressive. Abstraction allows uncoupling and flexibility. As others have mentioned, natural numbers can be defined in different ways. However, no matter the chosen definition, the behavior of the resulting numbers should be basically the same. This allows someone to study natural numbers without the need to choose a definition. If mathematicians discover a much better definition of the natural numbers, all the work that has already been done before on natural numbers may still be valid with that new definition. Someone who wants to build a computer screen does not know which images the user will want to display. The builder only has an abstract knowledge of which images the screen should be capable of displaying. The builder knows the amount of pixels, and which colors each pixel should be able to display. By keeping in mind the image as an abstraction (“set of pixels”) instead of a concrete picture, she manages to make up an extremely versatile device, able to display nearly any image she wants. 

Example 3 - lifting a 50 ton weight A better illustration may be a situation from the comments - lifting a 50 ton weight. First off, by free will I can choose to ignore it - why do I have to lift it? Second, I can attempt to lift it, or decide that wouldn't be worth the effort. Granted, I could try for an unreasonable amount of time, but who says the will is rational? I could literally kill myself attempting to move it (beat myself to death against it, exhaustion, etc.). I could even sit down and try to use mental power to move it. Are most of these irrational? Based on generally accepted understandings of the universe, yes, and yet, I'm sure we could come up with examples of real people who have done similar things. Some examples can be found in the "Darwin Awards" - google if you are not familiar with these. But the point is not that I will physically succeed in my willed actions, but that I can choose to take a course of action independent of whether the outcome is or appears to be limited by physical constraints Beyond the irrational, I could will myself to move it, and thereby work hard to get the money over my life to buy the land the weight was on, and afford a crane that was capable of moving it. Moving that weight might be my life work, and I may or may not succeed in the end - but the point is I can make a "free will" choice (if one believes the libertarian side) whether to decide to attempt to move it or not, regardless of the physical limitation you say (and we all may agree) exists. 

In North America, we celebrate a glorious holiday called Groundhog Day. On the second of February, the marmots awaken and leave their burrows, along with their families, to examine the weather. If the animals see their shadows, they'll retreat back in, and it means six more weeks of winter in the Northern Hemisphere. On the other hand, if they don't see their shadows, spring is well on its way. Hurray! For example, examine this poem from Scotland. If Candle-mas Day is bright and clear, There'll be two winters in the year. If Candle-mas be fair and bright, Winter has another flight. If Candle-mas brings clouds and rain, Winter will not come again. Now, skepticism says groundhogs are unable to predict future weather events. But are they so sure? Isn't it possible that groundhogs can sense things about weather that we are unable to? I understand marmots are dull sighted, but have an incredibly good sense of smell. It makes sense then, these rodents, are able to detect things about weather us humans are unable to?