Removing someone from the contact list is usually perceived as harsh. I don't know the specific aspects of your company, but where I work I can refer a potential hire, but then I have no voice on the choices done by HR. At best I can hand the resume directly to the hiring manager if I have a good relationship with him/her, but again I have no voice over the decision to move on or let go. On the other hand, most of LinkedIn contacts I experience are "hey, I am looking for a new job, do you have anything at hand?". Now, considering that I am not a professional recruiter, if this comes from a contact with whom I had some casual talks in the past (congrats for the new position/work anniversary, how are you doing...) I may be inclined to dedicate few minutes to it, but if this person was a ghost since being on my contact list and then just pops up asking for a job, well, chances are I will simply skip it. All in all, your former colleagues do not owe anything to you, or simply opted for inactivity as best option. Removing them from your contacts will look harsh for sure and burn bridges. Just lower your expectation on them, and whenever the time come for a switch of the roles decide how you want to act. 

The company has a culture of process adherence: you are right to follow the company Coding Convention, and if the thing escalate, just make clear you followed the standard. Process adherence is just on paper: forget about the manual, and follow the "hint" of this senior. 

First of all, you have to check if the provisions of the contract obey all the prescriptions of the law in your country. The contract is against the laws in your country: you might be able to invalidate the contract, but it would probably take time and money, as you may need to involve a lawyer and/or a judge. The contract follows the laws in your country: you signed it, you have to adhere to it, or get ready to be sued for breaching it. It will cost you again money and time. Based on the above I would not trust advises from random strangers on the Internet, but rather seek advice of a professional 

You have two directions of action: toward your team and toward your managers/organization. Toward your team: 

They won't hire her for only the name of the office where she worked. They will hire her if her experience and capabilities cover the requirements for the position she is being interviewed. Also the same function can have different names in different organization, so a wrong name is not big harm. When they will ask her about her previous experience, she can explain what her work was, and then maybe explain that the name in the resume was wrongly written. 

Recruiters, like many other people, work to earn money, not out of passion or mission. If they are paid based on certain metric, they will to their best to match that metric. If the metric is "# of new contacts in a month" something is bound to fail. 

Yes. Just mention him you saw a Linkedin account using his name, picture, role and stating he attended that University, and ask if maybe it is his. If somebody is trying social engineering methods to gain access to reserved information, it is worth taking action before it's too late. 

Probation period works two way: the employer gets to know you, and you get to know the employer. If either of the two is not satisfied with the other, probation period is meant to facilitate separation without too much harm. How this will impact your job search in the future strongly depends on how to expose the story. If you are able to explain you didn't see a match between the job and your skill/competence/passion/drive I see no big harm (try not to trash talk your old job); it will just highlight to the interviewer that you are able to evaluate yourself and your fit into an environment. 

You are in the new job for only two weeks, you are still basically learning and being known. Of course in your memories the old is better than the new, since the new is still far from being experienced. Try to recall in your mind the reasons why you left: are they gone? Are you so unhappy in the new position that this unhappiness is worse than the risks I listed above? 

I assume you are still in the probation period of your contract. Sit down with your manager at the new job, address the gap between what was discussed during the hiring process and the reality of the job your are doing right now, then draw your conclusions. It can be that before starting the new job you need to go through some massive learning or some other sound reason (in that case you might want to hold your horses and keep the job), or it can be that reality is different from what you were told. If you decide to quit within the probation period and it happens only once I see no big deal, and it is also easy to explain to any future employer who may question about it (assuming that you even list this experience in your CV). If instead it becomes a constant behavior with you quitting during probation over and over, then it is another story. 

You can make objections to the new project just referring to the theory behind, which, being known science, doesn't break any NDA. To give you an example I met in my carrier: I was struggling with optimizing a recipe for depositing a thin film, needed for an electronic device. I asked an expert for an advice, since he was cooperating with a lot of companies and had vast knowledge on the topic. Every cooperation was covered by an NDA, but his advice was generic and valid. 

To me that logic is nonsense. Your salary is meant to pay for the time you dedicate to your work, not for your expenses. If your work stays the same, and your supervisor acknowledges it, your pay stays the same, too. The fact that you might be able to save some expenses shall not influence your salary. Following that logic everybody would move to live into the most expensive neighborhood, as this would grant higher salary for "fairness". 

Well, then try to understand what is that this person doesn't like and see if you can improve it. Don't do it just with him, send out an anonymous survey and ask the employees what they like and what they would improve, then act accordingly. If you fire somebody for expressing their mind, you simply enforce the concept that you want your employee to lye about your company, which leads to a toxic environment. 

Supposing all the company staff is made by rational adults, I see no problem here. I assume they did their fair share of calculation and opted for a car which would not bleed them out with taxes (maybe they don't live as close as you) and can still fit their needs. As you stated, company car can be selected and it is not a measure of the employee importance. Why should they complain about their own selection? 

Raising a desk level has to do with workplace ergonomics and is health related, but it should not require a doctor's note to happen. Probably your manager is a bit confused. Either search your company policy on that (i.e. mine states that employees can request a desk height change at any moment via facility management), or simply get a doctor note that your desk has to be x cm high. 

Leaving without respecting the notice period of 90 days basically burned bridges with your second employer. If you don't made their life easy upon leaving you cannot expect them to make yours easy now. This also hints that you are not able to keep your word, which is generally a red flag. You cannot really convince a company to skip certain steps in the hiring process that they deem necessary, as doing so would just smell too fishy and add another big red flag on you. Your best option is being honest: explain them why you cannot give them the documents they ask for, and possibly provide a good explanation on why you trashed the 90 days notice period. You want to make sure they trust your ability to stick to your word. 

If the meeting is meant only for you to gather information, you don't need to have all the people in the same room at the same time, as I assume you can listen to one person a time. In this case you can chase their agenda and schedule the 1 to 1 when they are free. If instead you also want them to collegially discuss on the topic, then you have to try to collect as much input as possible. Send MOM out for those who cannot attend part of or the entire meeting, so that they provide feedback on the decision taken. Be sure to make clear what is the scope of the meeting and why their input is needed. MOM stands for Minutes Of Meeting. It should contain: