(Image from here) If your pump only supports Schrader valves but you have a Presta valve, you can go to your bike shop and buy an adapter for Presta->Schrader for around a dollar, each. (The reverse case is rare to occur, but adapters do exist but they're around 8 dollars a piece) To pump up a Presta valve, you unscrew the nut, tap the nut to let a bit of air out (so that the valve isn't stuck), push the chuck onto the valve and lock it, then pump, tighten the nut. Dust cap is optional. Schrader is identical to the procedure on a car. As for which pump to buy, make sure its rated to an appropriate maximum pressure, has a good warranty and has good reviews. Going with a good brand helps too, but you don't need to spend much. I've been using a Topeak Joe Blow Sport II which I got for around 30 bucks with no problems for the past 2 years. Frame pumps are a different matter, but they're primarily for people going on longer rides who won't have access to a floor pump in an emergency. Shock pumps are for people who have air suspension to fill their forks, and are also a different matter. A non-exhaustive list of quality manufacturers include: 

A lot of chain checkers read the chain being worn to x% even on a new chain (esp. on higher speed chains). The variation in new chains and reading inaccuracies can make tools essentially useless. Following these tools will lead to you replacing your chain sooner than necessary. A better quality chain tool can help, or using calipers/a ruler as you are using. See this article from Zinn, for example -- essentially, you need to get an idea of the errors your tool makes, and you can be conservative with the replacement requirements (analogous to oil change intervals for cars; this can be a bit wasteful). Or, get a more accurate measurement (analogous to oil life meters in newer cars). It looks like he uses the Progold or Rohloff tools, which are inaccurate, but by getting an idea of the errors it makes, you can make a rough guess if you need to look closer for measurement, or just say screw it and replace the chain (even if its early) The most accurate way seems to be hang the chain off the bike and use a calibrated ruler/tape measure over several links (in the hanging case, they suggest 100+ links, the longer measurement reduces measurement error). If you don't want to do that, a good ruler/caliper on the bike and measuring lengths. This link explains how various common tools are inaccurate (including yours). Tools which are accurate are Shimano TL-CN40 and TL-CN41 and Pedro’s Chain Checker Plus. To quote Sheldon Brown on the reason why: 

The high and low limit screws don't affect the shifting between the cogs - they just tell the derailleur not to throw the chain into the spokes or out into the frame. Theoretically, this is a set once and forget it adjustment. The B screw will keep the derailleur from rubbing on the cogs and should be set on the largest rear cog. If you put in the same freewheel as before though, it also shouldn't change. The indexing adjustment might need a bit of fiddling ( the barrel adjuster ). In order of things to check: 

I own a 1980s Panasonic (steel) road bike without eyelets for a rack or fenders, and I'd like to add a rack. The seat stays and chain stays on this bike are a bit thinner than I'd be comfortable to use P-Clamps on (and I'd rather not use them for all of the mounting points of the rack). There exist racks which are somewhat designed to alleviate this, such as the Axiom Streamliner line shown below: 

If you have disc brakes, all you need to do is find a new set of compatible disc wheels (i.e. the rotor will mount to the front hub, and the rear hub has the right rotor mount and freehub compatible with the number of speeds you want), and you can swap to a different wheel size. Obviously, your tires need to clear the frame still, and the bike will handle a bit differently. 

The general rule is that you don't want the chain angle to be extreme (i.e. the chain should be running as parallel to the frame as possible) - when the chain is at an extreme angle, it is called cross chaining. This is a good read. For example, you don't want to use the little ring in the front and the little cog in the back (this increases wear on both of them). Likewise, if you want to use the big ring in the front and big ring in the back, you may want to go to the middle ring in the front instead and remain near the center in the rear (if you had it -- for a double in the front, there will be a point where you'll prefer to shift down in the front and then stay near the middle of the cassette). The most important thing to do is to avoid small-small combination though - modern drivetrains aren't too unhappy with cross chaining, but its still not good practice. Also, note that the gears you use at the time depend on the terrain and what not -- try to aim for a cadence of about 70-90 RPM (how fast the pedals turn). 

I'd start by setting the tension to as low as possible when learning and using a float setting to something not too high and not too low (the low end is normally fixed (0 deg) and high is normally 15 deg ish, but how well this feels depends on the pedal). For Look cleats, I'd suggest the grey or red (4.5 and 9 deg resp.) rather than the black (0 deg) to start with, but you'd have to try different float to see whats good for you. There are many clipless systems on the market (Shimano SPD, SPD-SL, Crank Bros Eggbeaters, Look, Speedplay, etc.)-- some are harder than others. For example, many Shimano SPD pedals can be clipped from both sides and can have recessed cleat (so you can walk in the shoes easily), but SPD-SL can only be clipped from one side and portruding cleats (hard to walk). "Mountain biking" systems tend to be a bit easier than "road" systems (and many road bikers run the "mountain" SPD system). You may find one system works better for you than another, but you have to try them. Working with your local bike shop is best for this, because trying many at home is expensive. A bike fit may also help get you in the right position with clipless. In the comments, Kibbee has pointed out two products which may be relevant: Shimano makes "multirelease" cleats for their SPD system, which are easier to release by rolling or twisting your foot in any direction. Shimano's Click'r system also is designed for getting in and out of easy. Finally, clipless is not for everybody -- if you're perfectly happy with platform pedals or for some reason clipping in via toe clips, feel free to continue using it. 

This is typical-ish behavior, especially if your derailleur gets a bit out of adjustment/alignment, the chainline not being quite right, etc. You shouldn't really be backpedaling significantly, just to move the pedals into the right place (e.g. cornering, starting to ride, etc.). So, this isn't really a problem in real riding. If its happening when you're just moving the pedals (which is about a half turn of the crankset, normally, like getting the pedal up to start riding), then take it back to the shop and get them to check the adjustment of the derailleur. 

Depends on the road bike. Some are better at going on fire roads and other surfaces without significant drops than others. A larger tire size is helpful. Cyclocross bikes tend to be quite good at this sorta thing too. 

Assuming you do mean reach as distance from the center bolt (for mounting a caliper brake) to the middle of the brake shoe: For a center mount brake (e.g. many caliper brakes), the reach is determined by the length of the brake arms, and you can get different reaches easily by swapping to a longer or shorter armed brake (or make a drop bolt allowing you to use a shorter reach brake for when you need longer reach). However, brakes mounted on bosses like V-brakes have their "reach" determined by the position of the bosses in addition to the brake. This can vary from frame to frame (or fork to fork) a bit, but usually not beyond the 10-15 mm or so allowed for brake pad adjustment. The exception is probably the Paul's Moto BMX V-brake: 

The suspension is there just for looks, not for actually doing anything useful, and you don't really have adjustment on it, or the ability to lock it out. That is, you can't do anything. In your case, you want to make the suspension stiffer not looser to reduce the bouncy-ness. That is, if the suspension was fixed, it wouldn't bounce so much. In general, suspension costs money to do well. You're looking at ~400-500 USD for bicycles with basic servicable suspension forks, and ~1500+ USD for bikes with acceptable full supsension. Decent suspension forks will have some adjustability, and possibly the ability to lock out (i.e. act like a rigid fork). Rear suspension systems of the coil type need a different coil (with a larger spring constant for more rigidity) to adjust significantly. Other types have other adjustments. Note that for riding on the road, you don't really need suspension (for comfort, larger tires are often a better choice). And the suspension on your BSO won't really cope with any non-trivial rough stuff off road (note that these bikes are sold typically with stickers saying not to use them off road).