What type of flats do you suffer from ? Punctures ? How much do you ride ? How often do you have flats ? How much pressure do you have in your tire ? If it's too low it might be the cause of your flats. Tires will lose pressure over time so you need to re-inflate them periodically. How old are your tires ? If they are too thin they will be prone to flats, try to check if you have wear marker. With tubeless people usually put some sealant in the tire, so you might try that, this will prevent/repair puncture flat. 

Google Maps has a Bicycling overlay that can help you. It does have a few indication that states what type of road you have : 

Maybe you can use a shipping service from the US to re-ship the new keys to you, but I'm assuming that you have to send the lock in, and have them ship it back ? If that's the case, a new lock would probably be cheaper. 

If you can afford gears, buy them. Having an uphill section at the end you will want to shift up in order to make it easier. Going the oposite direction you will also like the ability to go to a smaller gear to get a little more speed downhill. Looking at the pictures linked, it seemed the that the single speed have a rather small rear cog compared to the geared bike. If you can't handle shifting rapidly you can always leave it your geared bike in one speed, but at least you'll have the option of chaing it for those morning where you feel weaker or have less energy. 

Even if the error is 5%, it's still a power meter. I would get it fixed either to use personnaly or to sell it. 

I think you are confused between tubular and tubeless. Tubular tires are "all in one" tire where the inner tube is sewed inside the tire. Tubeless tires look like regular clincher tire and hooks in specially designed rims; these tubeless tire and rim provide an airtight seal so they can be inflated without an inner tube. Regular clincher tires are very similar, but require an inner tube to contain the air. So a tubeless tire does require a hooked rim, but they are not tubular tires. Additional detail : clincher tires can be installed in tubeless rims with no problems. 

Looking at the Cervelo S5 series there are two different models but the Cervelo page offers no mention of what differences are.. could someone enlighten me? Looking just at the framesets is there a difference? 

I am trying to get hold of some figures for accident rates where either, ideally just cyclists or, just general road users & pedestrians, are involved in accidents (or reported near misses) because a motorist/cyclist has been using a mobile phone. I would like (if possible) to have information regarding Sweden and other countries where cell phone use is not banned, and in countries where it has been banned such as the UK. As a cyclist who lived in the UK and now lives in Sweden I notice a considerable difference in my "near miss" rate, and the vast majority of my near misses here come from phone users (and bus drivers, but that was the same in GB!). If I can get some statistics I am going to look in to campaigning my local politician and having cycling friends in the area note down their near miss rates (how many kilometers per evasive action). Examples of the sort of nice stats I'm looking for: xx% of accidents involving cyclists in Sweden are suspected or proven to be due to one or more parties involved using a cell phone at the time of the accident. Since banning the use of cell phones the overall rate of accidents involving cyclists has decreased by xx% in the UK, and those involving cell phones has decreased from aa% to bb% 

Recently I've been getting notifications on my edge 510 of an upcoming segment (& and display when riding through it) - I can turn this off by hitting the red cross on screen when it comes up, but I'd like to completely disable this function and can't work our how. Any ideas? 

Most importantly, carefully read the instructions included with the new callipers before fitting, don't just follow the guide above. 

I've just been doing some hill repeats and killing the boredom I got thinking, what is the best position to be in when braking hard (emergency stop, coming downhill etc.)? Obviously you want to keep the back wheel from lifting off the ground. For example, I could lean over the handlebars (stupid but its illustrative) sit in the middle of the saddle, sit on the back of the saddle, or hang off the back beyond the saddle... What is the most effective way to transfer weight on to the back wheel? (On a road bike) 

It's a little more than 100$, but you could have a Garmin Edge 20 for 130$. Maybe wait a little for a special or something*. According to the post it's a good little computer and I personnaly enjoy using their Edge lineup. (* the website has a 10% anything coupon with their partner, might be worth a look, that would bring the Edge 20 to 117$, might not work for everything thought) 

I really enjoy gummy type food (e.g. PowerBar Gel Blast or Cliff Blocks). They have multiple flavors and taste OK. It won't replace a full meal, but it does keep me fueled up for longer rides. These gummies usually have an expiry of +1 year and can take the sun and heat without melting. Some of my packets did a 6h ride in full sun in my back pocket without melting and still being eatable. 

One big difference is where the force is applied. In a conventional pedal, you press down using the ball of you foot. In a foot-long pedal you would have to center the axle so the pedal stays level, but that would mean that the force would be applied by the middle of your foot. You would be losing the power and flexibility that your ankle can bring. Being clipped in the pedal also has many power and security advantages. Does your footlong pedal in your scenario has a way of being clipped ? In that case you still need strong shoes with a sole, so why have that big of a pedal when you can have a single smaller point of contact ? 

The big thing is : you have a very subjective human riding the bicycle. Even if a study shows that for X leg length you need Y crank length, if the person riding the bike think that Z cranks feel better or feel faster, what can you do? That is mostly why there is so much debate, because everybody is different. Also people want different things from their bike, some want minimum maintenance, while other want minimum friction. Some people want light wheels, other want stiffer wheels. Some people don't mind lubing the chain after each ride, while other will do it one a season. 

All these are hard for a car to keep up, sure you might annoy some pedestrians and might be illegal in some places, but it's still better than having the crap beat out of you. 

I took out my wheel for a puncture and when the wheel went back on the bike the gears were out of line, a lot of skipping and jumping. What is the best way to get them back in alignment (must be possible at the road side)? Is there a tip on how to reinsert the wheel so it stays in alignment? Or is it a case of getting the wheel back in and adjusting the derailleur to realign? (On a road bike with tiagra rear d) 

I have been looking online for a while on how to fix a bug with my Garmin Edge 510 Cadence/Speed sensor but no luck, and now I'm indoors training it's more important that it works (so I can get "speed" data to approximate power). It often drops out as in this ride and this ride for example. It seems I'm not the first to encounter this problem but I'm struggling to find a solution. Is there a fix? 

"The chain also jumps a lot (feels like it shifts gears without me doing anything, then stays on the same gear anyway)." Based on this I'm going to suggest that the cassette is worn (the rear gear cogs). If the chain was very worn it will have worn the teeth of the cogs to the same fit, now with a new chain they no longer align properly. Depending on the cassette model it is fairly cheap to replace, but does need a couple of special tools - your community bike repair group should have them. See here for GCN's how to replace a cassette. But you've already replaced that right? Make sure it's fitted correctly and is the right size - if you've switched to something with a lot of teeth on the biggest cog you may need a longer rear dérailleur. In the future check the chain stretch frequently using a chain wear tool and replace it when there is 1% or more wear, this will prolong the life of the cogs in the cassette and chainrings (front gear cogs). Also check the chain is threaded correctly through the drive train, check the bottom bracket by knocking the chain off and spinning the cranks, check the alignments of dérailleurs, and grease the jockey wheels. Did you use the correct size of chain? And did you set the length of chain correctly? 

Remove the cable ends (metal cap over the end of the cable) and loosen the cable clamp bolt (bolt holding the cable tight to the calliper). Unfasten the calliper by loosening the calliper bolt (the one attaching the calliper to the frame). Take the calliper off the bike. Attach the new calliper by the calliper bolt, making sure the calliper is straight (and on the correct end of the bike) and tighten so the calliper does not move around on the frame. Align the pads to the wheel rim surface: Loosen the brake pad bolts, pull the calliper closed by hand, align the pads and tighten the pad bolts whilst keeping the calliper held closed. Attach the cable to the calliper: put the cable in to position, pull the calliper closed on the rim and release it by a couple of millimeters, while holding the calliper in that position tighten the cable clamp bolt. Cap the new cable. Adjust the alignment of the calliper position so brake pads are equidistant from the rim, double check the bolts are all properly tightened, pads are properly positioned (on the right side, straight, not touching the tire etc.), and test the brakes well before you need to use them. 

I don't think they are related and I don't think clip-less pedal will change anything. It's probably age or lack of running training that make it harder to run. Anecdotal evidence : my friend is running and cycling pretty fast, but I can only cycle fast, I'm an abysmal runner. He runs multiple times a week while I rarely run more than once a month. Think of triathletes who run and cycle pretty fast, if cycling would be bad for running, they wouldn't be able to do both of them at that level. 

All else being equal (power output, weather, wind resistance, etc.), how much faster will I be if I lose 10kg (going from 100kg to 90kg) while riding? Acceleration and climbing might be much different, but while riding steadily on a flatish road outputting the same power as before, how will my cruising speed change ? 

So you might check those dedicated lanes. An other option would be to use Strava's Global Heatmap where you can see where people are cycling the most. You can't really see what you want exactly (dedicated lanes), but coupled with Google's map, I find it's a good start to plan a ride. 

I fear that you won't be able to replace the wheel with exactly the same thing since they seem to be generic wheels built for this bike. You can try the dealer you bought them from, they might have a replacement available or you can look for a different set elsewhere. In that price category you might have to buy a set (front+rear wheel) thought, but at least that means they will match. 

I thankfully never was in that situation, but if the driver doesn't let you go or is getting out of the car, use the bike's advantages over the car : 

One thing that can help is training on rollers. It's kind of dangerous at the begining, because the bike reacts a lot to little imbalances, but as you get more experience on them you will feel much more stable on the bike and this might help in feeling the bike better on the road. As for bike handling, ride it and ride it more, I don't think anything beats experience. You can look up techniques for cornering or decending, but you will have to try them a little faster each time to know your limit. 

In almost every slope you will hit a speed "sweet spot" where the gravity pull and drag from the wind will cancel each other out, this can be at 70 km/h for a 8% slope in aero position or 15 km/h for a 2% slope on an hybrid bike.