I can't tell for sure what's going on in that picture, but I think it's a modified older Vision lever that clamps on the OD rather than inside the bars, and then the shifter is just stuck out the end. Ways of doing it with off the shelf parts that I know of are the Jtek Aerobrake, Ultegra ST-6871 and DA ST-9071, the Record and Athena tri/tt EPS levers, and SRAM eTap blips (their equivalent, kind of). 

This topic is really poorly understood. Anyone who ever who tells you it's fine to just straight round up or round off when choosing spoke lengths just hasn't been through the disaster scenarios that can be caused by it, or perhaps doesn't remember because the experience is too painful and embarrassing. Always round down unless you can test and measure the spokes in question before building to avoid running out of threaded length or poking the tube. If you have to order spokes, just round down. If your calculated optimal length is accurate (and there's no reason it shouldn't be) and you must round down to the next whole number from there (as in the 292 in your example), nothing meaningful will ever be lost in terms of durability from that extra 1.99mm max. Some people point out that having al nipples miss this much engagement introduces some kind of non-zero additional risk of the nipple breaking. That's probably true. However, you'll never know if that's what caused it, because al nipples break anyway. They especially break if they're the commonly used 2mm/14g ones, which shouldn't even exist. Note that your measurements and your calculation must be accurate for the above to work out. You don't want to miss more thread engagement than around this amount. That would be poor form. Never use a calculator where you can't see that the math it's doing is nothing other than the pure classic spoke length formula. Some calculators try to invisibly factor in estimates of spoke stretch and rim compression, which you should do manually based on the parts you're using. (Spoke gauges differ in stretch, the amount of tension also causes it to differ, and the stoutness/cross-sectional area of rims make them differ in compression.). Spocalc is a good one that doesn't do this. And always measure the hub and rim yourself. It seems pedantic, but I promise that if you build enough wheels, or are ever working for a wheel producer and are tasked with doing spoke calculations and there's never time to do test runs of anything (this was my situation that taught me good spoke calculation habits), you'll find all this necessary to have consistently good results. If you have to order the hub/rim along with the spokes (particularly the rim, because manufacturer list measurements for hubs are usually very accurate), just take vendor/manufacturer listed measurements on faith for calculation purposes, but measure yourself once you do have everything to make sure what you're about to do is going to work. Second-guess published ERDs early and often. What gets overlooked in this discussion is that there are whole brands/models of spoke, or spoke/nipple combinations, that offer zero ability for the spoke to protrude past the top of the nipple. They don't have the threaded length to do it. So rounding up walks you right into the failure situation of running out of thread and having to either start over or accept an untrueable wheel with bad tension. Various Wheelsmith bags I've used, for example, have been like this, with Wheelsmith nipples. Contemporary DT Champions and Competitions, the most commonly encountered premium spokes, avoid this occurrence by having some superfluous/generous threaded length. Some other spoke brands and models do not, and give you no leeway for the spoke to be long. And single wall builds naturally have no such leeway. If you do need to round up, or insist on getting full thread engagement, always test it out first by taking a nipple and spoke that you're about to use and see how far the nipple screws on before it bottoms out, and then measure the amount of protruding spoke you have to work with to make sure it will be acceptable with whatever your calculated length was. Also make sure the rim's depth is such that it won't cause spoke to protrude up and poke the rim strip/tube. If the spoke meets these criteria it's fine, but it can't just be assumed that it will until you test. Do that test on enough spokes and you'll see. 

Flex causes this and it's not going to hurt anything. However, it's frequently the case flex is just the contributing factor that pushes the system into rubbing. Look down at the gap between your rotor and pads, and slowly spin the wheel. If you were to see consistent .2-.4mm-ish gap on both sides, a true rotor (no warbles), and good parallelism between the pad and rotor, there's not really anything you could do to improve things at that point, and you'd know it was just flex causing the rub. If you see an out of true rotor, off-center pads, or very minimal gap all around, then that means the rotor is getting closer to the pads in certain spots than it should be able to, and while it may not rub unloaded (in the stand etc), adding flex is getting it there. So to solve it you may need to true the rotor, face the frame/fork, reset the pistons, and/or adjust the caliper position. 

Beyond the question of finickiness of actually using the system with higher cog counts, it's a matter of whether there's enough total cable pull from the shifter in friction mode to cover the range of movement needed given the cassette used and the actuation ratio of the derailer. Here's an excellent article with the basic data you need to figure it out, snipped: 

It sounds like it is in all likelihood good to go. But, in terms of the less fortunate possible scenarios, there are two main types of bad things you could experience: 

It's probably a cup and cone bottom bracket with the splined tool interface rather than wrench flats or pin holes. Most recent ones are like this, I believe as a function of what tools now make up the standard arsenal at bike factories. Or it may be a cartridge BB with a lockring, which have existed but aren't common. In either case, you remove it by loosening the lockring and then removing the cups. 

Friction shifters eventually need to be taken apart, cleaned, and re-lubricated to solve the problems you mention. Be very careful to keep the parts in order. You'll find advice on the above mentioned other thread not to lubricate them, which is wrong. All the surfaces should get a thin film of oil or grease, ideally something that doesn't harm plastic presuming your shifter has plastic washers, as most do. Using a mild or medium strength Loctite is optional but is a good further safeguard against slippage, and won't keep you from loosening them on purpose. Some people use beeswax as a substitute. The plastic washers inside can degrade, which wouldn't be surprising on a 30 year old bike. If so you probably just need a new shifter unless you want to get crafty and find or make new ones. 

There are 4-piston disc brakes for bicycles that in a sense accomplish the same thing. Some have had 4 pads and others just 2 really big ones. The rotor's ability to manage heat is a bottleneck to the whole concept. You can of course get a bigger rotor, but at that point you're doing a lot of work to mitigate being nervous about the front brake, which leads to the next issue here. The rear brake or brakes have slowed down the bike as much as they're going to once they lock the wheel. Getting that level of braking power in sufficiently demanding conditions isn't just a given, like how for example it sometimes might require a brake like the aforementioned 4-piston downhill/freeride brakes, but it's generally pretty attainable with existing designs. Most cyclists who have been doing it for a while get pretty strongly opinionated against any brake system that downplays the front brake. The reason is that physics dictate that for the bike to stop as fast as possible, you need to stop the front wheel. It's best to develop mastery with the front brake, because you need it for emergency stops. 

Bending the chainrings back is a possibility, but what you want to avoid doing is bending them around when what's actually causing the problem is misalignment coming from either the crank or BB spindle. If the warble on the rings is uniform across the three rings, that's a strong but not automatic indication of a bent or poorly aligned BB spindle. If it's the larger two only but the inner is more or less straight, that's a strong indication that the crank spider tabs are misaligned, which is often a fixable problem. Spider tabs can be "trued" by removing the chainrings, taping something flat like a popsicle stick to the FD to use as a gauge, and bending them around using an adjustable wrench so they run true with each other. This is bending aluminum, which always introduces some risk of fatigue failure. Then put it back together and if that doesn't work, you can try working the individual spots on the rings back into alignment. Just making it a one-by may be reasonable, but it can be difficult to get it to not drop the chain if you're not using anything to help keep it on. Good chainline is a must if you're going to avoid this, but it's not necessarily enough. 

You are correct, all Campy 11 cassettes go on all Campy 10-compatible freehubs. Listing it as 8-10 compatible is kind of a misnomer because you have to jump through some hoops to make an 8 work on it. It would be better to call it 9-10-11. Here's a page worth bookmarking that I always refer back to to keep it straight. 

If the hub flanges are the same diameter, a slightly inexact but highly likely to succeed rule of thumb is that the calculated lengths for a conventional three-cross 26", 27.5", or 700C disc wheel are likely to give you a difference of right around 1mm in optimal length between the right and left side, so if you know your existing left spoke is optimal than just getting 1mm longer is likely to work. (The number is right around 2mm for non-disc rears). Unfortunately there are some stumbling blocks. Usually the actual difference in calculated length is more like .9mm-1mm for fronts and 1.2mm for rears, which means that there are corner cases where if you did this in front where the left you had was at the stone limit of thread length and you added 1mm, you might run out of thread length and the spoke wouldn't work. If the spare you have is the same as what's in the wheel, you could pull off the rim strip and check how the thread engagement is looking to preempt this. That would also let you know whether to get the same length or that length +2mm if you went to buy the spoke and found they only had 2mm increments, which is pretty common. Note this rule of thumb doesn't work the same for smaller wheels or cross patterns other than 3x. You could just calculate it using a published ERD (effective rim diameter), and if you had an accurate ERD then that would work well since you can measure the hub, but the problem there is that published ones often aren't quite right, sad but true. A pretty exact length can be found by reverse-calculating the ERD if the left spare you have is the same as what's in the wheel. You can pull off the rim strip as above and do a careful measurement to determine its exact difference from optimal length, probably easiest done by counting visible threads and multiplying by the thread pitch. Measure the spare, add or subtract that difference from optimal thread engagement, then measure or estimate the left side tension on the wheel and use either math or something like Machinehead Wheelcalc to get the amount of spoke elongation the ones in the wheel currently have and factor that in, and the result should be the ideal "stretched" left side length. After measuring the hub, you then have all the tools you need to use a spoke calculator like Damon Rinard's spocalc.xls to reverse-calculate the ERD of the rim by plugging in different ERDs until you hone in on the one that matches your measured optimal stretched left length, and then the calculator will also be telling you what the ideal right side stretched length is, from which you'll then have to compensate for elongation. (Good spoke length calculators use the classic spoke length formula that works off the pure geometry of the wheel as though it were just a bunch of circles and lines, and leave it to you to compensate for elongation.) If you wanted to just measure the built wheel to get an ideal spoke length, use a tape measure, piece of string, etc to get the most accurate measurement you can from the inside of the J (the actual point of contact with the hub flange) to the point where the spoke inside its nipple intersects the inside surface of the rim. It can be tricky to measure so do it a couple different ways until you're confident. From there you want to add the thickness of the rim including eyelets if present and the thickness of the head part of the nipple, and then subtract for elongation. You can get the base thickness of the rim by snaking the depth gauge part of a Vernier caliper through the valve hole. 2mm is a good general number to use for the nipple head height; that errs low but that will result in spokes that are slightly short rather than slightly long, which is what you want so that you don't run out of thread length while trying to change a spoke in the middle of nowhere. For the elongation, .5mm on the less-tensioned side and .8mm on the full-tension side are pretty safe general purpose number for either 2.0 or 1.8mm spokes, but there are more exacting approaches that can be taken.