No, because in this definition intelligence implies suffering. By the way, in Buddhism, intelligence could be understood differently. 

There is a sowewhat long article in Wikipedia on this regard. But Buddhists don't see Buddha as God. Buddha is more like a saint, as there are may Buddhas. They attained enlightenment in a specific way, so they are considered as so. Monks attain enlightenment but they aren't Buddhas, besides they say everyone has the nature of Buddha in ourselves. Now God is something that is not very thought/talked/taught about in Buddhism. God isn't accepted or denied, but we rather don't conjecture about supernatural things or beings. We don't identify God as we can't perceive him or it, as we can perceive other people. But there are the deities is Buddhism as seen on the Six Domains of Samsara. They aren't supernatural begins, but a fleeting state of the life. For example, when people win the lottery, initially they are very happy and taking advantage of all the money they won. But this mental state doesn't last long, it goes away in one or two years, they cycle to other domains. Another example is when we buy some new smartphone or car, we are very happy and proud and full of energy (we feel as gods) in the first days or weeks, but all this excitation disappears (we migrate to other realms or domains). So being a god is feeling like one, but feelings change sooner or later. 

The article refers to side effects of the meditation practice on people with very deep mental illness. Mindfulness certainly is good for anyone, but meditation can be harming. Normal people could experience boredom and sleep at worse. People with depression and anxiety have very sharp minds, and meditation (not mindfulness) could possibly worsen their state. I think the problem they are trying to address is that on meditation you leave people to look and feel for themselves, and it is not safe to leave these mentally ill people "wander" on their thoughts and feelings by themselves. 

Paraphrasing Einstein, you can't solve a problem with the same paradigm that creates it. Just to put it in the context, you can't solve greed using wealth, and you can't solve desire using power. You can't "save the world" from suffering by the means that creates suffering. From another perspective, the only way to lessen the suffering of the world is lessening your own suffering. Paraphrasing Gandhi, be the change you want to see in the world. If you seek wealth and power, you are just feeding the status quo. And lastly, if you are able to transcend the common state of mind, you are far from passive. Although your personal revolution might be small in the face of all humanity and faint near powerful people, it is a great step in means of example and legacy. I think Buddhism isn't about radical revolutions, but small incremental improvements. 

Specifically, is there a difference between equanimity as a corruption of insight and the insight stage "equanimity in regards to formations"? 

Buddha probably thought buddhism was the best approach, or else he would have spent his time promoting something else. The idea of "learning from life" makes me think of learning based on the rules of the society a person is born into. Most societies are deluded. It is more unlikely to just have an epiphany one day and realize this than it is to follow a set of instructions that have helped people have this realization for thousands of years. This way of approaching life and escaping delusion exists without "Buddhism"; someone can figure out to follow the same approach as a Buddhist without ever knowing that Buddhism existed. This is why individuals can escape samsara even when the teachings have been lost. In the same sense, a person could rediscover algebra... but think how much easier it would be to just go to school and be taught algebra. 

Can next path start without being skilled in fruition attainment? For example, if I am able to advert to A&P but not able to advert to fruition, is that proof I am still reviewing the last path, or can it be that I moved on too soon? Sorry if this is convoluted, I am looking for an actual answer as opposed to a non answer. 

Mindfulness, investigation of reality and energy are factors that will help overcome sloth-torpor. Also, don't lay down when you are meditating and experiencing sloth-torpor or you will probably fall asleep. If you need to, get up and practice walking meditation . . . or splash water on your face. 

You need to also recognize that what is impermanent is stressful and what is stressful and impermanent is not self. 

From my own understanding of the Maha-Assupura Sutta, after abandoning the five hindrances the practitioner enters Jhana. After having obtained Jhana the practitioner works on insight. On abandoning the five hindrances: 

Individuals may experience nirv훮na as an object of mental consciousness. Certain contemplations with nibbana as an object of sam훮dhi lead to the level of non-returning. At that point of contemplation if the individual realizes that even that state is constructed and therefore impermanent, the fetters are destroyed, arahantship is attained, and nibb훮na is realized. With regard to nirvana, a distinction is made between a person's experience of nirvana during their life and after their death. These two aspects of nirvana are described as: 

Three words to help a secular accept of impermanence: Negative visualization, early retirement, and Hedonic adaptation. Awareness of impermancence is also one of the basic pillars of Stoicism. Once you become aware of, and appreciate, impermanence you'll: find joy every day you get to spend with your children, you'll learn to appreciate your daily cup of coffee. When you lose something, or break something, you'll have spent significant time understanding that the things was already broken or lost. Because you have internalized that the thing was going to pass away some day, you will not only have appreciated it more while you still had it, you have also spent time preparing yourself for its demise, significantly lessenning the suffering associated with the departure. This day will end; what good have you done? This job will end; what good did it do you? Your life will end: what good did you do? Your children will die one day; what good did you do them? Amidst all this morbid speculation actually comes an amazing liberation, coupled with a new take on life: make the most of what you have, love what you have, appreciate what you once had, and live now. Live now, 'cause you're already dying. Here's a capitalist kicker: Once you start to realize the impermanence of stuff, you also get a much more realistic picture of what it's all actually worth. Not what it costs, but what its value is. If you google financial independence you'll find two basic approaches. 

Approach number two relies heavily on realizing the difference between price and value. Meditating on the impermanence of everything is an amazing way to gauge that difference. You see, you become hedonically adapted to everything, and so in time your life starts to suffer from inflation. You want newer cars, bigger homes, more stuff, more everything. Internalizing the impermanence of stuff is a great way to internalize the futility of owning all that..... crap. Hedonic adaptation robs us of our appreciation of sunrises, indoor plumbing, vaccines, a warm seat, a roof over our heads, company, electricity etc. When you start meditating on the impermanence of everything you'll start to reverse that hedonic adaptation and start to actually LOVE a simple life. This is part of the reason why those 'weird' monks and minimalists are so eerily happy with their lack of stuff, while 'the rest of us' are busy stuffing our homes. Accept impermanence and you'll learn to love what you have, learn to release your fears when you're stuck in a bad spot (this, too, shall pass), you'll spend less money on things that you don't need in your life, you will get a better perspective on your day-to-day life, on and on.... Once you really grok it, it becomes a pillar of a good and robust life. 

From an academic perspective the wikipedia article "Tath훮gata" has good information. According to wikipedia: The word's original significance is not known and there has been speculation about it since at least the time of Buddhaghosa, who gives eight interpretations of the word, each with different etymological support, in his commentary on the Digha Nikaya, the Sumangalailasini: 

Non-returner: The non-returner, having overcome sensuality, does not return to the human world, or any unfortunate world lower than that, after death. 

This is oftentimes an intensely debated precept. Yes, the fifth precept is understood differently by different people, i.e., sometimes people interpret it to mean abstaining from all drugs or all intoxicants. It usually always includes abstaining from intoxication and heedlessness from alcoholic drink though; some people may interpret this as allowing them to drink in moderation. If I had to guess, the person that was responsible for putting those Buddha statues in that bar thought they were cool and has no idea about the precepts. 

Together they refer to one's mental processes as a whole. Separately, what are they and how are they different? 

I am not referencing any suttas for this answer, it comes from my own experiences (I am not an arahat). One who has obtained nirvana can choose whether or not to experience pain and can choose the level of suffering that is associated with that pleasure or pain. Having obtained nirvana an individual has the ability to reside beyond pleasure and pain and it also gives them complete understanding of pleasure and pain and things can not be understood without being experienced. After some research, Sakalika Sutta: The Stone Sliver talks about how buddha cut his foot and endured the physical pain. 

Yes, people are known to reach enlightenment and even full liberation without any knowledge of Buddhism or use of teachers and guides. In my opinion, thinking, "What I practice is the only way," is a form of pride and a way for people to hold themselves above others. 

Magga means Path. Phala means Fruit. They are both supramundane (lokuttara) consciousness. This is what A Manual of Abhidhamma says: 

It is correct that a stream-winner will not not break the five precepts. On the other hand, that is not one and the same as perfect morality. As an example, from Mahasi Sayadaw's Manual of Insight: 

The Golden Buddha, officially titled Phra Phuttha Maha Suwan Patimakon, is the world's largest solid gold statue. What is the justification for such a statue? By justification I mean, what reasons would the Buddhists who created/use the statue give to explain why keeping gold (often seen as a sign of wealth and power) as a statue is right; as opposed to using the money from melting it down and selling it to buy meals for the homeless or others in need.