Well, this civilization (if it's still around, the gathering could be done by an automatic probe relaying data to a decaying control center filled only with dust and probably plant life in a ruined astronomy research complex on an uninhabited mud ball circling closer and closer to a dying sun...) obviously passed the great filter. But perhaps they do not understand how they did that. They want to find out, by examination, what stopped the other civilizations to understand the phenomenon better. They could be altruistic, trying to provide methods for other civilizations to pass. Or they could be trying to learn how to reproduce the circumstances needed for other worlds to be weeded out in order to secure their place as rightful owners of the universe. Or, tying into my first though about the civilization doing the cataloguing not being around anymore, perhaps they failed themselves but before transforming their homeworld into a ball of molten glass they launced this initiative so that other civilizations hopefully may learn from the failed examples of others. 

"Ok...", said Xaxhazztrax the Daemon Chairman, "Sog's rain idea was a flop. Clearly the humans aren't Deep Ones. Good thing one of them built a floating box." It was unclear to the assembly exactly how the human had gotten all the animals into his vessel, but hoary Nodens looked a bit smug. Then again, hoary Nodens always looked smug. Who invited him anyway? Was he even part of their pantheon? "So what do we do now?", a lesser servitor of Miihyagaa piped, his mistress silently brooding with her seven eyes fixed into the aether as usual. "We've given them fire, that didn't work. We've given them water, that didn't work. My mistress proposes that we call this project quits." There was a general murmur of agreement. "No!" Zblu'tras said firmly. "Our mistake was clearly focusing on altering their environment. They seem to have adapted well to it. We need to ennoble their spirits. I shall give them... art." 

I may edit my answer if you have more scenaristic arcs than what you gave us in mind, but if you didn't, as I said, I don't see why would they simply keep fighting. 

I think your question is a bit too blurry for a useful answer. You did not say if there is any kind of effort, or mastery over your body/mind, or discipline required to cast spells (if the individual can). What i mean is : If it is literally simply 'imagine what you want and it pops right up', it's useless to be taught, in the same way it's useless to follow a course to learn how to walk: it is basic enough to be taught by people who are not pros (you pretty much just have to learn the 'meditation' process, and the rest is up to your imagination. If casting spells requires you to concentrate, say, to cast bigger spells you need discipline and mastery over what you want, then there is a point in teaching it: you could imagine schools that discipline you, teachers who are expert in materializing what you want ... It is useful to be taught if it is complicated (or if it can become dangerous very easily). Just like economics or psychology, you need to have a feeling, or knowledge that comes with time, but there are still basics about how humans react in general, how they behave in front of a problem: they study what is around this, and not the core process. EDIT : after further development, i believe i can now give you an answer. To get some kind of WoW-kind magic, you can take ideas out of a lot of fantasy works. Magic asks you for energy, and skill. Your schools can be very practical (very Harry Potter-like) : To put it simply, they just go in rooms where they cast spells, to train, and mixed with sports, combat, and mental exercises to increasy their stamina and mental capabilities Non-practical teaching should therefore be near-inexistant, given the theory is pretty easy : you want to do something, and it happens. This way you create very endurant magicians, combined with great mental strength and focus. The more endurant/focused they are, the better they cast. 

Extrapolating from this I'd say that it means the lighter than air properties (and the manufacturing/extraction of) hydrogen was known as early as the 18th century. Which coincides nicely with James Watts continuous rotary motion steam engine in time, suggesting that the components of a steampunk style civilization align rather nicely in time. For a history of Hydrogen extraction (And further evidence in the case of lighter-than-air-flight) we can turn to Ebbe Almqvist's "History of Industrial Gases" which states. 

The thing with Kowloon Walled City was not the denseness, it was that there was nobody enforcing the rule of law. It was basically an abandoned area where the monopoly on violence was ceded to the organized crime gangs. Just make sure you have a police force and preferably a small standing army that is separated from the police. Be strict on corruption. Provide fundamental human rights, such as healthcare and social securities (if you're American these may or may not register as fundamental human rights, but in most European countries it's not up for debate and lacking them will make people leave if they can and you end up having to force them to stay at gunpoint). Also, there needs to be an incentive to live so densely packed. Preferably you have a highly thriving economy. Moving to your state will be a betterment of life for the inhabitants. They will be better paid and have nicer (if somewhat smaller) apartments than if they lived in the surrounding country/countries. Child care and hospital care will be better. If those things are in place, the walls will have to be to keep people out, not in... Edit: SZCZERZO KŁY Is right, a well functioning sewage system should not be overlooked. Also, of course, as some might point out good opportunities for sunlight and recreation is important to the well being of your citizens. Utilizing the rooftops as terraces is a good step, but being able to reserve some of the ground space to use for a park is a good investment in quality of life. 

Mages are like feudal knights. They are experts at what they do and are devoted to their lord/king/queen. This arrangement is mutually beneficial - mages are given the time and resources to devote themselves to their craft, and the rulers gain powerful allies. The rulers themselves are rarely mages, because the dedication required conflicts with the responsibilities of ruling. However, it is common for the non-inheriting children of important families to study magic, and they become important contributors to the family's strength. Sufficiently intelligent and studious people of lower rank can rise in status by becoming mages - the usual route for this is to seek patronage from an important family, and then repay them with service. Self-taught prodigies are extremely rare. Mages who betray their patron are seen as treacherous and ungrateful. Eventually, a "commoner" mage can gain their own lands and start their own noble house, so they are rarely interested in bringing the whole feudal system toppling down. 

I think some sort of "natural" or "organic" computer is the way to go. Maybe there is an organism that naturally forms significant colonies of single cells, and has evolved to act as a neural network to make simple decisions and react to stimuli collectively. Humans can cultivate larger-than-natural colonies and then train them (the way a machine-learning algorithm trains a virtual neural network) to react to various types of electrical inputs. Then its just a matter of plugging the right types of analog inputs into the organic neural network, and then plugging the outputs into mechanical arms, legs, etc. 

I think, like many posters before me, that it's highly unlikely that all members of a civilization would collectively come to the conclusion that suicide is the solution. The will to survive is too great with most species. We can, of course, imagine a civilization of genetic defeatists but how did they get to the position of civilization in the first place? A major cataclysm such as Nigel222 suggests may of course give inclination to just give up and check out early for a majority of the species. (With further members being killed in lawless chaos once governments collapse.) Leaving only a small splinter of the previous civilization who no longer can uphold the scientific and industrial advances of their precursor and as such can say have devolved into something else. The ur-civilization is now dead, even though members of the species which constituted it are still alive. However, as AlexP's examples show remainders of the species may over time come to power as a new civilization. While Roman, Ottoman and Chinese civilizations have come and gone the human civilization persists. So, how do we kill off an entire world by collective suicide in the face of existential crisis? Well, I suppose if we're going by the OP's original premise that this crisis erupts with the intelligentsia who are smart enough to recognize the futility of carrying on this may, at a sufficiently advanced technology level, create enough problems to kill of enough the less sensitive parts of the population. Possible scenarios are: 

When reading your post, i remember the RPG Cyberpunk, wich has more or less, among others, two nations that look like the ones you described. Yes, I believe it works, because bio engineering and nano technology pretty much aim at the same things, and the buffs you gave to each team are ... pretty much the same. And that's also the problem : They are the same. Apart from how they got beefed up, they are the same. I don't think the story can work if you don't have more teams than that. If none of them really represents a threat to each other (they pretty much have the same strengths), i don't see why there would be such a conflict (maybe at first, but after a while, everyone would have settled down and dealt with it). If you decide to keep the conflict alive, I don't see how would any team win more than the other, since they all have the same bonuses : 

Well as in harry potter, you can't really put any limitations to what they can do, just ask them not to do it, and really hope it works. If you really want them to not cast/spells or fly, you could magine some kind of harness that would enclose the hypogriff's wings, and maybe, for fun, a gag to ensure they can't cast anything (that's brutal, but i pictured it in my head, and that's also pretty fun). 

Honor Some things are more important than survival, and chief among these is honor. If someone insults your 10,000 year-old ancestral name, encroaches upon your ancient lands, or speaks ill of your creator, it cannot be allowed to stand. You did not seek this fight, but you will pursue it with grim determination, and show the world that you will tolerate no disrespect. Your race wasn't created to merely survive. They were created to be a great power in the world, which means a willingness to pick up arms and fight when duty calls. Better to burn bright for a while than to burn dimly forever. 

Robots with powerful but delicate sensors, advanced locomotive capabilities, and independent AI are extremely expensive and difficult to maintain. Expensive enough that even though they might be technically possible, nobody makes them. The space engineers worked on a few prototypes of such a robot, but ultimately abandoned the project for other priorities. Having an actual person go out and check on it turns out to be the most practical option. 

Here's how I think it would have to work: 1) Your primary income is from a protection racket. Basically, what you do is attack enough people to make your threat clear, then go around and collect money from them so you leave them alone. This is a more sustainable, lower-risk way to make money from piracy. 2) In addition to this, you would exploit rivalries between nations. You would collect a bounty from nation X for messing with nation Y, basically acting as privateers/mercenaries. All of the above would still probably not be enough to be the majority of economic activity. It could, however, be an important part of a larger economy and the primary source of state revenue.