As literally stated, no this could not have been the case. Let's take the Wikipedia list of wars by death toll, and take the maximum estimate of each (almost certainly too high) in the 20th Century. Let's consider only wars with over a million deaths. 

Google found me these statistics for the police department of Hampton, Virginia. Only one data point, and far from definitive, and not aimed at solving one big case with lots of media coverage, but here is the key quote: 

In Canada fuel prices are by law corrected for this effect. Here is what the Consumers Council of Canada says: 

A huge number of studies indicate that nicotine, which is present in all cigaretes, is highly addictive. Here are some references: 

The headlines come from different times in the day, not different markets, and reflect changing situations during the day. Changes like this are normal practice for newspapers. As usual, Snopes has already answered this. 

However there have been many, many biographies of Sir Isaac, even modern ones, which never mentioned this allegation. Wikipedia had a brief debate about whether to include the allegation and decided not to. You can track the argument for yourself. 

This claim is utter and complete bollocks. Of the presidential decrees which it is claimed declare the US to be bankrupt: 

Plenty of people are posting the claim that if you don't watch the inauguration, or better still tune it to a different channel, this will affect ratings for the event. Will this actually affect the ratings? Claims: 

If there really were regional differences, somebody would have an example that was NOT from a day when a presidential candidate gave two contradictory speeches in a single day. In answer to a comment, it is clear from the picture that the article has changed, not just the headline. 

The graph is for OECD countries, i.e. those with reasonably developed economies. There is a clear correlation between gun ownership and gun deaths. The outlier of Mexico is due to an ongoing drug war of course gun deaths covers a lot of things other than homicides, including suicide, and it is possible that the prevalence of guns causes people to use a gun for a suicide that they would use something else for if it wasn't available. So let's restrict the analysis to gun homicides. 

I can only speculate that the first refers to reported crimes, and the second to all forms of aggression. 

Household wealth accounts for about $27trillion in the US. The top 10% of households own about 70% of that, or $19trillion - logically the top 5% must own at least $10 trillion and probably much more - say $15trillion. So the wealth of the US minus its top 5% of households is around $43-48trillion. The next richest country is Japan, with a wealth of $28trillion. TL;DR This statement is probably not true. The uncertainty in the figures make it impossible to be definitive Clearly to be a fair comparison you should also exclude the wealthiest 5% of Japanese households. Japan has nearly as much of its wealth owned by its top 5% of households as the US. Interestingly, government assets make up only a few percent of total national wealth. After household wealth institutional investors are the next largest bracket, then corporations. I should confess that I am not sure how these studies handle an asset that is owned by a company whose shares are owned by a thousand different household. I would welcome input from someone who understands this. 

Yes, almost certainly. There is ample documentation that many of the workers in cocoa factories in Cote D'Ivoire are trafficked, which essentially means forced to labour against their will. Wikipedia has the basic facts: 

Turing's death was ruled a suicide by the official inquest. Several people, including Jack Copeland, have advanced the theory of an accidental death, including a proposed cause, and pointed out details that would point away from suicide. The actual truth remains unclear, and in the face of lengthy and detailed investigations it is unlikely that a bunch of people on a Q&A website will reach a definitive conclusion. To quote Jack Copeland from the above article: 

EDIT: jwenting says that the low figures for United may be because pilots working their regional subsidiaries list "United" as their employer. Looking for confirmation of that. And of course it still means there are low-paid pilots out there. 

You've really answered your own question. Frank Lee Morris, Clarence and John Anglin were the only people to have attempted escape from Alcatraz and not be be accounted for. As you put it yourself: 

Yes, it is legally incontrovertible that the 16th Amendment was properly ratified. This matter was the subject of a court case, United States v. Thomas, eventually heard before the Seventh Circuit Court of Appeals. It found against Benson, and for the validity of the Sixteenth amendment: 

Horrific as these figures are, they come to less than 200 million deaths. The world population grew to 1 billion around 1830, which makes it more than certain that there were many more than a billion deaths before 1900. It is of course possible that they author meant to say "more people died in wars in the 20th Century than in all previous wars". That's going to be much harder to calculate, because of some very vague statistics of deaths in ancient wars, but also a vague definition of 'what is a war'. If one village rides out to kill the people in another village and steal their cows, that doesn't count as a war in twentieth century reckoning, but it may have happened millions of times in the ancient world and the casualties add up. 

Yes, this is the case - for some definition of 'waste' The New England Journal of Medicine ran a study to determine the overhead costs of the US and Canadian healthcare system. 

Lets address the basic question first:Are there people who can't afford a school uniform? Yes. A big fraction of the world's population live on $1 per day. At that level almost all of your income goes on food and shelter; anything but the most basic of clothing is unaffordable. See this this and this. Does lack of school uniform prevent some kids from attending school? Let's confine ourselves to Thailand for the sake of simplification. This study by the Katholike Universiteit Leuven is a very detailed study of the impediments to education in Thailand. Lack of school uniform is certainly cited as one of the significant factors. 

Let's consider the article carefully. First let's note that the article is in the Lifestyle section. Such articles are not expected to be up to the journalistic standards of the news section of a newspaper. They are essentially entertainment. The article states several things as 'fact' without backing them up in any way. Phrases like "modern parents’ embrace of wine-accompanied playdates" are stated without backup, except for abstract references to Facebook and Twitter postings (the links behind those words just go to the homepage of the service - don't bother following them). The bulk of the article deals exclusively with the writings of Stefanie Wilder-Taylor. Wilder-Taylor describes herself as "writer and comedian", and her only publications are books of humour (ironically humour related to parenting). She appears in this article because of her decision to come out as an alcoholic parent, and because she collects stores from other alcoholic parents on her blog. My point here is that everything we have seen is anecdotal. Wilder-Taylor appears to be an intelligent, honest, responsible person doing a great job in recounting the dangers of alcoholism, especially while parenting. But nothing she has written in any way indicates that alcoholism (or even drinking) among parents is rising. To her, and plenty of others, it is a significant problem, and she is entirely right to talk about it. But we can't assume that the issue is on the rise just because of that. Wilder-Taylor certainly implies that her alcoholic intake was increased by the 'mommy' events she attended, and that may well be true in her case. Other people may find that work, or sporting events, or loneliness, are their trigger. As a final point, the one scientific study quoted looks at the rise of drink-driving convictions among women, but says nothing whatsoever about the parental status of those women.