It depends precisely what is meant by "co-regency". I will try to outline the widely accepted facts. According to historian Beth Severy, Augustus announced his intention in 4 CE that Tiberius should inherent his title as emperor. Augustus adopted Tiberius as a son and give him a triumph and "a special grant of imperium". Over the following decade: 

Ancient Romans had no special sleepwear. They typically slept in their underclothes, which they also would have worn around the home. Here's a relevant quote from Everyday Life in Ancient Rome by Lionel Casson. 

West Berlin wasn't just shut off to the Allies, it was under total blockade. Quoting from the relevant Wikipedia article: 

On the exact numbers of Tacictus I am being lazy but I am sure that is about right. Check up on it in the various sources I have provided about Tacitus. The kinds of numbers on Tacitus are typical for ancient manuscripts; The Iliad stands out in a class of its own while the gospels stand out in a class above that. Having over 5000 manuscripts with the earliest completed copy being a mere 400 years in from the events, in addition to high accuracy, is impressive. This is a good indication that there is very little perversion in the texts. To make things better there are 10's of thousands of manuscripts from roughly the 10th century in Latin vulgate that match with the same accuracy, further, translators will tell you that they are pretty true to the Greek manuscripts as well. Also, Codex Vaticanus is significant because it is nearly complete and dates 100 years earlier than Sniaiticus. If this is not enough to trust that there is little or no perversion then I don't think anything will be for any ancient text. There is another important thing to consider, regarding the manuscripts and authorship dates. Most scholars agree that the NT was written in this order. Epistles, synoptic gospels, Acts of the Apostles, Gospel of John, Revelation. It has been highly argued and supporting this claim right now is outside the scope of this question and possibly the site as well. Consider the following quote from a wikipedia article: 

Not every thesis has a single antithesis or opposite. However, we can highlight a few trends or schools of thought in historiography (the study of history) that contrast most sharply with the Great Man Thesis. One such answer is implicitly given in the question itself: historical sociology. The early sociologist Herbert Spencer directly critiqued the Great Man theory. A key theme that sociology, anthropology and other social sciences share with history is the question of structure versus agency. The Great Man Thesis is an approach which strongly emphasizes a specific form of agency, in contrast with more structural approaches. Within the field of history itself, perhaps the most explicitly structural perspectives are that of the Annales School (for example see Fernand Braudel) and of Marxist historiography (for example see Eric Hobsbawm). Another way to look at this question is that the Great Man thesis emphasizes the roles of heroes and leaders. In that sense, the opposite approaches are social history and "people's history". The work of E. P. Thompson is a good example here. He is definitely not a structuralist, but instead emphasizes the agency of the working class. 

The bibliographical test demonstrates that there is very little liklihood of perversion The close time frame of the manuscripts and fragments further attests that there may have been eye witnesses living during authorship. Outside sources demonstrate that Christianity (followers of Christ) was wide spread by the close of the 2nd century, which means that it was already a popular belief before legend or other could have changed it. They futher corraborrate with particular stories that are in the Gospels. The archeology supports it indisputably in some areas and more so depending on who's opinion you want to take. I am inclined to say the ossuary of James is at least partially significant. There are many arguments showing that the supposed authors had very little reason to lie and even fake, after-the-fact authors, had little reason as well because they were both persecuted (this is outside the scope of the question though). 

The use of the 1890 census was a temporary and transitional measure. It was expected to last three years until a new, more complex formula could be implemented on the basis of 1920 data. So the purpose was to begin reducing overall immigration immediately (starting July 1, 1924) while the data was being analyzed according to the new formula. The old formula was a blanket quota on all immigration regardless of national origin, which was very easy to calculate. The new system distinguished / discriminated according to national origin. That would take time to implement, but the bill's authors clearly did not want to wait to restrict immigration. Even on the basis of 1920 data, the new formula also imposed a tighter quota overall than the old formula applied to the 1890 data. So applying the old formula to 1890 data was just an easy way to begin restricting overall immigration in the short term. (source) 

Sources not already linked * For bibliographical test * Rylands manuscript * Codex Sinaiticus * Codex Vaticanus * covers Bibliographical test well although it is a biased site * Tacitus on Christ * Josephus on Christ * Pliny on Christ * Annals of Tacitus 

Concerning the first part, it is not necessarily a bad thing for the Christian that there is no archaeological evidence for Jesus' existance. That would likely include his bone which would invalidate the Resurrection. However, I should note that I have heard of an ossuary that has inscribed in Aramaic "James, son of Joseph, brother of Jesus." Which is very significant if it is genuine. I have not looked into its possible genuiness, but that is why I have provided the link to get you started on it yourself if you want. Now in the other part where two persons basically say the exact opposite could require a book of its own to support or debunk one and the other. So follow the links and look into it yourself if you like. So my personal conclusion based on the items above is this: You can trust the historicity of the gospels because: 

Ṭabarī attributes this account to Qais bin Abi Hazim. If you follow the footnote in Ṭabarī,you may be able to determine the original source. 

The easter border of modern Burma is basically the eastern border of the British Empire in mainland Southeast Asia prior to independence. The geographical / strategic point made in the question helps to explain how the Konbaung Dynasty lost control of Lower Burma to the British in 1852. But ironically, were it not for British control of that territory, the eastern part of it may very well have been absorbed by Thailand. Here it is worth noting that the Mon people who dominate the region have had much better relations with Thais than Burmese.