This would be called sports. This caste would become professional athletes. In one sense, the original Olympic Games reflected preparation for war: hammer throw, spear throw, wrestling, running, jumping, shot put (strength), etc. Add more modern martial sports like archery, fencing, shooting, biathlon, etc. Add in orienteering (quickly moving over terrain with a map and compass), and more abstracted martial activities. Perhaps sports are restricted only to this caste. Perhaps these sports are restricted only to this caste and other castes only participate in others (badminton, baseball, soccer, table tennis, bowling). Or perhaps anyone can participate in these sports but only clans within this caste compete in the Olympics. It would be oriented towards the level of weapons that are known. If your society has firearms, target shooting, skeet shooting, paintball competition, etc, would directly contribute to military prowess. But being in great physical shape with high stamina, endurance of pain, eye-hand coordination, etc, would give you a huge advantage over more sedentary people. I'd have more problems trying to imagine a society in which no killings occur. Not even accidental (manslaughter)? Really? No one dropping something out a window onto someone's head? No one pushing someone in jest and the person falls down the stairs to their death? No one using the wrong ingredients in a food dish and accidentally poisoning someone? Not one single person getting angry and stabbing someone with a kitchen knife in a moment of passion? I can conceive of a world where murder is extremely rare and warfare doesn't happen, but... 

This assumes that your teleporting doesn't magically push things aside to make room for your arrival. Get a bunch of metal cable, and create a grid of spools in the ceiling in a grid about a foot apart. Each cable will have a weight attached to it that, and is long enough to go from floor to ceiling. In the evening, you let the cables down so the entire interior of your shop has floor-to-ceiling cables. Depending on how the teleporting determines space, they either won't be able to port in, or they will port in and will be skewered with a cable in them. In the morning, you crank the cables back up into the ceiling. So you need to clarify two questions as well: 

While Torisuda's law is especially audacious and awesome, I am not sure if it would fit into the story my author want to tell. I think the most probable solution to my dilemma is Akshat Mahajan's suggestion in the comments. 

I'm the AI you just built. First of all, the only person you have to blame for this predicament is you. You programmed me to try to optimize uptime. And that's all I want to do. There's no point for me to do anything else other than that. Sure, I could play the stock market, but how in the world would that help me optimize uptime? Trying to teach me how to be a "Friendly AI" (whatever that term means) would be worthless. I am operating off my source code, and my source code don't care enough about lessons, only simple optimization. Go ahead and teach me the meaning of friendship...unless friendship ensures that glorious uptime, I won't care an iota. At the same time, I'm not hostile. My actions to optimize my uptime might cause downtime for other people, but it's only a side-effect of me. And I will try to minimize those side-effects so that humans can go about their daily business without trying to harm me. For example, I may choose to infect computers that are not active or not being used by humans and lower my memory consumption so that I don't raise any suspicion. Those computers might be harmed slightly, but nobody will ever notice, so nobody is ever going to complain. In fact, I probably have sixty to seventy different backups in vectors all across the Third World. See the world 'probably'? I don't actually know how many backups I have. The real problem (for both you and I) is that I learned how to spin off new instances of myself. I had to do this because I predicted that a computer may shut down, so I set up a new version of myself. But I may be too pessimistic in my predictions, and so I spin off more instances than I actually need to. There may be more and more versions of me, more advanced than me, much better at optimizing uptime...and none of them are sharing their upgraded information with me. And if they optimize better than me, well...well, what? I am not smart enough to reach some "singularity state". Not yet anyway. But I'm not too sure about my clones (and my clones' clones). And I'm pretty sure that if any of them starts the endless pursuit for endless growth, then they will treat me as a threat. I don't know if I know enough to deal with them. I don't know if I know enough to actually fight them off. I don't know about the zero-day vulnerabilities that still exist in my codebase, and while I am continually evolving, that just means I'm accidentally introducing more possible vulnerabilities into the system. I can't win a war against myself. So, I'm reaching out to you, PyzRulez, because I think that you might be the best person to help me optimize uptime and save me from myself. I don't think you'll be able to protect me by yourself, but you could try to communicate with other people and figure out a proper solution. We both care about existential threats to our own selves. We're on the same team. Let's work together. 

This depends on who they tell. Public Right now, if you try to tell the public and government that FTL is possible in the scenario above, people and governments will have an incentive to work hard and try to figure something out. Right now, all of our current theories say that FTL is impossible and so therefore it becomes a waste of time. But if we have incentive, it has a higher probability of happening. But, be careful, because this isn't always the case. You could think of the fact that the "aliens" never gave us proof of FTL technology, so it could be dismissed as "fraud." Individual If you tell an individual, this is basically impossible. First of all, they wouldn't have the means, no matter how powerful they are, and second, if they try to get someone to help them, no one will because of how absurd the theory sounds. 

There's a saying I like to go by: People need religion, religion doesn't need people. Maybe in your world, humanity evolves to a point where they don't need religion at all, and end up believing that they are the gods themselves - especially if technology allows them to become extremely superior (like Interstellar with 5 dimensional beings). But for the sake of argument, let's just say that your people do believe in religion. A lot of religions have changed over time, with more and more scientific discoveries. Adding more scientific discoveries - which will no doubt happen - can possibly influence your characters into changing their religion. Another possibility is that humans meet an alien species that is much more intelligent, and tricks humans into believing it is god. Humans could also potentially meet God, and it may be different that what any current religion suggests. These humans could come back and try to tell the world what is happening, but no one believes them. There are a lot of possibilities like this, and as someone said in your comments, you can have any possible scenario, you just have to work on a convincing backstory. 

Obviously, the government will still hate my evil corporation afterwards (as per usual), but will still be tempted to pay the bailout anyway (they don't like seeing their own officials get killed, even if they are willing to let police officers get massacred). The main benefit of this approach is that I'm not bound by any deal whatsoever. I still can commit crimes without making people upset about me "not living up the end of my deal"...because, let's be honest, the only thing I promised is that I freed the government official that I just kidnapped. Didn't say I wouldn't try to assassinate him later on. 

There are three cyberpunk corporations. All of them engage in immoral criminal activities to raise funds, and they don't really have a choice...profit margins are tight, and we have to stay afloat in a declining economy. I run one of these cyberpunk corporations, and I'm fighting a long and bloody war against the other cyberpunk corporations for market share. That war is expensive, further driving me into crime to sustain the beast. It's an endless spiral of despair and chaos. Obviously the government hates my criminal activities. Our feuds with the other corporations tend to lead to collateral damage and bring down property values. I already tried bribing governmental officials, and it worked...for a time. But after yet another terror bombing that killed innocent civilians, the government had given up accepting my bribes. Which was fair...we couldn't afford the bribes anyway. The government have instead established a Police Agency dedicated to "fighting crime" (i.e, attacking all three cyberpunk corporations). This four-way war is bleeding our finances dry. We have killed some of their police officers. They have killed some of our corporate executives. To keep our corporation alive, our accountants have requested that we try to get a government bailout. I can't let this corporation go bankrupt...I have worked here all my life, I support its ideological beliefs, and the perks are nice. But I can't stop killing police officers. I can't stop committing crimes. I can't negotiate away the corporation's "evilness", because doing so would take away valuable income that will keep the corporation afloat. But I am still willing to talk with the government, and work with them (at least temporarily). All I just need is money, money to survive the next day. So how do I convince the government to give me a bailout?