In many cases when you apply the cover letter and resume will be separate documents loaded onto a webpage. They are unlikely to ever be in the same envelope, nor will they be part of the same document. It is not required on most cover letters, but if they are being submitted in the same envelope it can't hurt to include the line mentioning that the resume is enclosed. 

Expect that they will require you to stay with the company for a specific number of years to compensate them for your extra benefit. If they provide more than $5,250 per year in educational benefits to you, the amount over $5,250 is taxable income. If they bump your salary, then it will all be taxable. They will have several concerns: 

I would be a little more sensitive... Hey boss, I asked you about topic X last week and you said the next step was for you to talk to the CEO, any updates? 

Taking ownership is not just doing a job, or working on a project; it means making it your mission to see it through. Don't look to others to address issues; instead look for problems before they become obvious, and find and implement solutions. If you can't fix it, then don't just toss the responsibility to somebody else; track down the person who can fix it, and make sure they address the issue. It isn't a stated role on a team; in fact the project doesn't even have to be a team project. Why does management like to see employees own the project/process/job; because that means that they care. They have moved beyond just showing up for work. They now want to see the project succeed. In situations where nobody took ownership for a task; that task many times failed, or was completed late, or completed sloppily. Because nobody cared. 

I don't think the use of references has changed. Since college I have worked for 5 companies. I was only asked one time to provide references beyond name of previous employer and name of supervisor. Some employers were huge with tens of thousands of employees, other were small less then two dozen employees. Some companies had been around for a century, others only a few years. The only one that required references also had to prove to the customer that their employees really did have the required level of education and experience. The company had been caught overstating skill levels. The company didn't ask for them until after my start date. It is possible that companies that never made me an offer would have asked for references, but the ones that made offers that I rejected never requested formal references before making an offer. 

Since every payday is an adventure: when will we get paid, and how much will each installment be; starting to look is a good idea. You are gambling that they will tell you "oops no more money", and then everybody is out of a job. While you do have a year plus in savings, it is still better to not have to be spending your savings on day one of the job search. Keep in mind that if you do find a new job you like, when you tell them you are leaving they may be relieved that you will be saving them money. They may decide that they will not require a notice period. Of course they could also decide to let you go right away, and still leave you fighting for the last paycheck. But having a signed offer letter and starting date does mean you know exactly how much of your savings will have to spend for getting the first paycheck of your new job. Trying to hold on to the job just to reach some arbitrary guide post of 12 months, so you won't be labeled a job-hopper, or have to explain why you left, is not a reason to stay. Unless the company is improving, each paycheck becomes riskier. No matter how long you stay, 8 months or 8 years, they always ask why you are leaving. 

If you were a W2 employee the company already should have been filing documents with the IRS and the state or even the local government. Any money they withheld for taxes, social security, medicare should have been turned over periodically to the proper agencies. The IRS has info regarding the non-receipt of a W2. 

The date on the CV/resume should be the date that will be on the diploma/ official transcript. If they decide to ask for a copy or an official transcript that is the date they will see. If there is a gap of several months and you are in that gap, then you could mention that the work has been completed but the actual certificate hasn't been presented. For example some universities only have two ceremonies a year (May and December) if you finish during the summer session, you will have to wait until the December ceremony. Of course the last class might have been in June. So note on your resume that you have completed your course work, and update it when you receive the Diploma. 

I would make it match what you have on the resume/CV. If it wasn't significant enough to include on the resume/CV, then it probably isn't needed in your LinkedIn profile, unless that is how you expect old contacts to find you. For company name I would probably use: self employed, or independent contractor. 

Lawyers generally advise clients to say only the minimum amount. They don't want them to put damaging information in writing. You need legal advice regarding the chances of winning the case and what the remedy would be. The chances that you would want a long term career with that company are slim. 

In the United States the Small Business Administration of the US government runs Small Business Development Centers in conjunction with many colleges and universities. These SBDCs help small businesses got over their obstacles. Best of all their advice is free. 

Some companies will let you purchase vacation time. You refund them a portion of each paycheck during the year so that you get an extra week or two that you can charge to vacation. It is revenue neutral, the benefit is that you don't have to deal with LWOP (leave without pay) for those extra days. Typically they will refund your money for the unused portion of the extra vacation if you don't use it all, or you may be able to carry it over to the next year. Some will allow alternate work schedules. You work 10 hours days for 4 days, so that you get an extra day off per week. Others allow you to work 9 hours a day for 8 days, then 8 hours for one day, getting an extra day every two weeks. These are alternates if they can't grant you the extra time off. The issue is being able to charge customers a high enough rate for enough hours to generate enough income to afford your pay and enhanced benefits. 

There is a difference between "keyword bombing" and tailoring. In tailoring you make sure that you are clear that you have the required technologies. If they say HTML5 then don't just say 10 years of HTML. If they say FMV and you have done it, make sure you use the term. In the situations where I have worked on hiring either internal transfers or open positions the system has been used to identify those that met the minimum standards. If there were 5 required key technologies listed the software would separate the applications by that threshold. If when the window closed we had enough resumes that met the threshold, we would look at all of those that passed the screen and determine which ones would be called in for an interview. If we didn't have enough resumes that passed the screen, we would look at those that failed to see if they also deserved to be interviewed. At no time did the software count keywords from the desired but not required requirements to see how the applicants ranked. That evaluation was done by people either before, during, or after the interviews. The software also used the information in the text boxes so it wasn't possible to use hidden text in headers, or micro fonts. If a resume passed the screen, but looked like it was a bad advertisement, or it just was a regurgitation of the requirements it would never result in an interview. Too many that fell into that category would result in us looking at those that failed the screen for potential candidates who should be interviewed. The problem with keyword bombing is that you could pass the screen, but never get an interview. The sentences don't help the human know you deserve an interview. The cover letter information is used to determine if you get an interview when we have a requirement to interview 10 people and 30 passed the screen. But only helps if you also passed the screen. The greatest cover letter doesn't help if you don't pass the initial screen, and dozens of other people do. The cover letter is also used to evaluate you during the interview and after the interview. 

Check your contract. If you are paid only for the hours you work, that means that you will bill for fewer hours this month. Of course if you miss too many days they might not think you are worth having on contract. Items you should review in your contract: do you or the customer set the work days each month. Maximum hours per day and per week. Options related to wanting to take a few days off because you are tired include: working fewer hours per day; miss a day then work extra hours on the other days; working hours on the weekend to make up the time missed. Since you are just back from vacation, working even a partial day will allow you to start processing the work you fell behind while you were away. 

Some companies are ending these policies by setting BYOD or Bring-Your-Own-Device policies. They allow the employee to bring in their smartphone or tablet into the office and either use the employees 3G/4G bandwidth or use the employee or guest account on the wifi. Some employees like these policies, others don't because they want to keep their personal devices off the company networks. They also don't want to be able to see company email on their devices 24/7. Some employers are allowing these connections because it makes the employees feel better, by allowing them access to their own devices. The risks can be greatly minimized by planning for the connections, and requiring virus protection software and limiting the ways the devices can be used. Many schools are allowing BYOD because if they want to move into the world of e-textbooks access has to be universal. The reasons for not allowing the devices: virus exposure, bandwidth issues, protection of company secrets; can all be handled in other ways. Ask your company to look into changing the policies. 

There is no way to interpret how the company is using the system. I have experience within my own company different styles. Some HR specialist will quickly review any application and reject any that are below a standard immediately. Then they pass on all the rest to the hiring team once the time period the posting must remain open has ended. So 25% are rejected in less than 24 hours, but no progress is noted for two weeks, until the team can go through all the ones not rejected. Then many are quickly rejected and half the survivors are called in for interviews, but those that aren't called in are not rejected until the hiring team knows they have interviewed enough good candidates. It is possible to have almost zero chance of getting the job, but not be officially rejected for weeks. In other cases they will perform a daily review. and only send the top ten to the hiring team. So you could survive for a few days, but eventually fall out of the top ten if there is a late wave of applicants. You may also find out that it is hard to get the contact information for the person making the decision. They may be hundreds of miles away from the hiring team. So finding somebody to ask can be very hard. If you do know somebody in the company, and they can recommend you, they may have better luck getting a more accurate status. The best advice is to apply to multiple places at the same time. Also don't get too attached to one company, unless you already have a good job, and are just looking to change jobs if a great opportunity if offered.