All in all, it is hard to say where the truth is, but it is certainly clear that the original claim is not supported by any reliable evidence and largely disputed. Even less can be said about the actual time when the video has been shot. 

Above the logo, there are two words in capital letters "National autodealer". While it is very hard to say what's actually written on the street banner, the shape of things seem to match. No other evidence (i.e., the coordinates of the exact place where the video was taken) was presented. So, the claim that there is a discernible address on a banner is highly doubtful and there is no reason to believe it is in Krasnoarmiysk. Below follows some speculation, because of the lack of more credible sources. Secondly, there is some anecdotal evidence that the video was taken in Luhansk (fully under control of rebels), as supported by streetview: Looks like the same pole: 

This story is described in Menzel's book "Flying Saucers", and he claims that there is no mention of such objects before that incident. Therefore, there is no sense in trying to explain the shape, as it was not caused by logic, but rather by pure accident of the craze starting with this term spread through media. 

Bin Laden Takes Responsibility for 9/11 Attacks in New Tape UPDATE: This answer was posted in response to the original question which asked whether Bin Laden was both immediate and consistent in denying involvement. 

There are weight scales that additionally claim to measure body fat by electrical resistance. According to this article, body-fat scales are "absolutely" superior to just-weight scales, although the article ads the reasonable caveat that one should simply expect consistency, not a number that's precisely what one would get from an immersion test. On the other hand, the article then goes on to list so many steps to get consistent results (clean the pads with alcohol) that I wonder if it's just making excuses for a technique that just has too many variables for a consumer to control. Is there good evidence that consumer-grade body-fat scales can produce consistent results that highly correlate with body-fat percentage? 

Could be, if you had a big pufferfish, ignored safety and regulation, and ate the most toxic parts. According to Toxins of Pufferfish that Cause Human Intoxications (Arakawa et al) 

In 1996, Stuart Hameroff and Penrose published Orchestrated Objective Reduction of Quantum Coherence in Brain Microtubules: The "Orch OR" Model for Consciousness, which proposed that the physical structure called "microtubules" in the brain might be a mechanism by which quantum effects could affect neurons, whose structure is otherwise firmly in the world of classical physics. In that text, they acknowledge that: 

Yes, the number comes direct from the 2012 Report on Security Clearance Determinations that was released by the Office of the Director of National Intelligence (Wikipedia). Table one on page three breaks things down as follows: 

If we add this up we come up with 13,336 households with children and if we use the 1.95 children per household from before that gives us an estimate of 26,005.2 children in same-sex households. This is a substantially lower estimate than the previous high estimate of 54,266.6 children in same-sex households. Thus, our conclusions are largely driven by the data that we are looking at. While the 40,000 children in same-sex households appears to be an extremely fair estimate based upon the 2010 Census data, when the estimate is updated based upon the revised 2010 American Community Survey data the estimate is quite high. A better estimate using the revised data would be somewhere around 20,000 children in same-sex households. 

Which has been giving rise to the concept of ego depletion as a willpower model as opposed to glucose depletion so at the present time it seems like the best answer is that further research is needed and the jury is still out as to what the best model will end up being. 

Yes. According to a spreadsheet kept by the editor of "The Cook Political Report", Democrats nationally accrued ~1.35M more votes than Republican House candidates in 2012 (out of ~118M total votes cast). The official tally will be issued by the Office of the Clerk sometime in 2013. 

This probably-non-peer-reviewed document by a fisheries scientist gives a lower estimate circa 2000 but I can't parse out if his ~55M estimate includes targeted fishing or "only" by-catch: 

Yes, there are testimonials that Kopi Luwak has a distinct flavor, at least to the trained palette of coffee enthusiasts. However, there seems little consensus that it's a particularly good coffee. One cupper says: 

Yes, they are high-paying professions. This matrix is used to estimate reasonable fees for lawyer's operating in the Washington, DC, metro area. Current values range from $305 / hr for someone 1-3 years out of law school to $734 / hr for someone 20+ years out. If the proposition is that legal "high pay" arises from very long hours, we can start with a 40-hour-per-week, 50-week-year (2 weeks vacation!), which is not considered "long hours" by most Americans: 

A post relating to a political issue is going around saying it is astronomically unlikely that 7 hard drives would crash in the same month, specifically: 

There doesn't appear to be any debate that there was rowdy behavior at the premiere of the show as it is well documented on Wikipedia and the full version of the 1913 New York Times article which notes the following: 

So even with that the data halls are still too small to store a single zettabyte although we are now into the range where the complex as a whole might be capable of storing one to two zettabytes under ideal conditions. Granted does require the use of tape data storage which is very slow; however, without knowing exactly what the NSA is doing with the data we can't speculate if they are concerned with access speeds or not. Furthermore, metadata indexing techniques mean that the raw data may not be needed for most processing so the latency involved with tape storage may not be a concern for the NSA. We already know that they have large scale metadata databases so it is quite likely that they could be using such techniques for working with tape data. So in summary, the claims as to the amount of data that could be stored and processed are currently implausible given the size of the facility and the currently know state of the art and commercially available systems. However, the claim that the could be processing five zettabytes of data is plausible given the shear amount of data traffic that exists in the world and we don't know how they are processing the data. If they use curiosity examination followed by discarding of uninteresting data like the LHC then it is possible and their actual data storage requirements would be reduced as well. 

Firstly, there is no proof that the video was taken in Krasnoarmiysk. The claim by Russian defence ministry is based on the alleged fact that the banner has an address printed on it: 

It is very likely to be a fake. According to NKnews, The World Cup games are aired in North Korea by KCTV (although with delay and removed commentary), so it appears that there is no sense in faking news while the general population is aware of the developments at the World Cup, at least to some extent. Also, since the North Korea qualification games were aired, they do know that their team didn't qualify. 

All the terms used in the claim are not speculative, they are used in legal sense and have strict definitions, which you can find on FBI site as well (i.e., here). 

According to Donald Menzel (he is the earliest source of this information I know of), the term "flying saucer" first was mentioned in '47 and the traditional shape followed on, although in reality most of these "objects" are not very saucer-like. Here is some write-up on this story I found here: 

The report didn't show how they managed to recover this address from the banner, and it seems like an explanation is due, as the image is very blurry. The banner itself seem to be identical to this one (which is spread as a part of their ad campaign): 

In "Stalking the elusive computer bug" by Peggy Kidwell in "Annals of the History of Computing, IEEE" (Vol. 20. No. 4. pp. 5-9) makes the case that Hopper learned the term "bug" while working on the Harvard Mark I from other engineers on the project, 

The answer to this is really going to depend heavily upon what you are defining "chi" (or "qi" or "ki") as and what the context is. To take things from a slightly different angle, aikido relies heavily upon the concept of "ki" which relates to the Chinese concept of "chi" but is very overloaded in that it doesn't really have a well defined definition of what it means and if you talk to some aikido-ka they will tell you it means one thing, other's well tell you another thing, and still others will say it's bunk. However, the truth of the matter seems to be somewhere in the middle as you can watch an aikido demostration and see that they are in fact doing effective techniques regardless of the language in which it is taught. Shihan Bernie Mulligan 1 described the concept of "chi" in aikido loosely as follows (quoted from article):