4 - In Scotland, you have a general right of access under the Scottish Outdoor Access Code. This applies to just about all land and inland waters, and allows non-motorised recreation and passage. So this includes kayaking and canoeing on rivers, lochs and canals. These rights are dependent on being responsible, eg avoid disturbing other people or damaging the environment. The Scottish Canoe Association have produced a Paddler's Access Code which summarises these rights and responsibilities. Most canals in Scotland are managed by Scottish Canals. You do not need a licence to paddle on these. If paddling on the Caledonian Canal - which is part of the Great Glen Canoe Trail - then Scottish Canals recommend registering with them in advance. This ensures you have understood all of the safety information, and lets you be informed of any works which could affect your trip. 

Books Check charity shops, you can often get books for £1, or sometimes 4 for £1. Or any books you have read, and don't want to keep. You can pick relevant books, ie anything about the outdoors, or children's books for a family friendly cache, or something specific to the local area or theme of the cache. You do have to be selective as to what books will actually fit in a cache. But there some reasonably large caches that will fit a standard paperback. It is worth putting the book in a ziplock bag, in case the cache gets wet inside. You can register the books on BookCrossing, which allows people to log them, and you can track them if they are released again. I have left a number of BookCrossing books in caches - most are never logged again. But a few are moved on to other caches, or left in the wild elsewhere, sometimes travelling great distances, and being read by many different people. 

Snowshoes are available in the UK, but generally you have to go to more specialist mountaineering shops. I doubt any of the high street chains stock them, instead look at the smaller independent shops. Especially those shops located close to mountainous areas, where snowshoes could be more useful. eg 

Or Decathlon list a reasonable range of snowshoes, including several own-brand Quechua models (fairly cheap). This is probably because Decathlon are a French company. And I suspect they won't have many of these in store, you would have to order online. Other than that, it may be best to buy online. It seems the MSR snowshoes are quite widely available from UK online shops. 

The best way to identify bats in flight is to use a bat detector. This is a device with a microphone that listens to the bats high frequency calls, and plays them back at a lower frequency. Bats use echolocation calls to find out what is around them. For most UK bats, these are typically between 30KHz and 80KHz. So they are not audible to humans. Different species of bats call at different frequencies, and they sound different, often 'clicking' or 'flapping' noises. Using a bat detector, you can hear what frequencies they are calling at, and figure out what species it is. Pipistrelle bats are the most common in the UK, though note there are actually several different species of pipistrelle. Common pipistrelle and Soprano pipistrelle are very similar, the easiest way to distinguish them is the Soprano has a higher frequency call. You can buy a bat detector for about £50 or so. A popular model is the Magenta Bat 4 or Bat 5, these are simple to use and reliable. Or there are cheaper options using electronic kits, though they may require some work to solder and put it together. 

I understand that there are a lot of factors that add to the error of a bearing and therefore the accuracy of a triangulation but I would like to know in general how accurate it is possible to be. To make this question more concrete I have this case as my question. I sighted a stadium I can see from my house and found its bearing adjusting for declination using a lensatic compass with a sight. I then drew the line from that bearing on my map with a map compass which facilitated an accurate transfer of the reading. I did the same with another building that I saw. Where the lines intersected was about 400 meters away from where I actually was according to the map legend. These buildings were each less than 2 miles away from me as the crow flies. It seems the error would be very small at this range. Is this a normal amount of error for a handheld lensatic compass or can I expect better results? 

I live in Miami, Florida. I have been attempting to catch fish in a canal near where I live with a light rod, 8lb test mono line, and size 6 and 8 hooks. I have primarily been using night crawlers as bait but have also tried several jigs and crankbaits. When fishing worms I use a float about 1.5 - 3 feet above the hook with enough split shot to make the float vertical in the water. If I drop my line near the edge I can usually get baby Mayan Cichlids to bite. Other than that though I have not had any luck, not even bites no matter where I cast or what time of day I go. I have seen schools of fish swim right by my bait without even attempting a bite. Sometimes when I am bringing my line in as it drags across the surface of the water a baby Florida garr will chase it and attempt to eat my worm but other than that I have not had any action. One rare time I casted into the opening of a boat shed and almost as soon as the bait hit the water an adult Mayan Cichlid took it. This was a rare and singular event. But all that to say, what am I doing wrong? Could my 8lb line be spooking fish or do some fish not have any interest in worms? Maybe using a float is not an effective way to target fish that hang out near the bottom? I know it is hard to say if you are not actually there to see it yourself but I am hoping for some general tips for this type of situation from seasoned anglers. I want to catch some fish that are bigger than the palm of my hands! 

It seems pretty clear but I would like to make sure that I don't need a license or permit to Catch and Release in Florida, in the county that I live in. According to Florida Fish and Wildlife Conservation Commission, 

The old advice is to "Take nothing but pictures, and leave nothing but footprints". Almost any amount of memento-taking is going to lead to some kind of impact in anything but the most isolated of areas. The details of what is and isn't legal are going to vary with the exact area you're in -in the US, Wilderness Areas, a national forests, Bureau of Land Management's land, and state forests, all have different governing bodies and different sets of rules. Even different national parks are allowed to set their own rules. But I think they all prohibit you from taking mementos. And, besides all that, I find that in this age of social networking and photo sharing sites, a handful of good pictures can capture the experiences of my trips better than physical stuff does, although that's purely subjective. 

First off - whether one is more durable or not, they're somewhat different products. Whether you need one or the other is more based on what you're doing than on "durability". Hardshell vs Softshell note - these are marketing terms in the US outdoor industry. Apparently they're not standard internationally. Hard shell jackets offer a high level of windproofing, and low breathability. They're also usually the most waterproof. They're made with heavy nylon / canvas materials. Think a heavy gortex rain jacket. The hardshell material itself offers great protection against wind and rain, but not much insulation. Because they're windproof, they usually don't breath as much as softshells. Softshells are more like polar fleece jackets, perhaps with a cloth cover- they're very warm, because the material traps a lot of air. They also tend to retain their warmth when wet. Some softshells may have a goretex treatment, and be somewhat waterproof. But they're generally not very windproof. What they're for Hardshells are necessary for harsh environments with strong winds. You may also have a "softshell" jacket underneath the "hardshell" outer layer for insulation. Durability Durability in outdoor gear is a odd issue. My experience is that a lot of gear on the market now is designed to be ultra lightweight, often at the expense of durability. Jackets, backpacks, even the expensive ones just get torn up sometimes. You can find products with more rugged construction, but they come at a weight penalty. I could see how a serious mountaineer (which high end jackets are theoretically designed for) may prefer a light outer layer that will just get replaced after each expedition. 

The best way, when it works It usually works to grab the whole mass of coils, and flip them over when handing them to the second. When you're doing this, care has to be taken that you don't wrap one of the ends around one of the climber's anchor cord. The leader (when bringing up the second) has to make sure that the loops are neatly and tightly stacked, and not falling over. Also, as you're coiling: The general advice is to start with large loops, and progress to smaller ones as the second gets closer to the belay. That way the loops don't interfere with each other as you belay from that coil. With this setup, you want to do the opposite - start with smaller / medium sized loops, and progress to larger ones. That way when you flip it, the larger loops are on the bottom. But this whole thing is more art than science, and I'd recommend you try and practice it safely on the ground (maybe in your living room) a few times to get the hang of it. If the loops aren't laying neatly, this technique probably won't work, and will result in a big knot. Also, you have to make sure that the person leading the next pitch (or their end of the rope) isn't somehow tangled as you pass the coils over. The slower, more predictable option You also have the option of recoiling the rope manually, passing it foot-by-foot from the leader to the belayer. This is going to be slower, but has a lower chance of getting tangled. If you think the lap coils aren't as neat as you'd like, or your belayer is inexperienced, and may have trouble managing the coils while belaying, I'd go with this route.