Assuming that this works in a purely thermodynamic sense - energy in, energy out.... When attempting to quantify magic systems, I always like to start with the classics and see what happens if we cast a typical D&D Fireball spell. Partly because everyone enjoys hurling balls of fire at their enemies, and partly because it's an easy way to demonstrate exactly how magical magic really is. Fortunately for me, I'm not the only nerd who likes math. Other people have done analysis on Fireball, and determined that the (physics) energy involved is about a quarter of a kiloton - 0.235 kilotons, or $2.82 * 10^{11}$ calories. That's energy calories, not food calories. Food calories are, in energy terms, kilocalories, so divide by a thousand. Long story short, in order to cast Fireball, you'd need to have an excess $2.82 * 10^8$ food calories in your body. If we use the 3,500 calorie per pound rule of thumb often touted by dieticians and those in the weight loss field, your wizards would lose approximately 80,500 pounds every time they cast Fireball. So we're left with the choice of increasing the ratios somehow (ie magic is able to get more than one kCal of energy for every calorie it burns from you) or reducing the size of the spells. Reduce the radius of Fireball from 20 feet to five feet and you reduce the energy requirements by a factor of 16 (so you would now only lose 5,000 pounds). Add in an increased output:input ratio of, say, 10 kCal output per kCal input and you're down to 500 pounds. Say that magicians work together in circles to cast their spells, spreading the cost over a group of them, and you can easily cut that down to a more reasonable energy/weight loss per spell cast. Fiddle with the numbers however you want, as it's your system; I'm just using examples. Granted, they won't be able to cast many spells without having to stop and eat, and they'll have to eat a lot. When Michael Phelps was swimming in the Olympics, his training regimen required eating 12,500 calories per day. Your magicians would have to eat a whole lot more than that to get enough energy. When they drop below the limit of their stores, it would likely become hypoglycemia, as @Sam mentioned in the comments, but in an extreme sense. They're burning through their stores of energy so quickly that they could quite easily use up all of them without realizing it. If they aren't careful, the best case scenario would be migraines and seizures, while the worst case would simply be death. Assuming they are careful, they would simply need to eat eat eat eat eat, making sure they're consuming plenty of sugars to keep their glucose levels high. EDIT: @NexTerran added a link in the comments to another thread about the caloric requirements of fireballs. The D&D Fireball spell is rather OP, all things considered, and so the energy requirement is high. Look at the link they provided for some great examples of how cutting the size/temperature/etc of the fireball drastically reduces the energy requirements. 

Realistically, doubtful, if only because that (as far as we know) isn't how genetics works -- no amount of wishing is going to manipulate the genetic code of the fetus growing inside of you. However, if you're making this world, you make the rules, so if you wanted that to happen then go for it. I would say that subconscious would probably work better than conscious choice, if only because that way you don't end up with people crafting humans for specific purposes, but it's your choice. 

Like so many Bronze Age ideas, Plato's idea of a utopia doesn't really work so well in the modern world and beyond. The world has changed too much in the past 2500 years for it to work now, and even more changes will make this system even less viable. The crux of the issue is that in Plato's day, basically everyone had the same life. The vast majority of people were focused merely on making sure that they had enough food to last the winter. His system worked then because it wasn't as large of an issue to have a few people (say 1% - it's been a while since I've read Plato, I can't remember if he went into detail on how many people would be needed to be Guardians and the warrior class) work for the good of the state in matters of diplomacy, rather than working for the good of the state by working the fields. Now, however (and in the future, presumably), we aren't focused on survival. We have amounts of food unimaginable to someone in Plato's day - I have four pounds of almonds in my desk at work so that I can have a snack if I get hungry between meals. There are entirely different problems faced by today's world, and the world of the future. And the problem is that someone raised to be a ruler likely wouldn't have any firsthand experience with many, if any, of those problems. (Note: using problems of today as concrete examples, as I won't pretend to know what the problems of the future will be.) If they're raised from birth to be a ruler, they wouldn't have student loans, wouldn't know what it's like to live paycheck to paycheck. Why would such a ruler care about fixing the economy when they've never known the pressure of trying to find a job in order to be able to pay rent? How can they effectively make laws regarding new technology when they own nothing and (presumably) have never used it (a modern analogue would be, how could they rule whether Apple should help the FBI unlock the San Bernardino shooter's iPhone when they've never owned an iPhone)? Coupled with that is the problem of scale. For a Bronze Age city-state, a ruler would only have to know about a small area of land. Scaling this up to a galactic empire? Let's say it's a small empire; they "only" have to know about a hundred planets. How can they possibly know what's best for all of these worlds? In order to fix this problem, you'd essentially need many layers of government. Have a set of rulers for each major city/area on a planet, who report to a set of rulers for the entire planet, who report to a set of rulers for a region of space (and the planets therein), who report to the "over-rulers" who rule the entire empire. Each set of Guardians has their own group of warriors, and any higher authority can call on them (eg the rulers of a region can call on the warriors of all planets in their region if they need to quell a revolt). Judicial appeals can be escalated to the higher levels, if so desired, similarly to the current US judicial system. Laws themselves work the opposite way - more local laws override empire law, except in certain situations (murder, rape, etc can't be legal, period, but something like drug use is down to the local administration), to ensure that the laws accurately represent the local culture, customs, etc. There would need to be rules in place dictating how the next set of rulers is chosen. Honestly it's starting to look like a medieval society, but in space - kings rule counts rule dukes rule mayors rule citizens, and the higher levels don't really care what the lower levels are doing so long as they pay their taxes. Just with groups of people acting as the rulers, rather than individuals. And that hasn't worked out too well historically. And even with those changes, you don't fix the problem of the rulers being out of touch with the real world, with what the general population is experiencing. 

Theoretically, we'd have to go into deeper detail on how exactly the reproductive process works -- does the paternal mixing bowl take place on a chromosomal level? A sequence level? A base pair level? Whatever the minimum level is, the upper bound on the number of fathers is however many "blocks" of that minimum level there are. If it's on a chromosomal level, then (assuming similar genetics to humans) there could be 23 fathers (one for each chromosome). If it's on a base pair level, there could be a hell of a lot more. Practically it comes down to how much sex the mother can have -- how many sperm can she get to her egg. 

Right off the bat, the more the magician knows about the world, the more he can fine-tune his magic. Think of Pokemon. Certain types of Pokemon have advantages compared to other types (for instance, electric type has a bonus against water type). Knowledge of how the physical world works would allow the magician to be able to optimize the type of spells he uses for certain enemies. He would learn that using lightning spells is probably better than fire spells against heavily-armored enemies, due to metal conducting electricity. He would learn that area-of-effect freezing spells would counter the eagles, as they wouldn't get as much lift. As far as actually applying science in a magical way, that kind of depends on the limitations of your magic. I honestly don't like most cases where magic and science co-exist, because magic tends to break physical laws (you cast Fireball, I ask where the energy for the fire came from), and so to a certain extent it's up to you do decide how far beyond the physical laws magic can go. Maybe the magician would learn about Conservation of Energy (as in my Fireball example above) and realize that with a little bit of magic he could make a perpetual motion machine. Or combine magic with the troll's cannons so that the entire town can be armed with hand-held fireball launchers. Maybe the best he can do is imbue bandages with healing magic, so that people are being healed with both magic and antibiotics (antibiotics to prevent infection, magic to close the wound). It depends on the extent of your magic. 

In order to figure it all out, let's go back to First Contact between humans and fish people and play it forward to see how it would work. If you don't mind, I'll name the fish people 'pisces' to make it easier. They first meet, and they're both unknowns to each other. Humanity has a history of not dealing with unknown Others too well, so things would probably be tense at first, until everyone realizes that neither poses an existential threat to the other - the humans can't destroy the pisces, and the pisces can't destroy the humans. A peace is drawn up and trade is able to begin. Interspecies trade begins primarily in the major coastal human cities - the pisces are able to surface for a short time there, while humans can't descend to the depths of the pisces cities - and stays there. The humans will have to get pisces trade goods to interior cities on their own. Intraspecies trade is a bit more difficult, but not drastically. Your idea of the pisces utilizing oceanic currents is a great one. Add in the idea that they've, say, semi-domesticated whales and are able to utilize their migration patterns to move wares and you've got yourself a pretty good system. (Off topic, but I'm actually kinda reminded of interplanetary trade within a star system - you'd have a base on Earth, a base on the moon, on Mars, on various asteroids, and you'd have essentially set paths between them based on orbital mechanics. This system is the same idea, just using oceanic currents instead of orbits.) The issue becomes human-human trade. Trade within one 'country' or even continent isn't a huge problem, you can just do it overland. We've been doing that for millennia. But how do we get ships across the oceans safely? Basic economic sense says that it's better to trade with wealthy nations than with poor nations. A wealthy nation is able to produce more, so you can have more options to trade for, and they're able to buy more of your items as well. As such, it is in the interest of the pisces for the human nations to become as wealthy as they can. I can easily imagine that there would be agreements made permitting trading ships to traverse the oceans (relatively) free from harm. There will quite obviously be bandits, pirates, etc, but a simple agreement that there won't be any governmental action taken to prevent human-human trade will make it much more feasible. As far as what the humans trade with the pisces, I can imagine that metal would be a big part of it, especially tempered metal. It's rather tricky to get fire underwater, so the pisces would likely have little to no concept of metalworking. Knives, buckles/clasps, sturdy fishhooks (okay, that may be too insensitive).... All sorts of things that are drastically improved by being solid metal. The only major interaction I can think of is shipwrecks. Humans and pisces can make all the agreements they want, but ships will occasionally get caught in storms and sink. What happens to the cargo? The humans can't get at it, so (in our world) they could just call it a loss... But the pisces could get to it, recover some of the cargo.... Does that mean they get these trade goods for free? Are they obligated to return what they can to the humans? Would they skim some off the top before they did return it? I could almost imagine groups of pisces going around the coral reefs, the shoals, the Bermuda Triangles of the world where shipwrecks are common, and scavenging whatever they can get their hands (fins?) on before anyone reports the loss. Get several of those groups going around the world and you could easily have a black market of human trade goods. But this is starting to get into idea generation. TLDR, it would honestly look a lot like international trade in our world today. Trade what you have, that the other party doesn't, and make sure that you're both able to prosper as a result. 

There honestly won't likely be too much trade outside of that type of production swapping. There hasn't been enough time for one world to get too different from the other, meaning that neither one will really have anything that the other doesn't. Both worlds will have the same reliance on gasoline; both worlds will find it very expensive to get rockets to space; etc etc. But let's stop and think for a minute. The large corporations are going to be able to take advantage of this in a way that smaller companies won't be able to. Apple can shift around hundreds or thousands of workers to grow even bigger than they already are, while a small company wouldn't be able to do that on nearly as large of a scale. So ultimately I feel that this would slowly lead to the world being controlled by mega-corporations even more than it already is. 

The short answer: Whatever you want. We have no real-life experience with spacefaring civilizations, so we can't say for sure what needs to be done to get there. The longer, more speculative answer: Resources: A civilization that formed on Europa (probably) wouldn't have the raw materials needed to reach the Space Age, so they likely couldn't actually build a rocket even if they wanted to. Biology: Kind of a looser restriction, but it would be a lot harder for a race of intelligent aquatic life to reach space, simply because they'd (probably) need to launch a lot of water to breathe in. The ability to breathe a gas is helpful in that regard. Some measure of planet-wide peace: A constant state of war doesn't seem to lead to large-scale space travel. If you're always at war with someone, you don't want to give them a big target with a predictable trajectory. Decent computing power: Yes, yes, we've all heard how the computers on Apollo 11 had less computing power than your cell phone. That doesn't mean that doing everything manually is always a good idea. More powerful computers can automate a lot more of the repetitive work, making space flight easier. Willingness to take risks: It doesn't matter how many tests you run, at some point there will have to be a first person to strap themselves on top of thousands of pounds of explosives to hurl themselves into space. There will always be risks inherent in doing that. As such, a risk-averse species might never make it to space. Curiosity: You could have all the resources in the world, but if you never play with them to see what happens, you might never learn that rocket fuel can burn. Also, you would need some measure of curiosity to even want to build a rocket in the first place.