I have a very hard hamstring. I can stretch my hamstring to a good extent, i.e., touch the floor without bending the knees with my knuckles but not beyond that. At that stretch point, I feel a stone-hard hamstring. Is it normal? Should I stretch further to obtain a loose and flexible hamstring? Or is there something other than stretching, which I should do? I jog some 1.5 km per day and do floor exercise (stretching and strengthening all different muscles) before hitting the pool. I some 2.5 km per day after the jog session. Will this help loose hamstring? Please help... 

I am going to participate in a half marathon in the 1st week of July and 3/4 Ironman in the 2nd week of July. I am training 11 sessions a week. 8 sessions of swimming with lot of floor exercises before it. 3 sessions of running. Let us not bother about my cycling for now. Out of the 3 sessions of running, one is Interval training 

Please refer image for the cartilage I am talking about. On the outer side of my left leg I experience pain after running very long distance (marathon). My doctor said that this pain is common for endurance athletes. A year back I got this pain after I finished my first half marathon. After some good running practice, I didn't get this pain at all for half marathons. But then I am getting this pain for full marathons now. Is there any specific strengthening exercise that will address this issue? I think there will be many of you having or had the same issue, so can anyone -who overcame this- help me? Or will I just get used to this? 

A marathon is altogether different league when compared to a 10 km run. There are many things to consider... 

Recently I have been training hard for my marathons and I feel that it may not be enough to become a champion. So I came up with the idea of carrying weight while running. I have got 2 dumbbells each weighing just 4 lbs. Can I carry these on my hand and swing my arms normally, the way in which I do while jogging? Will this improve my strength and/or my speed? Also please tell me, what is the extent of weight that I can carry, if at all this idea is good? 

I want to swim 3000 m non-stop for an event coming up next month. I have got three different plans for training to that event, them coming from a great coach. Those plans are concentrating on the 20*100 m and 10*200 m Now my question is, for swimming that long distance (3 km), should I add a long distance in plan in my schedule. Like 2*1500 m or so? Ironmen and great swimmers out there, Please suggest. 

I am currently training for marathons (half & full) coming up in quick successions. My best is 1 hr 44 min for a half marathon. I haven't attempted the full marathon yet. But I have got the endurance to do it because I have done up to 3/4 Ironman. Right now I am doing only one HIIT session in a week. I do up to 5 cardios (mainly running, sometimes cycling) in a week. I strengthen my muscles (calisthenics or using resistance ropes) before or after every cardio session. In the HIIT, I warm up (jog, 900 - 1000 m) for 5 minutes. Sprint 200 m in 35 s & jog 200 m in 70 - 80 s and I repeat them 4 or 5 times. Then again cool down jog (800 m - 1000 m) for another 5 min. Now my question is how many times can I do this in a week? If I use the HIIT (eg: Tabata Protocol) for strengthening, not the same day as HIIT run schedule, is that considered as a separate HIIT session? Keeping in mind the recovery run schedules(0 - 1 session after the HIIT) and the Long distance schedules (I do once a week), can anyone guide me? By the way my age is 25. My resting heart rate ranges between 55 and 60. 

If he's fitter than you, is it because he does more long rides during the week? It may be that his sugar reserve is always running on empty, whereas yours has a chance to replenish itself between rides. Is your friend careful what he eats at other times? As I mentioned above, the body can use sugar or protein to metabolise fat. If your friend is trying to eat plenty of protein to build muscle (or aid recovery), perhaps he's being careful to avoid burning protein for fuel when it could be put to better use in the body. It would be like buying expensive wood panelling for your walls and then taking it down to burn on the fire! It could be something unrelated to how fit and lean he is. Maybe you have a very late dinner the night before, or a midnight snack, so you don't feel hungry until later in the morning; whereas your friend doesn't eat much in the evenings, so he's hungry as soon as he wakes up. The body adapts to its eating patterns, and people can have very different habits. Or similarly, it might be that he is just being more careful. Maybe he's "hit the wall" before on a pre-breakfast ride. If that happens it really makes the ride a lot less enjoyable, so perhaps having done it once, he always eats breakfast to make sure it won't happen again. Perhaps he doesn't need to eat breakfast on this ride in particular, but doesn't want to risk misjudging. 

I swim in an unheated outdoor pool in Spring (in the UK). It's cold enough to be uncomfortable but not dangerous (today the water was 14°C, and if it's below 10°C they close the pool). After a length or two, I'm used to the water temperature and my body doesn't feel so cold any more, but my head still feels as if I've been eating ice-cream too quickly. Would wearing a swimming cap reduce heat loss through the head while I'm in the water? (I'm not worried about after I get out: I make a beeline for the hot showers.) If it makes a difference, I wear my hair about an inch long. 

Even a very lean person has enough body fat to fuel them for running several marathons, but to metabolise this fat, your muscles also need to use some sugar or protein. That's just how the chemical process works. Your muscles have some sugar stored in them, and they use this up over the course of your ride. This reserve is small enough that you can use it all on one ride. When you "hit the wall" or "bonk" (suddenly feel very weak because of low blood sugar), it's because you've used up the sugar. Even though you still have fat to burn, you can't do it! That's why riders take sugary drinks, bars, and fruits with them instead of fatty foods like bacon or doughnuts. I can think of a few possibilities why your friend eats before going. 

I've asked this implicitly of two qualified personal trainers. (One of the two usually trains Olympic athletes, so I trust his judgement.) Each time I said that I was interested in weight training to balance out the extra workout that my quads get (not just in the lower body, but to bring up my upper body strength too). Both of them said it was a reasonable concern, but put me on a programme which was all-round weight training, and didn't focus specifically on my 'neglected muscles'. They each had an additional piece of advice to offer. One of them recommended I take up swimming, which is a good all-round workout (and gives you a choice of different strokes to work different muscle groups). The other looked at my posture and said my pelvis was rotated from its usual position, and that this is a common complaint in cyclists who get a lot of miles in. He gave me what I'd describe as balance exercises: stretching in particular positions, without any weights. That said, they gave me the impression that if your all-round fitness is reasonable, a normal amount of commuter cycling (a few miles a day at a relaxed pace) won't do enough to your muscles to cause a problem. To imbalance your muscles enough to cause a risk of injury, you'd have to be a bike courier, get no other exercise at all, or be training for a race.