OP has not given us personal details, but if OP is an immigrant, the recruiter may be checking he has entered the US legally. His passport should have a visa showing legal entry. Having said that, let me address the actual question: 

My understanding of office etiquette is that "explicitly communicating" you want a "very generous" gift when leaving your job is already a breach of etiquette. It's like a person who's having a birthday party telling everyone they need to provide gifts that are at least the cost of everyone else's gifts on their birthdays. My general approach to such severe breaches of etiquette is that there is no need to uphold standard etiquette in this case (if you consider it is standard to donate to a going-away gift). Etiquette is essentially a set of societal rules telling each of us how to behave appropriately. Once a person has shown they do not believe in abiding by those rules, I don't find it necessary to give them the advantages that fall to those that do abide by the rules. 

The question is not only "unprofessional", I would categorize it as exactly the kind of question you don't want to be asking in the workplace. You already suggested by your use of the plural in "we don't know what prompted this decision" that you and others have been talking about this. The turban wouldn't appear to be affecting any of her work or your work relationship. You are merely curious. Generally I would not ask questions that are designed to sate one's curiosity beyond say, wanting to know where someone got a nice shirt so you can get one too, etc. It leads easily into gossiping behavior. 

Besides software development, one sector where puzzles / brainteasers / quantitative problem-solving is tested as part of the job interview process is in technical roles in finance. I've heard a couple reasons given for testing interviewees in such a manner: 1) it's a form of stress test. Since there are a lot of jobs where a person has to be very quick on their feet and be able to apply their quantitative skills at a moment's notice, this should be tested somehow. 2) It's an efficient test of basic skills. Finance tends to attract people of diverse academic backgrounds. How do you verify that someone that says they are "good at probability" is really so? Does having a math PhD suffice? There are plenty of people with only basic undergrad math that have better probabilistic reasoning skills than many math PhDs. 

I would treat this as your first assignment. You have been given a list of things that need to be done, and you need to prioritize. I would advise you to select based on the impact / value add. Ask your manager which of the projects has the most business impact. Ask him to walk you through the impact each project has. If none of them seem particularly impactful, make sure to mention you are keen to make an impact but of course will do your best on any project you end up on. Your manager should get the hint. If not, there's not much you can do about it. 

I'm seeing a lot of people treat this as a test or argue you don't want to work for someone that tests you etc. The reality is "fit" is important, and the interviewer probably wasn't even thinking s/he was testing you. These kinds of signals are very subtle. From what you describe, I wouldn't be surprised if some people end up thinking "This guy isn't very much fun" or "He seems kind of stiff. I'm not sure he'd loosen up around clients." Any hesitation at all could have swung the pendulum one way or another. In my case, if an interviewer was drinking and asked me if I wanted wine or beer, I'd probably just accept a beer without a second thought. After all, I don't have to chug it down and I'm fine with just drinking a bit with my food. As advice, I'd suggest you can always accept and not drink the whole thing. For most people, it's just a social thing and they just want you to join in on whatever activity they are doing (drinking alcohol in this case). 

This is somewhat minor. Yeah, I get that this is annoying, but many working people deal with a lot worse. 

I remember my very first interview for a Wall Street quant position. The interviewer was professional but somehow you could sense you were talking to a real human, with a sense of humor. He asked me several questions on programming and some tricky questions about random walks. We were short on time, and he was clearly a busy man, but he took the time to give me some tips on how to conduct interviews, e.g. you have to be confident in how you present your answer because that's a valuable skill to have on a trading floor. I don't remember his name or what team he worked on at that company, but I will always remember him as an example of what good interviewing is supposed to be. Perhaps this intern won't remember you at all. That's the most likely scenario. But you never know. Perhaps like me, one day he will think of you and try to be a better interviewer. There's no reason to help a guy on the street when his packages fall from his arms to the street. You're never going to meet him again. It's a wasted interaction from one point of view. We are all human in the end though, and some of us feel like we have to live our lives in a way where we feel like we are good people. If you feel like you did a good job interviewing that intern, then that's what is the most important in the end. Don't let anyone tell you differently. 

I'm surprised the five answers here so far all advocate, rather assuredly, that you should explain your injury first thing. I've worked with a bunch of people that wouldn't give a rat's ass why you have an injury. They're there to figure out whether you have the skills to do the job and whether you will work well in their organization. Spending that time discussing your injury wouldn't even cross their minds. I would also say that as an interviewee, don't forget that you are also screening them. Do you really want to work with people who are so concerned about why you were injured? Is that really the most important thing for them to be thinking about? Of course, if you really need the job and opportunities aren't looking great, yes, you can cover your bases by explaining your injury. But keep this in mind: not only would an interviewer who is suspicious enough to think you got into a fight be suspicious enough to think you are making up an excuse, but focusing on your injury first thing shows a lack of confidence. 

Given that she's been at your company for 40 years, she must be pretty good at her job and/or keeping it. She may even be very good at protecting her "people". I would suggest you learn to appreciate this. If she is as abrasive as you are depicting, there may be people out to get her, and you may need her protection, like it or not. 

I think you are overthinking this. A big red flag for me (and seemingly for you) is that the candidate was unable to ask the most obvious person in front of him for assistance (the receptionist). Instead he chose to waste top management's time to help him find his way to the interview room. Not to mention, the customary behavior when coming to an interview is to let the receptionist know who you are and why you are there. I would have asked him why he wasted the owner and senior developer's time, and if the answer was unsatisfactory (such as "I don't speak to women"), I would end the interview and walk him out. I don't have time to deal with this nonsense, and I certainly don't want to hire someone who needs his hand held for basic tasks. 

It extends their network and allows them to search LinkedIn more efficiently. When your connections then appear in their search results, they can easily send connect requests to those people, which they couldn't do before without those connections' emails. They may not actually care at all about your profile. There's actually no reason for a recruiter to not want to connect to you, which is why a great deal will just spam people with connection requests.