Have a look at Irving M. Copi's Symbolic Logic, though I do not know whether it has been updated since the fifth edition in 1979. 

You are a description (authored by you or another) of the imprint/shadow left by the thoughts you've had, choices you've made, things you've done across the arc of your life. Note, however, that only the first element belongs to you exclusively. For, despite what solipsism may promise, you have an audience, a conversational partner/community composed of critics and admirers. And their opinion of who/what you are (their interpretations of your words and descriptions of your actions), particularly in the age of social media, to some extent regrettably, also merit increasing consideration in answering this query. Start by Reading Book I, Part 4, Section 6 of David Hume’s A Treatise of Human Nature: OF PERSONAL IDENTITY, and portions of Appendix A (see here: $URL$ 

The formidable philosopher of science and mathematics, Hillary Putnam, died last year, at 89, shortly [relatively] after his retirement. His was an intellectually peripatetic career. Though he defended garden variety metaphysical realism in his early years, his skepticism led him to a more restrained internal realism, which led to pragmatism and flirtation with theories based upon coherence, consensus, convergence (in the long run, under ideal epistemic conditions), and something like idealized rational acceptability. I essentially lost track of his position on these issues and, though I believe he broadly maintained a complex anti-anti-realism position throughout his career/life, I have no idea what he believed re truth and the word/world relationship at the time of his death. Does anybody know, or have any idea of what he was up to philosophically just before his death? 

With your comment, I now understand that what you mean is that these beliefs were once pragmatically "true" because they were useful/worked -- in the way notions of heaven and hell were once [more] efficacious at preventing people from killing themselves/others, or having sex with your wife, but they NOW lack justification because modernity has debunked the beliefs'justifying metanarratives (their 'premises'), thus preventing them from any longer being warrantedly assertable? In which case, I would say that once debunked it is no easy task to reconstruct metanarratives/foundations. Once dead, god is not easily resurrected on pragmatic grounds, and any philosopher of religion who made a contrary argument would be accused, at the very least, of anachronism or antiquarianism. (But consider how Pascal's wager [the argument that it is in one's own best interest to behave as if God exists, since the possibility of eternal punishment in hell outweighs any advantage of believing otherwise] may qualify). Incidentally: Also note how your question may imply that Dostoyevsky's fear/phobia about the death of god has, to a great extent, materialized. But also note how "God is dead"'s opening of floodgates to "everything" has also "permitted" lots of "good" to take place. 

Read some Richard Rorty. His magnum opus is Philosophy and the Mirror of Nature. But in the context of your query, I recommend (primarily) Contingency, Irony and Solidarity, but also Philosophy and Social Hope. While he does not expressly make the contrast that you mention, his thesis is essentially that imagination trumps knowledge. Tell me what you think. 

You are being too hard on yourself. Inquiry is not one "thing." One must start somewhere. Ask yourself a question. Answer it for yourself. Then share the question and the answer with another, or several others. Have them answer the question and address your answer (and others). Make revisions to your question and your answer based on the others' answer. Repeat. 

In the beginning was philosophy, but it invented religion pretty quickly. The simple, abridged speculative answer is that "at first" consciousness emerged from biology and wondered. Philosophy (love of wisdom: ie wondering about the world (science) and about ourselves (god)) probably came first (in that gods and "truths" [about the world] had to be invented/noticed) and decided it needed a god to explain some of the things it wondered about, and the methods of science to explain others. So they branched off to become their own thing. The question that plagues us now, is whether there is any longer anything for philosophy to do/be, since all (physical science, religion, mathematics, social science, art, linguistics, etc) that used to constitute philosophy, in a progressively specialized" universe, have become their own fachs. 

Read some Richard Rorty. Maybe start with Contingency, Irony and Solidarity, or Philosphy and Social Hope. Tracts from which even a skeptical, postmodern, anti-realist, nihilist can squeeze meaning/purpose/hope. Moreover, he will introduce you to many of the the other philosophers mentioned in the other answers to your question. (Aside: Note that his "magnum opus" is Philosophy and the Mirror of Nature.) 

And the article goes on to outline the various ways that C3 (ergo dualism?) can be avoided, and is a fairly good primer on thinking about whether your “basic” premise, that “ontology is physical” is tenable. 

The posted answers will work, and are appreciated (and given my vote), but, I'll go with Hillary Putnam, who long ago said (somewhat in the context of the other answers here), "There is no fact of the matter as to what any of our terms refer to." (Words and Life, 1994, p. 279). Alternatively, one might trivially say, with William James, that our words, if "true", "agree with" (leaving the term "agree" undefined) reality/the world, or, with Richard Rorty, that confronted with specific aspects of the world we [our brains] are causally disposed to use certain words in certain ways in order to "cope" with those aspects of reality/the world. After thousands of years, little more can be said. (But cf my recent Rorty concedes to Ramberg question.) 

Anyone run into a good book or essay relating (discussing the arguable relationship between) Kant's embedding our 'conceptual scheme' (for lack of a better term for "the way we think", or what we presuppose in describing/explaining reality) in pure reason/the forms/categories and Wittgenstein's embedding it in [our] language? 

The Oxford English Dictionary recently named ‘post- truth’ its word of the year. The term, whose use is said to have increased 2000% in the past year, is defined as: “…relating to or denoting circumstances in which objective facts are less influential in shaping public opinion than are appeals to emotion and personal belief, ” In the age of social media, one can profitably expand this definition by adding that “objective facts” have also become less influential than public opinion in shaping what we believe [to “exist” to “be true”]. For “philosophers”, these formulations highlight the extent to which ontology, metaphysics, and epistemology have imploded over the past century, and how the remaining conceptual elements of each have interpenetrated one another other. The quest for “absolute truth” about an “ultimate reality” became, with Kant, pure reason’s “objective” ordering of phenomena (the objects of our perception), and has now become the quest for intersubjective consensus regarding the instrumental usefulness of one vocabulary [or model] over another in describing [or marshaling] phenomena for particular purposes. Yet the pesky nature of the notion of “truth” continues to elude us – making impossible a robust consensus on the issue of what (if anything) an “objective fact” is. Even the pursuits of science, the fach historically most interested in developing “objective facts,” have come to be orthogonal (a favorite predicate of millennial data engineers and philosophers of science] to issues of realism/constructivism/indeterminacy, etc. Consider, for instance, this abstract of Angela Potochnik’s 2015 paper, The Diverse Aims of Science: 

If by “giving up the notion of truth” you mean giving up the correspondence theory of truth – truth as correspondence between the world and our observations/concepts, then to relinquish truth as the goal/aim of [empirico-rational; scientific] inquiry, while preserving such inquiry itself a valid instrument for acquiring fruitful “knowledge” (fruitful though corrigible beliefs -- with predictive value capable of being falsified), as required by Popperian science, then a pragmatic instrumentalism would seem to be its only alternative epistemology. Remember, incidentally, that Popper believed that the logical analysis of scientific knowledge is not so much concerned with questions of fact as with questions of justification or validity. 

The short answer to your question is “probably not.” And this primarily because “analytic philosophy” is probably best conceived as a [group of] method[s] -- rather than a school of thought with competing “contentions”, whose practitioners tend to define “philosophy” narrowly, and seem to focus on logic and the philosophies of science, language and mind. Nevertheless, the question of what “analytic philosophy “is” turns out to be rather complex. If you decide that Scott Soames's 2 volume Philosophical Analysis in the 20th Century is more than you want to bite off, check out Hans-Johann Glock's What is Analytic Philosophy? (2008), where the author answers the question by addressing it from various angles: historical, methodological, topical, ideological, ethical/political and geographical, and comes in under 300 pages. A good read. To round out your understanding in this area, you will also want to have a look at pragmatism, since its influence on 20th Century analytic philosophy has been substantial (probably most prominent in Quine, Davidson, Sellars and Putnam and their followers, but if you look closely, and define pragmatism, as a method, broadly, you’d be hard pressed to find an analytic not influenced by pragmatic notions). From the classic American pragmatists (Pierce, James, Dewey, Mead), who influenced the early analytics, to the so called “new pragmatists”, and the “neo-pragmatists” (primarily Richard Rorty), who criticize the analytics, in order to properly understand what you have called “anglo-american” philosophy, you will want to survey pragmatism as well. Glock does not really go there. Check out, for instance, Diggens’ The Promise of Pragmatism, Thayer’s Meaning and Action: A Critical History of Pragmatism, or Menaund’s The Metaphysical Club. 

It is virtually impossible, after the centuries we have spent trying (cf Virmaior's and Goodies's outlines; Plato to Kant to Frege, Quine to Davidson, Putnam and Kriptke),to say with any degree of certainty how our words/sentences/propositions noninferentially "hook up to" reality/the world (also cf. Wittgenstein's word/world movement from the atomistic/reductionistic "picture theory" of the Tractatus [a technical/logical correspondence theory] to the "rule application" and "use theory" of the Investigations). As Putnam observed, "There is no fact of the matter as to what any of our terms refer to." (Words and Life, 1994, p. 279). One could trivially say, with James, that our words, if "true", "agree with" (leaving the term "agree" undefined) reality/the world, or, with Rorty (via the [Darwinian] early pragmatists), that confronted with specific aspects of the world we [our brains] are causally disposed to use certain words in certain ways in order to "cope" with those aspects of reality/the world. After thousands of years, little more can be said. 

As your quandary is framed, your conclusions cannot be faulted. However, the real issue in the area is whether there exist unique descriptions that “accurately” describe various aspects of the world/reality, or whether the accuracy/truth of any description is “relative to” a host of variables. Though the world may impact your nerve endings in certain ways, it does not describe itself. It simply is. 

Richard Rorty (1932-2008) was the paradigmatic deflationist re the concept “truth.” He was an epistemic naturalist and historicist, an instrumental pragmatist, anti-realist/essentialist, and postmodern apologist. Truth for him was an epistemic concept of warranted assertability, justified assertion within a conversational community, i.e. an affair of conversational consensus. As he said in Philosophy and the Mirror of Nature (p.170): “… [w]e understand knowledge when understand the social justification of belief, and thus have no need to view it as accuracy of representation. “, and believed that aim of knowledge, of inquiry, (the purpose/function of its tools/instruments – from the “faculty” of reason to our senses, to our concepts/words/categories) is not to [accurately] represent the world but to “cope with it.” According to Rorty, the only use for the concept of truth is a cautionary one, to remind us that though a sentence/proposition may be justified/warranted today, it may not be to some future conversational partner/in some future conversational community. As of the 1970s and beyond he always maintained that “reality”, “the world”, should not be permitted to constrain or restrain human inquiry in the way religion had for many centuries, and liked to say that there are no restraints on human inquiry except the conversational ones provided by our fellow inquirers (Consequences of Pragmatism, p. 165). Being a naturalist, he admitted that our language was somehow “shaped” by the environment, but vigorously and repeatedly denied “that it is explanatorily useful to pick and choose among the contents of our minds or our language and say that this or that item ‘corresponds to’ or ‘represents’ the environment in a way that some other item does not.” (Objectivity, Relativism, and Truth, p. 5). In fact, he denied that knowledge was a matter of “getting reality right,” but rather it was a matter of “acquiring habits of action for coping with reality.” (Id., p. 1). His idea was we could never attain the “sky hook” or “birds/god’s eye view” of reality/the world to come to know whether we are getting anything about reality right. Hence, because there is no way to know whether one’s concepts/categories represent or correspond with the world/reality, all we can hope to do is use them to cope with it. (i.e. He took the Kantian divide between the noumenon and the phenomenon very seriously, and could not conceive of ever bridging it.) Then, almost a decade before his death, Bjorn Ramberg challenged (accurately outlining the challenge would require more space than I have available here) and elicited a transformative concession from Rorty: “[i]t was a mistake on my part to go from criticism of attempts to define truth as accurate representation of the intrinsic nature of reality to a denial that true statements get things right, [and granting Davidson’s point that] most of our beliefs about anything… must be true of that thing – [which means that it] must get that thing right.” (Robert Brandoms, Rorty and His Critics, p.374) After decades of denying the point, Rorty here (pre 2000) essentially admits that it IS “explanatorily useful” to say that an idea or word “‘corresponds to’ or ‘represents’ the environment in a way that some other item does not.” He admits that there is a non-intersubjective distinction that can be made (despite there being no god’s eye view of the world/reality) between an idea/word that gets [the world/reality] right and one that gets it wrong. Which is something (i.e., the futility of appealing in inquiry to accurate isomorphic correspondence) that on my reading of Rorty has been an essential element of his philosophy since …Mirror of Nature. So my first question is, once he capitulates here (that true statements do in fact get things right”, and admits that there would seem to be a "fact of the matter”, what distinguishes him from other more contemporary pragmatists, such as Davidson, Putnam, etc., who also deny that “truth is accurate representation of the intrinsic nature of reality” but had for years argued with Rorty about his refusal to accept the weaker versions of "truth", "correspondence", “correspondence”, “representation”? Nothing, as far as I can tell. Yet, aside from his vague response to Ramberg in that tract, before he died Rorty never really addressed the issue/challenge, and the significance of his concession to his life’s work. So my second question is, has anyone run into any writings, or had any conversations by/with Rorty or other scholars, that address this concern? 

Then read Chapter 2 of Richard Rorty's Contingency Irony and Solidarity*, The Contingency of Selfhood (or maybe the whole book). 

The answer to your question has proven to be much more complex than anticipated. Have a look at Hans-Johann Glock's What is Analytic Philosophy? (2008), where the author answers his central question by distinguishing analytic from continental philosophy on a variety of fronts: historical, methodological, topical (topics/problems addressed by each), ideological, ethical/political and geographical. A very interesting and revealing analysis. For instance, Glock argues that AP initially distinguished itself from traditional philosophy (pre-socratics to Kant), but that this contrast was later superseded by the AP-CP contrast as a result of two distinct events: the migration from Europe of the analytics, and the fact that AP essentially returned to the (traditional) fold from the 1960s onward with "the rehabilitation of metaphysics and the reversal of the linguistic turn", which removed its “most fundamental doctrinal conflicts with traditional philosophy." (p.85-86). The book is enlightening and a great read.