This is an example of play calling in the West Coast Offense. The play call itself could be called something else in another offensive scheme. Here is a breakdown of the playcall and terms: 

In my experience, the only reason for a handicap in a social game of golf is for betting purposes. If Player A is 10 shots better than Player B then they may decide to bet on the final score with Player B getting a 10 shot handicap. It can be done a number of ways: 

Watching the NBA Finals game 4 last night, LeBron was injured on a shooting attempt where he was fouled. The announcers said that if he didn't shoot the free throws, that he would not be able to come back in the game at all. I thought that the rule was that he could sub out and the opposing coach could choose any player to take his free throws (he would naturally choose the worst free throw shooter), but that LeBron could come back in after that... 

The video shows the play that unfolds with the quarterback throwing to the tight end on the banana route. 

The shots per specific hole should lead into your last question. Each course handicaps the holes on their course from 1 to 18. 1 being the most difficult hole and 18 being the easiest. Player A may give Player B a single shot on the 10 hardest holes and play the other 8 straight up. They may decide on some other combination of holes too. 

It is hard to find example play calls compared to offensive play calls. Here is a picture of a play call sheet Basically the coach would relay this to his middle line backer who would either call the play in the defensive huddle or use signals to communicate in a hurry up environment. The different packages are called from the side line and personnel is swapped, so there isn't really a formation call like on offense. Also on defense a play call is a scheme where many things can happen depending on what the offense does. It is reactionary compared to offensive play calling and scheming. 

After much research, and with the help of the Wayback Machine, I was able to compile a list of pdf's for most of the rulebooks since 2001. To understand where we're getting these rulebooks from, we must first dive into the history of the ATP's websites, with respective rulebooks. The chronology of the internet presence of what is currently the "ATP World Tour" goes a little something like this: 

One possible term to describe this phenomenon is a "Stand-in." The usage for this term is more common in eSports than traditional sports, but it nonetheless holds a similar connotation. 

After collating the Eagles 2004 Roster with the Eagles 2017-2018 Roster, There were no returning players. The method performed to calculate this was to prioritize the 14 years that have advanced since the 2004 roster. Using this criteria, we can eliminate any players that were over the age of 26 on the 2004 roster due to the striking unlikelihood of any players over the age of 40 still playing other than the Kickers and Punters (both were checked, and both retired before the 2017-2018 season). So, we are left a handful of players 26 or younger from the 2004 roster. Of the 32 players from the 2004 Eagles roster aged 26 or younger, none of them even made it to the 2017-2018 NFL season. In fact, most of the players from that great 2004 team didn't even make it out of the 2000's. 

Although this may put the definition of "professional" in question, there exists a North American club team that's existence does date before the Cincinnati Red Stockings. Some lesser known history, there exists a sport in North America that has been around for many centuries. That sport is lacrosse. Believed to have originally been played by the Native American Iroquois people, historians have traced the general sport of lacrosse back to the 1100's.1 The game was predominately played by those Native American people in what would become the North-Eastern United States, and lower parts of Ontario and Quebec. Explorers and missionaries have recorded details about the game as early as 1637.2 As time wore on, the people of Canada grew fond of the game and began to play it themselves. According to the "Canadian Encyclopedia": 

If the defense, umpire, or official scorer don't notice this and a pitch is thrown, it is my understanding that the player cannot be put back to first after the pitch. This comes from an experience as a player in the past doing this same thing. 

The team can trade away other cotsly players to stay under the salary cap number They can choose not to resign any players from the previous year (assuming they have players with expiring contracts) They can choose to go over the salary cap and pay a luxury tax The player may be eligible for another exception depending on who he is. 

Sabermetrics and advanced stats have become a big part of baseball in the recent years. Defensive shifts are growing rapidly. "Old School" stats are becoming less relevant compare to "New School" stats. This has trickled into the NBA, with the Houston Rockets starting to make organizational decisions based on advanced stats. I know that there are advanced stats for football, but it seems that most teams play by the book still. One difference between football and other sports is the spending and the market size. There aren't any football teams that are referred to as small market and the salary cap rules keep most teams similar in spending. In college, the spread offense has leveled the playing field some between power house schools and smaller schools, but the NFL is the collection of the best 2,000 (roughly) players. 

This scenario in the rule book pertains to your situation. Basically the penalty is enforced from the spot of the foul and the offense keeps the ball with a couple exceptions: 

Here are some examples of players that came from a "non-traditional" background to play in the NFL. There are examples of players that didn't play college football, but played another sports such as Antonio Gates who played basketball in college. Julius Thomas played only one year of college football after finishing his college basketball career. There are also examples of players that played other sports such as rugby. Daniel Adongo played rugby before coming to the NFL. Jordan Hayne is a top level rugby player that is trying to make it in the NFL. Lawrence Okoye was a track and field athlete for Great Britain before entering the NFL. As far as kickers, some of them played soccer before turning to football in their college careers or late in high school such as Steven Hauschka. 

First, a minor correction in OP's understanding of the grouping In the ATP World Tour Finals with regards to the first two seeds. 

They enjoyed it so much that a few decades later in 1856, enthusiasts banded together and formed Canada's first ever lacrosse club the "Montreal Lacrosse Club." 3 Now, it was around this time that the Prince of Wales traveled to Canada and grasped the merit of holding sporting exchanges between Britain and Canada. As a result, tours began developing in Britain pitting the Native American Khanawake players from Montreal against white gentleman amateurs from Scotland, Ireland, and England.4 It was then, in 1867, that one of the first ever "professional" sports teams/ clubs was formed. The Montreal Lacrosse club, then led by team captain W.B Johnson, began organizing matches in the British nations primarily as a profit making enterprise. The team was comprised of 16 Khanawake players who were each paid $25 dollars for their play (roughly $1600 dollars today).5 Given OP's qualification of "professional" as " (a team) that paid its players as professionals." These Khanawake players would've fit the category. As for the club still being in existence it is complicated. The club itself is not in operation like the Boston Red Socks are, but it exists in an almost ceremonial way. This article outlines the 150 year anniversary of the Montreal Lacrosse Club's existence. The anniversary was celebrated by an exhibition game between the sports two oldest clubs, one of which being Montreal Lacrosse Club. So yes the club is still in existence, but does not operate as team which is comprised of players who are paid a salary by it. Sources: 

After watching many Wilt Chamberlain dunk compilations and reading many articles on The Big Dipper, I can say with a large degree of certainty that Wilt Chamberlain was able to dunk the ball from the free throw line. For the second question, if by "proof" the OP means "video evidence" then I'm afraid it simply cannot be found if it even exists. On the other hand, in terms of proof, a strong case can be built that Wilt Chamberlain was able to dunk from the foul line via Witness Testimony and Wilt's Self Proclamation. On November 28th, 1956 the "Toledo Blade" (a Northwestern Ohio newspaper) published this article which details the "Big Seven" conference's 2 rule changes based on then sophomore Wilt chamberlain: 

Here are some links that disprove your hypothesis: All Innings Are Not Created Equal as well as many others: 2014 MLB Runs by Inning including in depth analysis: RPI Model Another thing to consider is that the 7th inning is usually an inning that you see a reliever, or you continue to see a dominant starter. In the reliever case, hitters production drops off (most people think it is because you only see that guy for one at bat every once in a while). In the starter case, to begin the 7th inning the starter would be throwing a pretty solid game (probably a quality start) and it can be hard to say that even with the pitch count rising that he will be less effective. 

These plays have to do with challenges or reviews, but emphasize that if a whistle blows play dead, the play cannot continue. It is a player safety issue as well as competitive balance issue for any players that hear the whistle and stop playing. NFL Rule 7 - See Section 2 Article 1 The best way to look at it is: If a whistle blows, the play is dead and anything that happens after doesn't matter unless you're talking about a personal foul penalty for some reason. 

The runner that has been put out can continue to run the bases as long as he does not interfere in the play. It is up to the defense to know that he is out and forget about him. As rule MLB Rule 7.09 d) states, 

I cannot say for certain the reason other than I am sure they have a good reason for it. Whether it is keeping their job or for strategic purposes. 

If a pitcher balks and throws a pitch, the batter may swing and the play will be live. The runners may advance without penalty one base forward. However if the runner is tagged out after advancing safely one base, the balk is discarded and the live play is counted. If the runners advance safely throughout the completion of the play, or they are tagged out or forced out before they reach the next base, the offense may select the result of the play or the balk. The criteria for a balk with runners on and the bases empty are very different. If you want more of an explanation on this let me know. If there are no runners on, a balk will be counted as a ball to the batter. Balks without runners on are very rare. 

So, this is indeed not random, but the systematic selection method for determining the 1st seed being placed in the first group, and the 2nd seed being placed in the second group. From this point on however, The 2017 ATP Rulebook does not prescribe a specific order of play in which the seeds of each group must play, nor on which day of the tournament the seeds will play, but only states that each seed must play 1 match against the other players in his group; 3 matches in total. Traditionally yes, the way the matches have been broken down is that within Group 1 and 2's first round of matches, the (1) or (2) seed will play the lowest seed (7) or (8), and the two middle seeds will play each other; (3) plays (5) or (4) plays (6). The 2017 ATP World Tour Finals follows this format as well! Indeed, it appears the 2013 World Tour Finals is the only instance in which this format was not followed, and the reasoning for this is ultimately conjecture. However, we can deduce from the absence of Official ATP Rule direction on the matter that the order of play is ultimately up to the discretion of the venue hosting the event. Also, as long as each player plays the other three in their respective groups, the event is still abiding by ATP rules, so the tournament organizers really have the ability to schedule the order of play however they see fit, perhaps with player feedback. The rationale behind this sort of information is rarely disclosed to the public though, and is shrouded in doubt and ambiguity; as seen with this year's controversy in Rafael Nadal supposedly asking tournament organizers to push back his day of play. Ultimately however, the ATP has produced no official order of play that The World Tour Finals must abide by and has left this up to tournament organizers and directors.