I think Windows Network Load Balancing (NLB) will work for you - it uses multicast to allow multiple servers to be accessed by the same IP address. The servers decide between themselves which one will handle a request. It can be configured to be sticky (session affinity). Be aware however, that it only offers redundancy in terms of whether a server is up or down - it can't decide which server in the cluster is under less load. Most documentation out there will discuss IIS and NLB, but it works for RDP and other applications. I have had some issues using this over Dell PowerConnect switches in a high load scenario, and would be inclined to go for a more heavyweight load balancing solution, but I think for your purposes it is the best place to start. It's free with Windows Server. 

Basically, you get a lot more than processing and connectivity from your VPS than you might think. If you are trying to cut your costs, shop around and make sure you aren't over specifying for your needs. 

I have two redundant core switches I want to connect to a new vSwitch I am setting up on a VMware ESX host. The switch will have two physical NICs each of which will connect to one of the core switches. The core switches are connected. If this was a physical switch, I would worry about connecting it to both core switches, because this would create a network loop. Do I need to worry about this for a VMware virtual switch? VMware's documentation says it is not possible to connect two vSwitches in a loop, therefore STP is not required. However, I am worried about connecting two physical switches together via a vSwitch. 

I've just installed and configured monit according to the monit documentation. All services apart from Apache are listed as Running, but Apache says Not Monitored. The relevant lines in monit's config are: 

We have a number of branch offices where having an AD/DNS server would make a big difference to user experience. The following characteristics apply: 

I have a requirement to send a notification to an external email address whenever a message that meets certain criteria appears in a users mailbox. This is similar to sending an auto-reply, but always sending a specific message (not forwarding the original message) to the external email address, not the sender. I can't quite figure out how to do this in Exchange 2003/Outlook 2003. It has to be a server side rule that does not require the Exchange mailbox user is logged in. 

I don't think you can access the OS directly from an ESX host, and until you network those machines you aren't going to be able to run commands on them through SSH. Since you are switching IP tables off, I am assuming that you don't have a security policy in place that requires IP tables (or any firewall) is switched on before connecting them to the network. So I suggest switching the network on, allowing DHCP to configure the IP address and DNS entries for each host and then use SSH (via a script) to do your configuration tasks. Functionality similar to what you are thinking of exists in Xen, although this also requires a network connection to get the commands through. 

First off, you need to make sure that you have an MX record somewhere in DNS so that a mail server can deliver to the sharepoint server. This could be a public DNS record, or internal, depending on your needs. To test whether you have set up Sharepoint and the local SMTP server properly try the following: View the folder you configured the smtp server to deliver to (C:\Inetpub\mailroot\Drop for example) - you will watch this to see if messages are delivered. Then open a telnet session to the sharepoint server on port 25. Via this you can "send" a test message directly to the smtp server using the address of your Document Library. 

I have set up a netflow server at our data centre, which is connected via VPN to ~40 remote offices using Cisco ASA 5505. The aim is to analyse usage data and find out exactly how the remote connections are being used. I followed through $URL$ to set up ntop and $URL$ to set up the ASAs. I can see from the Plugin > Netflow > Statistics page that netflow packets from my ASAs are being received - the counter is increasing. However, I am not seeing any breakdown on the Global Traffic Statistic page after switching to the Netflow interface. I'm just seeing a pie chart showing 100% traffic for eth0. The interfaces and documentation are a little hard to follow so I am not sure I have got things configured correctly. When setting up my NetFlow-device.2 I can specify Virtual NetFlow Interface Network Address - the web UI says 

Different things can create interference in each of these bands. Notably, WiMax operates in the 2 - 11 GHz, which overlaps C Band. C Band installations within 50 miles of a WiMax network can potentially be effected. Nice one IEEE! I have also observed local welding work to completely obliterate a Ku band signal. When the work was completed the connection came back. Rain Fade Ku band is notorious for being affected by water droplets in the atmosphere - commonly referred to as rain fade - although this can affect any frequency above 11 GHz. This is now usually mitigated against by changes to the transmission power at the satellite and earth stations, but can still sometimes cause problems. Build up of moisture in the feed horn of a VSAT dish can degrade the signal enough to break the connection - if the moisture is removed, or once it evaporates, the connection is reestablished. Physical disruption Pointing a dish at a small object 35,786 km away is a fine art. Moving the dish by just 1 degree results in pointing at something more than 600 km away from the satellite! Small knocks to the dish can result in loss of signal, but the dish still looks like it is pointing in the right direction. That is why you spend a lot of money and effort on building secure mounts for your dishes, and put up signs suggesting that getting near the dish is dangerous. Leaving dead birds lying around the dish can be helpful! Talking of birds, they have been known to build nests in VSAT dishes - they generally come with some spikes to discourage this. I've seen a 1.5m Maribou stork perching on a VSAT dish - something that can easily change the alignment of the dish if the mount is not strong. Cabling can also get damaged (and is expensive and awkward to replace). Again, investment in proper cable runs is worthwhile. Wind blowing a loose cable against a wall, especially over an edge, can result in damage to the cable over time. Lightning strikes Like any metal outdoor object pointed at the sky, lightning strikes are a risk. Generally you won't be supplied VSAT equipment without some form of lightning protection, but adequate earthing/grounding is usually left up to you. Are lightning rods a good idea? I'm not sure, and haven't been involved in any installations that include them. Solar activity Solar flares and storms can interfere with any radio communication here on earth, and satellite communications are no exception. Twice a year the satellite will pass directly in between the sun and the earth station - a bit like a solar eclipse, except the satellite is not big enough to blot out the sun. This results in potential disruption four times a year (twice a year for each earth station). Most VSAT suppliers will send you regular updates of when these are likely to affect you. The duration is usually around 5 minutes. 

I see what you are getting at, but I don't think OpenSSL is quite the tool for the job. You might want to look at Open Source Certificate Authority projects such as EJBCA which are more focussed on this functionality than OpenSSL, and have specific documentation you can use. I don't see a reason why the concept wouldn't work, since all you are doing is signing the subordinate CA's certificate. If you were paying a public CA to do this for you, you wouldn't necessarily know or care what flavour of server they were using. All you need to care about is: 

Is it possible to do split tunnelling with a site to site VPN connection using Cisco ASAs? We have a Cisco ASA 5510 at head office, and Cisco 5505 in our branch office, currently connected via a Site-To-Site VPN. I'd like to give direct access to the internet for hosts in the branch office. Is it possible. I know it can be done for Remote Access VPN connections (Easy VPN), but can't find any documentation on Site-To-Site, so wondering if it is missing, or isn't there because it can't be done. 

If I understand your question correctly, you have a proxy on the internet (for load balancing perhaps?) that forwards traffic to your web servers, which sit behind a firewall (the ASA). If this is the case, you need to do two things, one for the routing functions of the ASA and one for the firewall functions: 

I'm looking to set up a central print server to allow Windows 7 and 10 clients in remote offices without a local print server to have print drivers installed automatically when the printer is added from Active Directory. I'm not looking to have all print jobs run through this central print server. Many locations will be using a printer of the same make and model so we don't need a separate driver for every printer. I'm interested to know whether the print driver installation files are stored on the print server itself, or whether they are/can be stored in SYSVOL or another DFS location so that the drivers can be supplied from the most appropriate location. 

This is just in case it is something simple - if you have a network issue with the crawl server then you won't get any further. Check for any errors under Central Admin > Application Management > Check Services Enabled on this Farm - that should highlight any issues with SSPs etc. Also check your server application logs, and Sharepoint ULS logs (Codeplex has a great Sharepoint Solution for this - LogViewer) Also - can you specify a little more about your environment: 

Easiest way is probably to buy in a service like MailChimp. There are a lot of advantages to this - particularly that those companies care to spend the time to get your newsletter through spam filters etc, saving you the hassle. Next simplest is setting up a mailing list server such as Mailman. This will get you double opt in, list management, and sends to recipients one by one, as you request. If you don't already have EXIM or Postfix on your Linux server, you aren't going to find a super simple way of doing this, unless you already understand MTAs in general, and a specific one in detail. 

The snapshot names are related to the virtual disk file they are based on, which need not be related to the name of the virtual machine, and quite unlikely to have anything to do with any labels given to the snapshot. The numbers after the disk file name are primarily a unique ID to ensure that the filename is unique. From my observation this does often indicate the order of the snapshot file, where snapshots have not been used frequently for that VM. However, there is no guarantee of this, and where lots of snapshots have been created then deleted, you may see something different. VMware have a good document discussing snapshots which covers the naming convention. Note there are additional files relating to snapshots, also detailed in the document linked above. 

When you say ping works perfectly, how many pings are you sending? It sounds like ssh is working "perfectly" for at least some of the time. You need to run a long ping test to catch any intermittent issues. That way you can establish whether there is some network issue causing the problem, which seems more likely for an intermittent issue. Look for any patterns of time of day, or if it is specific clients disconnecting, while others work. 

In Windows Server 2003 Active Directory there was no UI to access the FullName field - see this blog post for a discussion of this, and how Display Name is not the same as Full Name. In Windows Server 2008 Active Directory, the Full Name field can be seen on the General Properties section of the User windows in ADUC. The Full Name field is used in the Global Address List. I have found that in some cases the Full Name field has been populated with the username, rather than the full name, meaning that users can't find these colleagues in the GAL as they are out of order. I want to extract the username and FullName fields from AD so that I can find all the accounts where the two fields are the same (I'm not trying to do this comparison with an LDAP query - I can do it in Excel once I extracted all the values). However, I can't find anywhere how I would actually refer to the field labelled "Full Name". Does anyone know? 

We have a CO2 extinguisher in our comms room. I guess I'd use that if I was in the room when the fire started, and noticed it. Couple of discharges at the base of the fire, then get out even if it appeared to be out, then raise the alarm. The only time we had a fire in our comms room, it was the AC unit that started it, and luckily it didn't spread. No one stayed around to tackle it - the smoke detectors caught it before anyone did, and the building was evacuated. Having the previous nights backup tapes in a pelican case next to his desk, ready for collection by our offsite storage suppler, our network manager carried those out with him. The fire brigade came, and it was valuable to let them know the fire was in the server room, and give them an access card. They didn't need to take an axe to the door or destroy anything - they went in with breathing apparatus, located the fire and dealt with it. So one thing worth doing is being around to talk to the fire brigade when they arrive, rather than disappearing down to the pub with everyone else... It would have been a major disaster for our organisation if the fire brigade had run in and sprayed everything with water. Yes, we have an offsite recovery where we believe we can recover our systems within 48 hours. But we would really rather avoid having to use it.