Let's take the most well-known alternative universe which involves magic: Harry Potter. What do people in Harry Potter do that we, as Muggles, can't do in the real world? 

As we know, solar power is the ultimate source of energy for mankind, and it's the most abundant(I have read that we receive more than 1000 times the energy we currently use, if we were to have a way to utilize all of it). The power of solar is weakened because of the 93-million-mile distance between us and the Sun, so the energy we receive is very dilute and utilizing it is difficult. But what if we were to change that? If we send a satellite close to the sun(as close as it can handle), convert the sunlight that falls on the satellite into broad laser beams and transmit to receivers on the Earth, we could get far higher energy densities than what is currently being done(one could think of the Icarus from the Bond movie Die Another Day.) There would be losses, but I doubt they'd be higher than they currently are. Then once on the Earth, we could use large lenses to dilute the energy back to the level on which it could be fed to heavy-duty solar panels. Apart from the high cost of robust materials needed to sustain all that heat(we could use tungsten, for example, for the satellite body), what are the other considerations for this? Is there any obvious flaw I haven't noticed? 

Why has no one thought of heart attack? Having a high and then a low temperature induces a heart attack. When the owner's sleep is the deepest, set the temperature to slowly climb to 45C. Then, when he starts sweating, drop it suddenly to 5 C within three seconds. Boom. Heart attack. Unless the temperature of the house is constantly logged to a hard drive, I don't think anyone will suspect the AI. This assumes the AI cannot tamper with logs (which we'll assume as a failsafe for keeping the AI out of sensitive systems). 

Some of these things can be changed by manipulating Nature, some can't. Let's analyse them one by one. We can't channel energy as spells through wands from our bodies This can simply be achieved by violating the law of conservation of energy, as you suggest. Then we'll be able to yield infinite energy without any being taken away from the body. We could also make it any form we wanted, leading to different kind of spells(not all, though). We can't make potions as described in the universe(but some of them we could, if science advances enough) Well, in our world, medicines are a kind of potion. In that sense, we can make potions, but not most of them, like the Polyjuice Potion. I'm doubtful if some could be made at all, like the potion which makes pictures move, 'cause that's not how pictures work. We can't teleport(Apparate) or use Floo Networks or Portkeys. This'll also require the violation of the law of conservation of mass-energy, or the attempted teleportation of a single person will destroy all life on earth, as the only way to really "teleport" is to convert oneself purely to energy and back into being at the destination. We can use some types of Floo networks(faxes and the Internet come to mind), but they're no match for really being able to send people though. Wormholes, if made possible, would also be a type of apparition, as the feeling described in the books could be similar to the one of travelling through a wormhole. We can't make other objects move telekinetically or change their physical characteristics directly Here I'm talking about the chess set and Transfiguration. Transfiguration will also require conversion to pure energy and back, or somehow being able to split any element to hydrogen and recombine to needed element. I'm not sure how you'd breathe life into the 'raised' object though. We can't make things out of nothing I'm not really sure how this one works, but your theory of the law of conservation of energy should come here too I suppose. We don't have things that have different sizes from the inside and outside We'll have to change the law of conservation of space - effectively allowing fitting a 787 Dreamliner jet inside a courier carton. We can't predict the future This'd require time travel. Perhaps someday we'll evolve into 4D or 5D beings or something and then this one will come in, but until then, no future predictions for you(reliable ones, at least). We can't talk to ghosts A ghost is just a lone soul, without a body. Can't blame Nature here. The concept of a soul is not natural; life is just the effect of thousands of chemical processes happening in sync inside living things - they stop, the soul's gone. So we could make a crude comparison to a radio that's on as alive and one that's off as lifeless. Basically nothing physics can really do here, it's not involved. We can't transform into animals This one's similar to the fourth or fifth one. Undefined behavior on recombination. We can't animate otherwise lifeless objects We do have a variant of this one already - robots. But they are 'alive' for a reason similar to the seventh one - a series of processes that make it possible. I'm not really sure, but my best guess here would be 'everything about the way living things work will need to change'. We don't have animals that breathe fire or anything similar This is similar to the first - we'll need to break the law of conservation of mass-energy. Any animals alive in the world simply can't absorb energy from their surroundings fast enough to project it out at that rate. And living things are carbon-based, which means breathing fire will burn them up from the inside. So I guess life will have to exist as non-carbon based - iron as a candidate, anyone? So I'll second what some others have said: depends on your definition of magic - but I don't think any single law will be enough - our world is too different and too complicated. 

Maybe. Everything inside an Alcubierre bubble is causally disconnected from everything outside the bubble, but only if you're going faster than light. Since you mentioned that you're using subluminal velocities, you're not causally disconnected from the rest of the universe. You are surrounded by a bubble of compressed space-time, however, and that's going to give you some problems. It's easily observed that compressed space-time refracts light passing through it. This is going to pose some issues when you try to project something out of the bubble. Since this bubble is going to be concave around the transmitter, it's going to tend to diffuse any transmission out of the bubble, so the signal is going to have to be both extremely strong and very concentrated. It's also putting off some serious radiation from the front end, so you'll need to compete with that to get a signal out. But this is science fiction! Well then, let's say that you can manage to get a signal out of the bubble. Making the problem worse, the universe has stuff in it [citation needed]. This is probably going to be a fairly lossy connection, so you're going to have to figure out a way to deal with interference and lost bits. These are surmountable problems. 

So it's a fairly universal constant, which, (assuming current theory holds) would translate to any civilization advanced enough to discover it. It's value is $1.616×10^{-35}\ meters$. Rather conveniently, there are $5.854×10^{50}\ plank\ lengths$ in a light year, so you could quite easily make up your own unit defined as $10^{50}\ plank\ lengths$ and have a similarly sized unit that's detached from any non-universal measurement of time. The problem with this answer is that it uses our (relatively arbitrary) base 10 system. I recommend switching to a base 2 system, which gives us $~2^{169}\ plank\ lengths$ in a light year. This you can round to whatever you see fit. I would recommend going for either 128 or 256, as both are powers of two. After this, naming depends on what you want to make your "standard length". In SI it's the meter, which is $~2^{34}\ plank\ lengths$. From there scale up with SI prefixes until you reach your stand-in for the light-year. 

This led me to think: the first factor, $\Delta$V, is the main obstacle in being able to leave Earth. So, if we had a means to alter the rate of spin of the Earth using magic, could we defeat it? Or would we just get thrown out in a chaotic manner, to our eventual death due to loss of control? Note: Assume the magic is specific to the spin of the Earth and nothing else; i.e. we don't have generalized energy/magic of levels required to alter planets. 

Yesterday, I read the NASA post The Tyranny of the Rocket Equation. Very interesting read. In there, it states: 

Apparent FTL might be possible if we master the science of getting anything close to the speed of light, and live as a complete nomadic civilization aboard a huge starship, similar to what they did in Independence Day. But that'll mean that we'll have to leave Earth behind, so some kind of 'life on Earth is not sustainable anymore' kind of scenario will need to happen. It's sad to leave such a wondrous planet behind, but it might come to that sometime. In that case, the timeline could be anything from 100 years to infinity, depending on the current rate of progress and humanity's natural resource drain. 

I don't know much about the specifics, but a setback is definite. If influential people who built Google, Facebook and Apple would be dead or in different circumstances, we'd have a world that'd be technologically much worse than the current world. Explanation for this is that these people dying doesn't automatically guarantee that in the near future someone is going to invent what they did anyway, which is saying that the future is set. We know that's not so. Of course, a counterview to this is that necessity is the mother of invention, and someone will come up with something depending on which way public demand heads to. But it'd be a bit of a long shot to say we'd be at the same level as today. 

It's well known that SpaceX has a long term goal of getting people on Mars. Let's assume some time has elapsed since humanity's transition to Mars. Due to lack of transport infrastructure and hostile terrain, humanity has settled down in separate zones set up in relatively habitable areas on the planet's surface. But now, it is observed that some people(scientists and such) will need to organize meetings for exchange of information. Due to vast distances between zones, planes are the only medium which can be used for transport. What will the planes on Mars be like? Will hypersonic planes be the norm? Travelling by air on Mars needs you to be fast: 

I agree with the answers of AlexP and evilscary, but want to add that we are likely to see some chaos in the orbit like we do with the small moons of Pluto. I want to recommend, that you study this system as a possible example. I consider the small moons of Pluto to be a good example for another possible orbit of the two sun system because: 

I am not very much into psychology but know a lot about Version Control Systems. These systems work by keeping everything which is compatible and letting the user decide which change should be kept in case of conflicting changes. I will assume that your BOSS does somehow the same. You said in your question: 

This let me assume, that they still know that their changes had been rejected. This might be a new possible source for the "I wish it were me" problems, of the sort "I whish my changes/experiences would be kept": Every clone might want to make changes that will end in the merged personality. This can lead both to try to figure out how BOSS decides which change would override and adopt their behavior to this. If they e.g. experience that exciting situations are less changed to fit with the others they might start to life a riskier life than they would without BOSS. Edit: I had been asked to put an example for "conflicting changes". They depend a bit on how the problem of brains is actual mapped to the version control system. The question mentioned a post which says: 

Starting from this I assume, that the merging should give a valid personality. Now assume e.g. that you and the clone learned something at the same time but in different ways. This might be because they learned it from different persons, or because they learn it at the same time (in the same room) but with different "states of mind" resulting from different activities during the ongoing day. How would BOSS merge that into a valid learning experience? Will it first apply one learning experience and then the other one? Will it try to figure out which learning is the "best" and discard the other one completely? In my opinion these questions are similar to "merge strategies" and can therefore result in the problem described earlier. 

IMO the only real answer to this question is to make it a closed system. If you're growing your own food you're already a good way there. If that's not enough, then make some more oxygen yourself by splitting water into hydrogen and oxygen. The other solutions all suffer from various problems; if it's very good against nuclear blasts then it's not good against a trash bag and if people can't thwart it then it's likely not safe against nuclear. Not to mention that if you are thinking about a nuclear attack then the outside world will be irradiated, and a closed system will really be your only option. 

According to this person 57 trillion annihilations at 30 cm gives you 1 rad of radiation. Scale that over the entire planet and you get 2.9 kg of antielectrons. Indiana Jones level kill you immediately radiation dosage is about 100000 rads, so that's about 290,000 kg of antiprotons spread out evenly. Except the isochoric heat capacity of earth atmosphere is $C_v=.717kJ*kg^{-1}*K^{-1}$. Multiplying by the mass of the atmosphere $M_{atm}=5.1*10^{18}$ gives us how much energy it takes to heat the atmosphere by 1 degree Kelvin, $C_v*M_{atm}=3.6567*10^{18}kJ*K^{-1}$. Divide the energy put out by this annihilation and we get $\Delta K = 14000$. WAY too much. Let's shoot to heat up the atmosphere by 200K; there's no way anyone's surviving that. $3.6567*10^{18}kJ*K^{-1} * 200K=7.313×10^{20} kJ$. Convert that into mass using $E=mc^2$ and we get $8.137×10^6 kg$ divide by 2 because half that mass is coming from regular matter and we have $4.069×10^6 kg$. So to kill all humans you need 406,900 kg of antimatter. In all honesty you can probably get away with less because the force of the explosion will likely kill many humans. But I don't know how to calculate that. I was planning on adding more to this response, but I think Serban covered it as well as I can for numbers #1 and #2. I definitely think #1 is overkill in his answer though. 

Your suggestion about a cylindrical container is an interesting one. A cylinder will not be stable on reentry without some help, but I think spinning the capsule could be enough. Get it spinning fast enough and you'll start to get some lift. You can then use this as a means of controlling the landing zone (no left/right control but you should be able to get up/down control) by varying the rate of spin. The two ends of the capsule come off to allow the parachutes to do their work, and the parachutes should be mounted on bearings so that the cables don't get tangled up when the chute deploys. Just make sure that you make the capsule strong because the aero forces over such a large area could be an issue.