You asked "Who shares a room for work?" You were not required to share the room. As stated army, navy, and pro athletes. Many start ups with equity positions will do this to save money. Not a hard requirement but something people do as it is good for the company. When I did a lot of field work there were people I would share a room and car with to save the customer money. The customers appreciated it and many of my contracts were extended as they got more value out of us. We could book nicer hotels - even a suite with a separate bed rooms for less money. For company expenses like a trade show we would a volunteer as it just made the budget go further. It was not a requirement but it was appreciated. I get that some people would not do it and for most jobs you should not be forced to do it. But you asked who shares a room for work and lots of people do. 

A much better approach is "At this point we are not able to reproduce the bug. We cannot fix it until we can reproduce it." It is frustrating when a user just says wrong answer and does not give you the steps to reproduce it. But need to work through it. Some times it is environmental. Start some informal chit chat before the meeting. Sit near the customer. 

I need X% more based on higher crime, more pollution, less family friendly is just going to come off as petty. The two sides need to negotiate the number not how they came to the number. Consider a low number and higher cost of living. "We are long ways apart as that is under the average and a higher cost of living" without giving them a number is different. As a business it is a simple supply demand curve. They are going to offer as low a number as possible to attract talent. Yes they will start with salary range that takes in factors. But in the end they will adjust that range up and down based on the market. An area with poor schools will tend to get single workers or couples with no children. Does not mean they are going to factor up the salary for a family. A location near a ski resort is going to get away with lower salaries and tend to have a lot of skiers. 

They cannot make you sign anything. This may be better for law.stackexchange.com Anything you create is the extreme but it happens. The next level would be anything the company sells or is developing. Then only stuff you create on company time and / or resources. If you are currently working and your employer is asking (or even forcing) you to sign this document maybe you should talk to an attorney. If they are asking several people to sign the document you could try to form a group to share legal cost to at least get a lawyer to review the document. He / she can tell you if it is enforceable and possible alterations to terms that would benefit you. What if there was a clause that tried to claim ownership to you knowledge even if you have not started any work. Does it even attempt to restrict you from posting open source or working on and open source project. I heard of a case that even wanted to restrict open source participation. IANAL but if there is stuff in the document you don't understand I recommend you get a attorney to review it. 

You should give him the receipt so he is going to know. If you don't give him the receipt he does not know it was $30 and you kept $20. Not giving him the receipt is much more awkward. Give him the drive and receipt but do not ask for the difference. He already told you that he would pay the difference. If you want to decline he pay the difference then fine but I think that would be awkward also. 

I would go to HR and tell them he said in your review he thinks you stole or helped steal data. They either need to trust you and move forward or fire you. It is time to look for another job. And be ready to be escorted out the moment you hand in you notice. You are not being cowardly. They are the ones that have accused of of stealing (twice). 

IANAL (I Am Not A Lawyer) Legally I am pretty sure you can refuse to sign a false document. It kind of depends on where the verification came from. A government agency it may be criminal to sign false information. If it is a company they might be able to sue for damages. Your company could be mad if you sign a false document. Your boss may deny she forced you to sign the document. For sure your reputation is hurt by signing a false document. It could get out in the workforce and community that you are not trustworthy. If you just refuse to your boss she might retaliate and you have no proof she verbally told you to sign. She is not a person of integrity based on what has happened. If you go up the chain (HR or her boss) she still could deny she told you to sign. But it just does not make sense that you would lie about this if you reported it up front. Even if they believe you and reprimand your boss you could still suffer collateral damage. The fact you have a false document takes away from the credibility of your boss and her daughter. Boss does not want to sign because of last name does not hold water. They are not going to question a validation based on a matching name. Your boss just does not want to sign a false document and is bullying you. I bet this validation was sent to you by name. Typically a validation would go to HR. I do not think you should sign and deny validation. That is something that should be cleared by HR. You are in a bad spot and should not sign in my opinion. If you just refuse to your boss or go to HR is a harder question. It just does not make sense to lie about this in the first place. It is not likely to be the difference in getting a job and getting caught would be bad for everyone. 

Not a direct answer to the question but there are situations where it can hurt the sender. In litigation let's say a persons company email is collected as part of the discovery process. A responsive email is forwarded to his/her home email or in the email they state you can contact me at jj@personalemail.com. What happens is that is grounds to collect the personal email and people will say lots of stuff in what they think is "personal" email including disparaging remarks about the company that hurt their career. Saving an email may violate the company document retention policy. Yes an email could be used to help your case but it could also hurt you. An email can be spoofed so typically corroborating evidence is required but the email copy may be what drives that process. If the email is no longer on the server and there are no backups then that corroborating evidence is gone. If other parties were on the email and they testify to the authenticity then maybe. IANAL and this is not legal advice - it would be something you give your attorney and they use it to build a case but in a court it would probably not be admissible without proof of authenticity. There is wrong doing and right doing. Saving emails and documentation of tasks performed in case you are dismissed for non-performance is another thing. Project completion report with you as project manager is a report that is probably still exists. An expense report that puts you out of office at the time of supposed infraction.