Pull the food up on a tree ~200 m away from the place where I sleep. Stay away from spots which might be interesting for the bears (although you can never know what is in a bear's head, there is some probability that he would visit the nice little spot near the creek or spring just to drink some water in the morning - true story, I saw their footprints in the mud). If there are several people, night guarding shifts could be made, along with a watch fire constantly kept alive (10+ years of scout camp experience stays for this, best effective when there are stray dogs or shepherd dogs in the area - common issue in Romanian mountains; it is so effective that until this day no bear visited our camps :) just the creek 300 m away... that was scary). 

It might be a bit brutal solution though, but the dermatologist once told me to use formaldehyde to disinfect shoes after infections - it might be an option for mold too. Wiki confirms here. The procedure was: put the shoes in a plastic bag, soak a huge cotton ball in the formaldehyde, tie the bag tight so the air would not circulate, leave it like that for 2 days. The solution should not touch the leather parts. 

I use a bigger tin box (it is left from an old Str8 perfume), and within that I put the things in ziplock bags. 

Sunstroke or dehydration would also cross my mind. Think back to the environment, circumstances, equipment and weather you had then: did you miss a hat? was is a really hot day? did you drink enough water? 

These are some methods we use within the Hungarian Scout Organization - some may be a bit outdated from past times when communication was not so easy :) but still, these methods are non-intrusive and leave no trace. I will try to sum up the main points from the text + explain the sections. Title + text: Road signs (with sticks, chalk, grass, stones): main idea is to leave as little trace as possible, but still mark your path. Use natural materials. In exceptional cases use chalk in urban areas. First section: good road - the direction to follow. The fourth image shows three stones, a bigger one on the bottom, a smaller one on the top (quite unprobable that it would be like this, unless someone put it that way) + a third stone to show the direction. Second section: direction of walking - confirming you are on the right track, keep it that way. The third image shows a few blades of grass tied in a knot - this can be done only with taller grass, and it might unfold easily... The fourth one is a leaf put on a branch stick in the ground - not too probable to occur in nature on its own, but understandable only for those who know the signs. Third section: danger ahead/stay focused. The third one is also grass. Fourth row: bad road, letter at 3 steps in the given direction, letter at 5 steps, letter at 3 steps drawn with chalk. Fifth row: we are camping here, we are camping here drawn with chalk + number of the unit, hide, wait here Sixth row: good water, bad water, I went home, go home. 

I remember buying in pharmacies a liquid prepared on the spot, from mint powder and saline solution (unfortunately this mix is sort of local-specific to our Romanian pharmacies, so I cannot provide a link). This was applied on mosquito bites and allergy rash - it stopped the itching for an hour or two. Based on this experience: try some sort of minty cream (or even toothpaste) to cool down the itchy feeling. Might sound a bit extreme, but worth a try. 

Disclaimer: I have no idea how to read the map above :) For me it would seem important in the case of longer time camping. After 10+ years of scout camp experience, I can tell that if you want to dig a, let's say, 2 meter deep hole (for latrines, for food storage, for waste food/water etc.), some information about the amount of rocks or clay would be really useful. Other aspect in which it would help: if I get struck by 4-5 days of heavy rain, how would the campground behave? If the under layer is clay then it is different than some calcareous or sandy soil. For me, in the above cases, the useful information would be about the structure of the upper 2-3 meters. 

Once I was advised not to drink too much, but rather just sips, to get rid of the thirst: a camelback + a drinking tube in your backpack should be handy in this case. Of course, apply with reason: do not get yourself dehydrated! drink a lot before the trek (as advised in other answers), and not only: being well-hydrated in general is good for your health (not just drinking 2 liters of water before a hike). Also, experiment with this in advance on smaller few-hour-long hikes, to see how does it work for you. I noticed after several hikes that I tend to take back home 1/3-1/2 of my water. After trying this method I found it useful, but only for one-day trips, and also if the weather is suitable for it - if I hike in 30+ degrees (Celsius) for a whole day then yes, I definitely need more water than that. And again, it is a great exercise of self-discipline: how to drink just a sip once you started drinking :) 

Once you learned to appreciate the Mountain, the best way to give back (in my opinion) is to teach others how to behave in nature. This would spread the knowledge you gathered through the years, deepen the Leave No Trace mentality, help people bond with nature, and one day - why not? - maybe make them ask the same question you have now. So they would also give back something one day, and the chain goes on this way. You might do this by volunteering in NGOs that deal with education. Find your local Scout troop :) or any other organization that deals with youth: giving them skills in a young age, opportunities for bonding and memories, or even a community where they can "belong". And all this in nature: they can learn to respect not only their fellow humans, but also the Mountain. If you are not the type to get along with children (although some youth organizations - Scouts again, for example - tend to have all age groups, from 7 to 25+ years old), you can still consider volunteering for adult workshops, hold presentations in an afternoon school. Or donating to local NGOs who do such things.