I cycled up snowdon (the highest mountain in Wales) last weekend. I estimate that for a not over weight kickstand you'd be looking at 1lb or approx .5 kg. With a height gain of about 1000m, that would be about 5000 joules or 1250 calories extra energy I would have burnt. And that's just the total height gain and doesn't include bouncing up and down individual boulders. I suppose if you're trying to lose weight then that's about the only reason for a kickstand on a mountain bike, but you might as well wear a rucksack with a rock in it so you don't reduce the ground clearance or reliability of your bike :) 

Has the tyre perished? Perhaps, it's just an inner tube that needs replacing. Take the tyre to your local bike shop and I'm sure they'll be able to suggest a suitable alternative. I'd ask for a plain road tyre, something pretty standard should do, just as long as it's the correct size. You don't need nobbly or off-road tyres unless you're trying to get over obstacles such as rocks or travel through mud. 

When mountain biking with my friends, we sometimes end up tackling a severe up hill over rocky ground. I usually find I end up putting a foot down first. I'm not sure what's going wrong. Sometimes my back wheel spins and I lose power and stop, or my front wheel lifts up and I somehow lose balance and end up going off to one side. What techniques can I use to get further up hill before I lose it? Thanks. 

How about grabbing the tyre where it's started to come off with some pliers. Then put a foot on the wheel, and pull hard. Good luck! I know this can be really frustrating, because I had a tyre that was tightly stuck before. If it really won't come off, buy a new tyre that looks more forgiving, and chop the old one off with some wire cutters or a knife. I decided to replace my too tight tyre even though I eventually did manage to get it off and back on because I considered that if I ever had a flat away from home and all my tools, there would be no way I could repair it, and I didn't want to risk being stranded a long way from home. 

A frame that doesn't obscure your vision at all. Especially if you're cycling on the road, you want to be able to do a shoulder check without the frame blinkering you at all. Also, glasses that fit quite close to your face are good because they reduce the chance that a bit of mud or an insect is going to get around them and into your eye. 

I've done most of my cycling with flat handle bars on a mountain bike. I'd like to start commuting to work though and am considering getting a road bike with drop handle bars. The thing is though, I tried a bike in the past that had drops and didn't really find them comfortable. I hardly used the drops because it felt uncomfortable. This meant I usually kept my hands on the tops of the bars, and then that has the problem that I couldn't get to the brakes as quickly as I could with the flat bar bike I had. Perhaps I had the drops set up at the wrong height when I tried them. What height should the drops be relative to the saddle? 

I've used white lightening and thought it was good. I never use oil based lubes now - they're just too messy and you end up paying double because you need to first buy the oil and then also buy expensive degreaser to wash them off again. I do get through wax based lubes faster than oil - you have to reapply more often. Compared to the faff of oil based lubes though, it seems worth it. You do have to still clean your chain and cogs off every so often. How often depends on the weather, distance and type of terrain you've been cycling through. But, it seems like far less mess and time is required than oil based lubes. To clean I soak the chain in a mix of hot water, washing up liquid and something like kitchen/hob surface cleaner. I think my girlfriend appreciates it too as I make less of a mess when doing any bike maintenance. I forgot how nasty oil based lubes can be until recently when I stopped on a trail to help a guy with a broken chain. His chain was gunked up nastily. The oily emulsion looked like it held particles of grit in it well, so I'm sure he was grinding through his chain and transmission with it. Also, I gave up trying to wash the stuff completely off my hands after I got home, and ended up with marks that lasted a few days until my body shed a layer of skin. I wouldn't have had that problem if he'd used a wax based lube. 

Grips come in different materials. I've tried some rubber grips that have a tread pattern. They're quite grippy for when you need to hold on over rough ground. I found though they could be quite abrasive on my hands and that they could actually cause my skin to split. I've switched to some dense foam (ritchy ergo grips) and they still feel grippy enough, but the material is softer on the hands. Also, I'd recommend getting comfier grips and having thinner gloves rather than trying to get all of your padding in to your glove. It might be my personal preference, but I think this combination gives a better balance of both comfort and control. 

Yes, get a jacket. Also, you can get reflective bands which you can put around your ankles - I think these show up really well to drivers. For road riding, it's all about being safe and that means you need to be seen by others. Top of the range expensive lights will help you see where you're going. They will help drivers see you too, but most drivers have got headlights, so if you can cover yourself in bright, reflective material, that will probably do a far better job of getting drivers to see you than some brighter lights. If you're an off-road mountain-biker and want to be able to see obstacles in the dark, then that's when you need the expensive lights. 

When I tried it at McDonalds, they told me they were only insured for motorized vehicles coming through the drive through and would not serve me. They had a campaign on at the time promoting something along the lines of how their food was healthy when enjoyed as part of a healthy life-style. I pointed out that I was cycling as part of my healthy lifestyle, and they really ought to do everything they could to support me with that. When I emailed them later to ask more about it and suggested they allow bikes through the drive through, they blatantly ignored my suggestion and replied restating that their insurance didn't cover them for bikes. When I mentioned to the person at the window that I didn't have my bike lock, they told me I could take my bike inside! I wish now that I'd taken them up on the offer - I'm sure I would have struggled through their double set of doors, and my bike would have become an obstacle to other diners - but I was a bit annoyed at the time so I went elsewhere to eat. :) 

This website if you've got a more specific question about which bit of your bike you want to maintain! 

I know I need to keep the disks clean on my bike, but if I've got them covered in grease, what should I clean them with? 

They can catch on stuff. Ground/obstacle clearance is really important. My wheels are often whizzing past rocks with mm of clearance, or even brushing against them. And I'm often dropping down stepped terrain, which means the pedals cranks etc get close to the ground, you don't want anything else that could cause contact. Faff. Offroad cycling is tough on bikes. When cycling with buddies, you don't want to be the one asking everybody to stop whilst you sort out some bike problem. There's enough going wrong with chains coming off or snapping, gears and brakes being knocked out of alignment, punctures, etc. Anything attached to your bike that doens't help with propulsion is a gimmicky waste of pedalling effort, and just counts as something unnecessary that can go wrong. If there's more than three or four of us going cycling, we split up into mini groups, just because if the whole group stops when anything goes wrong we'd never actually get back before dark. Kick stands can go wrong, and don't help with propulsion.. their extra mass actually slows you down! Pointless You should expect to be falling off your bike from time to time anyway, so it's going to end up on the floor whether or not you had a kick stand attached. So, just put your bike on the ground if you're stopping for a wee in the bushes :) 

I'm not sure what kind of cycling you do. But, a mountain biker mentioned to me that more suspension is appreciated more as you get older. Some seat post suspension might help. The reviews for this are great, but it's a bit pricey: $URL$ 

I do some mountain biking in remote parts of wales. I usually carry a minimal tool kit: pump, spare inner tube, and multi tool. I'm wondering if you have any temporary 'get me home' repair tips I might need one day for when something breaks? 

If the bars were rotated back, they would not be so far away. And, if you wanted to tuck down and get more aerodynamic you could reach the part of the bar that is further away. 

If you only use the lights rarely, then you could leave a roll of electrical tape at each location. You can take the light mountings off your bikes. If you need a light tape it on, and afterwards throw away the bit of tape you used. For front lights tape over the light and under the bar, and back up over the light crossing the first taping at 90 degrees, and go under the bar again. For back light it might be trickier as depending on the design, tape may end up going over the lens. Anyway, you'll have to make the judgement as to whether this is suitable as a cheap solution. If you want something more permanent, perhaps buying a matching lights would be the best way. 

I had a road-bike and swapped it for a cyclo-cross. I'm never going back to a road-bike. For me, the cyclo-cross is just as fast if not faster. The cyclo-cross feels more stable and I feel like I have more control at speed so am prepared to go faster. With the wider tyres I'm not so worried about hitting a bit of rough road or a grate as it'll fly over without jolting me about. It's a little bit comfier... so it's easier to keep pedalling if the surface isn't perfect. After getting the CX I bought thinner road tyres for it, but after putting 32mm back on for some offroading, I just found I felt so much happier on the bike that I didn't want to bother putting the road tyres back on. And, I think I only got faster with the slightly wider tyres, not slower. Overall, I can't think of any point where the road bike was better than the CX. The CX does everything the road bike did and a lot more. I wouldn't think of fitting panniers to a road-bike for carrying extra stuff, but with the CX I have. The only thing I would have liked is disc-brakes. I bought my CX a couple of years ago, just before they were starting to ship with disc-brakes. On my mountain bike, I've got disc brakes, and they are great. I wouldn't consider getting a new bike that didn't have discs. 

I was out mountain biking yesterday in heavy rain. My eVent jacket (made by Rab) kept me dry. I believe eVent is supposed to be a bit more breathable than gore-tex, so if you are working hard and getting warm, some of your sweat will pass out. I would recommend you don't try to get one waterproof and warm coat. You're much better off getting a waterproof coat that you can wear over a warm coat/top if it's really cold. Then you've got far more options and can get the best set up to match the weather and type of cycling you're doing.