Consequence: these are best case numbers. A story based in any kind of reality will result in much smaller numbers than these. 

Vegetarian dogs are not enough of a game changer The one and only game changer here is the dogs eat potatoes. And all that does is place a time limit on the population to solve the problem. We could make the pack very large (as in hundreds or thousands of dogs), but that's unbelievable as a lab wouldn't be breeding so many and it would take years to naturally breed that many — during which humanity would be pecking away at the pesky porros. Farm plots can be guarded with moats. If the farms are so large (due to a large population) that this is impractical, then you have enough people for an army to hunt and kill the dogs. Now... if the lab was in the middle of nowhere and the pack spent a decade migrating to a lovely spot with good food such that it really was very large... Now we're talking! I'm not sure that it's believable that a dog pack could get that large, but I'm willing to suspend my disbelief for some fun. But, then, a shallow pit with some potatoes in it and a rope-triggered vat of boiling oil would quickly thin out the herd. (*sigh*), sorry, I can't find a way that makes this scenario as serious as you'd like. 

You see, all it takes is one person who thinks slavery is wrong and you suddenly have an activist working to create a minority voice within your government — someone who wants to change the law and will often advocate resistance to, if not outright defiance of, the law. The result is rules within rules, balancing the need for power to change law as circumstances change with the need to restrict that same power so rules aren't changed when they shouldn't. And, of course, no one can agree on where the line is between those two forces. Conclusion So, as you develop your world's legal system, remember that nothing's perfect and, when it comes to government, nothing's simple. How can you enforce those laws? 

Which means we need to understand the nature of your world. Does it have the ability to determine the true genetics of its people? If yes, the percentage could be quite low. If no, the percentage could be quite high. Does it celebrate the freedom to choose sexual expression without social or political consequence? Then the percentage could be very high. 

And to lend credence to my suggestion: Issac Asimov's popular Foundation series of books were primarily based on the imaginary planet Terminus, which is metal poor (a key plot point). 

Oh, yeah. You want glass. It's as valuable as metal. The earlier the "technology" of your pioneers, the more valuable glass becomes. It's easy to shape and doesn't rust, making it a good long-term container for any fluid. It's easy to sharpen and easy to replace. It can keep things out and keep them in, like light and heat. Shape it the right way, and you can make a fire or advance science. Frankly, glass is probably the most important thing you can mine from a landfill. Note: Surprisingly (and discovered after I wrote the section on plastic), the largest single item type in a landfill by far is paper... but paper has little value to pioneer-stage and earlier peoples other than as toilet paper. And that assumes it hasn't decayed to the point of being a statistic in principle more than a statistic in fact. 

Humans can deal with much more complexity than the solid surface of a control board will permit. Add to that intelligent UX design such that things you need to see are only visible when you need to see them and we have a winner. But, what does this look like? For one thing, you need to detach from the idea of control boards completely. Too limiting. Our sister site, SciFi.SE has the right idea. Use a Matrix-esque control system where the physicality of the UX system is non-existent. 

Please bear in mind that at the same time the Industrial Revolution took place, so did substantial advancements in chemistry and electricity — including Faraday's discovery of electrical generation. By itself, wind- and water-based electrical generation combined with the use of motors would have replaced most of the industrial revoution's advancements. (I don't count solar electrical generation as solar panels weren't invented intil the 1950's. Even with scientific pressure from the loss of hydrocarbons, it's unlikely — impossible IMHO — that they would play any roll in an industrial revolution.) 

It's easy to create a drop in barometric pressure within a small enclosed space. Say, for instance, an empty water bottle. Suck the air out, put the cap on, the pressure inside is lower than the outside. Option #1: Create a Container Create a "container" and suck the air out. The "container" must be something people can pass through. A force field or a strong enough magnetic bubble would do the trick. Getting the air out without a local tube hooked to a vacuum pump might be interesting, but simply adding heat inside the bubble would also work if the heated air can be forced outside the bubble after which it can't get back in. Option #2: Make the molecules all the same charge If creating a container isn't your cup of tea, try turning the air molecules into magnets of all the same charge. The stronger the charge, the more they will repel from one another and the lower the resulting pressure. Bear in mind that nature abhores a vacuum, meaning the higher pressure air wants the get back in. So long as the tool you're using to charge the particles remains in operation, this won't happen. You'll likely need two "projectors" such that crossing the streams results in the effect of charging the molecules. The downside to this particular idea is that the air molecules inside the body charge, too, but offhand the consequence is no different than standing in the field: lower air pressure. So, everybody's happy. Loopy... but happy. 

Allow me to provide two real-world examples: (1) The ancient Greeks/Romans. In this example, the culture remains intact even if the definition of "one religion" does not. There is a pantheon of gods. People believe in the existence of all, though they may prefer one over another. The gods are all related, such that there is a familial component that is recognizable and respected by mortal followers. Was it perfect? Certainly not. There were jealousies between followers and even wars, so while society held itself together amidst polytheism generally, they were unable to do so ultimately. (2) The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (Mormons) are polytheistic. They believe the Father, the Son, and the Holy Ghost are three separate and distinct individuals. Though schisms have occured within the church, none have occured due to differences in worship or regard of those three gods. However, there is no tradition of arbitrarily worshiping any one of the three gods. Indeed, the Bible specifically teaches the worship of the Father in the name of the Son. It would be deemed heretical to even contemplate worshipping the Holy Ghost. What these examples teach me is that permitting the arbitrary worship of any god within a pantheon will ultimately lead to self-destructive behavior without some outside force that can overcome jealousy and greed. People are, regrettably, naturally selfish. It takes no time whatsoever for the idea of "my god is better than your god" to take hold. We become frustrated when something good (understandably credited to said person's god) hasn't happened to us (why has my god forsaken me?) leading to all kinds of abberrant behavior. And that's ignoring the greedy bounders who will happily whip up the pride one people have in the god they worship to engender hatred toward those people who worship another god simply because he wants the oil beneath their patch of grass. So, to specifically answer your questions: (1) Why is it not in their interests to lead only people who favour their chosen deity/deities? If there exists a single "religious order" that specifically teaches its priests the commingled worship of all three dieties such that religious leaders will hold worship services for all three dieties, then it's plausible that unity could prevail. But, so long as it is not a regimented observance, preferences will eventually seep in, people will become offended that their god isn't worshiped with the same fervor as your god, and schism will occur. (2) Why is it not in people's interests to seek out religious leaders who favour their deity/deities? It always is in the best interest of people to seek out religious leaders who favour their preferred diety(s). Indeed, when the religious order is not organized to subdue it, people will tend to gravitate toward the most popular of those teachers and teachers will act, not in the best interest of the religion, but in their own best interests to gain popularity. These two behaviors will quickly build animosity between worshipers of one diety over another as teachers and followers alike begin to establish reasons for their preferences. (3) What holds this religion and these customs together? This society cannot remain unified without an external force that subdues the natural "human" inclinations toward jealousy, entitlement, pride, fear, greed, arrogance, and even hatred. It would be theoretically possible to create (as mentioned above) a religious organization that mandated the equal and unified worship of all three dieties that could impose the order necessary to avoid schism. However, the history of Catholicism proves that even that is incredibly difficult. The schism that led to Roman and Eastern Catholicism was born of disagreements in very basic things including the language spoken during services and whether or not one was doctrinally orthodox vs. the other. These disagreements could not be subdued even within a church that had already agreed there was but one god existing in trinity. My conclusion is that it is impossible for any religion permitting the arbitrary worship of multiple dieties to remain unified. 

You're forcing a story to meet a political agenda. OK. Let's ignore the fact that manufacturing creates more pollution and greenhouse gasses than energy production ever could (coal-fired power plants are a conveniently easy symbol of our problems, but they're far from the root cause). Curiously, National Geographic once claimed agriculture produced most of the pollution and greenhouse gases on our world... but let's ignore all that and assume energy production is the problem. 

2) The moon's orbit is not on the same orbital plane as the Earth (see pic, below). This means the stars visible on Earth at a particular time won't be the same stars visible to the moon at that same time. (What do I mean by this? If it were the middle of the night and the moon were directly overhead, then someone standing on the Earth's equator will see a slightly different star field than someone standing on the moon's equator.)