Note that how fast - and which direction - you need to move also depends on where you're pointing; it's not a one rate fits everything solution. For example, if you're pointing at the celestial pole, you don't need to move the scope at all. While if you're pointing at the celestial equator, that needs the fastest tracking rate. What you end up doing is tracking along a circle that represents the declination. Which means that in order to work out what the declination is, you're going to need angle encoders on both your alt and az axes. 

So if something that size hit a space station, you're not going to have much station left. Even a fairly small rock would do a lot of damage. Fortunately, the chance of being hit by something of significant size is very low, and a lot of the junk floating around (like the stuff that makes meteor showers) are dust particle sized lumps of cometary material that might damage but not destroy a station. 

Safety: make absolutely sure nobody looks onto the light path. The concentrated light/heat/UV can cause eye damage. One way to do this is to set things up in a box, which (a) shades the viewing screen, and (b) lets you make the viewing opening too small for kids (or thoughtless adults) get their heads in - or make sure that your screen is close enough that there's no room to squeeze a head in. The size of the prime focus image is determined by focal length. To get a decent size prime focus image needs a LONG focal length. That's why a telescope style projection setup as in olin's answer can give you a bigger image from shorter length lenses. (and is less likely to just ignite your viewing screen). However, remember that you're using focused raw sunlight, so there's a lot of heat involved. That means that for a real telescope, it's safest to use only an all-metal style refractor, where there's nothing to melt. You probably also want to avoid using expensive eyepieces - cheaper ones usually have fewer elements, and it's less of a financial hit if the heat damages something. If you're using a scope with a 90 degree star diagonal, that means that you're projecting things side on, which makes it easier to shade the screen. Or if you're going straight through, you can add a card across the front with a hole for the lens to provide shade. 

It's historical. TT is a successor to The International Astronomy Union's ephemeris time, and the offset between TT and TAI is a result of getting TT to match ET when they switched. Excerpts from $URL$ 

There are several options. You can do star trail photos with just a tripod. If you have dark skies, Point the camera near the pole star, do a long exposure, and get star trails as the sky appears to rotate around the pole. If you're in a light polluted area, then you'll find your maximum exposure time is limited by the light pollution - expose for long enough and the light pollution background will saturate one or more colour channels - which could prevent you using a long enough exposure to get long trails. You can also take pictures of the moon - since it's basically a gray rock in bright sunlight, you don't need a long exposure at all for this. But you do need a long focal length to make the moon big enough to fill a decent part of the frame, and at 150 mm it's likely to be disappointingly small. (You need around 1500mm or so to fill most of an APS sized sensor frame). You can also do constellation photography with just a tripod. The trick here is to keep the exposure short enough that the rotation of the earth doesn't cause significant star trailing. As a rough rule of thumb, divide 400 by the lens focal length to get the approximate exposure time in seconds (thus varies in practice depending on where you're aiming, and how picky you are about trailing, but should give you a starting point). Thus with a 50mm lens, you can get away with around 8 seconds, around 2-3 seconds with a 150mm lens, and around 33 seconds with a 12mm lens. You can improve results by stacking several exposures in software - try the free Deep Sky Stacker - which will reduce noise and usually give you a cleaner result. For longer exposures, you'll need some sort of tracking mount to compensate for the earth's rotation and prevent star trailing. You can either build a barn door tracker, as mentioned in other replies, which rotate a camera platform around a hinge whose axis points at the celestial pole, or look at a commercial solution. There are several mounts designed for use with cameras, such as Vixen's polarie, Skywatcher's star adventurer mount (or similar from Vixen or Ioptron), or the Astrotrak system (or Kenko's Sky Memo (not sure if this is still available)). Note that with some of these you also need to budget for a couple of tripod heads - one to point the mount at the celestial pole, and one to point the camera. Or you could look at a motorised german equatiorial mount - which would also let you use a telescope - but to get good long exposure images with a telescope usually requires a good mount, which range from expensive to very expensive - and may also require autoguiding (automatic correction using a second guide camera and software) to apply corrections for long exposures. Long exposure deep sky imaging is more accessible than it was, but is still expensive to do well (and easily capable of soaking up as much money as you want to throw at it.) Note that popular go-to alt-az mounted are limited for long exposure imaging, as although goto alt-az mounts can track objects - which is fine for visual use - they suffer from an effect called field rotation which makes the field of view gradually rotate, causing star trailing after a while (around 30s or so - it depends on latitude and where you're pointing). German equatorial mounts, with one axis pointed at the celestial pole, don't suffer from this. For planetary imaging, the planets are bright enough that you can capture video with a webcam (or similar planetary astro camera) and telescope, and then process the video to stack the best frames. This is a different type of imaging to the long exposure deep sky stuff. 

The problem you have with many newtonian reflectors - especially smaller ones - is that to use them for prime focus photography (where you're effectively using the telescope like a big telephoto lens) , you need to set things up so that the camera sensor ends up at the focal plane of the telescope. And in a DSLR, the sensor is some way inside the camera body (behind the shutter, which is behind the mirror. With a newtonian scope, the focal plane is usually somewhere inside the focuser tube, and many newts don't have enough focuser inwards travel to let you get the focal plane the 40mm or so beyond the end of the focuser that you need to get it to reach a DSLR sensor. (With other types of scope that use a separate star diagonal, things are usually easier - you can leave the star diagonal off, which has the same effect as a big chunk of inward focus). With a newtonian, if you can't reach prime focus, there are three basic options - either take photos through the eyepiece (afocal photography) as you already tried, or move the main mirror further up the tube (which moves the focal plane further out, giving you more in focus). It also means the light cone is fatter when it reaches the secondary mirror, so you may lose some light as the outer part of the light cone misses the secondary. or you can try using a barlow lens - that replaces the last bit of the light cone with a longer, narrower angle version (which increases the magnification and moves the focal plane further out). That MAY or MAY NOT let you reach infinity focus; it's not guarenteed, but may help. You can get barlows that have a T-Thread on the output end, so you can attach a T ring directly to the barlow (yours doesn't look like one of this type) and then hook the camera up that way. (as an added benefit, since you end up with a closed tube setup (the barlow lens closes off the access to the camera, it also keeps spiders and dust out of the camera :) ). If you have a look at the bottom bit of the barlow (with the lens) you may find that you can unscrew it. You might be able to make a short top section with a T thread for the T ring at the back, and a suitable thread for the lens at the front; you'd probably need to make it the same diameter as the eyepiece barrel (to fit in the focuser) with a fatter bit at the back for the T thread and to stop it sliding all the way into the focuser. I've used a commercial 1.25" barrel T threaded barlow (somewhat shorter than yours) for lunar and solar (WITH A SUITABLE FRONT OF SCOPE FILTER - DON'T TRY LOOKING AT THE SUN WITHOUT ONE) imaging with an APS sensor camera. (You may need to check your scope - older ones often used a .965" barrel rather than the current 1.25" (or 2") barrel size used by most modern astro scopes.) 

It looks likely to be one of the bolts for adjusting the polar alignment of the scope. There are usually two opposed hand operated bolts for fine adjustment of the left/right pointing of the mount on the tripod (so it points north/south - you're expected to position the tripod so its roughly correct to start with), and another two opposed bolts (might only be one in some designs) for tilting the top part of the mount up/down so that the rotation axis in the top part (parallel to the telescope tube in the photo) (which pivots around the silver bolt left and level with the top of the red circle) points at the celestial pole (how much tilt this needs varies with your latitude). If that bit is missing - (it looks most likely to be the one you screw in to tilt the top part of the mount upwards more) - you won't be able to set the scope up properly. If you check the instructions on how to set the mount up, you should be able to tell which bit it is. (The reason why it's important, is that if you set the mount up properly, then when something starts to drift out of view due to the earth's rotation, then you can keep it in view by only adjusting one of the slow motion controls). 

The theoretical resolution of a telescope - and the maximum useful magnification that you can use - increases with aperture (That's the diameter of the main mirror or lens, and not the f-ratio (which is what photographers usually mean by aperture)). As a rough guide, the typical everyday maximum magnification is around the same as the aperture in mm (and is achieved with an eyepiece of focal length equal to the scope's f ratio). Given good seeing conditions (steady atmosphere, which can be rare) you can push the magnification to around twice that (with half the eyepiece focal length, or by using a barlow) - which is what manufacturers usually quote as the maximum magnification. As magnification goes up, the brightness of the view goes down, since you're spreading the same amount of light over a larger area. (Increasing aperture increases the light gathering area; doubling the aperture catches four times as much light, so increasing the aperture allows brighter views at the same magnification. This is important for fainter objects, but the moon is bright enough that you don't usually have problems even with small scopes) So the best way to see more detail is to switch to a good quality, larger aperture scope. 

There's an asteroid (2012 TC4) currently in the news, due to pass close to the earth, at around 42000 km (26000 miles), within the moons orbit and just above comsat altitude. It's believed to be in the 15-30m size range. (see $URL$ though the link may not stay around long). For comparison (from the link above), 

Image Circle will vary with scope design. Just about all scopes will cover the field of a 1.25" eyepiece barrel, and scopes with 2" focusers will usually cover the field of a 2" barrel (There are some exceptions where the field is bigger than 1.25" but doesn't cover the full 2"). Basically, you need to check the spec for the scope - and in any case the size of the focuser usally sets an upper limit. (With smaller SCTs and Maks, the size of the baffle tube can also limit the image circle). Most small refractors for astrophotography will cover an APS sized DSLR sensor. If you're looking for something to cover a full frame DSLR sensor, the choice gets more restricted - quite a few of the field flatteners/reducers for smaller refractors are only designed for APS coverage. If you want to go for an unusually large sensor, then your choice is even more restricted - something like Takahashi's FSQ106ED astrograph has an 88mm diameter image circle in native mode, large enough for some medium format sized sensors, or 44mm with the reducer or extender - but there's a high price tag to go with it. However, if you're looking at large format astonomical CCDs, they're usually very expensive too. Most of the more affordable astro cameras have smaller sensors, so are less demanding on image circle size. 

(Bold emphasis mine). For more on International Atomic time see $URL$ . Basically, it's a weighted average of multiple atomic clocks - and the altitude effect mentioned in the middle paragraph above is why they added the gravitational time dilation corrections. From the Wikipedia link above: 

In traditional constellation shapes / outlines, yes. But the International Astronomical Union (IAU) standardised on a set of 88 constellations in 1922, and from 1924 to 1930 formalised the constellation boundaries, splitting the sky into separarate areas (that cover the complete sky) so there's no ambiguity now. For example, before the constellations were standardised in 1930, the same star (on the boundary of Auriga and Taurus) was known both as Gamma Aurigae and Beta Tauri. And the traditional constellations of Ophiuchus (The serpent bearer) and Serpens (the snake) (Where Serpens ran across Ophiucus) was handled by splitting them into Ophiucus and Serpens Caput (snakes head) and Serpens Cauda (snakes tail). see $URL$ for more details. Different cultures have different traditional constellations. If you have a look at the free Stellarium program (see $URL$ that has a set of overlays showing constellations from a number of different cultures. (I don't remember if that's part of the standard installation, or an optional extra you can download).