I searched online for "recumbent trike car carrier". There's at least one company making a hitch rack that will take two trikes, the "Truckee". Add a roof rack and you should easily fit three trikes on even a smallish car. 

[NB for 'quick release' please read 'conventional axle in slotted dropouts'. A simple nutted axle may be slightly better than a QR in theory, as it can provide a higher clamping force. However I'm not convinced that in practice it is safer, as it will be less obvious if it loosens or slips, and in fact the greater bolt diameter will generate a stronger unscrewing force. The safe alternative is a properly clamped axle combined with fork ends with a blocked exit slot, as shown in the pictures below.] A brief `Executive Summary' There are two main aspects to the failure. The disk brake generates a massive force largely downwards in the direction of the open fork ends. The friction of a quick release skewer is often not sufficient to stop the axle slipping down in the dropout slot. This is explained in more detail here, The QR is initially restrained by the retention lip on the fork (assuming it is present), however over time the slipping of the quick release leads it to unscrew, which is described here. Once it has unscrewed enough, it can be forced over the retention lip and the rider will crash. Below the analysis, we have a section of anecdotal and experimental support, and I've put the small number of manufacturers' comments on a separate page. .... 

Note that most of the ones you find online will be for gear cables only, they're not strong enough for brake cables. If they break, your brakes stop working. So be careful to buy the right ones. 

See, even if that's out by a factor of ten, we're still looking at a volume change of 10-5. So the pressure change will be about the same, a change of 1/1,000,000 the actual pressure. If this was the XKCD guy's "What If" I'd now work out how fat you'd have to be to cause an appreciable change in tyre volume. But I'm not, so I shan't. 

Mismatched pads means mismatched braking forces. For the same amount of pressure applied to the rotor (which is how calipers work) one pad will apply more braking force. That will try to twist the caliper. Probably not enough to matter, but it would be annoying to find out that it did - the caliper would twist, either breaking off the bike or damaging the rotor. I think the former is extremely unlikely. The other effect is that you'll get differential heating. The more effective pad will generate more heat, and heat up one side of the rotor more than the other. Since rotors are thin this will be a small effect, but since they're thin it doesn't take much work to warp the rotor. This is actually fairly likely IMO, and it's something I'd watch carefully for while testing the setup before committing to it. I'm not sure you'd get a lot of benefit except in extreme conditions. My experience of disk brakes over the last 15 years) is that I can tell the difference between cheap cable disk brakes and expensive hydraulic ones, but other than that they're pretty much of a muchness. This will be even more true on a road bike where you don't have as much traction as a bike with wider tyres and more tread. You might actually be better off with "less effective" pads because you'll get better modulation. 

That cog is barely worn at all. I wouldn't bother flipping it until the tip of the teeth is about 2mm, and then I'd ride it until the tips were breaking off. Specifically, that's what I actually do and I have a cog bolted to my workshop wall to remind me what "slightly too worn" looks like. The problem is that the chain starts to skip or hang, because the teeth are so short the chain will easily ride up on or over them. 

I found a picture of how I did this! You can see the firmer, black foam with foil that I used on the outside, and the bits of softer foam that I used to pack everything in. The flap poking up covers the top when the pannier is closed. This photo is from when I was putting it together, so the contents is not well arranged. I make a simple frame so I could use the pannier as a handlebar bag so it got the benefit of the suspension fork. I started out with an Ortlieb front roller, which is a smallish squareish pannier. I had a 300D + 70-300/5.6mm at that stage, so it was also fairly small. I got a sheet of foam about 30mm thick and carefully cut and folded it to make a box that just fit into the pannier. I added an extra layer at the bottom, since that's where most of the shocks come from. Then I cut more bits of foam to nest the camera and lenses. Basically set it up the way you'd set up any other camera bag, and arranged so that opening the pannier let me lift the camera out eaasily. Obviously this filled the whole pannier, so on tour I ended up with two full size rear panniers plus that front one. But the camera survived 10,000km or so of riding over several years. With a larger camera you will need a larger pannier to start with, or sacrifice some of the padding. I suggest getting a large pannier, and making a padded camera bag out of foam to occupy the top half of the pannier, then making a cloth bag to hold that so you can lift the whole camera out easily to access the rest of your stuff. I'd probably keep my d lock on top of the camera round town so it's easy to get to. The foam I used was house insulation foam with foil on one side. That worked well to stiffen it and make it more wear resilient - otherwise getting the foam box out of the pannier would have inevitably worn away the foam (I used the pannier for other things too). So a cloth cover would do the same thing, and should be easy enough to make as it doesn't need to exactly match the shape of the foam. If you're looking for a commercial solution I doubt you'll have much luck - I've never seen anything. The best would be a small-ish camera backpack to hold most of the camera gear, then a pannier with everything else in it. That gets most of the weight off your back, but the expensive bits still benefit from the suspension effect of your body. What I use now is a Crumpler camera side-bag that looks a lot like their bike courier bags but has a fuzzy interior that catches velcro, so I can use padded camera bag dividers to slot camera gear into it. It was easier to add the courier strap to a camera bag than convert a couier bag to camera gear (but it's not a great courier bag if you're on and off the bike all day). For touring I have a custom recumbent bike with a special bin behind the seat to hold my camera backpack. I have a Desley bag that holds a laptop or a 1D body, but it's not quite high enough to hold both easily. It does, however, max out the cabin luggage size on most airlines. For getting onto the plane I usually put the camera around my neck, often with a big lens on it to bring the bag under the weight limit). 

Recumbents For people with back pain sometimes that's not enough. There's a whole other type of bikes called recumbents, because they take the "wouldn't you rather have an armchair" approach to bike seats. Note that in both cases there's a big base area of the seat that you sit on, plus a substantial backrest. You're also leaning back rather than forward. There are a huge range of shapes and styles of recumbents, but they're more expensive than most upright bikes. I've seen a lot of people riding different bike styles and I've heard at least one person say that the few different recumbents they tried all made their back pain worse. But I've heard from more people who had much reduced back pain or simply couldn't ride an upright any more because of a back injury. So if you do have pain, and find an upright bike does not help with it, it might be worth trying a recumbent. 

Trike weight distribution and handling is something that varies a lot. Most of the delta trikes are rear-heavy, tadpoles range from equal to rear-heavy, with extra rear weight more common when they're loaded up. Rear biased does tend to encourage understeer, but for the most part those trikes are the less sporty ones (and for heavily loaded tadpoles the rear wheel will probably fail catastrophically before losing traction... I think, I've never actually seen it happen). 

I am not entirely sure this is really a bicycle question. It amounts to "I can't eat my usual lunch while riding a bike. What should I do". Fundamentally you can take two different approaches. First, you can modify your bike or riding style so the food you currently eat works. The most obvious solution is to fix the bike in place and add a table to the front. An exercise bike, in other words. Mounting a table to the front of a moving bike wouldn't help much, as road vibration and wind would make it less useful, you would probably want a bin or bucket instead. Secondly, change the food. This is what most riders do. Eat things that are either fluids, or non-messy finger foods. By attaching a small bucket to your handlebars you could eat most potato chip style foods, or kebabs or even fish and chips, "buffalo wings" or similar. Fluid foods are more commonly associated with athletes, though, because they require less effort to digest. Mostly those are powders that you mix with water and put in a drink bottle. They tend to be focussed more on content than taste, though, and are often "edible" rather than "nice to eat". The opposite of most takeaway food, in other words. Finally, eating while exercising is not really a great idea. To get most benefit from exercise you need to be working fairly hard, which means breathing through your mouth. It's hard to do that while eating, and it's not safe - you could easily choke. Your body will struggle with the competing demands from your legs and stomach, because digesting food is an energy-intensive activity. You will cramp more easily, and will find it generally hard going.