I should give credit here to @honeste_vivere, who pointed out to me today that there have been recent studies excited by some extremely large coronal mass ejections that were classed as "near misses" in terms of causing major disruption. Of particular interest to you would be the event of July 2012 discussed by Baker et al. (2013). I quote from the paper " Had the season and time of day for this CME passage been right on striking the Earth, the world would have witnessed a storm larger (possibly much larger) than the 1859 Carrington event. This most likely would have had devastating consequences for many technological systems " and then in the discussion " It is the opinion of the authors that our advanced technological society was very fortunate, indeed, that the 23 July solar storm did not occur just a week or so earlier. Had the storm occurred in mid-July 2012, the Earth would have been directly targeted by the CME and an unprecedentedly large space weather event would have resulted. In fact, there is very legitimate question of whether our society would still be “picking up the pieces” from such as severe event [see NRC, 2008]. " It looks likely that such events are perhaps things that occur every few decades. Riley et al. (2012) suggest something as powerful as the Carrington event has a 12% chance of occurring in the next decade, with a 1% chance of something several times bigger. Even more powerful events are seen on other stars, where both flare and CME energies follow a power law relationship of the form $dN/dE \propto E^{-\alpha}$, where $\alpha \sim 2.5$ (Drake et al. 2013). Thus much larger, but rarer flares are possible and also seen on (usually) much younger and faster rotating stars. There may however be a very significant sporadic tail to the solar flare energy distribution too. Recent observations of candidate "superflares" on otherwise unremarkable solar-type stars have been reported, though the reality of these and the mechanisms are still being explored. Shibayama et al. (2013) There appear to be a group, consisting of 1% of stars that show (repeated) superflares more than 100 times the size of the Carrington event. These appear a little less likely around stars rotating as slow as the sun, but the bottom line is that, if there is nothing "special" about these stars, then these events occur every 800-5000 years (for events of energy 1e34 - 1e35 ergs) on a slow-rotating G-star. (Though you need to read carefully - it is probably a function of temperature and rotation). The authors note that superflares may be associated with the formation of very large starspots (or starspot groups). So that may be our clue to duck and cover. 

There are surprisingly many examples of short period, eccentric binry systems. A very incomplete list would include KIC4544587 P=2.19 d e=0.288 +/- 0.026 Hambleton et al. (2013) HD174884 P=3.66 d e=0.2939 +/- 0.0005 Maceroni et al. (2010) CoRoT 102918586 P=4.39 d e=0.249 +/- 0.005 Maceroni et al. (2013) HD313926 P=2.27d e=0.209 +/-0.001 Rucinski et al. (2007) In each of these cases, the stars are relatively warm, with thin (if any) subphotospheric convection zones. Tidal circularisation is much more effective in stars with thick convection zones (giants, or cooler main sequence stars). Therefore it is possible that all of these objects (and, as I say, there are many other examples) are too young to have circularised. Some theory is presented by Zahn et al. (2005). Indeed, circularisation times are very short - basically you expect everything with a solar mass or below to be circularised if its period is less than 6 days, but the process is less efficient for higher mass stars. Circularisation will essentilly take place during pre-main-sequence evolution. Since a circular orbit represents the minimum energy configuration, the only way you are going to get non-circular orbits in solar-type and lower mass stars is if they are very young (less than some tens of millions of years), the binary system formed after their pre-main-sequence evolution or if there is an injection of energy via a dynamical interaction or an eccentric third body in a much wider orbit. 

Here is a more sophisticated plot taken from a paper by Fuller et al. (2015). It shows time until the supernova along the x-axis and the y-axis represents a radial assay of the chemical composition from the centre of the star to the outside. The initial total stellar mass is $12M_{\odot}$. As you move leftwards towards the supernova explosion, notice how what is at the core changes - from being H dominated, to He dominated, to C/O dominated then Si and finally Fe (actually iron-peak elements). Note how much mass is contained within these core region for each stage of nuclear burning. The edge of the "helium core" encloses the central $4M_{\odot}$ of the star. The subsequent heavier element cores inside the onion ring structure enclose significantly less mass, until the iron core is around $1.3M_{\odot}$ just prior to the explosion. Blue shading indicates regions that are thoroughly mixed and homogenised by convection. After the explosion, the neutron star that is produced will also have a mass of around $1.3-1.4M_{\odot}$. In other words most of the rest of the star (about $10M_{\odot}$ just prior to the explosion) gets blown out in the supernova. But of the $8.6M_{\odot}$ that makes into the interstellar medium, well over half is still in the form of hydrogen and helium; the minority will be carbon, oxygen, neon, silicon, iron etc., and only a very small fraction of that will have been transformed (by the r-process) into elements heavier than iron and nickel. Thus although the material injected back into the interstellar medium is enriched with heavier elements, there is still plenty of hydrogen to start a new generation of stars. It is also the case that star formation is an inefficient process, so the material from which the supernova progenitor formed will still mostly be around in the interstellar medium. The picture you should have is of a gradual enrichment with heavy elements, especially as the interstellar medium gets churned up and mixed through a variety of processes (including supernova explosions!). 

Two techniques immediately spring to mind. For the stars you detect, you can compare their colours and luminosities (Gaia provides photometric colours and distances) with what you expect for a star of that type at that distance. The difference between what you expect and what you observe tells you the reddening and extinction caused by interstellar dust, integrated in a column towards that star. By going through this process for lots of stars in different directions you build up a 3D picture of the distribution of dust. The measurements are mostly insensitive to gas - simple extrapolation between dust and gas is often assumed. A second technique would be just to compare how many stars you can see and with what brightness distribution, with a model for the Galactic stellar population and dust distribution. This is an old-fashioned way of estimating dust extinction, works well locally, but I suspect not what is used in that map, for the simple reasons that Gaia also provides the distances to stars, and one of the purposes of the mission is to improve the Galactic model, not assume it. 

The actual answer has nothing at all to do with the temperature. Even low-mass stars would form black holes if they ran out of nuclear fuel to burn, and simply cooled whilst being supported by "standard" gas pressure in their centres. That is because that gas pressure would be proportional to the temperature, but the star is able to cool so it would need to shrink and use gravitational energy to stay hot, but of course eventually it would disappear inside its event horizon and become a black hole. The real reason this does not occur is electron degeneracy pressure. This is a quantum mechanical effect, related to the Pauli exclusion principle, that does not allow two electrons to occupy the same quantum state. As the gas gets squashed in the core, the electrons are forced to fill higher and higher momentum states in order to "avoid" each other. Because these electrons have large momentum they also exert a large pressure - degeneracy pressure. This degeneracy pressure does not depend on temperature and so the star (it is a white dwarf when a low-mass star arrives at this stage) can cool and remain in hydrostatic equilibrium without shrinking any further. Thus it avoids becoming a black hole (or even a neutron star) and simply cools at nearly constant radius. 

First. In about 6 billion years the Sun will become much larger than it is now, maybe a factor of 20. It will be a red giant. Then a little while later it will get really big, as large as the earth's orbit and perhaps the Earth will be engulfed. Second. Only after this does the Sun lose about half of its mass and the remainder is exposed as a small, hot, white dwarf star, about the same size as the Earth but half the mass of the Sun. It will have a density about 1 million times that of water and it is held up by a pressure that only arises because of the quantum mechanical nature of the electrons within it. The Sun is not currently a white dwarf. It is a G-type dwarf star, supported by "normal" gas pressure and will remain reasonably stable, though will become about 50% more luminous over the next 5 billion years or so.