We have very good data on the heavy metals in the solar wind from the Charge, Element, Isotope Analysis System (CELIAS) on SOHO: 

Strong emission lines in the Balmer series Emission of lines of certain (low ionization) metals such as Fe II "Forbidden emission lines" in the visible part of the electromagnetic spectrum such as O I Hot circumstellar dust 

Matplotlib will let you do Mollweide projections; a nice tutorial can be found here. Basemap is a possibility, although I haven't used it before. It has quite a few different built-in projections. There are some interesting features available in the different matplotlib implementations, and using the package, you can use astronomical data. That said, I've found that the transformations aren't that hard to implement by hand; I was able to get some basic projections done from scratch. 

I believe WASP-12b, a hot Jupiter, is a good example of what you're looking for. Li et al. (2010) first predicted that there should be gas transfer - easy, because the planet has a semi-major axis of only about 3 times the radius of WASP-12. Aside from the mass loss, extreme temperatures and distortion from tidal heating make the planet stand out. The gas should be transferred into a small disk around the planet, which could reach temperatures of 3,000-4,000 K. Eventually, there should be significant angular momentum transfer between the star/disk and the planet. However, the authors note that certain assumptions of their model mean that this angular momentum transfer may not be as significant. There is also the possibility that a super-Earth in the disk could influence the interaction. Follow-up observations by Hubble showed that there is in fact mass transfer between WASP-12b and the star, with gas reaching peak velocities of around 100-200 km/s. 

It's difficult to survive these. However, materials related to organic matter have been found that might be evidence of panspermia; see Bell et al. (2015) for one example. Panspermia is traditionally applied to bacteria known as extremophiles, which are accustomed to living in harsh environments. Space contains temperatures ranging from hundreds of degrees Fahrenheit to hundreds of degrees below zero, and any organism would have to survive those. This may be possible - bacteria have survived in conditions like there - but difficult. Viruses pose an additional challenge because they cannot survive long without a host organism on which to live. This means they would have to be carried along by an extremophilic bacteria. This also means that they might not be a huge harm to creatures on Earth. Viruses only attack certain bacteria because of proteins on their surfaces; extraterrestrial biology most likely differs from that on Earth, and these viruses might not be equipped to harm terrestrial organisms. 

The first and third crossings occur when the star is evolving redwards (towards the right of the HR diagram), and show positive $\dot{P}$. The second crossing occurs when the stars are evolving bluewards (towards the left of the HR diagram), and show negative $\dot{P}$. Models and observations by Neilson et al. (2014) show the same thing (see Figure 1): 

Alternate explanations include heavy crustal activity in the past. Tidal effects from Uranus may also have played a role (either at different times than the putative impact, or instead of it entirely). Gas giants strongly interact with their moons through tidal forces; cases include Io's volcanism, driven by Jupiter, and the covered oceans of Europa and Enceladus. Here is a partial map of Miranda, displaying the coronae and several other features: 

The most noticeable patterns are in the ultraviolet, and the weakest are in the radio band, but the signals are certainly detectable. The rational for determining that the compact object is a white dwarf follows from its luminosity, its relatively long spin period (longer than any neutron star pulsar yet discovered), and the fact that the pairing with a red dwarf is "more natural" than the odd alternative involving a low-mass neutron star and high-mass red dwarf. The system may form what is known as an intermediate polar, involving accretion onto a white dwarf influenced by the object's strong magnetic field. The other notable example is AE Aquarii, as Rob Jeffries mentioned. However, its radio emissions do not involve pulsations. Why it doesn't emit pulsating signals at radio wavelengths is another question entirely, and not one I can answer right now. 

Post-question-edit modifications: It couldn't have been a supermassive black hole; these form at the center of galaxies. It could have been a stellar-mass black hole, though an intermediate-mass black hole is also likely - if not likelier, if the massiveness is emphasized. The existence of the neutron star is interesting. If the black hole were intermediate-mass, I would expect that it would have gobbled up the neutron star by now - and the planets, too. So I'd bet the black hole is a slightly-more-massive-than-average stellar-mass black hole. I highly doubt that multiple planets could orbit a black hole - for the reason I gave above; the supernova would have destroyed them or flung them out of the system. Would any of the planets be habitable? I doubt it. The accretion disk could heat up enough to provide some light, but there probably wouldn't be a lot. I'll write up the calculations either later today or possibly tomorrow, as I'm a bit LaTeXed-out after writing a math-heavy answer on Worldbuilding to find the luminosity, but I suspect it'll be negligible - as will Hawking radiation, in case any smart-aleck was planning on bringing that up. 

The craters Finally, we have the three large craters. They aren't too mysterious; craters are normal on Mars, and there are plenty, of varying sizes, in the Elysium quadrangle. The one reason the smallest stands out is because it is near the center of the northeast edge of the mesa. I'm reasonably certain this is just a coincidence. 

I'm guessing that this misunderstanding is a result of the oft-used rubber sheet analogy. The rubber sheet analogy says that, according to general relativity, mass curves space-time like a heavy bowling ball on a near-taut blanket (or rubber sheet) curves the blanket/sheet. This resulting curve makes other bits of matter/energy move in different ways. I'm guessing that this is your confusion. The rubber sheet analogy fails massively in one area, any demonstration of it involves gravity on Earth. If I use a bowling ball to deform a sheet, and then role a golf ball along the sheet nearby, the golf ball will move a bit towards the bowling ball because of the force of gravity around me - not "gravity" in the simulation. It thus makes it seem like gravity pulls the golf ball "down" because the bowling ball pulls the rubber sheet "down". This is the result of using a two-dimensional analogy of a three-dimensional universe. The point is, there is no "pushing" going on in the general relativistic model of gravity. Gravity is attractive (so long as the strong energy conditions holds for the object in question), just like Newton postulated. 

I'm going to try to expand a little on my comment regarding inflation. Let me know if it is in any way useful. Just after the Big Bang, the universe was quite small. Tiny. Smaller than the head of a pin. Then the universe reached the grand old age of $1 \times 10^{-36}$ seconds old, and it had a little bit of a growth spurt. Between $1 \times 10^{-36}$ seconds and $1 \times 10 ^{-33}$ seconds, it expanded at an incredible rate, reaching a size closer to its present-day size. Before inflation, the universe was - well, we don't really know. Prior to $1 \times 10^{-43}$ seconds, all four fundamental forces were unified. But after inflation, they slowly (relative to the time scales we're talking about) became the distinct forces we know today. Another curious thing happened after the inflationary epoch: baryogenesis. Prior to this, the universe had been made out of an exotic quark-gluon plasma. Now, some of the matter (now spread out throughout space) formed quarks which grouped together to form baryons - some of which are the protons and neutrons we know today. Later on (but still within the first second), electrons formed, and, gradually, the particles we know today came into being. The objects you're talking about formed 420 million years after the Big Bang - way after inflation! They were never close together; however, their constituent particles were. The reason they are so far away now is mostly because of inflation, but also partly because of the current expansion of space, which comes courtesy of dark energy. The reason we can see these objects in all directions is because inflation made space expand in every direction, so matter is, therefore, in every direction. I hope this helps.