Again BE is not an exception here. Emphasis When wanting to add positive emphasis to a sentence, underlining that the sentence is true, we add emphasis by stressing the auxiliary, thereby giving it a full vowel (and preventing any contractions with subject pronouns). If there is no auxiliary in the canonical sentence we need to use the auxiliary DO: 

Yes and no. There are some, mostly older, speakers of Southern Standard British English (SSBE or RP) who consistently use [ɪ] at the ends of the words happy and so forth. However, a majority of younger speakers use something closer to [ i̞ ]. And other speakers use a vowel where the difference between the two is neutralised. In older transcriptions of SSBE, /ɪ/ was consistently used to transcribe the vowel at the end of the word happy in phonemic transcriptions, and this reflected the two facts that a) the sound most speakers used at that time was [ɪ] and b) they considered this vowel to be the same phoneme that they used in the word KIT. However, as SSBE English evolved and the pronunciation changed in the manner described in the paragraph above, people started to use the symbol /i/ in broad, phonemic transcriptions to represent this vowel. This instance of the use of /i/ in SSBE broad transcriptions was an innovation used because for some speakers the vowel is the same phoneme as the KIT vowel and for others it is the same phoneme as the FLEECE vowel. Notice that in traditional transcriptions of SSBE, the FLEECE vowel is represented by the symbol /i:/, which uses two dots after the i. The /i/ symbol therefore represents a vowel which may be /ɪ/ for some speakers and /i:/ for others, and indistinguishable between the two for others still. Some SSBE dictionaries and other resources still use /ɪ/ for HAPPY vowels, but most now use /i/. So, in the sense that you may decide to fall in with one group or the other by using either /ɪ/ or /i/, you can make that choice. However, of course once you have made that choice you need to stick with it. As John Wells remarked in one of his blogs about /i/ - 'it seemed like a good idea at the time!' 

Unlike nouns, gerund-participles are modified by adverbs just like other verbs. They cannot be modified by adjectives. 

In the example above the pen and on the table are two separate Complements of the verb. In contrast with Complements, Adjuncts in clause structure don't fill a special slot set up by the verb. They are syntactically and semantically extra elements. Sentences are well formed with or without Adjuncts. Adjuncts have no special relationship with the verb. In the following example at four o'clock is an Adjunct: 

What we need to identify a noun phrase is a combination of different bits of syntactic information. Syntactic functions, of course, can be useful. For example, all of the NPs in the CamGEL excerpt could be used as Subjects, Objects or appended with a genitive clitic and used as Determiners. So that kind of info is helpful for determining the phrasal category of noun phrases. Of course, being ultimately headed by a noun is a good indication that a phrase is a noun phrase. But to determine whether something is a noun or not, we again need to use a variety of syntactic information. Here's a post on how to determine whether an item is a noun (in English). 

Are there languages where articles appear—as independent words—on the right-hand side of the noun phrases they occur in - in other words after the head noun in the noun phrase? 

The problem with your tests is that the than-phrase is a complement. The PPs that you compare them with are adjuncts (read adverbials). We expect to freely front adverbials, but we don't expect to readily be able to front complements, which usually occur to the right of the word(s) that license them. It seems very unlikely that then could be a coordinator, because no words seem to take a single coordinate as a complement! 

Now we can see from the above that our interpretation of the gap in the clause "I like _" is anaphorically dependent upon our understanding of the elephant. There are many such constructions in English (and of course other languages) where our interpretation of the identity of some missing element is anaphorically dependent upon some other word or phrase. In many cases this is because the missing element has 'moved' to the left of the body of the clause: 

Notice that the noun eating above is preceded by the definite article and takes of children as a PP. It cannot take children as an object: 

A pertinent question at this point might be: How do we interpret this gap so that the clause makes sense? Well, our interpretation of the gap here is tied in with the 'antecedent' of this relative clause, the elephant. We can liken the relationship between this gap and the antecedent to the relationship between a pronoun and its antecedent: 

Grammar note Notice that we can form nouns out of verbs using an -ing suffix in English resulting in multitudinous verb /noun homophones: 

Short answer An adverb phrase is best thought of as a phrase headed by an adverb, in the same way that a preposition phrase is a phrase headed by a preposition and so forth. An 'Adverbial' is a Modifier within a clause or sentence. In other words Adverbial is a grammatical relation like Subject or Object, whereas adverb phrase is a phrasal category like verb phrase or preposition phrase. 

Nouns cannot take objects. Instead the noun phrase with the comparable semantic relation must occur in a preposition phrase after the noun: 

Adverbials In the three examples above, for people who use the term in a principled way, the phrases very well, on Saturdays and every day are Adverbials. They are phrases which have a special function in the clause structure. The term adverbial is derived from the old-fashioned (and not very acutely observant) idea that different parts of speech are related to specific different syntactic functions or grammatical relations. Adverbs have traditionally been regarded as having the special function of modifying verbs or verb phrases. The term adverbial, therefore, is used to describe phrases which have the function of modifying verbs, verb phrases or clauses. Remember though that there are many different types of phrase that can modify verb phrases, not only adverbs. The term adverbial then, when used in this way, means something like having an adverbish type of syntactic function. It does not mean that the phrase is an adverb or anything like that. Of course, even that adverbish type of function idea is misleading. It gives us the idea that Adjuncts are usually adverbs - and they aren't. Adverbials and preposition phrases Now, in the examples of the different types of phrase that can function as Adjunct, you will remember that we counted adverb phrases, preposition phrases and noun phrases. Most unfortunately, the term adverbial is often confused with the phrase category preposition phrase. People who use the term adverbial to mean preposition phrase, always also use the term to refer to Adjuncts, whether the Adjunct is a preposition phrase or not. The problem with this is, of course, that not only are not all Adjuncts preposition phrases, but not all preposition phrases are Adjuncts! Preposition phrases can have many different types of function. For example they can be Subjects: 

Case refers to a specific type of inflection of a word when used in certain syntactic environments. So for example, the words they and them are nomally thought of as being instantiations of the same word. Which one of them we find in a particular sentence depends on their grammatical relations within that sentence. We call the first ɴᴏᴍɪɴᴀᴛɪᴠᴇ and the second ᴀᴄᴄᴜsᴀᴛɪᴠᴇ, largely by virtue of the fact that the first inflection is associated with subjects and the latter one with objects. English common nouns, however, do not inflect for case—although noun phrases can take a genitive clitic. When people talk about the case of common nouns (as opposed to pronouns) in English, they talk about them being ᴘʟᴀɪɴ ᴄᴀsᴇ. However, what this really means is that they are not a single word noun phrase with the genitive clitic 'S attached. People who have studied languages like Latin sometimes try to talk about the case of uninflected nouns when talking about languages that don't have case. What they are doing, though, is confusing the grammatical—or semantic—relations of a word with its (non-existent) case. So they relate the gramatical relations of a word with the case it would have in a language like Latin and try to project that case onto the caseless word. People also, more reasonably perhaps, try to extend the case of a noun within a noun phrase to the case that it would have if it were a pronoun. So they might say (I know I myself have done this in the past, when I was fuzzier than I try to be today), that John in John ate the elephant is 'nominative' because a pronoun in subject position would be nominative. This is not a great idea though, because it makes it sound as if nouns actually have some kind of property, 'case', which they don't actually have. We are in reality just describing the grammatical relations when we try and pull tricks like this (saying that John is nominative just means that John is the subject, nothing more). Furthermore we cannot pull this kind of stunt with the Original Poster's example, because pronouns cannot funtcion as the head of NP's with possessive determiners. In other words we cannot replace book with a pronoun here and retain the same meaning (although we could play word games where we played with citations of a pronoun). In conclusion, in the Original Poster's example the word book could be described as 'plain case' if one wanted to emphasise that it had no genitive clitic attached. However, it has no case in any meaningful sense of the term. 

That's the elephant Chris said Ben believes you like. That's the elephant (i) [Chris said [Ben believes [ you like __ (i) ]]]. 

Notice again that the verb BE is behaving just like the other auxiliary verbs. Code Sometimes we delete material following an auxiliary verb leaving the auxiliary to stand in for the missing material. In answer to the questions above we can give the following answers. The missing material is in brackets: 

The alveolar consonant /d/, like the alveolar consonants /t/ and /n/, is highly unstable in English. It will tend to change its place of articulation according to the sound coming afterwards (it will assimilate its place of articulation). In the phrase good point the sound after the /d/ is a /p/. The phoneme /p/ is made with the lips—we say that it is bilabial. For this reason the /d/ may also become bilabial. It will remain a lenis ('voiced') consonant, and it will still be a plosive. This means that it will have become a /b/. So what you will actually hear in that case is: 

What is a 'context-free grammar' in relation to natural languages? This Wikipedia article, gives a broad description, but it isn't clear exactly what features of a language would result in it not being considered context free, or being considered so. What is the fundamental property of a grammar that would result in it being context-free or non-context-free? Why is this property of special interest to linguists? Ideally an answer would be digestible by readers with no mathematical background. 

We wouldn't regard this noun phrase as exhibiting any kind of LDD. One reason for this is that there is no clause involved. The second reason, however, is that there is no gap in the phrase. Every element of the noun phrase is fully expressed and in exactly the position we would normally expect it to be. 

Long distance dependencies have to do with clauses. They occur when some element within a clause is "missing". Depending on what kind of grammar you subscribe to, you might want to think of that missing element as a 'gap'. Consider the following: 

Tidbit Here is a nice quote from the second edition of the famous The Syntactic Phenomena of English by James D. McCawley: 

IPA transcriptions transcribe sounds or phonemes. Even when in a broad transcription a symbol represents a phoneme, it is in some sense referring to a group of possible sounds, which can contrast with another group of possible sounds to differentiate meaning. IPA transcriptions make no allowances for the orthography or written conventions apart from in three specific ways: 

Like other auxiliaries it is often stressed when stranded at the end of a clause - even when it is not negative: 

+ When measuring this it would be important to note that we'd only want to count clauses that the gap actually appeared in. A whole discrete clause occurring between the antecedent and the gap would not count for anything. 

Negation Auxiliary verbs are necessary in English to make negatives with not. They also have a tendency to contract with the word not. If there is no auxiliary in the positive version of the sentence we use the dummy auxiliary DO: 

Like other function words, the different grammatical forms of BE usually have two pronunciations. There is a normal one (referred to by linguists as the weak form) for when the word is not stressed and not stranded. There is also a strong form for when these words are either stressed or stranded or both. For example the word am, when not contracted is usually pronounced /əm/. But if it is the last word or if it is stressed, it is pronounced /æm/: 

There is difficult way and a quick and easy way to use the website mentioned by the Original Poster in their question, IPA TYPEIT: 

Notice that what is implied by (1) is the same as what is literally encoded in (2). However, (1) does not in fact strictly semantically encode the same information as (2) at all. If we made no further pragmatic assumptions about what the speaker of (1) intended to convey, then the maximum we should be entitled to decode is that the speaker does not possess a positive creedal attitude about the existence of Yetis. It is entirely possible that the speaker may have no definite opinion about the existence or non-existence of Yetis, in which case they would not be able to truthfully commit to either a belief or disbelief in them. This might be due to an agnostic state of mind, or it may be merely because the speaker has never even thought about it. To commit the speaker of (1) to a belief in (2) is potentially doing them a great disservice. Be that as it may, most listeners would understand (1) as conveying the same as (2), and they are indeed entitled to, because most speakers - unless they were wishing to be very explicitly technical about it - would prefer the former to the latter to convey the very same information. What is interesting here is that speakers are modifying the verb denoting the action of belief in order to manipulate the listener’s understanding of the object of the belief - the information in the complement clause. More specifically they are negating the verb denoting the believing, but implying a negation of the complement clause. This phenomenon is often referred to as SUBORDINATE NEGATION IMPLICATION. Verbs that tend to generate such implicatures seem to be verbs that denote states of intention, epistemic stance or opinion, or those which can be used performatively for advice. Dynamic verbs which denote actions, changes of mental states and so forth do not tend to generate these implicatures. Compare the following sentences with the dynamic verb say: