Worded in this way, the problem is that this dichotomy is false. There's a clear middle position or rather there are many middle positions that ask about how we interpret what we know. This is not to say the disagreement is resolved. In quick sketch, here are several different philosophers resolved it: 

The asker ordered something on Amazon The thing originally sent by Amazon to the asker was broken. The asker requested that Amazon fix this Amazon's attempts to fix this were a mixture of ineptitude and competence resulting in the asker receiving more than what was due. 

Peperzak argues that this is not a triumphalism about Hegel's present for two reasons. First, he points out that for Hegel there is an "'infinite' difference between objective spirit and absolute spirit (Enc A 305 & R)" (Peperzak Modern Freedom, p. 614). On this feature, the ending describes absolute spirit whereas the text that comes before is about objective spirit (that presumably is not yet absolute). Second, Peperzak sees this as an abrupt ending that does not follow immediately from the rest of the text. On this reading, Hegel fudges on the meaning of "world history" (Perperzak p. 615). But confusingly, Peperzak explains that the ยง356ff provides a condensed version of Hegel's philosophy of history which "indicates overall synthesis that has been realized, despite all lingering forms of injustice that continue to plague the world" (Peperzak pp. 616-7). 

I would say arguments that attempt to prostelytize would have two or possibly three common features: 

I haven't read the text in question (nor do I know the inner workings of the mind of the author) so my ability to answer effectively is limited, but I take it that much of this hinges on the definition of the term brute fact. Presumably, 

For Kierkegaard, the essentially christian / the essence of Christianity is the movement of faith. Or to put things in context, Kierkegaard is writing during the heyday of Danish Hegelianism. There's some questions about how good that Hegelianism is as Hegelianism but the core point is that everyone is going around saying that comprehension is the key. But for Kierkegaard, the essentially Christian is faith. In other words, the point is not being able to say credal statements but to believe them as life-changing realities. A recurring theme which you can encounter in several places (but I think the one I'm remembering is Fear and Trembling) is the distinction between the preacher who simply gets up and preaches eloquently about Abraham and his faith and the person who really understands what sort of craziness is involved in his faith (n.b., that Kierkegaard's understanding incorporates a belief that Abraham believes in the resurrection of the dead such that even if he slays Isaac his descendants will still be numbered through Isaac). Thus, in the passage you quote notice the opposition he sets up between knowledge and the essentially Christian -- these are two separate ways of relating to things. 

I don't think this particular bit is too hard to follow. Anything that exists exists either because it can from something else or because it just popped into existence. (if it eternally existed then it never arrived). If A, then B or N 

I think a key difficulty is that different people mean different things by the prefix "virtual." For some people (I think Searle is one of them or close to being one), virtual means simulated -- that is fake, not achieving the real thing. For other people "virtual" means occurring digitally or something like that. And I think there are cases where we would all fall in with Searle but after that lots of cases where people differ. Consider the argument if we replace the word "virtual" with fake or even with a "special effect" or "picture of" We would get "fake fires -- even really big fake fires don't burn down buildings" and "special effect made to simulate 5-alarm fires are not five alarm fires by definition." Moving to the next one, if we take "virtual community" to mean a community that is inadequate to the definition of community -- but simulates some of its features, then obviously we'd think this is not enough. Conversely, if you take "virtual community" to be real community that happens virtually rather than in person, then it seems quite a bit different. Again, "virtual reality" means a few different things in the same way. Is it DOOM? It it oculus rift? is it deeply immersive? Does it challenge our ideas about what reality it is -- is it/does it feel/appear real to just the same extent (Matrix and thousands of other movies)? Restructured into the argument in question, I think there's some ships going past each other. Searle's version: 

I don't think the word "implies" would be a good substitute for "presupposes" here. Presuppose and imply put the arrow in somewhat opposite directions. It's quite a mouthful to say: 

This is axiomatically true in sentential logic, because it is an immediate consequence of three fundamental laws (identity, excluded middle, and non-contradiction). Conversely, 

If A is true, then because it would only allow for killing innocents, then B would be false because B includes killing others. Conversely if B is true, then A is false since B includes killing others than innocents and falsifies the "only" in A. 

Maybe you're using statistics in a nuanced way I'm not quite understanding. If you switched it to empirical data, the critique I suggest below fails. Statistics by themselves cannot be knowledge, because they are probabilistic and predict not what it is but the probability of what will be. Once it is, it's no longer statistics. Thus, working from QM with Heisenberg uncertainty, we can narrow down the area in which the particle exists, but that is not identical to knowing either where the particle is or what its velocity is. Or to give a more mundane example, you can state definitively that 103 of 203 human pregnancies will be a male. You cannot using just statistics state whether the child is a male or female. You would need to gather more direct empirical data. Clearly, the mode of description that statistics affords is invaluable for doing science, but it is incomplete precisely because the strength of its predictive power is precisely in that it does not make mistakes about specific empirical facts, but this is precisely because such facts are statistically unavailable. 

The answer to this question is complicated by recent Kant scholarship. Basic CPR Kant The picture I see of Kant in the Critique of Pure Reason is that in the "Transcendental Deduction of the Pure Categories of the Understanding", Kant identifies exactly 12 categories (no more and no less and no different than his list) that he thinks is true of the understanding (A70/B95-A93/B109) (See $URL$ ). In addition to this, Kant believes that we form representations under the forms of sensibility (space and time). Thus, Kant gives us a picture where our cognition takes "things" and renders them sensible under space/time as "representations" and then turns them into "objects" as the 12 categories are applied. If that's what you mean by "concepts" in your question, then Kant does think we share these things. Whether they are innate is not very important to Kant. What matters is that these are the structures of pure reason. Hegel's view Hegel agrees with Kant that we bring "categories" to what we think about. For him, the key is that we bring Begriff (often translated as "concept"). But for Hegel, it's not a list of 12 things we bring but rather an evolving apparatus of understanding ourselves and our world (short version as the task of Phenomenology of Spirit: we move from trying to understand and locate truth in objects outside of ourselves to focusing on ourselves as the sort of beings that bring truth to things and in the process we also move from "I" to "we"). Complication 1 One complication that might confuse the contemporary reader is that neither (is at least in his own terms) making a claim that the human brain brings with it certain organizing apparatuses as the system in which by necessity operate. Instead, both are raising a thesis about mind and reason. They are claiming that reason does these things with little respect for biology. Now, you can rearticulate similar ideas with modern neuroscience (though if you want to share Kant's commitment to 12 categories exactly you'd be in lonely company). Complication 2 A lot of contemporary Kant scholarship (especially in Kant's moral philosophy) is not committed to the precise articulation Kant gives in the CPR. Instead, they are interested in a looser commitment to reason. Thus, for instance, Christine Korsgaard, gives her own deduction for how we find ourselves committed to rational action with no little if any reference to the categories of the understanding. Other Kantians, such as Jurgen Habermas, openly admit that they accept Hegel's critique of Kant's static view of reason and the faculties, but they find Kant's picture for moral philosophy attractive. Similarly, texts like the Cambridge Companion to Kant will include chapters like Beatrice Longuenesse's chapter on the categories Kant has, but these are meant to explain Kant's view rather than defend the truth of the claim there are 12 categories. tl;dr Whether the overarching claim that humans bring concepts to what they do is true wouldn't eviscerate Hegel's critique, because (a) Hegel agrees we bring concepts to things as objects and (b) Hegel's critique is about the way that Kant thinks that works, and (c) contemporary Kant scholars might not accept the nitty-gritty of Hegel's critique but they don't defend Kant's conception of what we bring.