There's no rule that you must give references from every company, or the most recent companies you've worked with. In the startup world, it's pretty common for your previous employer to be out of business, and out of touch, anyway. Work experience is an entirely separate issue. I would never leave a gap on my resume because of a bad employer. As an agile PM, you have two types of references that are useful--up and down. It's common to give one manager, and one coworker/direct report (in the case of a PM, a scrum master or lead developer in an agile team). This gives a more complete picture anyway. 

Many companies have a technical track and a management track, and their titles are locally defined. Architect, technical lead and lead developer are used for leadership along the technical track. Normally in the technical role you have an increasing span of control over a technical area, and any employee day-to-day activities in support of that technology. You wouldn't have "HR responsibilities" or direct reports. Your team reports to your boss or peers. You may be expected to mentor your team. You are expected to coach them, since coaching is toward a specific work goal, and mentoring is more career-oriented. There are obviously many gray areas, but the common theme is that your interactions are predicated on having a technology focus. (Many people may use coaching and mentoring terms differently, but it helps to make the distinction here. :-)) Whether you choose to move to a management track or further along the technical, your next step would be to acquire people management skills. So why not do that and decide as you go? 

Don't do it. You would be broadcasting your insecurity. You'll also create work on the other side and sound needy and anxious. The point of the interview is to either see how well you program, or how good you are with algorithms. It's not a bad idea to study some common algorithms, to exercise your abilities in both those areas. If the hiring manager or HR person saw your "waste time studying" rationalization, chances are pretty good you'd lose the job. 

With your level of experience, developing an app in github will go a long way to getting you the experience you need, if you can invest the time prior to the interview. That way you can show professional experience for the full SDLC in your work experience, and some level of mastery of the native tooling on the side. Few places will actually be concerned that you weren't paid for that particular language skill, code usually speaks for itself. Many places are moving to React Native, which is only partially native, so it might help to emphasize (read: boldly assert) that you bring that type of experience to the table. 

You can go to your local community college career office and ask about places hiring interns. You're only a year or two younger than what they're expecting, and potentially more qualified than the average applicant. You won't make a ton, but having a mentor is potentially worth much more than another two dollars an hour at this point. You can also pass out your resume to everyone you know, and ask them to take it to their friends. I receive several high-school student resumes per year, and they're usually on par with an average college student. 

So you've already identified the place to start: not good with details. So show them how details matter, and small things become system-crashing stuff. Let them see that details will be part of the job--they might not know. Developing and coding are two different words for a reason. I know some great coders who can't build a stable system. I know one architect who doesn't code at all, and a few that are mediocre. Don't just teach coding, teach development, the whole picture. At worst, you'll get a much more sympathetic analyst out of it. I wish more analysts had this interest! 

Divorcing this from a specific context makes all the answer academic, contrived, and almost entirely useless. In what corporate monstrosity is this type of communication happening? There is no real way to determine what to do. Communication is the only antidote to the political nonsense Jane and her boss are potentially trapped in, but this is too sanitized to even know. Without that background, this and any specific advice is just as likely to be wrong as right. I could spin stories in any direction that would make an answer obvious in one context inappropriate in another. In most companies, Jane and her boss^1 are weighing the political capital they need to spend to resolve this, which is entirely unrelated to actually completing the project, which I guess we're supposed to assume is important? What's the project? Is the deadline important? Did Jane's boss^2 ask her because there's some critical business need that prevented her from waiting for boss^1? Did Jane's estimate already reach a customer's ears? Can Jane reduce the actual time by pulling on other resources, perhaps meeting or exceeding the estimate? Is Jane's boss performing? Does the culture encourage people to not work hard, to prevent others from looking bad? Look at this question: "Which of the following decisions should Jane take to avoid offending her reporting officer and the director and why should Jane take that decision?" Offending them? Offending? Is this work or school? There are people who have the social skills to have a simple conversation with boss^1 and boss^2 and have everyone leaving happy. There are others who offend everyone, even under complete agreement. How long does the work actually take, what quality is required, what debt (technical debt, administrative debt) would be left behind--these all need to be answered. Let's say Jane is a programmer. Maybe Jane explains to boss^2 that she hadn't considered technical debt, and that she can deliver functional code in 5 days into production, but that she'll need to account for an additional 5 days to resolve the technical debt. If that's the reality, whether boss^1 or boss^2 is offended is impossible to predict. Boss^1 may be offended unless Jane intentionally offends boss^2, due to some territorially nonsense that doesn't belong at work and will probably exist in whatever monstrosity of a corporate structure is assumed in this case. Questions like this are loaded--they encourage generic "why can't we all just get along" answers rather than constructive solutions from the details, and totally ignore the hundreds of other factors that could change everyone's answers. I could repost this with different details filled in and get the exact same members posting contradictory advice, and they would often be correct. If this is for some type of training material, frankly, it's a disaster on multiple levels. If it's been sanitized from a real-world situation, please include enough details to make it meaningful. So here's my answer: (d) Jane should put down the textbook and look for a job in the 21st century. 

This is a red flag. Your boss shows every indication of being an assistant abuser. Assistant abusers dump their anger on their admins until the admin quits. After a few, the abuser learns that she's really the problem. So she learns to follow up the abuse with some sweetness, and promises to herself that she'll be better next time--until the next mood swing. You lather, rinse, repeat until eventually you leave for another job, and the next applicant who can start right away comes in ... I'd interview elsewhere, and leave this issue to the boss and her therapist. It feels great to be so in demand that you get hired right away--but next time ask some tough questions if things are going that way. "How many admins have left in the last year?" Unless there's a polio outbreak, 2 is fishy, 3 is deadly, and at 4 I'd just smile politely until the interview is over. 

There are probably 100 answers to this... he's upset about a firing he thinks is unfair, he's giving you a veiled threat that you're next, he's venting because he feels bad and is rationalizing the move... choose your own idea and create a story. So let's answer your real question: 

Putting the facts together, the Director likes your resume, but is concerned that you lack the experience of other candidates. Your job in the interview will be to highlight that your experiences are well suited to the job. I would directly ask how you compare to the others and what concerns the Director about your qualifications, and then try to emphasize that you have successes, contacts, other experiences, etc.--whatever will alleviate those concerns. Directly asking about the feedback will show a confidence and preparation that can only help you. And there's no reason to be upset--the other candidates may simply have more experience by far. I was once told that I shouldn't highlight 7 years experience because all the other candidates had 15 or more. But I had other technical skills that were far more desirable, and beat them out. I have much more than 7 years experience now and I agree with the assessment, but at the time, 7 seemed like a lot. 

The purpose of the contract was to spell out these terms. He can follow it, or you can an email a superior of his for relief. Are attorneys fees automatically given the winner in your country? Behind the scenes, I imagine this recruiter is incentivized to keep the money coming in, and you just hurt his numbers. So he's personally feeling the heat. You might want to email him and acknowledge (not apologize) that this is unfortunate for him. It's also not your problem, and you need pay or a bad situation is going to get much worse for him. An email to his superiors will hurt more than whatever damage you did to his numbers. Be overly kind--because you can forward that email to his boss explaining the difficult situation, and the damage will keep multiplying. Maybe he should consider a job change. First he makes a bad placement, then he attempts to renegotiate a contract while likely violating the payroll laws in your country. This should be a lesson to everyone who puts this kind of pressure on their sales team--they'll embarrass your company and destroy your reputation making those numbers you made up one day. 

Take a deep breath, this isn't going to feel good. Sorry, but $75/hour is not a lot. At 40 hours a week it's roughly $150k a year. Take out the taxes and overhead, and you're not pulling your weight as a billable consultant. In the real world, you'd be let go. Around here, a paralegal in a divorce firm books at least $80/hour. They have specialized skills, but not necessarily a degree from a high-end school. Your resume is bragging about a billing rate that isn't as impressive as it sounds at first. Lose it. You can say you were billed as a regular consultant, and that will convey what you want it to, without undercutting your message.