More or less, you should remember is just try to be yourself. This means be cool and de-stress yourself. That is the most important preparation. In terms of being able to answer well, you should try to pick up best of your projects (that he/she might inquire about) - and study concepts deeper related to the same. The important part is that instead of focusing on a lot of details you should be able to articulate key achievements, important concepts and theory/reasoning behind those topics. Last but most important point -prepare a lot of questions. This really looks good that you care about the position, role, job profile and work culture you are going to join. 

I have a mechanical keyboard with Cherry MX Brown switches. I absolutely adore it. I love the feel of a real mechanical keyboard and I love the sound it makes. But I work from home. If I was working in an open-plan office, there's absolutely no way I would bring this keyboard in. As pointed out in another answer, mechanical keyboards are loud. Far, far louder than would be appropriate in many open-plan offices. Unless the office is already very loud (regular ongoing conversations in the open space), it is inappropriate for you to bring your keyboard. This isn't a case where you should try it out and watch people's body language. This is a case where you should simply not even try it. 

Perhaps consider taking a college course on diversity in the workplace. Many schools offer them. Check for programs in women's studies or race/ethnicity studies, and they will likely have a course that is focused on diversity and employment. Also, focus your research on information from peer-reviewed journals. These are certified as meeting the research standards of their respective fields and are frequently available through your local university's library. Diversity is a volatile field, and you want to ensure that your information is grounded in science, rather than being based on someone's opinion. A few textbooks that include information on gender, race, and working include: Paula J. Dubeck & Dana Dunn, "Workplace/Women's Place" - also includes information about race. Contains more direct information about how to set up a workplace to promote productivity, prevent discrimination, and increase retention (turnover is higher for oppressed groups). Teresa Amott & Julie Matthaei, "Race, Gender, and Work" - more focused on a historical, policy perspective 

I encourage you to call the Employment Standards Branch. Assuming you are an adult (different standards apply to young people), you can most definitely be required to work overtime. Note that all work must be confined within 12 hours, so if you start work at 6 AM, they are not allowed to have you work past 6 PM. If you are working two jobs, this only applies to each job individually. For example, if you work at one job from 6 AM to noon, the other job is perfectly free to have you work from 2 PM to 10 PM. Any work past eight hours for a single employer is subject to overtime and there's a separate calculation for overtime based on weekly hours, too. You can read more here. 

Identify gaps It is relatively easy to get into friction with people who don't quite think like you. Brothers brought up under the same parents often do run into friction because of such differences. The first step is to identify where the gaps are. How severely do we have disagreement or not, which areas have more serious gaps, how does these gaps affects us beyond just basic comforts: for example, does it affect productivity? or final outcome of work? Understand mutual point of view Why does the other person think differently, because of their point-of-view. these gaps reduce as you have more and more communication. As we meet people who are different from us, we learn more : example-by-example. More you have open communication, more we can analyze whether or not the other person will be in agreement or disagreement irrespective of our liking. Learn to isolate deliverables and dependencies Some aspects will never get resolved because it is fundamental to our personality and core ideas. So as we learn to identify what seems unresolvable, we must identify ways in which we can separate out responsibilities or simplify how we can remain agnostic to each other's point-of-view and receive-deliver the work required mutually and for the organization. Escalate positively When things doesn't seems to be easy, or affects work be objective about where the thoughts differ mutually and how it affects the final output of the work. Present this to your higher ups who has the authorities to split the domains, or work areas or setup processes that simplifies these friction issues. Don't take the friction home or onto your head While it may take time to resolve gaps in people's thinking, and adults definitely won't give up their ideas easily. So there will also be periods where these frictions does make us uncomfortable. Be objective, and do not take elements of these disagreements personally. That will be essential for you to have your work output productive and of quality and will let you have peace of mind when you go back home. 

I would agree with the responses above to document the events that occur and report them to your manager. In addition, my advice would be to know who your supervisor is and focus on doing whatever they tell you to do regarding your tasks. Any manager appreciates an employee who earns the company a profit. I have had similar situations in the past, where coworkers were behaving in an inappropriate and discriminatory manner towards me. In addition to reporting the behavior, I focused strongly on the work at hand and out-performed my colleagues. Eventually, you will look better than your coworkers and earn a promotion, and they will have to respect you more. So, document, report, and focus on performing your job well. 

Establish, the overall expectations - what you should have been doing, what; what is the critical evaluation of the work or what is the success criteria. Seek evaluation and feedback of work. What do they think of what you have done, what is the impact of that in business. What is the end value. Seek and agree on mode of reward - if only step 1 & 2 seems positive. Justify and speak for what rewards you expect or you think is fair. What you established in step 1 and 2 works well. 

NO! But i think the advise doesn't stop there. The point is, Company A is in business for some reason - and for a reason probably better than you because they hired you. The reason can be that including but not limiting to: 

As per the terms of your contract, the company has 45 days to respond to your email, by paying your invoice. You have so far provided them only 21 days. It is rather unprofessional of you to hold them to a different standard than the contract specifies. Yes, they might fail to pay you within 45 days. They might announce that on day 44, or they might not announce it at all, just fail to pay you. Hopefully that doesn't happen, but that's why you have a contract. If you wanted different terms (for example, the company must acknowledge the invoice), you should have put this in the contract. It would be an incredibly strange clause to include, but you can more or less put anything you want in a contract, so long as the other side agrees. Short of that, you could, in the future, try read receipts or try sending the invoice with a sentence such as "Please acknowledge receipt of this invoice" in the email body. But the company may choose to ignore your request and it would be inappropriate for you to demand this, assuming it isn't in your contract. 

While this was not during workplace but during my years of college i used to feel the same way. Generally, issues related to personality, body language, having a good public presence and charm are all linked to something within. I used attend the classes for that, but i think with a special touch from the teacher eventually it turned out this has nothing to do with my language understanding or there wasn't any formula for it. Through my own experience and the others i have seen, essentially, it boils down to two things: 1. Confidence: Once you really has self confidence to face people, accept and respond to what is being told - you slowly realize that your body comes to rhythm; you don't fear to express yourself, to tell truth and you are not conscious and hold back yourself while you are speaking. Tip: have a close friend whom you can trust and keep talking to him/her. Expressing them you would feel much easy and while they should be critical, they should look from your point of view, you will begin to gain the confidence. 2. Clarity of thought: There are others who doesn't really lack confidence, but while they are saying something several threads in their mind go on. The way they present themselves becomes like a spaghetti to reverse. This eventually leads to being upset about not being able to communicate. Tip: Rehearse and rehearse before every important meeting, talk and try to write down stuff. This allows you to look at yourself as the other person and slowly you will improve upon how you express yourself. -- In all, all aspects of personal skills always get more by practice rather than learning some theory about it. Find a buddy whom you think has got it all, and whom you can trust. And keep constant communication to him/her they can guide you how to improve in those small but important things. 

It seems like you should look out primarily for yourself here, and your own career mobility, rather than your current department. It is very standard for companies to have potential for transfer within the business. It is actually to their benefit, since it increases overall employee retention and keeps experienced workers' knowledge within the company. Some of the concerns that you brought up are really your current manager's responsibility to take care of. Redundancy needs to be built into process, such that if one employee leaves or is out for an extended period of time, such as illness, someone else can fill in. If you are concerned that your Line Manager might think poorly of you, you might quietly submit your application for the position and progress through the system that way. At this point, there is no certainty yet that you might receive an offer. It could not hurt to obtain more information about the position in the meantime. This sounds like you are at the top of your career potential for this position and are at the stepping point on to the next level. I would not hesitate to take that step. Good luck!