, the best way for me to respond is to explain how prices are relative to incomes (as well as them being dependent on the state of technology in a country). There is an alternative answer in that it would be practically difficult to have a universal monetary policy. The reason why different currencies exist is because it is politically difficult to co-ordinate monetary policy across several countries, let alone the entire world. Because different countries have separate monetary systems, with different currencies, there end up being differences in how valuable each currency is. The value of a currency derives from how many goods and services that country trades with other countries (as says, "poor countries ... cannot produce enough valuable goods and services"). In everyday life, people are generally not affected by prices in other countries. If a Coke costs double in an overseas country, so what? You don't go there often, so it shouldn't concern you. However, as with your holiday, people sometimes venture to a different country, and the exchange rate does make them think and wonder about why things cost less or more. The key here is that you only consider things to cost less or more because of your salary. The salary you earn is in a different currency, in a different country. Because it's in a different currency, the exchange rate affects what you can do with that money in a different country. But because you work in a different country, your employer will pay you what you need in order for you to live in your home country! (Employers don't generally think about it this way, but this underlies the level at which wages are set. Your employer will more likely observe the prevailing level of the wage for your type of job in the labour market and not deviate too far from that level.) So, I struggle (because of what I've learnt in economics) to understand what a more "expensive" life is. A life being more "expensive" sounds as if the person is poor and cannot afford to have as much. It depends on what job they have. If they have a job that actually pays what you would think is a "lot" of money, but that enables them to pay for "expensive" things, that would in my opinion be normal for somebody living in that country. It just means that prices are higher, but it also means that wages are higher. Perhaps what is confusing you is that their money can buy more in a poorer country (in that case I refer you to my argument above that employers simply pay wages that are needed in order for their employees to live in their own country). I believe that people living in a poor country generally can afford plane tickets, houses, food, etc. It's just that the strength of the currency they use is low when traded with other currencies. Now, after talking about how prices are relative to incomes, I want to go back to the important proviso in the brackets in my first sentence. Technology can certainly account for differences in living standards across countries. For example, cell phones, laptops, cars, production processes, infrastructure, human expertise and business management are technologies that can be more difficult to implement in a undeveloped country, or they can be technologies that are still in elementary forms in those countries. This is a game changer, because technology has a big impact on livelihoods, and the ability of people to access the same quality of life as those in richer countries. This is maybe why you think lives can be more "expensive" - because the same level of technology take a comparatively larger proportion of those people's incomes. 

Once applied, CETA will offer EU firms more and better business opportunities in Canada and support jobs in the EU, it will remove customs duties, end restrictions on access to public contracts, open-up the services market, offer predictable conditions for investors, etc. Having in mind the existence of the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA), does the enabling of CETA provide the US corporations (at least some of) the opportunities cevered in TTIP? For example, is it possiblede jure for a US corporation just to register in Canada and to access the EU market, achieveing in this way indirectly the aims of TTIP? 

You mention factory jobs and assembly lines. Firstly, let us think if the large part of these kind of jobs were supposed to be for human beings at all. What I mean for human beings is, are these jobs utilizing, for example, creativity, critical thinking, analysis, or any other kind of more deep mental activities that a human being has developed from million years of evolution and is capable of, well the answer is: NO. That is so, because the nature of work was shaped by criteria such as effectiveness, productivity [1] as one can see from the early works on the principles of work management. That was the start of the first industrial revolution and many traditional crafts demanding multilateral personal development and skills from many fields, whose complexity was ensuring a stable place in the market, were exchanged for monotonous work involving few simple moves on the assembly line, that slowly converted man into a machine, making him dispensable, but even worse making him unable to do anything else as his real skills remain undeveloped and his true capacity unutilized, a good example of I mean is Charlie Chaplin's "Modern Times": Thus, the jobs that were meant initially for machines are now rightfully being done by machines. But what happens to all these people that don't have jobs and contribute to the high unemployment, which in turn contributes to the lowering of the wages and so on... Just think about it, after two industrial revolutions and some much scientific development instead of less work people need more work ONLY to maintain their basic human needs! Well, it is time for people to claim what they deserve, it is time for radical changes, for example, lowering the 8-hour working day to 4-hour working day, this is already gradually introduced in some countries [2], while keeping the wages the same, in this way one can, not only, double the workforce, not only eliminate unemployment and avoid loosing one more generation of young people, but double the enthusiasm, the time available for spending, travelling, and many other activities that will facilitate the economic growth and well-being. In other words, it is time people demand what is rightfully theirs: right of decent existence, even without a job, i.e. basic income, like for example in Switzerland [3]. Changes should be made in the educational system in order to stop the "production" of professionals with no real prospect for work, but even more important without perspective for meaningful social contribution, i.e. dead-end jobs. Lately thoughts are being expressed in the direction that there is a good chance we end up with a universal basic income due to automation. [4] Finally, once we transition to fully renewable energy production and consumption, the developed part of the world works for helping the rest of the world and closes the gap, which surely will guarantee a lot of future work, people should start doing activities related to their intellectual and spiritual development and aim higher, for reference check the human being named Elon Musk and his view for the future. [5] 

My guess is that the ''elasticity of substitution'' means something like$$\frac{\%\Delta K}{\% \Delta L}=\mathrm{mrs} \times\frac lk, $$ but that is dependant on what point you are at (i.e. a coordinate $(l, k)$). To get $\mathrm{mrs} $, find $\frac {\mathrm d k} {\mathrm d l} $, and even that is dependent on the value of $f$. 

Another reason why inflation needs to be positive is so that interest rates can be cut in a recession in order to stimulate spending. When interest rates get too low, an economy encounters a liquidity trap and further expansionary monetary policy cannot be implemented. 

Investment is inversely proportional to the interest rate and savings is proportional to the interest rate, but if the quantity of savings increases, investment also increases according to the equation $I = S + T-G+M-X$. You can illustrate this by graphing the demand and supply of loanable funds on a 2-D plane (savings affects the supply of loanable funds), which shows how the two curves determine the real interest rate. 

In a nutshell, I think you're right. The crux of your professor's argument is that, according to the classical dichotomy, the real interest rate will remain unchanged. However, that is only true in the long run, and we shouldn't be looking at the long run for this question. We should be looking at the short run. In the long run, the nominal interest rate as well as the inflation rate will remain unchanged, so the real interest rate will remain unchanged. In the short run, the nominal interest rate will decrease, which increases output (according to the Investment-Saving relation) and causes inflation (according to the Aggregate Supply relation). In the medium run, with output above its natural level, wages will rise due to a shortage of labour and thus prices will increase further. This happens until output is back at its natural level. This increase in price reduces the real stock of money as well, so that the nominal interest rate returns back to its original level according to the Investment-Saving relation (a leftwards shift of money supply in the money market). In the long run, with prices stable at a higher level, there are no further increases in prices, so inflation becomes 0. (This is a static model, whereas in the real world the economy is dynamic and constantly experiences price increases.) Thus, real interest increases back to its original level. 

It means that, at the current size of your production capabilities, if you want to produce one more unit of your product, you will have to spend 7 Euro. This, MC value is a quantitative description of the cost you pay if you want to adjust your initial production plan to a larger output and it is determined by your production capacities. Here is an example: You have a bus company and your service is to offer a one way trip from point A to point B, every day at a given hour. Now, your buses have 50 seats and your total cost for the trip is 100 Euro (fuel, road taxes, etc). In addition to that your licence says that you have to provide additional bus if the passengers are more than 50. In this case, if you have 49 passengers and in the last minute there is a reservation for one more seat, your marginal cost is effectively zero, however, if there are two reservations in the last minute and the total number of passengers is now 51, the 51th passenger's marginal cost is 100 Euro, because you need a second bus only for him. 

In a debate concerning long term economic strategy, a representative of a left party was trying to support that privatisation and Small Government which minimizes its own activities is not a viable direction in a Global Economy, i.e. it will lead to a further loss of sovereignty in a sense that a country applies its policies mostly via the public sector, which if minimized will have insignificant impact. Then the opponent asked a simple, but intriguing question: "Is there an example where a government owned company1 has a product that is competitive with a product of a private company?" After a brief research I really couldn't find such example. Is there such an example and if not, what counter argument there could be presented against the above question? 

It should be noted that crisis recovery is strongly related with the present state and structure of the local, regional and global economy and thereby depends on different parameters, as it works by different rules1. Consequently, I wouldn't consider thinking by analogy, i.e. in terms of historical precedence a valid strategy for problem solution. The problem should be (could be) tackled only in terms of first principles of the economy, in your case in terms of first principles of the EU economy, which will inevitably result in a solution lying outside Greece itself and more specifically in the rebooting of the EU zone and recompilation of the regulations governing it in the direction of a economically (and politically) equal / homogeneous monetary union with surplus recycling mechanisms that assure the financial distribution in the deficit countries in the form of productive investments (that will in turn produce the needed growth), instead of distributions in the form of loans (as in the current situation). 

Re-order the equation. $U=x-\frac 1 y\\ x-U=\frac 1 y\\ y=\frac 1{x-U}$ I'm sure you know how to draw that graph: 

Elasticities tell economists how responsive changes in price are to changes in quantity, and this is useful because it tells you whether revenue will increase or decrease. Suppose you are the owner if a firm that is interested in expanding. It will be more informative for you to know that if you expand your production by 20%, the prices of your products will decrease by only 10% than to know that if you produce two more units per week, the price will drop by $1.00. The first description is informative because it tells you whether your revenue will increase or not (in this case it will, because demand is price elastic), whereas the second is an absolute reference which requires further calculation in order to understand what it means for your business. 

If the demand for loanable funds decreases, investment increases because the real interest rate decreases. Isn't that a contradiction, because loanable funds are used for investment, and a decrease in demand for loanable funds must come from a decrease in investment? 

I recommend Jared Diamond's Guns, Germs and Steel, for this topic. I don't know what you mean by "the society." Diamond makes it clear that there are many different societies around the world, progressing at different rates. To answer your question about why we have what we have today and why individual societies developed in the direction they did: some technologies are inevitable, such as farming, writing and mettalurgy. What differs is that a few societies developed these technologies much earlier than others. Diamond lays out the reasons why; differences in intelligence across races is not a reason but the geology and biogeography of people's habitats are ultimate causual factors. These ultimate factors lead to more proximate factors such as animal and plant domestication, leading to denser and more sedentary populations with more complex political organization. Technological development led to further economic development, with most technology arising from it being spread from other societies—and that transmission depends again on geography. Eurasia had the advantage of an east-west axis that made transfer of domestic food and animal species easier (along the same lines of latitude and hence similar climes), and thus the technology which accompanies more sedentary societies. More isolated societies such as Australia did not benefit from the spread of technology, and hence remained a hunting-gathering society until European conquest. His book is entertaining and interesting to read. I've learnt facts and a perspective of the differences amongst races that I couldn't do without.