Race creating it may be long gone and such structure can be there as "monument" reminding to anyone how awesome such race once were... 

Religious taboo (medieval) - people used to believe that saying deity name would actually hurt such deity. OK, your setting can skip this Bodily functions: Naming people as taboo bodily parts. In our case these are organs used for sexual reproduction and/or bodily functions, namely defecation. While you rule this part out, still there can be body part which is considered taboo and "talk to the hand!" may be purely offensive Racial and race based: You either can use slang word for one race as offensive or abusive. Also to this group you can have social status in the group, so "you are beggar" can be also offensive Mentality and psychological based (current trend in our society). Any word connected with fact that such person may have low IQ is considered really abusive in our society. 

However, how can we use "float" also as description of a procedure? It seems to me, that people also use the word float as description of punishment: 

Being Czech sometimes helps answering these questions: You can do it. Just follow Czechoslovakia example: 1st January of 1993, Czechoslovakia was no more. Two new sovereign nations came to life: Czech Republic and Slovakia. Steps to reproduce: 

Easy way: Employ real "dead man": Get set of highly motivated and patriotic people. Set them in (say) 14 day set of duties. The duty will be: You are going to be locked in the bunker from outside for 14 days. With food and water reserves for 14 days. Your most important task is: Press a button at random intervals. If you fail to press a button, nuclear attack is going to be triggered. That's why its called "dead man switch" The duty of other guys will be simple: Once your duty is done, they have to unlock you from the bunker, refill food and water and lock someone else from the group in the bunker. If the people from the group live through "ordinary lives" otherwise, you make sure that nuclear attack from your side is triggered only if there is major event happening. And if you make these groups all around the country, with condition that at least one button in one of these bunkers needs to be pressed, you made sure that you trigger nuclear attack only in case of major events. It is almost impossible to automate this process in current tech. 

In our world that means a lot of computer power You postulate, that we cannot do anything with attack in 600 years. I am going to question that idea a bit: To be able to know, that something is going to get us in 600 years in space means a heck of computer power, because everything moves pretty fast in space But, your ship was able to calculate with exact precission, that the pirates are going to get them. No matter the changed stars, no matter if the ship is going to sacrifice one or two generations in getting from A to B by slightly changing the course. Space rendezvous is quite difficult maneuver. Especially if one of the ships does not want to rendezvous. In our world you could change trajectory of ship in very small order now and get more than million kilometers of difference in 600 years. Yes, as I said earlier. If goal of the generation ship is getting from A to B, this change of course would mean having the trip being longer by (say) one or two generations. Still better than to be attacked. But... But you said that even if my generation ship is going to do such small change now, the pirates are going to get them anyway. (Because you calculated that on your nearly impossible computer). You have these choices: 

Biological experiment went wrong Or went forgotten. I will use creationist arguments to show you why such life should be created rather than evolved: The argument is, that even when you are given "perfect" conditions for life to naturally occur (alias, the Earth), it is really low probability for abiogenesis to happen. Put away perfect scenario and replace it with environment which is most hostile against life (my personal opinion). Probability of life occurring here naturally is several orders of magnitude lower than in normal scenarios. It is even so low, that it is beyond plausibility. For short story, though: Such life could be created artificially by aliens At our current tech level, if you wanted to create space elevator, you would use carbon nanotubes to do so. But imagine extremely evolved alien race which solved this by bio-engineering to a level which goes beyond our imagination. And they crafted a construction in space using such bio-engineering. Such construction would be "alive" by our standards: Using sun light (or light of star at given solar system) and maybe even using radioactivity to change it for "goods" being sent back to planet. I will leave the details to your imagination, but basically: TL;DR 

The question is really hard to answer, because of stem cell controversy wherepeople of religion object against using human embryos for purpose of science. Even though you left out the thinking about end results of everyone being able to play around with live organisms, the real spread will be built around of "what possibilities does this bring us" For instance, while it holds true that you are able to buy computer and write your first Hello World program, in case of "lab science" it is still sufficient enough to let you do little lab play with discovering flower cells and if you feel like want to know more, there is specialised school to learn you that. Also, computer in every household appears because it solves more than one problem of "general household" (while "playing games" might be one of them). Long story short, even if the general public is supporting strongly the DNA tinkering, I still believe that device to play around with DNA will be part rather of "high school lab" than common household. (So, it will never reach common household). To guess the time, I think plausible horisont to think of is 20 to 50 years. But keep in mind, that no matter how cool the device or technology may sound on the paper, always the general public may be against it. 

So what hurdles do we have to solve in order to have Average Joe to be able board fully electric plane in 2030? 

P.S.: Keep away the thought of totally low probability of this happening. I do not need "hard science" world, alternate Earth where this happen just needs to be plausible 

Guilty pleasure: I just returned from one tinfoil-hat type of internet pages which suggests that we are being visited by Aliens who live on Venus. The fact, that we have only pictures from the ground from the seventies make it bit spooky (and argument for the site) Anyway. Real question starts here. NASA proposed Rover mission for Venus and Wiki says it is currently proposed for year 2022 For scope of this question, suppose that NASA really launches rover mission to Venus in 2022 and that it is successful. Actually so successful, that it finds first "alien life" - to remove any tinfoil hats, I obviously mean life in form of bacteria. Would it make more sense to shift humanity attention to Venus? Or would we continue Mars manned mission simply because "it is easier"? 

Short answer: You decide Longer answer: What language does the lizard speak? How does it sound in lizard language? Is the lizard willing to let English speakers use some substitute for his real name? I will give you example on myself. My name is which is "normal" Czech name. However, I know by meeting several English speaking only people, that such name is really hard to pronounce in English. So, usually I go by telling people that they can call me Paul, which is closest English synonyme for the first name, and I let them pronounce my surname as it is written without any diacrititcs. The morale of the story is, that the lizard can either go by let himself be called just "Buzz" which would be easily to prononce for any English speaker, or insist that his name is pronounced ... Well, you decide. 

The system Arcmage should be academic/magical thing. The best mage of all mages should get such position To pass a law - one of houses proposes a law and passes it by it having more than 50% votes. The other house either approves or dissaproves such law. If law is disapproved, it is sent back to house of origin, where 2/3 have to vote it in order to pass it further. If not, such law is rejected. If law is approved, it has to be officially signed by arcmage. If not, 2/3 of both houses combined can outrule such law and pass it. General elections: Every 4 years, where whole House of Muggles is voted House of Mages elections One third of country elects one third of House. A seat for a mage is for 6 years. Every 2 years there are elections for one third of House. Obviously, the above are drafted proposals how the system might work. But I think its good basis to play with 

I am going to delete my previous rather not so popular answer and try add several things to be considered: You have to define what happens if two tribes meet Sometimes they traded, sometimes they fought (war). Since "fight" is not an option, they have to trade. But there is still one flaw in this scenario: What happens if one tribe does not have anywhere to grow? We fight wars because we want supplies (they are now traded) and land. Since (again) the fight is not an option, you would probably get the land using "medieval" style of obtaining it by prearranged marriages and joining two "kingdoms" into one. What happens when Columbus (and others) discover America? As I am not an historian, and also I am from Europe, my vision of how USA became to life includes loads of killing of native Americans. In your setup you have to assume the native people willing and wanting help with the development How will religious disagreements be handled? Its not only now so popular "clash" of Islam versus western world, but for example, there are Christians fighting Christians in Nothern Ireland and only "difference" is, that one are protestants and other are Catholics. You have to decide what happens there. Somewhere I heard that if two ancient tribes wanted to join, they did "marriage" of their Gods, so I think this could be the way In nutshell, I belive there are two options how to get around it: The hard, historical way Go as far into history as possible and see where and which tribes existed. Do not forget to do it globally (in Europe we completely miss out the whole India development before the colonization era in our history classes). Let the tribes evolve and follow the rules above. I think, that best assumption in this scenario is, that you eventually end up in one global "tribe" worshiping every known God and Goddess. The setup would be really Utopian civilization of happy cooperating people. Main drive of the progress would be to ease the trade and communication, so you can assume the civilization technological progress would invent today cargo ships and planes. The easy naive way Or, you can say yourselves "screw it" and let your tribes at small, local level, not allowing them to grow, not allowing them to meet themselves. The would would most likely look like one big jungle inhabited by small tribes 

Everything is possible with little bit of sci-fi. But my idea is still plausible given current science knowledge and hypothesis. There is nuclear physics theory of Island of stability which supposes, that there should be really heavy particles with long half-live of such element. But, we were unsuccessful to find them yet. Lets say the theory is right. Lets say this particle can be (and is) used to interstellar space engine. Lets say there is region in our galaxy where exist the heaviest possible stars, and here such particle is naturally produced. Now you have some scientifically plausible (but totally not probable) material which could be mined by Galactic empire 

Have a look on computer graphics How do we approach it here? Textures. Textures everywhere If you look at your table and feel it by your hands, you will suddenly realize it has one texture everywhere. You want something more than one texture? Sure! Either give your users dev tools to actually do it, or let them pay for it. The more rustic and old things feel, the more expensive they get. Cheap areas of your VR will feel brand new. And the more expensive areas will feel rustic, old and have distinctive smell. I just cannot wait for someone to spend bloatloads of money to just create smelly ghetto in your game 

Fight back I know you have different story in your head, but Joe should change his mindset. He has means and time to fight those *@#! back: 

Mergers happen (and we don't care) I am following several marketing guys, so I am going to give you real world example. What does Tchibo make? You would guess "coffee" most likely. But that is not entire true. As Wikipedia says, they are even in clothing. You can grow anywhere without people noticing As long as you pay taxes, obviously. You can turn into multi billion group without anyone being suspicious. Government does not care about your growth as long as you pay taxes. Keep sending your government taxes, make sure you support the winning party in your country. Make sure your accountant hides source of your huge profits, but not the profits themselves. Maybe next person you should hire is great therapist who should give your hero consultations about his constant paranoia... 

Put away question "how are you going to hide the fact that you have huge satellite dish on your backyard" Other than that, can I plausibly build satellite dish big enough to communicate with nearest star? By communication I mean at least listening as bare minimum. But I would like to send a message if possible 

What made them survive and how long did the plague last? Answering this question will provide you an answer on "where the people will be when everyone else is dead." For time being, I am going to assume that Drax'es plan worked and thus the answer will be that the plague was quick (almost instant), global (so no remote tribes were left untouched) and you survived simply because there was flaw in the poisonous formula. But still, random behaves strangely Even if one in 100 000 survived, it still gives good chance, that both you and your neighbor survived. The first survivors in my "quick poison" imaginations will be the luckiest one - meaning, they stayed alive in big pack of people on relatively small place (within plain sight distance). What about the dead bodies? Do not forget, that if almost everyone died, there will be nobody left to burry the bodies. Even in slower "kill them all" scenario. As the plague progresses, there will be dead people lying on the streets and rotting. So, contrary to popular belief Big city is the last place you want to go because you will see a loads of dead people lying on the ground, rotting - and thus polluting the area. Imagine the smell, imagine you wanting to stay here for longer time, because If you want meet someone, you have to stay here So, if you survive in this set up and are, for example, in New York, you should