It's a rare company that promotes the well connected idiot over the shy genius. Rather, they promote people who do well (for whatever management defines as well) and makes sure everyone knows it. Such people are good at discovering what management values (it may not be what you value) and at "tooting their own horn." 

Many people have an Objective section. It is typically one sentence that focuses less on job title and more on atmosphere and context: 

You don't say where you live, but many countries have a "citizens advice" service which is free to all and deals with general issues like employment, landlord/tenant, and such. If you have one, go see them. If you don't, then perhaps you have a Ministry or Department of Labor. Call them (not from a work phone) and ask for advice. I would encourage you to start looking for another job. Sooner or later the only solution to persistent cashflow problems is to make the company smaller. And companies that are lying to their staff and not complying with workplace law also tend to close their doors. So having somewhere to go is your best strategy, in addition to whatever actions you want to take to get this employer to pay you on time and deduct the right things. 

Why not go sideways? The next time he does something that feels disconnected from reality, like demanding people stop discussing something because it's not an issue, don't get caught up in whether or not that is an issue. Instead say something like 

LinkedIn is more of a long term approach than a short term one. Add your classmates now, and you'll be less likely to lose track of them over the next 20 years. And perhaps 20 years from now someone will be impressed by who you're connected to. Typically once you've come to the attention of a company (say, by applying for a job) your LinkedIn profile won't be used for much more than verification: you say you went to University of X, I see you're connected to dozens of University X graduates, you probably went there. The "recommendations" feature is in my opinion, just silly. People endorse me for skills I really have, skills I had when they last worked with me ten years ago, and "joke" skills in technologies I hate because that's funny. I can't imagine any hiring manager looking over two resumes and decided which one to interview based on LinkedIn recommendations. Even the one-or-two sentence endorsements "X is a treat to work with and one of the smartest people I have ever met" are hard to evaluate since they could well have been written by your mother or your best friend. If you're able to get a famous person who is clearly not your mother or best friend to endorse you (say I could get Bjarne Stroustrup to say something nice about my C++ skills) then don't waste that positive energy on LinkedIn - get it on your blog, twitter, facebook and generally shout it from the mountaintop. Set yourself up on it, connect to everyone you can, and keep it up to date for long term payoff, but don't worry about immediate benefits as a new graduate. 

I am not saying at this point to start doing the mitigation thing. I am asking you to think of it. Then you can go to your manager and say something like this: 

If it's a situation you can't leave, like the start of a meeting, or people who are supposedly working right next to your desk, but chitchatting instead, then you just need to change the last sentence: 

I suggest to you that the set of employers who would be thrilled to know you can solve complex problems, but not even interview you because you used the phrase "tricky problems" in your cover letter is zero. In any event it is far smaller than the set of employers who will overlook "which enables to" - an awkward construct that would probably be improved by putting "me" after "enables" and fixing "enables" to "enable" since it is your plural skills that are enabling you to tackle the problems under discussion. You are overthinking this in the worst possible way. Relax and write a letter that describes yourself, then if you can, have a native English speaker look it over for awkward constructs. If you don't have such a person a grammar checker will help somewhat. 

Simply ignoring the email could lead the sender to think you're not interested. That's not a big deal, assuming your manager answers quickly on return to the office. Sending one of you will make your interest clear. But - the deadline could be before the manager returns - or before the manager wades through the thousands of emails that accumulated. Therefore, you should reply, to find out whether time is of the essence or not. I suggest something like: 

And then NEVER FOLLOW UP. Let HR take whatever steps need to be taken and stay out of it. It's not your job to evaluate "pictorial evidence" or the like. You are not able to establish either the truth, or your company policy on this matter. HR may be told by the college that the intern is in good standing. Or they may feel that being suspended from college doesn't disqualify interns. Or they may withdraw the internship. Whatever. Not your problem. You've told them what you know, which isn't much, and that's your part of it over and done with. If the intern ends up working in your group, try not to spread rumours. I can guess you would want to protect your co-workers, but that is not something a whisper network does well, especially when you don't have any relevant details that someone could use to evaluate whether a particular situation is a vulnerable one or not. Examples: did the student allegedly harass a woman or a man? Was it a case of saying things in a group setting, or physically assaulting someone in private? If you don't know, how can you be helpful? 

As an interviewer, I would hear this answer and parse it out to see that you have the strength to object to things a reasonable person would object to, you are not whining about trivial things like the flavoured coffee selection did not include your particular favourite, and you know some important concepts related to software development at a level higher than just the syntax of your chosen language. You stay reasonably positive by not declaring those above you in the chain incompetent (after all, they were probably dealing with the same sort of nonsense you were and deserve your sympathy) while being clear on factual and technical issues like working hours and software practices. This is actively better than a 3 month gap in your working record, right? 

Here is the problem with having a system, especially a transparent and open system, for bonuses: it will be gamed. People just cannot resist working to the metrics and making decisions that bring them more personal money, regardless of the impact on the company. The larger the bonuses, the stronger the incentive to do the wrong thing sometimes. Companies generally respond by making the system more complicated, which will further disconnect "striving to help the company" from "striving to earn a large bonus" and introduce an adversary element into the system as well. Here is the problem with having bonuses that are entirely subjective, especially if the amounts are not public knowledge: many people will think management is being unfair and giving money to people they like better. This can lead to discontent and even losing your best people (who will find it easier to get other jobs.) In short, you almost certainly cannot motivate developers to do the right thing by offering them extra money to do so. In my firm we are small enough that we just make a decision and give it to people as a true bonus - we had a good year this year, you helped a lot, here is some extra money for you. I don't think anyone ever counted on it, budgeted for it, or would have been mad if they didn't get it. If you're too large to do that, and you don't work in an industry that has a "bonus culture", I would stay away from bonuses entirely and give performance-based raises, which are well understood and can be offset by "your risk taking cost us money" in a way that bonus systems rarely can. 

If the manager is familiar with Bill's request, and trusts your estimating skills, you can get an answer right then. Or you may be asked "tell me more about these problems." Again, summarize first. 

I am not convinced that the behavior you describe is micro managing. My mother had a boss back in the days of paper mail and outboxes who used to flip through people's outboxes while chatting at their desks, not only confirming that they were writing to people they should be writing to, but on more than one occasion discussing with them whether they had the right postage on the envelopes. Your boss isn't discussing syntax with you, or brace placement, but is quite rudely attempting to "increase your productivity" even though it is not below the expected level. I think I would handle this with questions. After he's dismissed the "how was your weekend" co-worker (not in front of that co-worker) I would ask