The "public" refers to anyone that was not part of the top secret project that "stole" the technology. The "stolen" technology would be repackaged as "new" technology. There would be a whole chain of people related to the "new" technology: manufacturing, research, etc that would likely realize that something is wrong Since most technology is the process of iteration and can be back-traced. And this technology would not be able to be back-traced. There would be a small group who knew that the technology was stolen. 

I imagine there would be many small points of failure, but likely these would have backups, replacements, and redundancies.. But how do you guarantee no major, or critical systems or resources won't fail? Some systems to consider: 

Lets say you have developed a Utopian society. Let's say this society has in some way made a self-sustaining fully self-sufficient ecosystem. For the purpose of answering the question, let's say its a society of 1,000,000 (one million) humans living in a huge space station. You would ideally want this ecosystem to sustain itself indefinitely. How can such an ecosystem be designed to have no single-point of failure? 

The question is pretty straightforward: Why would two species of predator with the same prey cooperate? I am looking for answers in the following context: 

I would say almost any animal. smaller animals are "less susceptible" to gravity changes since being smaller they have a lower volume/surface ratio, so with a 0.72 g they would barely notice. water dwelling animals would also barely notice since they live inside water where buoyancy almost negate their weight. bigger animals would indeed notice and with time they would be subject to some changes. However an adult elephant that weights 7000 Kg on Earth would be about 5000 Kg on Terra; not a very big difference. They are going to be ok. 

They are relatively rare in fiction but there are a few interesting examples, in fact I even remember reading about one in real life. I would like mine to be small and light (say less than 0.9 kg and less than 2 cm in diameter). Death must be assured if the conditions are not met. So, can we build it with current tech? EXTRA POINTS: it would be great if there was room for extra stuffs, say a microphone, GPS or other things... Recharge is also an issue, can they last indefinitely if powered by body motion like clocks? 

There's a person. This individual doesn't have and ID, or a birth certificate, nor any document of any kind. They are not recorded as ever being citizen of any country. They possess knowledge and wisdom as any adult but have no memory of their past. They may be able to perform a job but do not possess any degree or experience. What is the fastest way for them to get an ID in a modern country (first world)? Do they go for immigration? Or is it easier to forge one with the help of criminals? Does any of this differ if they are minor of age? 

What exists today that satisfies the effect you're looking for: While this doesn't quite answer your question, there are bullets that do both of the things you want and are also fairly exotic: Incendiary Depleted Uranium bullets Depleted Uranium is a more dense material than what it is being fired at (in part because it is very rare with respect to Steel.) This helps it penetrate most targets very easily. Because of this penetration, it happens to then be quite effective as a carrier of Incendiary munitions* because it will deliver them to the inside of the armored thing. *Note: might be the wrong word here. If this is scaled down it can still be useful against unarmored targets provided the delay for the explosive is such that it would generally travel a couple inches before exploding. Use in other fiction works It's worth noting that (while it's all handwavium) this is what is used in Warhammer 40k essentially; and they call their Bolts "Explosive Penetrators" IIRC. What is wrong with the concept and how to fix it If you're looking for super-heating the target to soften the armor, the reason it works is because the armor is being superheated, not because the ammunition is. This tends to occur with Anti-Tank munitions; where part of the munition is designed to super-heat the tank's armor prior to the impact of the the rest of the munition, allowing it to penetrate much more easily (to the point that modern munitions on a successful hit are normally one-hit-knock-outs; "successful hit" not counting reactive armor and other technological countermeasures to this style of munition.) In your case you could end up with a weapon that fires two different munitions in rapid succession (on the assumption you need super-heating to be part of the process) one that attempts to melt the opponent's armor via some reaction or application of thermite or something; and a second that hits the target a moment later and more easily pierces it. For soft targets the first round would likely be deadly since its going to burn them severely AND cause kinetic damage, aside from whatever the effects of the second round are. For harder targets you will damage the armor on one side and release a fragmenting or bouncing projectile into their suit, almost assuredly causing terrible damage. In general, all targets that require penetration will have a fragmenting or bouncing bullet problem, and all others will get hit twice and have extreme burns on top of two applications of severe kinetic damage. 

Imagine a SupraWorld being built around a gas giant like Jupiter. To have a 1g gravity on the surface the resulting SupraWorld would have to be less than twice the radius of the giant (my calculation; could be wrong). I have unobtanium but it only provides impossible structural resistance and nothing else. My civilization will start by placing a large hexagonal flat surface (where the colonists live) with very large walls to prevent the atmosphere from escaping. More will come; eventually all the hexagons will join in a ring (the walls remove periodically as two hexes join) and eventually they will "close" as a sphere(the finished SupraWorld). How do I prevent the single "hexes" from falling into the planet? My idea was to have them at the top of a huge "tower", with the colony at one end and a large near vacuum spheroid or whatever at the other end, floating into the gas giant's metallic hydrogen ocean. Gyroscopes would stabilize the structure preventing it from flipping. How credible is that? 

My "gods" are actually people. However they have access to tech that grants them the ability to do almost anything they wish, plus they have various mind enhancements, so there is little difference between them and "real" gods. What games would their young play? Real "normal" people also exist in this universe, and I want them to be involved in their games. I was thinking of something like Nomic or some God game I would like the game not to be cruel to people in nature, but at the same time entertaining for individuals that can live forever and possess virtually infinite physical and intellectual resources. So basically I'm looking for games where normal people are the "pawns" and the players are, in fact, the referees. What games might referees find entertaining? 

I'm sure dozens of other things could be figured out as well, but this shows it has general uses that are fairly utilitarian. Even if these have overlap with other elements, that just helps to how that they each have viability. EDIT2: 

While (as an AI professional) believe this is essentially impossible; WERE it possible I'd mention that it's possible that the AI was not "finished" when it launched off. If you created something that is running magnificently but you didn't get to really QA it for fear of being unable to reproduce the result; or it moved to fast and "escaped the network"; or any number of other reasons.. it may just be that when it "launched off" you have no idea what it's issues are. Much like Y2k was a giant nothing but we thought the world would blow up, it could be it was never conceived that it could run out of tasks, and now the consequences are unknown. You literally don't have to have this solved for your story until the end of it; in which case you'll probably already know the best ending you could do based on how your wrote the rest of it. 

Burning Damage and the Elements It's worth noting that the primary damage that comes from Freezing, setting fire to, and arcing electricity to, (and yes, also acid!) is to burn the individual. In magic settings using the method of burning the individual that they are least resistant to makes sense. Makeshift Gear Similar to "summoned" weapons and "summoned" armor Ice could also make for make-shift melee weapons. While it won't stand up to Steel very well, an ice blade can make for a quick advantage in an unarmed fight or a knife fight. Similarly, it could make for a mediocre shield. If it's really hard ice it may even stand up to a couple of blows. The best of these would be an Ice-Hammer built out of a wood/iron shaft, because even if the ice can't survive due to it's durability, the weight of the ice on the shaft will still make a very effective mace for blunt-force-trauma; except you don't have to carry a heavy mace/hammer all the time, only the shaft. As a tool Finally, cold happens to be very useful as a tool for preserving food. You use it every day extensively via your refrigerator and freezer. Given this, old civilizations could more easily stockpile food for various occasions and probably increase their health by having better access to a variety of foods that won't spoil. EDIT: It can be used in a few other "defensive" applications as well: 

So in the process of creating my world, I came across a question that I could not find the answer to. When do you decide that a nation is a City-State, a Kingdom, or an Empire? I am going to start by saying that any small settlement or town that is not at least a "City-State" (ie, with an army and a local government of some kind) are not relevant to this question. Throughout history not all City-States had Kings, but some did. Some Kingdoms only had a single city in them, and some Empires were only a single Kingdom. So where do you draw these lines? Are these definitions arbitrary? What makes a Kingdom a Kingdom and not a City-State or an Empire? etc. 

You are set on the word "mimic" but really what you want is a creature/trap that looks like a chest to fill the role of "mimic" from other traditional fantasy settings (or D&D). I have a solution that can make this work, but it will mean abandoning the chameleon-like nature of the creature/trap. The creature/trap would perhaps be better as a plant, such as the Venus flytrap 

With the context above, why would they work together? I want them to work together, I just don't know why would they? I have not yet finalized these predators, I am looking for suggestions, or ways to modify or design them so that cooperation will work - maybe something symbiotic? 

It doesn't really make much sense to have only a room. If you can build it it would be better for it to represent all (or almost all) of the living space available. If the room available is limited for any reason then you could still have a very small centrifuge, maybe divided in a few bunks, so that people can rest there and maybe sleep. The reasons such a space would be used for sleeping and resting are two: first if the centrifuge is small, moving inside is difficult and you will experience different levels of acceleration within you body and also a very strong coriolis effect every time you turn around; second, sleeping in space is actually very difficult! Astronauts on the ISS can hardly sleep a few hours, so if you have a gravity room available only at times sleeping in there is one of the best thing you can do probably. Oh, also, if the space is limited better do something in there that requires limited movements and room. 

I'm designing an esoteric symbol to use in a story. I have zero experience with this but can use drawing/CAD softwares. Where can I find some resources on how to design a symbol? I guess a good list of existing ones with references to meanings, associated concepts and cultures would also help. I'm talking about a symbol specifically, not a logo or trademark etc. 

While a nuclear warhead by itself seems somewhat useless (as per L Dutch's answer) there is a similar effect that can be achieved that is simpler* than Nuking the opponent, which would be to have a small amount of anti-matter (assuming you know what the opposing hull is made of) in your projectile. When the projectile hits the hull, it will fracture and let the antimatter particles hit the hull; these will annihilate causing small nuclear explosions (?) near where it struck. *Simpler to get working. Harvesting Anti-matter is a pain; but you don't need much of it. These explosions don't have the issue that L Dutch points out because the explosions will only happen when they contact the hull. This is to say that much of the forces that come out of annihilation will be send as shockwaves throughout the hull itself causing the hull to shift in various ways and hopefully tear itself apart. An aside: People talk about Lasers and Railguns all the time, but forget about Particle Cannons. Particle cannons travel at near light speed, can pepper someone with extreme amounts of kinetic energy to tear their hull apart, and if unsuccessful will instead impart large amounts of heat. What's more? They've already been invented and proven to work (so is well within the realm of possibility.) While I'm not sure, you can combine these ideas and have an anti-matter-particle-cannon, firing anti-matter particles at the opponent to not only deliver massive kinetic energy, but annihilate a (very very) small chunk of their ship, and hope the shockwaves sent throughout the ship's hull are enough to rend it apart.