This leads to great breadth, but little depth. If you want to get to the depth of a practice, where the true wisdom is, you need to stick to a practice and see it through. As Goenka said, if you are looking for water, you dig a well. But you don't start digging a well, stop digging down after 2 feet, then start a new well. Over and over again like this, you will never find the water that you are looking for. You must dig down deep to the depth that the water table is at. So you may start one or two wells, but you don't stop digging until you've gone to sufficient depth to know there is no water there. 

Lying is never the correct answer. The answer to this question is explicitly stated in the fourth precept; to refrain from incorrect speech. You lying to "save someone" from some harm or danger will not break them free from the bonds of their karma, all it will do is weaken your own morality, cultivating delusion, aversion, and craving. If someone is to be murdered, they will be murdered. You have no say in this. I don't remember exactly which sutta it was, but the Buddha illustrated this very point. He was walking somewhere with a man, when the Buddha stopped, told the man to go ahead by himself, and the Buddha turned and went the other way. The man was mistaken as a deer by a hunter and shot and killed. When asked why he let the man continue ahead, knowing full well the danger that lie ahead for him, the Buddha said : even if he had gone north, south, east, or west, this man could not escape this fate. 

If it is accompanied by tingling limbs, tingling lips or minor headache it can be a sign of hyperventilation. It can also be a feeling associated with detachment and depersonalization. Here is a scientific study, albeit with only 6 participants, that confirms meditation can induce depersonalization. It talks about treatment for depersonalization but personally I do not consider it a bad thing and instead part of the meditation experience. Here is a .pdf that is more in depth: The Circumplex Structure of Depersonalization/Derealization 

From an academic perspective the wikipedia article "Tath훮gata" has good information. According to wikipedia: The word's original significance is not known and there has been speculation about it since at least the time of Buddhaghosa, who gives eight interpretations of the word, each with different etymological support, in his commentary on the Digha Nikaya, the Sumangalailasini: 

Can next path start without being skilled in fruition attainment? For example, if I am able to advert to A&P but not able to advert to fruition, is that proof I am still reviewing the last path, or can it be that I moved on too soon? Sorry if this is convoluted, I am looking for an actual answer as opposed to a non answer. 

And in fact, the mind has far more affect over the body than the body does over the mind, insofar as the mind is developed. An undeveloped mind can and will suffer in even the most healthy of bodies, but a well developed mind needs not suffer in even an ill and dying body. In this way, the two do not mutually affect each other, and therefore pursuing healthy things for the sake of health is of no benefit. Such clinging to your health and well being will only lead to suffering, as sooner or later it will come to an end. As for asanas, or qigong meditation, I do not know. But unless their teachings ascribe the application of the Noble Eightfold path, they are not in line with the teaching of the Buddha, and will not lead one to final liberation. I hope this helps clarify some things with your current practice in regards to the teachings of the Buddha. 

Into the Stream is A Study Guide on the First Stage of Awakening by Thanissaro Bhikkhu The contents include: 

Mindfulness, investigation of reality and energy are factors that will help overcome sloth-torpor. Also, don't lay down when you are meditating and experiencing sloth-torpor or you will probably fall asleep. If you need to, get up and practice walking meditation . . . or splash water on your face. 

From my own understanding of the Maha-Assupura Sutta, after abandoning the five hindrances the practitioner enters Jhana. After having obtained Jhana the practitioner works on insight. On abandoning the five hindrances: 

According to the Maha-Assapura Sutta a practitioner abandons the hindrances before working on insight. Practice samatha meditation until the five hindrances dissipate. 

If an individual is suffering because they are overcoming the five hindrances than probably. If a person is suffering because they are indulging in the five hindrances than probably not. If I eat a big plate of my favorite food every night I will suffer from it because there will be times when I am not eating it, there are times I will feel sick from too much of it and many other ills associated with the indulgence. This suffering (unless it leads to the eventual cessation of desire in regards to this food) will not help my future births. If I am addicted to eating my favorite food every night and I realize how foolish it is to indulge in it, and I decided to stop, I will suffer during the process of overcoming this attachment. This suffering will help my future births. In regards to OP's comment: A person who recently got a disease would not have any more inherent suffering in their life than someone who did not have a disease given that they are clear of the hindrances. The suffering is compounded when the individual desires feeling good and healthy (sensory desire), or is worried about death or further illness (worry), or is angry that they are sick when someone else they know deserves it more (ill-will), etc, etc.... That type of suffering, the same as in the example regarding food, will not help; overcoming attachments to these hindrances can incur a lot of suffering (I am not my good health, I am not worried about "death", no one deserves anything, etc, etc...; respectively) and that suffering can help future rebirths. 

The Buddha does not admit to a self AFAIK, therefore the presumptions your question are based on don't have a great base to start on. However, conventionally , this can be said in regards to your question. 

This is probably too long to post as a comment, but isn't totally an answer either, in any case it's something of a reference to this. This summary is in reference to the commentary of the Dhammapada verses 21-23: There was some king in the Buddha's time ( I don't remember which), whom had two Queen consorts. One of them was virtuous, the other evil and scheming. The virtuous one had a hand maiden who would buy flowers for her Queen every day, but stole from her in doing so. The hand maiden would take the money the queen gave her for flowers, keep half the money, and return to the Queen only half as many flowers and she had ought to, the Queen not knowing any better. Until one day, this hand maiden heard the Buddha teach, attained stream entry, and then returned to the Queen, confessing her transgression. The Queen was not mad, but impressed that the Buddha's teaching was this profound. Fast forwarding, Ananda ends up coming to the palace to teach the Queen and her attendants, the evil Queen wanting to get rid of the good queen, as the evil queen had qualms with the Buddha due to a past misgiving, but was unable to get at him, plots against the good queen. The evil queen ends up burning the good queen and her attendants alive in a bed chamber, although while they are burning to death they are able to be mindful and attain the path. It is explained in the sutta that the queen and her attendants suffered this kamma because of a misdeed they all committed in a past life. They had started a fire in a field where a Pacceka Buddha was in a deep state of meditation. Because of this deep state of meditation, he was unharmed. But they not being aware of this, thinking he was burnt and dead, built another fire around his body to fully dispose of the evidence, and left him. The Pacceka Buddha was fine, but the weight of this action followed them all into this life, all of them suffering the same fate. 

Working from "bottom to top", Working from the "middle to the top", Working from "top to bottom", Working from the "middle to the source". 

Magga means Path. Phala means Fruit. They are both supramundane (lokuttara) consciousness. This is what A Manual of Abhidhamma says: 

There are four types of Path and Fruit consciousness. A pair for each of the levels of enlightenment (stream-winner, once-returner, non-returner and arahant). Each Path moment can only be experienced once but Fruit moments can be experienced by non-returners and arahants immediately after emerging from cessation-attainment (Nirodha-samapatti). Edit: Just wanted to add that magga/phala are moments of nirvana. That is to say, the senses (physical and mental) stop coming into contact without outside objects. Said more conventionally, sense perceptions turn off. It is like blinking but with all the senses simultaneously. 

I am not referencing any suttas for this answer, it comes from my own experiences (I am not an arahat). One who has obtained nirvana can choose whether or not to experience pain and can choose the level of suffering that is associated with that pleasure or pain. Having obtained nirvana an individual has the ability to reside beyond pleasure and pain and it also gives them complete understanding of pleasure and pain and things can not be understood without being experienced. After some research, Sakalika Sutta: The Stone Sliver talks about how buddha cut his foot and endured the physical pain. 

Lately when sitting, my head will abruptly turn at weird angles very suddenly. I'm not always able to catch it to stop it before it happens; sometimes the movements are really bizarre ( my head moving straight back, leaving me looking at the ceiling if my eyes were open). Is this a common/known occurrence in meditation, or do I need to see a doctor? 

You should attempt to return your focus to the rising and falling of the stomach, however, it's more important to develop a clear comprehension of where the mind is and what state it is in at any particular moment. You don't HAVE to be with or stay with the breath. You will be better off letting go of the desire to have awareness of the breath, as this will only create suffering. Have no expectation of the breath being there for you. Instead, with compassion, just observe where the mind is and in what state it is in. What you are experiencing here is the uncontrollable nature of all phenomenon :) As you can see, because you have an expectation that your meditation should be like X, and instead it is like Y, you suffer. You must let go of this, and instead, just know, "this is how it is for now". I would also advise you read Ven. Yuttadhammos booklet : How to meditate He also teaches in the Mahasi Sayadaw tradition, so this booklet will give you good instruction into your own practice, and should help clear up any confusion for you. I hope this helps - best of luck 

The Golden Buddha, officially titled Phra Phuttha Maha Suwan Patimakon, is the world's largest solid gold statue. What is the justification for such a statue? By justification I mean, what reasons would the Buddhists who created/use the statue give to explain why keeping gold (often seen as a sign of wealth and power) as a statue is right; as opposed to using the money from melting it down and selling it to buy meals for the homeless or others in need. 

You need to also recognize that what is impermanent is stressful and what is stressful and impermanent is not self. 

Non-returner: The non-returner, having overcome sensuality, does not return to the human world, or any unfortunate world lower than that, after death. 

I experienced what I would call stream entry without knowing anything about Buddhism other than a typical, ignorant, western perspective. I was meditating and in my minds eye I saw a radiant white pearl with smaller discolored pearls floating around it (in many ways like a solar system). As I began to investigate the discolored pearls, I realized they were my wants and desires. I realized, "these are not me"; they began to fall away until all that was left was the white pearl. In that moment I realized that the "white pearl" is within us all. Next I experienced a feeling of death overwhelming me. I knew I was dying; it was the most fear filled experience I have ever had. Then I felt reborn. In that moment I was only a body and a stream of consciousness. After that, all that was left was a feeling of love. I can not say from experience but I believe that the same insight could come from persistent determination to remove the three fetters. To clarify, this can be seen as reverting the 12 link chain, experiencing cessation and then being reborn 

There are a few things which come to mind that Buddhism may say about your current spiritual path; Surely, the practices you have described will bring you some beneficial results. But without proper insight, guided by the Noble Eightfold path, they will not lead you to liberation from old age, suffering, and death. And this is evident by the way in which you describe the body. The body is in fact a prison, not a temple. This body is not ours, and by its very nature seeks out death. Pursuing health is a useless endeaver, as the Buddha said : 

When waking, a monk thinks "waking, waking". When chewing, a monk thinks "chewing, chewing". When washing his bowl, a monk thinks "rubbing, rubbing". 

have you tried counting your in and out breaths? this may be a good middle ground for you, as it will give your mind something to do. Here is instruction for anapana meditation 

Reality is comprised of momentary experience, one after another. When you sit in meditation, for instance, you may come to see : The thought of chocolate, arising and ceasing followed by a wanting of chocolate, arising and ceasing followed by a physical feeling, arising and ceasing. In my experience, it is the physical feeling that arises and ceases, which is a symptom of the minds greed, its burning, wanting, and this is what we act on out of habit; that behavior which we have ingrained in our minds as being good: We come to act on desire by following after it, and upon getting what we want, this burning of the mind subsides for some time, offering a release. And so we come to think that it is good to get what we want, never truly coming to see what is actually happening at the experiential level. And this is why one must practice meditation; it is not enough to understand this intellectually. It is only by experiencing this happening over and over that we can come to bend the minds habit away from an unwholesome mode of behavior to one of unbinding. 

Individuals may experience nirv훮na as an object of mental consciousness. Certain contemplations with nibbana as an object of sam훮dhi lead to the level of non-returning. At that point of contemplation if the individual realizes that even that state is constructed and therefore impermanent, the fetters are destroyed, arahantship is attained, and nibb훮na is realized. With regard to nirvana, a distinction is made between a person's experience of nirvana during their life and after their death. These two aspects of nirvana are described as: 

Together they refer to one's mental processes as a whole. Separately, what are they and how are they different? 

Yes, people are known to reach enlightenment and even full liberation without any knowledge of Buddhism or use of teachers and guides. In my opinion, thinking, "What I practice is the only way," is a form of pride and a way for people to hold themselves above others. 

It is correct that a stream-winner will not not break the five precepts. On the other hand, that is not one and the same as perfect morality. As an example, from Mahasi Sayadaw's Manual of Insight: 

My thinking on this is along the lines of, a king isn't only functioning as a general for his people; he (should) be maintaining social order, providing aid to those in need, providing security to his people. And if he is acting morally, should be defending his people from invasion if the situation arises and is unavoidable. In this way, as not to disturb the social order, I would imagine the Buddha did not speak against the "agency" of kingship, but rather probably tried to impress upon the royalty the need for morality and skillful means. It is clear to see, I believe, with this in mind, the distinction between a king, and a billionaire on a yacht orchestrating foreign conflicts to drive up profit margins. 

As far as I understand, noting only ceases upon cessation(nibbana) itself. That is to say, the meditator does not stop noting. I'd also invite you to meditation.sirimangalo.org Ven. Yuttadhammo gives Dhammapada talks there on Tuesday nights, 9pm eastern time, Dhamma talks on Thursday, and does Q & A Saturday nights. He also offers 1 on 1 meetings in an online meditation course format for more serious meditators, so this may be of interest to you.