There is a related statement in SN16.13, where the Buddha warns about the decline of his teachings, the true Dhamma, and the rise of counterfeit Dhamma. But at the end, he also gives some hints as to the way to preserve the true Dhamma: 

Instead of judging others or looking down at them in contempt, you can use this opportunity to cultivate the brahmavihara of compassion (karuna). Why are they the way they are? For e.g. if your grandmother who has senile dementia lashes out at you in anger or doesn't behave like normal people do, would you be judgemental or contemptuous against her? No. You would be compassionate towards her, because you understand that she has senile dementia. Similarly, you can generate compassion by trying to understand that other people are suffering and there may be genuine underlying reasons for their suffering and condition. It could be their life situation (e.g. poverty or undergoing divorce) or even mental states (e.g. ignorance, or clouded by anger or other negative emotions). By tending to your own renunciation, you may be feeling more calm, but by cultivating compassion, you can create the balance needed in dealing with others. Renunciation and equanimity is how you deal with your own suffering. Meanwhile, compassion is how you deal with others' suffering. Bhikkhu Bodhi wrote in "The Balanced Way": 

The ATI website has a Path to Freedom series which provides a "A Self-guided Tour of the Buddha's Teachings" based on the Pali Canon. Of these, there is an overview of The Dhamma, which are the teachings of the Buddha. Inside each sub-page, there are quotes from the Pali Canon. If you want to buy a book, I recommend "In the Buddha's Words" by Bhikkhu Bodhi. This is an anthology of the Buddha's teachings from the Pali Canon. 

A popular Buddhist prayer (based on the definition of "an earnest hope or wish") from the Karaniya Metta Sutta can be found below. The benefits of this prayer can be found in this answer. 

The occurence of genetically inherited diseases are in most cases, not 100%. There is always a chance that they may or may not manifest. Part of this depends on lifestyle and environmental reasons as well. Some diseases like diabetes and heart disease can be avoided or delayed by lifestyle modifications. Genetics can be quite complex - two siblings who are not identical twins, may not experience the same type of diseases or medical problems. That being said, kamma depends on one's intentions. If you had children without evil intentions, then it's not bad kamma. Whether your children would get a specific disease or not, cannot be known with perfect certainty. However, with perfect certainty, we can say that they will grow old, experience disease and death. They will also experience pain and pleasure. They will also burn with the fires of passion, aversion and delusion, for as long as they are unenlightened. The fact that your child would experience sufferings of any kind, is not caused by their birth. Birth is merely a symptom of suffering. It's not the cause of suffering. You should not feel responsible for the phenomena of samsara. It moves along perfectly fine on its own. 

And so on. Based on this, the contemplation on the body being composed of the four elements is part of the overall contemplation that the body is a sankhara (compounded and/or conditioned thing), and this leads to the insight that anicca (impermanence), dukkha (suffering) and anatta (not-self) applies to it. The standard statement in the sutta from Thanissaro Bhikkhu's translation here: 

For lay followers, there is plenty of advice on achieving the short to medium term goals in the Gihi Sutta (or Discourse to the Householder), Sigalovada Sutta, Dighajanu Sutta and Anana Sutta. The minimum training rules imposed on lay followers are the five precepts. For those in a hurry to Nibbana, there are the more advanced training paths of anagarika (sort of a pre-monk or pre-nun), novice monk or nun, and fully ordained monk or nun. 

In AN 5.57, we can find a wholesome way or skillful way to think about your relationship to your karma: 

The self and all your relationships are not illusions. They are simply conditioned and impermanent. Even your closest relationships may be subject to death, disputes and drifting away. The Buddha praised admirable companionships in SN 45.2: 

Does Buddhism believe in rebirth? Yes. But there is no permanent soul that transmigrates from one body to another. Instead, just as how the flame of one candle could light another, one is reborn with the final state of mind (representing the overall volitional tendencies cultivated during life) of the previous birth shaping the circumstances of the future birth. You can read the essay The Truth of Rebirth And Why it Matters for Buddhist Practice by Thanissaro Bhikku. There is a section of another essay by Nyanatiloka Mahathera that discusses Kamma and Rebirth. 

There are the five hindrances (also here) to meditation and practice. Your question can be part of restlessness-worry and also doubt. But it sounds to me more like doubt. You can read more from the essay of Ajahn Brahmavamso: 

It appears that Buddhists of the Theravada tradition do take the Tipitaka and especially the Buddha's teachings in the Sutta Pitaka very seriously for study, while Buddhists of some other traditions, especially Zen, may focus more on practice, rather than conceptual study. But this is not to say that the Zen practitioner does not have any scriptural study whatsoever. From the perspective of syncretism, Buddhism is not as syncretic as Hinduism but is more syncretic than Christianity or Islam. Hinduism has soaked up very diverse and even conflicting schools of thought and modes of worship, under its vast umbrella, as long as the Vedas, Brahman, karma and reincarnation are not rejected. On the other hand, Islam and Christianity are intolerant, sometimes even violently, to those who diverge from the mainstream. Buddhism of the times after the Buddha's parinibbana, on the other hand, takes the middle path of practising syncretism to the extent that sectarianism is tolerated, but within a minimum boundary of framework. You can take a look at the situation of sectarianism among the Early Buddhist Schools and of course the later traditions of Mahayana and Vajrayana. During the time of the Buddha of course, creating schisms was strongly reprimanded and is a reason for expulsion from the sangha, showing the Buddha's own preference for the sangha to remain united under the same dhamma and vinaya. I mentioned that there are different preferences to practice and conceptual study, different sects etc. and also different sets of canons between traditions, but there is definitely a minimum boundary of framework by which any teachings, texts or sects are accepted as coming under Buddhism. Falling outside this boundary means definite rejection. This is analogous to the Christian Nicene Creed or Islam's Five Pillars of Practice and Six Pillars of Faith. 

So, if you ask me, I think that the 2,500 year old techniques taught by the Buddha, referenced from very old sources like the Anapanasati Sutta are hardly being made obsolete by modern neuroscience and psychiatry. Casts and crutches only help a man while his fractures heal naturally and then would in due time be discarded. Similarly, neurosurgical and pharmacological interventions should be seen as temporary aids while man heals himself by natural means. In this case, meditation may help man discover how to control and self-regulate his mind, and become detached from repetitive thoughts that ail him. Of course, in very serious cases, meditation won't be possible. On the other hand, if modifying our neural networks is enough to reach nirvana, then this implies that all that we are is contained in the physical body and there is nothing beyond. This means that when the physical body perishes, the self would be completely destroyed. Rebirth would not be possible. This seems to be leaning towards annihilationism, which has been refuted by the Buddha as a wrong view. 

There is good discussion in this article, this article and this article. You can read those for much advice. For canonical advice: The Sigalovada Sutta states: 

So, why is craving singled out in the third noble truth, rather than including all of the ten fetters? 

There are 4 related suttas, but they may not fit your description precisely. Pañhapuccha Sutta (AN 5.165) describes 5 types of motivations for asking questions: 

Book: The Dalai Lama's Cat by David Mitchie. A fictional story told by a cat, who is the Dalai Lama's pet at Dharamsala. The Dalai Lama rescued this cat when it was very young. The entertaining story told by the cat is imbued with dhamma teachings. The teachings are of course expounded in a simple way, since a cat is a not a very intelligent animal. 

So, the Buddha knows by himself that he is awake. He knows by himself that he is not smeared by the world in the way that others are. He knows by himself that all fermentations have been destroyed permanently and would no longer arise. Here is my take on your question: Imagine a scenario where a bunch of people are soundly asleep and suddenly one of them wakes up. Now, he looks at the people around him who are still asleep, he knows for sure that he is awake and he knows for sure who else is sleeping and who else is awake. But for those who are still asleep, could they know who is awake? Could they know what it means to be awake? No, surely not. 

When I took a look at the Pali version of Sammaditthi Sutta (MN9), I'm guessing that these phrases refer to: 

All Vedanta schools accept that Atman is eternal (according to Bhagavad Gita 2.20), and Brahman is absolute and eternal. Meanwhile, the anatman or anatta teaching subscribed by all schools of Buddhism, states that there is no eternal self (i.e. no permanent standalone eternal entity) in all phenomena. The eminent German indologist Professor Helmuth von Glasenapp explains aptly in his essay "Vedanta and Buddhism: A Comparative Study": 

The five precepts are training rules and not strong prohibitions. Furthermore, even for monks, based on the Patimokkha rules, intentionally bringing about the death of a human being is a parajika offense, while taking the life of an animal is a pacittiya offense. A parajika offense is the gravest offense causing immediate expulsion, but a pacittiya offense is milder, requiring only a confession. 

I found that a tiny mustard seed could have a diameter of around 1mm. If I make it easier by assuming that it is a cube with the sides of 1 x 1 x 1mm, then it has 1 cubic mm of volume. Meanwhile, a huge empty cube of 16 miles on each side has 17 billion cubic mm of volume. So, if this huge empty cube is filled up at 1 cubic mm per 100 years, then how many years does it take to fill up 17 billion cubic mm of volume? In my calculation, it would be 1.7 trillion years. So, the description is that this huge empty cube will be filled up before the aeon ends. Currently, physicists estimate that the age of our current universe is 13.82 billion years. The same page also states: