Inflate your tire to desired psi Put a mark of chalk on the garage floor and bike tire Sit on my bike and roll forward one revolution until the bike tire mark comes back to the floor Mark the end position on the ground Measure the distance between the marks on the ground, convert to mm (for the Cateye) and set the custom tire circumference. 

Dress appropriately for the conditions, but clean yourself once at the office. I have not used these myself, but heard enough from podcasts and fellow triathletes that this is what I would try if we did not have showers at work. Action Wipes 

I agree with Daniel, there really isn't a 'do everything' bicycle, but with 100mm of travel your ride will be plenty comfortable. I don't know. I'm sure people have put higher travel forks on bikes and ran them fine. The frame was designed to run with 100mm of travel, increasing the travel more than 10% might not ride well with the angles and dimensions of the frame/headset. 

Look for gloves made with a Windstopper material. I have some pretty thin gloves made with this and stay warmer then my thicker gloves because they stop the wind so well. You may want to look at lighter weight running gloves made with this as I find them a little more pliable. Most I have seen are not waterproof though. 

@freiheit answered above, but I highly recommend strava.com as the added component of segments and battling it out with my friends over a section of road whether or not we are riding at the same time, or even if we are, seeing how much time I took back (or gave up) on a hill is pretty cool. With a paid membership they add additional ride analysis, such as HR and power. With your entered body weight and bicycle weight it will estimate your power and have found it to be a little off of my measured power, but it is always off by the same, so you can use it for trends (up or down) but wouldn't compare it to other cyclists too much. I prefer it so much that I am now logging all my rides, runs, swims and other workouts, basically using it as my training log. Another option (not a website though) is SportTracks from Zone Five Software, download this onto your computer and import your rides, your data on your computer. I've used their free version and have to manually upload/import my .FIT files. I think the newer version will read right off your device. 

This time of year, I leave my race (carbon) bike on the trainer and when nice enough, just ride my rain/wet/commuter/cx bike. I do replace the 'race' skewer with a steel skewer for trainer use. Will it damage the carbon if I leave the bicycle clamped and ready to train on the trainer? Should I release the clamp every time I'm done training? 

Yes, D2 Shoes will make you a custom extra-wide shoe. Good info on the D2 Shoes website. 41 sizes, 9 widths available. $975 price tag is tough, but looks like D2 Shoes will manufacture you an extra wide road or mountain shoe. The widest off the shelf bicycle shoe I could find is the Shimano SH-M087GE Mountain Bike Shoes. The GE version is a wide version of the regular SH-M087G. 

It will be a bit cheaper to try upgrading the brake pads before the brakes. These are the only brake pads I buy for my direct pull brakes now because they work. I use them on my older MTB and my two CX bikes. $URL$ 

If you are going for less maintenance, you may just want to go with full housing. My exposed cables (on my top tube) get water, mud, grime and need to be replaced at the end of each season of cross racing. Extra maintenance during to keep them lubed up. I would go full housing and use six of these: $URL$ Other things to think about once past the top tube... Front derailleur routing: While not the best image (but best I could find of my older CX bike) you can see the routing of the front derailleur will need a cable stop near the top of the seat tube. Mine uses a pulley below the derailleur. You can use the backstop you put in the question. Clamp on pulley: $URL$ Rear derailleur routing: Does your frame have stops for the rear derailleur on the seat stay or the chain stay? As the rear derailleur cable comes down the seat stay from the top tube, my cross bike goes to open cable and then back to housed cable for the curl to the derailleur. You'll need something here as well to either route the full cable down the seat stay or more clamp on cable stops. Rear Brake routing: If you are using Cantilever brakes (center pull), you will also need a cable stop for the brakes. You can get a seat post mounted clamp or even a seat tube clamp that has the center pull cable stop. Found one here. 

Go and have fun and experience it all, you wont win, you most likely will be lapped and that is ok, they only pull people off course in the pro/elite ranks and even then not always, you'll just finish a lap down. In the races I do, when lapped, I'll end up with a finish time that is shorter than the winner, but I only did 5 laps to their 6. The organizer/timer figures all that out. In larger events, they will run Men under 40, Men 40-50, Men 50+ in one race with 1 minute gaps between the starting gun. Also, at the races I do, they try to keep the numbers somewhat recognizable. Men under 40 200-299, Men 40-50 500-600, Men 50+ 800-900, but again it really doesn't matter too much, go race, go hard, blow up and hold on to finish. The start times for the races I've done start the beginners category 'C' in the early race, then run an all women race, then short break for short kids race, followed by category 'B' and finishing with the 'A' race. I've never done road races, but the 'A' guys are Cat 1/2, 'B' Cat 3-ish and 'C' the beginners. Even if you are a Cat 1 racer, I would enter one or two Beginner races to gain experience on the mud, getting on/off your bike, riding sand pits, slow 180 degree turns, accelerations and more. I try to catch the slower guys under 40 and try not to get caught by the 50+ guys, much more fun when you are 'in the mix' but I enjoy every race and learn from it to gain bike handling skills, tactics, endurance, and friends. As far links and rules, I would just check with the race you are planning to go to, find the website to check how they start each category. Some races require a USAC license (US Racer?) my local races don't. 

I have found differences between different tires (both 700 x 25) and even differences with the same tire (air pressure difference). 

I take my cassette off the bike to give it a good cleaning a few times a year and have always put a good amount of grease under the lockring. I am not talking about repacking the hubs, bearings or anything like that, just some grease to fill the gap between the lockring and the sealed bearings that are deeper down inside the freehub. I've seen some references to greasing the threads on the lockring, but nothing about grease under the lockring. Without the grease does dirt/rocks/grass/mud get into that gap? 

The crankset is not wireless, the power meter inside the crankset is wireless, the power meter inside measures your power output and wirelessly transmits the data to a head unit for display near or on your handlebars. 

If there is a curb, I like to use it as a step so I ride right up next to it and unclick from my pedal and step on the curb while staying seated on the bicycle. If there is no curb, I will move all the way to the right and get off the bicycle and get off the bike lane all together typically where there is a sign or telephone pole so I can lean my bicycle up against it. If in a bike lane that is separated from the curb by parking spaces (for cars), I will ride to the end of the block and move over to the curb. 

Most cyclocross tires are 33-35mm and with tubulars (glued to the rim) many will run very low pressures (20-22 psi). I run 35mm clinchers and get to each race early to pre-ride a lap or two to dial in my pressure, typically will run 28-34 psi depending on how rocky the course is, I don't want to pinch flat, but really like the lower pressure as each lap it typically gets more and more muddy and you want the grip, especially on the off camber sections. Cleats or no cleats is going to be more about your comfort getting in and out as you will get on/off the bike to carry up stairs/run-ups, through sand pits and barriers. This is about speed getting unclicked and clicked back in and right up to speed. Search on You Tube for cyclocross mounting. You did not mention disc brakes, but with rim brakes, the sand will mix with the mud and wear your brake surface. If short and fast I'll ride the sand pits, if running I carry my bike, so go with the lighter bike. Many courses have run-ups and barriers to carry your bike, so go with the lighter bike. Many races have a 'pit' area for you to leave extra wheels, or even a different bike, so bring both bikes, get there early take a lap on each and race the one you like better. Put the other bike in the pits and switch if you get a mechanical or pinch flat. If this happens far away from the pits, you must run the course with your broken bike - you cannot leave course and take a shortcut, fix or switch and then get back on course. 

No one mentioned liquid nutrition. I really like Perpetuem by Hammer, but there are many other options for liquid calories. I look for something that tastes good and has something more than just electrolytes, something with carbohydrates and a little protein. With Perpetuem, I can mix a thicker bottle for longer rides. Some other liquid nutrition choices: 

At 32 pounds, it may be even as much as twice as heavy as a nice road bike. In addition, with only 6 gears, you simply may just not be used to the gear ratios. When ever I get on my steel SS which is only the one gear but much heavier than my normal road bike, I do feel very sluggish as well. 

They do not have an app, but I typically use the Course Creator on $URL$ to plan new rides. It gives you elevation profile and will allow you to print the cue sheets. You can export the GPX/TCX data to upload to a GPS device for on screen turn by turn cues (depending on your device). Another good option for finding new routes is to use the segment explorer on $URL$ although the segments do not make a complete ride, I like to see where the popular riding routes are and have found many new locations and climbs by using the segment explorer in a new area I've not ridden before. 

There is a new website/download/software package called TrainerRoad that will allow you to train with Virtual Power for the price of a Trainer, ANT+ stick, Speed/Cadence sensor and $10/month subscription. Checkout the compatible hardware page (linked on the main page) to see if you already have a trainer on their list of known power curves. If not the Kurt Kinetic Road Machine has a very consistent power curve and is available just over $300. Add an ANT+ stick ($20-$40 online) to plug into your computer, it will pickup the signal from the speed/cadence sensor. Add a Speed/Cadence sensor (Garmin $25+ - Timex $37+) Optional (for virtual power) is an ANT+ HR strap You could start to use the Virtual Power (with nothing but your bike and computer to start with) for under $400, much less if you already have a compatible trainer. The $10 subscription can be canceled anytime and they offer a 30 day money back guarantee, so almost free to try it. 

This happens to runners more than bikers but is the same thing you describe... friction. I've done band-aids, tape and even special products (Nipguards) made for covering just the nipple area but the best remedy I've found is compression clothing. Even in the middle of summer, I will wear some skin tight Under Armour shirt. Heat Gear (odd naming, but actually cools the skin too) in the summer just to prevent friction between cycling jersey and the nipples. I'll switch to their cold gear during the winter, but always wear something skin tight under my upper layers. 

Those notches are used when shifting gears, as you move the derailleur, the chain moves and catches on a notch and switches from one chainring to another adjusting the gearing. You do not need a replacement bicycle, this is a nice bike and with proper maintenance (keeping the drive train clean and lubed) should last a long time. 

Searching on Amazon (for "Hydraulic Hose Cutter"), I found a few under $20. But, the replacement blades look just like common utility knife razor blades. Maybe you can rig of something to hold the cable square so you might be able to use a utility knife. I'd clamp, lightly so you don't crush, the hose to a scrap piece of wood and use edge as a visual guide and slice straight down with your utility knife. Cut it an inch long and if it doesn't seal up nicely, then splurge for one of the tools under $20. 

Another late answer, but posting because I don't see it posted as a solution. With a bag this small, I will wear a jacket over the bag and zip up the jacket, the bag may slide around a little, but not much and never to the front and no dangling. 

I love the strava app (and the strava.com website) The app will record your ride and map the route via GPS and upload to the strava website for further analysis. Strava will auto-detect any significant climb and mark it as a segment, or match sections of your ride against already existing segments. Once you upload a few rides and see how cool the segments are, you will love their segment explorer on the website to find new routes that are popular in your area, or search for new areas to ride while on vacation. 

This little ridge was catching on the edge of the rim and not releasing the brake. I was able to take them off, use a razor blade and shave the ridge and adjusted the location to connect flat on the rim too, and my brakes no longer stick. 

If you have the budget for only one more bicycle you cannot go wrong with a cyclocross bike, you will be able to race CX in the fall (typically after triathlon season) and you can get some fenders and slick tires for road rides in winter/spring and take the fenders off when the weather turns nice for Triathlon season. You can get clip on aero bars if you really want to, but since your planning the triathlons as fun events, there is no need for aero bars or a tri specific bike. I use my CX bike year round, either with CX tires during cross season or fenders/slicks during rainy season and take the fenders off during the summer months. You can get by with a MTB for cross races (I see people all the time with MTBs at cross races), but it will be heavier and harder to carry up the run ups and over the barriers. Take a look at Kona - 'Jake' or 'Jake the Snake' for a good CX bike. Keep that mountain bike and try an XTerra (offroad) triathlon, lots of fun! 

The reflective brand name tab on the rear of that seat bag is a light holder. You will most likely need to remove the light from the seat post. Hopefully it has a clip styled mount, otherwise you can get a light that has a clip mount.