If you take a really silly literal view of the sentence the statement is a performative contradiction but not equivalent to the liar's paradox. Let's say being intolerant of something is along the lines of forbidding it. This is plausible. So saying 

You probably can't imagine the illogical, in a certain sense of the word. Wittgenstein describes nonsense as not a sense which is empty but rather the absence of sense at all. (Of course in this stage of his thought he also said that a great number of apparently meaningful statements are actually nonsense. Presumably we do not want to follow him that far down the road.) For a certain sense of illogical, of course a totally illogical thought is nonsensical. This is Plato's sense of logic (see Theatetus 155a): logic as the law of thought. In other words we cannot but think with logic, because logic is constitutive of thought. (Of course there is a lot of debate about which, if any, logical principles belong to the law of thought.) So "thinking" without logic (in this sense) is not thinking at all. It is just putting words together without any meaning. A classic example: picture a circular square. Obviously circular squares are illogical, internally contradictory. Are you picturing it? You can't do it, can you? (If you can, I'd be very interested in hearing what a round square looks like.) You can say the words "circular square" but as soon as you try to spell out what that means the idea falls through your fingers like sand. Language has given us the false appearance of possibility. Language can give the false appearance of impossibility as well. Say I am both inside and outside. But inside and outside are opposites; each one can be defined as the negation of the other. And yet if I stand in a doorway I am both inside and outside. Here the problem is not a violation of any law of thought, just an improper application of that law. Of course a single point cannot be both inside and outside, but I am composed of infinitely many such points. Some of me is inside and some of me is outside. Of course there are a number of formal systems, all of which capture our idea of thought to some degree. So if you choose the wrong logical system, or describe things in that system strangely enough, you can easily imagine states of affairs in violation of the system. Or you can formulate sentences in the system, and even prove them, without being able to imagine them. But there certainly are unimaginable things, and perhaps this is because they are violations of the law of thought. 

I'm trying to learn modal logic and I'm having trouble translating sentences like and into natural language using possible-world semantics. The first statement seems to read, "In every possible world (in every possible world A)", and the second, "In every possible world (in some world A)". But it's not clear to me how we could have possible worlds inside of possible worlds. I want to say that worlds don't stack in that way; a possible world inside another possible world is just not a world at all. Have I translated the sentences wrong, or am I wrong to object to nested possible worlds? 

No. Call T the set of true propositions and T* the set of true contingent propositions. Let P be a necessary proposition. All necessary propositions are true, so P in T. But no necessary proposition is contingent, because contingent just means neither necessary nor impossible. So P not in T*. Then T /= T*. I have a guess about where your confusion comes from. Let Q be a true contingent proposition. Obviously Q in T, Q in T*. Now consider the proposition "P and Q". Now "P and Q" is a true contingent proposition. So "P and Q" in T, "P and Q" in T*. But "P and Q" is not the same as P, nor as Q. (The use of "the sky is blue and a = a" is nothing like the use of either "the sky is blue" nor "a = a".) So saying "P and Q" in T* does not imply P in T*. 

Yes, your reasoning is good; arguments tend to try and establish matters of fact. There's a more formal explanation too. In his logic textbook Teller defines an argument as a set of declarative sentences with a conclusion. That is, an argument has a sentence in it that can be rephrased to something like: "And because of all that, such-and-such." It's more complicated than that, because logical implication isn't intuitive at all. But this is a good rule for natural language. If we take the first example, we can see that we can slightly rephrase it as 

I just finished reading An Introduction to Feminist Epistemologies by Alessandra Tanesini, and while I got quite a lot out of it (seriously, I was totally unfamiliar with the field, and now I want to know a lot more) I didn't really grasp what her specific view of knowledge is. Tanesini criticizes the traditional view of knowledge as justified true belief pretty heavily, claiming it is based in a false view of knowledge as a kind of representation. Instead, she says, she wants us to view knowledge in terms of practices. Not practical reasoning, but knowledge as knowing, an actual activity. She makes vague references to Brandom's reading of Heidegger along the way. It's not clear to me how all this is supposed to work together. In the standard reading, does Heidegger conceive of knowledge as a representation, or something else? If not, does Brandom have Heidegger conceive of knowledge as a representation? 

If we agree that forbidding things is forbidden, we have to ask---how are we forbidden from forbidding things? The problem stems from an unstated context. In all likelihood the sentence really means something like 

In his "Lecture on Ethics" Wittgenstein makes some similar points about wonder and miracles, first defining miracles: 

Note that this isn't really elimination, not in the normal way we think about it. What you'd really expect is something like , but this is actually an axiom added to K to make system T. Now Garson defines , but I want to be able to introduce and eliminate it primitively. Garson provides a derived rule for -elimination: 

Off the top of my head there are probably four* lively strands of Marxist thought, concerning, respectively, economic matters, identity politics, politics generally, and ideology. (All the thinkers I cite here are of course broad and on a deep level it doesn't make much sense to categorize them as I have. This is just a jumping-off point.) 

A small note on the rest of the tweet: I find it incomprehensible. The liar's paradox is not the halting problem, and neither of them have anything to do with the map-territory distinction. Perhaps the writer means the concepts got at by language are different than the surface-level grammar, which is exactly right. But the first part of the tweet is just babble. 

We shouldn't hold irrational or nonrational beliefs. This is a requirement of rationality. If rationality did not forbid irrationality, it wouldn't do anything at all. 

*There's also the whole world-spirit dialectical-materialism history-as-a-story thing which I find a bit far-fetched, but if you want to go down that road there's always Marcuse with Eros and Civilization. 

(The bracketed bits were bracketed in the text.) So far I think I've figured out what he means by some of the last stuff. When he's talking about how man is a synthesis, he means between spirit and body. Therefore man is a relation. But "a relation which relates itself to its own self" is a little harder to grasp. And I'm not sure why man is not yet a self when regarded in this way. It's dialectical, almost definitely, but it doesn't sound like the parts of Hegel I've read on consciousness and the will---the intro to Philosophy of Right. Anyway, I stopped reading there and decided to ask for help. What does this mean? 

*Or else the set wouldn't be well-founded. The proof I sketched was easy enough and tedious enough that I didn't include it here. I think it's correct but if I am wrong about my math please tell me. 

I'm having trouble applying Badiou's method of looking at situations as sets (EDIT: specifically sets in a model of ZFC). The following example was in the introduction to one of his books, Infinite Thought, and I don't see how we can interpret it in a set-theoretic way. 

No. It's hard to give evidence for a total lack but of existence because there's nowhere to point, but, like, google it. There's nothing. Ontic is already a word with a distinct meaning, and the Campaign for Renaming Philosophy turns up only four relevant results. And I think the article was really just supposed to be taken as a tongue-in-cheek complaint of being lumped together with ethicists, aestheticians, and similar. 

It's complicated But you should probably tell them. Theoretical underpinnings: Some kinds of utilitarianism There are two species of utilitarianism: indirect or rule utilitarianism, which is a species of deontology, and direct or act utilitarianism, which is a species of consequentialism (I don't agree with the SEP's labels here, but ah well). In rule utilitarianism, you set out a series of laws, the general observance of which would result in the greatest good for the greatest number of people. So if it were better for everyone if nobody ever stole, you should never steal. In act utilitarianism, you consider the marginal effect of individual actions. So even if humanity would be better off in the event that we never stole, if stealing this one thing this one time would be better than not stealing it, you should steal it. Finally there's preference utilitarianism: essentially that you should treat other people as they would like to be treated. This is in fact not in conflict with either of the two forms mentioned above, but it's an important enough school of thought to warrant its own mention. Arguments for either kind As long as you are convinced that the source of goodness is human happiness, there are some pretty good reasons to be either a rule or an act utilitarian. On one hand it's much easier to follow determinate laws than the calculate the effects of individual actions. In fact this is so hard that it may even be the case that humans will generally be happier in a rule-utilitarian society than in an act-utilitarian society. It's rare that we want to only look at the marginal effect of an action, because it's really generally impossible to examine the complete marginal effect of an action. Besides, the effect of allowing people to view their actions solely on the margin is huge; you're essentially saying goodbye to law as such. On the other hand we might question why we should refrain from doing something that we know will lead to a better outcome right now. Of course we're not really telling other people anything with our decision to be an act utilitarian, unless we in fact tell them that we are being act utilitarians. So we don't set any precedent, because nobody has to find out. OK, but what should I do? If you're a rule utilitarian, then you know that lying is bad, so you shouldn't lie. Therefore tell them the truth. If you're an act utilitarian, you have to ask: will this in fact do more harm than good? For instance, you're suffering right now because of your guilt. And there's an outstanding chance that your spouse will find out that you have cheated anyway and be even more devastated because you have hidden it. If you really don't care about having cheated on them, and you are confident that they won't find out, then, fine, I guess, don't tell them. Those last two statements probably aren't true though. So you should confess. But! If you are a preference utilitarian, we have a neat solution! Ask your spouse, "Would you rather live a lie or learn some terrible news?" And if they say they would rather learn the news, even if they would be less happy, then tell the truth. 

(The Gay Science 1:21). This might seem to be in conflict with the earlier discussion of good as not originally coming from the recipients of good acts, but it is not. This is not supposed to be the origin of good overall; good as a concept already existed. It was co-opted for this purpose. 

From Garson's Modal Logic for Philosophers (link in comments above): First we introduce a new kind of subproof, a boxed subproof. It contains no assumptions and is marked by at its start, as in 

Kant has three main works on ethics: the Groundwork, the second Critique, and the Metaphysics of Morals, and some important short essays: "What is enlightenment?", "Toward perpetual peace", and "Supposed right to lie from philanthropy". And yet the vast majority of Kant scholarship I read references Groundwork alone, with maybe just a nod to "Supposed right to lie from philanthropy". Now of that list I have only read Groundwork, "What is enlightenment?", and "right to lie", so I cannot comment on the quality of the rest. What gives? Why is Groundwork so much more popular than the rest? (Note: I have no actual evidence for my claim. Also this question inches close to asking for opinion. Therefore I would prefer answers of "it's not" or "no reason at all, as far as I'm aware" than any sort of speculation. In particular I would like references to comparisons of Kant's works, or histories of philosophy that account for the difference.) 

I learned Fitch-style natural deduction from Teller's A Modern Formal Logic Primer, which is freely available here. Teller goes through the motivations for specific formal decisions and outlines the strengths and weaknesses of formal reasoning. It's pretty good. I know of at least one intro to logic class that uses it as a textbook. If you're going to TeX anything I recommend browsing LaTeX for Logicians. The specific package I use, thanks to this page, is fitch.sty. 

There are lots of interesting theories about what it means to believe something, and why we do it. I don't think we need to get in the high weeds here though. In general, to believe a statement is to think that it is true. We believe things because we think they are true. It isn't clear that we can believe or disbelieve statements at will. Certainly if I told you, "I'll give you $5 if you believe that you have grown wings", you would not get richer in the immediate future. If this trend does not generalize, that is to say, if believe can be voluntary, then a few empirical tests will show that this is only relevant in extreme cases, not simple matters of fact like "who got more votes in the electoral college". So one thing we could do is reject your premises entirely: if someone says , they are lying in the first half of the sentence. Then it is clear what the problem is, and it is indeed a moral one. Lying is (in general) wrong. What's more, the speaker is using themself purely as a means, to avoid unpleasant news. But say they are telling the truth---they do in fact believe that Hilary Clinton is the president of the US. Then of course they are wrong as in incorrect. We want to say that they shouldn't have this belief, because we want our beliefs to be true. I don't have a universal solution, but I think, if you ask the person, "Do you particularly want to believe only true things?" and they answer in the affirmative, then they are contradicting their own will by believing something false. This is bad in lots of frameworks---their soul is disharmonious, they are not being rational, etc. I cannot imagine someone honestly answering in the negative. Perhaps there are statements that we do not want to know, but we certainly do not want to know false statements. Fun side note: The situation itself is a case of Kripke's paradox of dogmatism, which goes roughly as follows: