The table looks like this in this setup (Notice the addition of record with id #4, and the field which specifies that this status is for use with devices that can can connect to a network): 

With this setup, devices are archived by setting field to true and entering an . I could query any device easily whether it is active or archived. (Please ignore the field, as this is used for an unrelated concept). Take notice of the Phone subtype table, where I had to propagate an index of DeviceID and IsArchived flag because phone numbers must be unique for active devices. I have to do this with other subtype tables as well. I don't know if this is a good or bad design. This part really confuses me... What are best practices for handling soft deletes where foreign key values can be marked as deleted. The only thing I can think of is create a routine that searches for all records that are related to deleted data, and create a report for users to resolve the discrepancies. For example, if a table of locations is related to the devices table, and some locations are soft deleted, then the devices refer to locations that no longer exist and must be moved. By the way, I'm using MS SQL Server 2008 R2, and I plan on using Entity Framework 4 in my application. I value database maintainability over performance. Thank you for reading. 

How can I copy the content of a cell in the output pane where the latter is detached from the query window in pgAdmin III? When the output pane is not detached from the query window, I can use control + C, but it doesn't seem to work when it is detached. Here is a screenshot showing the output pane detached from the query window: 

I use RazorSQL as an interface to my PostgreSQL database server, which contains three databases. If I use pgAdmin, I can list all three databases (namely, , , and ): 

Is there any point in specifying the precision and scale of (i.e. declaring it instead of simply )? The Oracle documentation advises to specify the precision and scale, as "it provides extra integrity checking on input". But in my case wouldn't the foreign key constraint take care of this integrity checking? 

At that point if you try to connect you'll have the same error message. Go to the shell and run the command: 

is an SQL Reserved Word and is a PL/SQL Reserved Word in Oracle (listed in ). What problems would using them as column names cause in Oracle? The database server runs: 

Is there any way to disable the fade in and fade out effects in pgAdmin 4 when opening windows? Example of fade in and fade out: 

I'm dealing with a 3rd party app that I can't change or get support on. I've altered an underlying table in several ways to enhance it's functionality 1- I renamed the table PRE_CASE to PRE_TCASE 2- I created a view named PRE_CASE which is a select on to PRE_TCASE with a UNION ALL on to a linked server DB and table named OTHERSYSTEM_CASE This works to the extent the app is now fooled into displaying data from PRE_TCASE and OTHERSYSTEM_CASE to the end user when it believes it's looking at the table PRE_CASE. It fails however on inserting data. To try and fix this I created a trigger (I only require to insert to PRE_TCASE, never OTHERSYSTEM_CASE) 

If we have code in an SP Database1 then queries Database2 (on the same server) we want the same code to work on the databases Database1Dev and Database2Dev. But this currently means editing the full SP each time we push to Live. We want a single of line of code such as 

You're probably looking at needing an OUTER JOIN instead of the implied INNER JOINs that you're using. e.g. suppose 

Then it will work, the 0 will be ignored and an identity value generated. But as the question scenario states the insert statement is set in stone by the 3rd party executable then it is unworkable. 

This made me think that the SQL area on Oracle DB grew too much to the point of maxing out the shared pool's memory. Running the follow query would confirm it, but ironically and unsurprisingly I get the ORA-04031 error on it as well: 

In MySQL Workbench, one can use the keyboard shortcut Ctrl + ENTER to execute the statement at cursor (delineated with semi colons). Is there a similar shortcut in pgAdmin? 

In Oracle SQL Developer, is there any way to include a SQL file within a SQL query? Like the command in LaTeX. Example: 

I tried DBweaver on Kubuntu and had the same issue. It looks like the issue is around the fact that the authenticity of the SSH server hadn't been verified beforehand, and DBweaver and unable to cascade the correct error message (e.g., ) and instead misleadingly blames some authentication error. I fixed the issue on Kubuntu as follows: 

What could have caused the shared pool to be full? If there's no room left in the SQL area cache, shouldn't older statements be removed? I am running Oracle 11gR2 11.2.0.3. Here are the SQL UPDATE statements I was executing and committing (I know I can optimize them): 

The Wikipedia page on data integrity lists 4 types of integrity constraints: entity integrity, referential integrity, domain integrity, and user-defined integrity. Is there a name for integrity constraints that stem from common sense / knowledge? 

In my current work position I've been given a desktop with SQL2014 tools installed including SQL Profiler. For some time we are still however supporting production SQL2000 machines and when using Profiler against these the following error is received: 

My question is would this ever create two identical values for the Date? Does this answer change if parallelism is in use? (Assume value never specified, always comes from GetDate()) I believe I'm correct in assuming it wouldn't matter due to the behind-the-scenes uniqueifier being added, right? But I'm interested anyway. I'm asking from a SQL2008R2 perspective but would be interested if the answer differs for any version of SQL Server from 7.0 up. 

I would like to know if there are any dangers or relevant precautions before changing the IP address of a SQL Server 2008 R2 box. We have built a virtual PC with Windows Server 2008 R2 and SQL Server 2008 R2. The purpose of this machine is run a job that restores a backup file (copied by a different server), manipulates it, backs it up again and then copies it out to other servers. We've run it a few times in our test/dev DMZ and are now considering deployment. The simplest option would be to re-IP it. The server name would remain intact. My problem is a colleague has suggested this is unsafe (to re-ip a SQL Server). My question is a) Is this true for the OS and SQL I'm using? (Win 2008 R2 & SQL 2008 R2?) b) Is it true for any other combinations of OS and/or SQL? c) Is there anything special we should do in preparation? My research thus far indicates it will be fine but I trust the folks of DBA StackExchange more than those social MSDN people. $URL$ $URL$ 

I wonder whether there is any way to import my server list from pgAdmin 3 to pgAdmin 4 (so that I don't have to create servers one by one again). 

I am sure the SSH server is working fine. I manage to connect to the same PostgreSQL database server through the same SSH server with pgAdmin 3 and RazorSQL. I have checked the IP, username and password, they are correct. I disabled all firewalls. What could be the issue? My settings: 

Is there anyway to export the results of a query in Oracle SQL Developer without having to execute the query twice? Running a SQL query in worksheet, then Right click on Result Set window -> Export Data -> Text will run the query a second time. 

I wonder whether I can edit the content of table in the data output of a query in pgAdmin III? The query is a . MySQL Workbench allows users to edit the content of table in the data output of a query, but I fail to see the same option in pgAdmin III. 

I wonder whether I can clear the output of a query in pgAdmin III (aside from running another query). 

One integrity constraint stemming from common sense / knowledge is that the patient more than one year old at the time of hospital admission (i.e. ), shouldn't say that the patient is a neonate. Another integrity constraint from common sense / knowledge is that a patient cannot be admitted in the hospital if he already is in the hospital (i.e. some checks would have to be done around and ). 

At our organisation we have several non-Production environments where Developers run free and wild with TSQL code and databases. The DBA team do not normally monitor or maintain them. Recently several developers using one server have had to write procedures that throw around mountains of code such that their log files are growing to 10-20GB (on DBs approx 15-40GB) until they run out of space on the drive volume we have provided for the log files. The databases are all in Simple recovery mode and backups are (almost) never taken. As a bandaid I've created a SQL Agent Job that can be run by anyone to shrink all user log files on the server. What are some valid Log File Management strategies that might be used? For example it is my understanding that as the users generally do a blitz of intensive work that checkpoints are probably being throttled back and that thus issuing manual checkpoints would see no advantage. Is that the case or should we in fact investigate adding manual checkpoints to their code? And just to be clear it is log file space on disk we are interested in not space within the log file. 

That way I can have the same SP installed on each server, any bug/feature fixes doesn't need me to manually type up 10 different SPs to install. In the real world I'm also limited by SQL2000 however I'd be interested to hear in ideas using SQL2000 and/or SQL2008R2. The servers are a mixture of both. As I understand it Synonyms wouldn't help as on the instance with 3 DBs I'd still end up with each DB having it's own copy of the SP with it's own hard coded definition of which named synonym to use. I also don't feel dynamic SQL statements would be a good fit. There's more to it than the example snippet above and I use table variables to marshal all the work to be done- so that would be out of scope for all the other statements I need to work with. 

Since amazingly with pgAdmin one has to login to view issues / feature request, here is a screenshot: 

You can use csvsql, which is part of (a suite of utilities for converting to and working with CSV files): 

How can I list all the databases of a PostgreSQL database server with RazorSQL? I would like to graphically navigate between databases. I use RazorSQL 6.3.14 with Windows 7 SP1 x64 Ultimate. 

Since there seems to be no way to define such a keyboard shortcut, I filed a feature request: $URL$ , which got rejected: 

I downloaded a SQLite 3 dump of Northwind, and opened it in SQLiteStudio. Accented characters aren't displayed nicely. How to solve the issue? I suspect some encoding issue. 

I wonder whether there is any way to save the "view data options" in the "edit data" window in pgAdmin III: 

Go back to DBeaver, try to connect, that should work. I still don't know why I should use instead of the SSH tunnel tab in DBeaver though. 

I wonder whether I can change the font in the "edit data" window in pgAdmin III. I use Windows 7 and OS X 10.10. 

I was executing a bunch of UPDATE statement. Around ~32.8K got executed and committed, then got the error: 

I use DBeaver 3.7.3 x64 portable version with Windows 7 SP1 x64 Ultimate. The error log window does not log the error, so I don't have any more information there.