We are training to produce adaptations, and through those adaptations we become more capable. There are a lot of different adaptations that happen as a result of training; for example, in aerobic training the heart's stroke volume increases and Haemoglobin levels in blood rise. In muscular training, muscle fibers get stronger. In the case of muscles, working them hard breaks down muscles - that is why we get sore - and we need rest so that there is time for them to rebuild. For aerobic training it's more complex. The response of our bodies - how much we improve - is related to how hard we work out (often known as "training stress"). But how hard we work out depends upon how well-rested we are. If we run every day, we will become good at running every day - our bodies will adapt quite well - but we will never be fully rested, so we will be limited on the amount of stress we put on our bodies. On the other hand, if we run every other day, we will be more rested and therefore be able to put more training stress on our system, leading to more improvement during our next rest day. Another way to look at it is that your body adapts to the peak effort that you using during training, not the total amount of effort. This is the whole principle behind High-Intensity training, or interval training. It works very well, but only if you have enough time between interval sessions so that you can recover enough. If you don't recover enough, you won't be able to increase your peak effort in future workouts. If you want more information on specific adaptations, a search of "physiological adaptations to exercise" should find you good info. A search on "science of interval training" (or hit training) should find good info there. The key to recovery days is that you aren't putting additional training stress on your system, as that will compromise your recovery. In general, active recovery - working out lightly - is superior to pure rest, as long as you work out very lightly. 

Are you forefoot striking? Forefoot striking places more load on your calves than a heel strike would, and could explain the soreness in your calves. And forefoot striking is a good thing as it tends to prevent more serious injuries. In addition to this, one might think that eventually your calf muscles would catch up. But this depends on the distance you're running and of course nutrition. It'd be easier to build muscle in the areas that are lagging behind with shorter/faster running sessions. This is apparent when you look at long distance runners vs sprinters. The sport shapes the athlete, so to speak. I remember when I first started sprinting a few times a week. I was amazed at how every single muscle in my legs were sore the day after. And all I did was sprint about 100 meters three times with a little rest in between. Running hills as Sarge suggested would be another high intensity workout which would be great for the thighs. 

I'm right-handed, and tend to instinctively carry loads on my right side, so I always move plates around with my left hand to help balance things out. It seems to have helped me be more balanced, but my guess is that it's more neuromuscular than strength-related. 

To get better, you need to put a training load on your system. As you get more fit, this becomes harder to do. After a certain point, an 80% effort will not put enough stress on your system, and you will stop improving. To keep improving, you need short efforts at higher exertion. In other word, intervals. There are tons of resources out there that can give you programs for intervals. 

First thing's first -- you mentioned that you haven't gained any weight. As simple as it sounds, you need more calories. Once you're eating enough calories you will gain weight. As for whether it's fat or muscle depends on a lot of things. You asked about protein shakes. I'll just say that there's nothing wrong with drinking them. Their biggest advantage is the convenience. That, and whey protein is a high quality protein. Then again, so are eggs. But if you're having trouble getting enough protein with regular food then a protein drink/shake is a good convenient way to supplement your diet. A few more tips... 

You can't really spot reduce. In other words, you don't have any control of where you'll lose fat. Chances are you have lost some fat all over, even if you haven't noticed visible changes. In fact, it's not a bad idea to make weekly measurements for this exact reason. You can actually measure your bodyfat pretty easily with a simple set of bodyfat calipers (instructions come with the calipers) along with a bathroom scale. Not only is it encouraging to know you're making progress, but you can even adjust your diet and exercise regimen accordingly if you determine that you're losing muscle, for example. If you're interested in changing your body composition, building muscle, and losing fat then I'd look into high-intensity interval training (HIIT) as demonstrated here. Some exercises done with HIIT may be more anaerobic than others and you can pick and choose your routine based on your goals. But whatever you do, be smart and track your progress with bodyfat measurements. It literally takes 2 minutes and you only have to do it once a week. 

I have a theory... My theory is that you are exercising every day. If so, the problem that you are running into is that you are giving your body insufficient time to recover. This is sometimes expressed as: Training stress + recovery time = Improvement If you do not give your body time to recover, you will not improve; you will just continue to accumulate training stress. Depending on how you do it, you will either plateau, or you will get overtrained. If you work out fewer days during the week, you will be able to work out harder, and that is how you will improve. 

You are doing intervals to put an intense load on your system. It's important to keep that load relatively constant to get the best benefit from them. You can also use this to tell if you need to stop early; when an interval gets lots slower than the previous one, you are done for the set (and perhaps for the day if you're doing multiple sets). I don't do running intervals, but when I do intervals on my bike, I see a 5% variance in power often. I wouldn't worry too much about small variances. 

Make sure you're getting enough potassium. Sodium and potassium are both critical to fuel your muscles. The typical diet is rarely deficient in sodium. But it is common to have low potassium levels. In fact, an increase in physical activity will increase your body's demand for potassium. That could explain the prolonged soreness you're experiencing. 

Indeed the quantities to promote continuous muscle growth can be quite large. I was consistently eating around 4,000 calories a day for about a year when I was weight training and trying to gain mass. But then, I'm 6'5" and have an extremely fast metabolism so my body demanded those calories. It worked though, as I was able to gain 20 pounds of muscle that year. The best way to figure it out for yourself is to measure and track your progress and make adjustments accordingly. You can do this with a simple set of body fat calipers and a bathroom scale. If you can get in the habit of measuring your weight and body fat weekly, then you can extract from that gains or losses in LBM (lean body mass). Say for example you manage to lose 1 pound each week, for 3 weeks in a row and half of that is fat / half is LBM. Well, if your goal is to gain muscle you should absolutely eat more calories in this case. Ideally you should be making small gains in LBM every week while minimizing fat gain. And it's just a matter of finding the diet that'll do that for you. By the way, the reason it's better to measure weekly is that you can drive yourself crazy measuring daily due to small fluctuations and inaccuracies. In fact, as a rule of thumb it's usually wise to gather 3 weeks of measurements before making any major changes to your diet. 

I'm in the middle of dealing with my lordosis (also known as "anterior pelvic tilt" - you can find some good references if you search on that). For exercises, dead bug variations and hip raises have been good. You need to be very good to make sure your back is flat during all of them. Oh, and the standing exercise where you have a band at your feet and step back and forth - that is a great glute exercise. But for me, the big winners have been the deadlift and suitcase carry. You need to be very careful to start with light weight and to be very careful with your form, especially on deadlift. I have also found that it's hard to tell the difference between exercises that aggravate my back and those that are just making the muscles tired. You will probably have to play around with things a bit. 

I agree with BenWillkommen's suggestions. I have two more which don't require a gym with a squat rack... 

For these reasons I prefer doing push ups this way. Although extending your range of motion is not always a good thing. If you have shoulder problems, for example, then you could be doing more harm than good. So I'd do what feels right for you. Another thing to keep in mind is the distance between your hands. Keeping your hands far apart will put more demand on your chest and shoulders while keeping your hands close together will be harder on the triceps. 

If you find the right mix of diet, exercise, rest (and post-workout nutrition) you should actually start seeing improvements in your work capacity as well as your energy levels. 

You've only been biking for about a month; it takes time to build up cycling-specific muscles. How fast you spin your legs is known as "cadence". You should aim for a cadence of approximately 90 RPM; you can get cyclecomputers that measure it directly or estimate it using a watch. Novices generally ride at a cadence that is too slow; that requires much more strength and can easily burn your legs out. Shift down so that you ride at a reasonable cadence and don't have to push very hard. 

If you are getting exhausted and fatigued after only 30 minutes, the problem isn't that you need an energy drink. The problem is that you are working out too hard. The fact that you are feeling tired later in the days would support that. The point of working out is to put training stress on your system. After you have done that, when you rest, you improve. High intensity workouts do have a place, but only after you have an existing base of workout. My suggestion is to back off your workout intensity so that you can do 60 minutes without being super-tired at the end. I'd also consider either backing off to 3 days a week or varying your workout from day to day. 

Eat 6 times a day, with protein in every meal. By eating smaller meals more frequently this will allow you to absorb more nutrients from your food. More than that, as you get used to it, this may even allow you to eat more calories throughout the day because each meal doesn't have to be so big. Aim for a 30% protein / 40% carbohydrate / 30% fat split with your diet. This is actually a lot of protein, but your body needs lots of protein when you're weight training. I'd suggest using this simple calorie calculator. Lift weights 3 days a week. It doesn't sound like much. And in fact modern bodybuilders will workout more often than this. But then again they also take steroids which reduces recovery time. Before the days of steroids, Steve Reeves was one of the more impressive bodybuilders around. He wrote a book called, "Building the Classic Physique," and in the book even he suggested a 3 day-a-week routine. In fact, the book is a good training guide even today.