'Styles' is not the usual way to describe philosophical systems. Jules Vuillemin has written a short and rather technical book What are Philosophical Systems (Cambr. UP 1986) which comes close to such an approach as he used different 'manners' of predicating to classify philosophies and he even managed to construct his taxonomy as an a priori schema (summarised at p.128, shortly before the end). What this technical exercise boils down to is well known: 4 types or styles of philosophy are thought to be possible as monism or dualism are combined with idealism and materialism. So there are pure idealism or pure materialism and also idealistic dualism and materialistic dualism. At the end of antiquity the 4 ways have already been explored as, e.g., Platonism, Atomism, Peripatetism and Stoicism. In modern times this schematic division is seen as German idealism (Hegel, Fichte) v/s French materialists (Holbach, LaMettrie) and Cartesians v/s British empiricists. According to Vuillemin, skepticism and eclectism are secondary methodological stances that should be seen apart from basic fourfold division. Today the leaning toward idealism is seen as a 'continental' style while its alternative is the so called 'analytic philosophy'. Otherwise, the shortest presentation of philosophical styles is given by various answers to the question 'why did the chicken cross the road'. 

By 'empirical', Popper means 'a posteriori'. By 'logical', Popper means 'a priori'. The distinction between a priori and a posteriori is a distinction of kinds of truth/falsity rather than kinds of propositions. On the other hand, the analytic-synthetic distinction is a Kantian distinction about the subject-predicate relations of propositions. Examples of all of these will depend on the particular philosophy. First, I'll give examples distinguishing a posteriori (i.e. empirical) from a priori (i.e. "logical"): 

The fallacy fallacy, which is argumentum ad logicam, is the fallacy of inferring falsity from fallacy. Falsity cannot be validly inferred from falsity. 

What is the name of a/the metaphysic that affirms the reality of all worlds including impossible worlds? Actualism denies the reality of all non-actual worlds, possibilism affirms the reality of all possible worlds, and anti-realism denies the reality of all worlds (including the actual world). 

There is an important difference between the paradox of the heaps and the fallacy of the heaps. The former also is known as the continuum paradox or the sorites paradox (from σωρείτης), and the latter also is known as the continuum fallacy or sorites fallacy. (soros, from σωρός, is Greek for "heap".) The paradox of the heaps is the paradox described in the prompt-question of this thread. A man was once a boy, but the instant the boy became a man is equivocal. The continuum of a lifetime seems to make arbitrary any rigid designations of time distinguishing childhood from adulthood. Nonetheless, it would be fallacious to argue that this, on its own, implies that a lifetime either is entirely childhood or is entirely adulthood. It is a fallacy of the heaps to argue that the fact of continuum precludes any meaningful distinctions of regions along a continuum. For example, amounts of heat vary on a continuum, and water boils/freezes when it becomes sufficiently hot/cold such that, on a heat-continuum, there are meaningfully distinct regions. Therefore, it is not true that, for every continuum, there are no meaningfully distinct regions. Of course, there are some continuums in which there do not seem to be any meaningfully distinct regions. For example, the real number line, as a continuum of 1-dimensional space, does not seem to have any meaningful distinct regions, although it has meaningfully distinct subsets (e.g. the set of integers, of irrational numbers, and of natural numbers). 

Of course. A progressing science is an ideological construct: one may prefer the status quo. We agree that human actions are somehow motivated and purposeful actions are ideologically driven. The decision to measure things is by no means obvious, especially when we note that the discourses of logic and numbers are not really coordinated in ordinary life (e.g. 'negligible' could mean either zero or non-zero). In practice most questions escape the simple logic of yes/no, producing a kind of shrug ('dunno'), and arbitrary decisions are taken with arguments about criteria and precision which remain always discutable. Science is not mechanical or automatical. 

Schopenhauer was at war with Hegel and, after his death (1831), with anybody who did not consider him to be the most important living philosopher. The 'bad writers' are the Hegelians which were sufficiently numerous as to be seen as forming at least two factions: Young Hegelians and older ones, but also situated on the 'Left' or the 'Right'. Rather directly he targets them by mentioning their journal Halleschen Jahrbücher für deutsche Wissenschaft und Kunst (Halle’schen), later Deutsche Jahrbücher which appeared from 1838-43. Most of the contributors' names are forgotten (one would have to look up if Marx or Engels are among them). As Schopenhauer did not suffer from modesty he mention as deplorable writers also Fichte, who was from an earlier generation, and Schelling, who was his contemporary. It is seen that Schopenhauer's rhetoric launches at least three accusations: (1)nothing to say, (2) obscurity, (3) despicable motivation (money and/or fame). Morphing them one into another leaves no escape for any target. 

Mill would, I think, say that yes, we must account both the immediate unhappiness and the subsequent happiness in our calculations. Bear in mind that Mill has a way of balancing pleasures and assessing which is better, i.e. more desirable - those who have experienced both vote on which is better/higher. This means that pleasures, even if not quantifiable, are nonetheless comparable. Moreover, one can (and really must) address both the immediate unhappiness and the subsequent happiness as separate in calculating the best outcome - these are both outcomes of the same action, and no action is so simple that it has only good or only bad outcomes. Every outcome of every action is always mixed, so a utilitarian calculus really must be able to deal with mixed situations, and Mill's can. The key is to separate the good from the bad and value each individually, then weigh them against one another. So, when someone's best happiness is achieved through momentary initial suffering, Mill would very simply weigh the likely initial suffering against the likely subsequent happiness, and if the happiness accreted over time is of a greater magnitude than the unhappiness in the immediate term, it is, on balance, a good thing to do. 

The classical system of the four elements, according to Levi-Straus view, is a "concrete logic", that is a paradigm, which allows to think various things. From 2 binary variables 4 cases are constructed; taking 2 basic substantial priciples "moisture" and "heat" and supposing their presence or absence, the four elements are obtained. Earth is the doubly privative case without moisture and without heat. It is also a cosmological-spatial schema: a natural vertical axis is defined by gravity with fire-up and earth-down; if the zero point is on the horizon, then water is below and air above. No need for some concrete instance.(Perhaps only some old fashioned historicising theory would still insist that the cosmogonic schema with 4 element originates from the craft of pottery). 

Angst is a key concept for existentialism and the foreign word has been adopted for lack of a good translation. It apperas to have the advantage of not presupposing that the unknown is some object but could be an extraordinary event or just anything unthinkable. Locus classicus and source of the name is a book by Kirkegaard translated with the title The Concept of Anxiety or The Concept of Dread. The French word 'angoisse', popular with the local existentialists, fits rather well the definition "fear of unknown". 

Popper is pointing out that, when these are not properly distinguished by scientists, category mistakes like "it was before the beginning of time" or "something came from nothing" can be made. "It was before the beginning of time" is false a priori because "before" has the extension "is at a time that is followed by" such that "before" is in the category "time" and, thus, it is a contradiction for there to be a time before time if the extension of time includes every referent for "before" and "after". "Something came from nothing" is defective in that identifying any referent for "nothing" falls into a paradox of self-reference and, moreover, such a statement usually is a vague way of saying, "Something presently known came from nothing presently known", which is a categorically different idea from "something came from nothing". 

A category mistake is when, for the ontology of any particular domain of discourse, an element of a set is unjustifiably excluded from the set. An obvious example of this is the statement, "It is a time before time". Time cannot be before time because the extension of time includes the extension of every statement of something being before or after something else (i.e. every B-series statement) such that "a time before time" falsely excludes "time" from the extension of "time". A less obvious example is the statement, "It is before time", however this statement has similar problems to the one before because it is to say, "It is at an earlier point in time than time." This falsely excludes a point in time from time, which is false by contradiction. 

The principle of inertia seems to be a good candidate for an "apriori truth": it is never verified and connot be verified positively, but explanations are adduced why a certain body does not continue its regular movement to infinity. The conservation of energy was also considered a good candidate and different kinds of energies have been introduced in order to save it. (Feynman has memorably written on this topic.) Recently people have started to argue that it does not apply for the universe as a whole; however, appealing to symmetry and eventually explaining why it is not observed still seems to be a kind of aprioristic stance. So, one might like to argue that principles are apriori ruths. 

Not an answer but some notes on language: "one cannot give more than one has," is just a vague common sense saying. It looks much like an impredicative definition - no matter how much one gives, it is never more than what one has, indeed. If you 'have' only the even integers you could give all integers just by halving them; or with only 0 and 1 you can give all numbers... (and, also the diagonal of square is an irrational - 'infinite' - number when the side is an integer but you could chose it to be the obverse: an integer diagonal & irrational side) 'Contain' is a spatial metaphor (or catachresis), sub speciae eternitatis all consequences are 'contained' in principles or axioms; but for a temporal being an eternity is needed to derive them. And 'after an eternity' is a polite way of saying never... And, btw are you sure that you are not a virtual killer? 'In potentia' is one of these expression that gave a bad name to scholastics. 

It really depends on what you mean by "stronger". Your question seems to be looking for a way to make two very different concepts of belief somehow comparable. There are a few ways to go about looking at that, but we first need to get clear on the two different versions of "belief" in your question. You "believe" axioms for the sake of argument. Let's call this belief(1). You generally "believe" in God in a different way - you don't just accept God's existence for the sake of argument, you accept it as an impersonal reality. We'll call this belief(2). Belief(1) is systems dependent - when you move from Euclidean to non-Euclidean geometry, the axioms change. They haven't been falsified, but largely because you also never made a truth claim about them. You simply said that these assumptions look very reasonable and we need them to do interesting things with bearing on reality, so we'll treat them as though they were true, sidestepping altogether the question of whether they really are true. Belief(2) is different. You don't just treat the claim as true for the purposes of doing something else. Belief(2) is an impersonal, systems independent truth claim. It's more impactful in that you're not just treating the belief as the foundation for an extended thought experiment. In some ways, this makes it more sturdy, in others, less. Now, as I say, there are a few different ways of comparing these two to see which is stronger, and it depends what you mean by "stronger." I'll give three, but I don't claim this as an exhaustive listing by any stretch of the imagination. First, we could consider the capacity of each for impact. In this respect, belief(2) is pretty clearly stronger than belief(1). Because belief(1) is systems dependent, it has no real facility to reach beyond the system into which it is bound. It has impact on the (intellectual) world only so long as its system is widely accepted. Belief (1) may give us new ways of looking at things, but it ultimately makes no claims about the way things really are. As such, it has relatively little power to change the world. This is not to say that its power to change is small, merely that by comparison to belief(2), belief(1) generally won't change as much as fast or for as long. Closely tied to that first method of comparison is a second, the commitment each requires from adherents. Belief(1) is easily abandoned. Once the system to which it is tied falls out of favor or ceases to be useful for a current project, belief(1) can be left behind quickly and easily. Students learn to do this as their intellectual life gains complexity and they discover that principles which once seemed sure bedrock are actually more like sand traps. Belief(2), by contrast, requires significant commitment. It requires more intellectual and moral investment, more time to create, and more time to destroy. It would be appropriately cognized, I think, under the name "worldview", in this respect, and many people have belief(2) about things like religion or politics. There's a reason civil discourse steers clear of those two items in the interests of remaining civil. The contrast here may be nicely brought out by considering what it might look like to have belief(1) concerning one's political views. Consider, for instance, the explanation of a senior civil servant to a junior civil servant concerning the nature of his beliefs: "I have served eleven governments in the past thirty years. If I had believed in all their policies, I would have been passionately committed to keeping out of the Common Market, and passionately committed to going into it. I would have been utterly convinced of the rightness of nationalising steel. And of denationalising it. And renationalising it. On capital punishment, I'd have been a fervent retentionist and an ardent abolishionist. I would've been a Keynesian and a Friedmanite, a grammar school preserver and destroyer, a nationalisation freak and a privatisation maniac; but above all, I would have been a stark, staring, raving schizophrenic." (Yes, Minister, "The Whiskey Priest"). The senior civil servant very clearly holds his political views as belief(1) in the interests of being able to do his job. Most people are not so flexible. The third way we might compare the two is in fallibility, and here, belief(1) shines. Because it's not making a truth claim at all, just presenting a hypothetical set of principles for the world to see what comes of it, belief(1) is basically unfalsifiable. Belief(2), on the other hand, is making a truth claim, and usually a very strong one. It therefore can be falsified. Belief(1) is the less prone to being wrong, but largely because it doesn't try to be right. All of which is to say, you've asked a very complicated question to which no simple answer exists. 

In response to (2), "The definite integral, from x=a to x=b, of Euler's number multiplied by itself x-number of times" is not a sentence, but rather is a predicate term when combined with a copula. Therein, it can be a word as a propositional term that is a referent of the aforementioned predicate term. It is a word to the extent that a predicate without a copula can be a word. It is a predicate because it refers to the properties that are in the extension of that mathematical function. To equate the function to something is to create a sentence wherein "equals" is the predicate's copula. For example, "The definite integral, from x=a to x=b, of Euler's number multiplied by itself x-number of times equals the number Z", in first-order logic, has the following form (wherein P is the predicate term "is equal to the number Z" and wherein Q is the predicate term "is equal to the definite integral, from x=a to x=b, of Euler's number multiplied by itself x-number of times": ∃y:Py∧Qy. Whether or not the categorical proposition is true is another matter entirely. It's possible that ∃y:Py∧Qy is false such that ∄y:Py∧Qy possibly is true. 

The argument in red cannot be deduced validly from the argument in green. All they have in common is that they're both arguments with two premises. To answer the question in the title, every conditional sentence (i.e. any hypothetical proposition) has a logically equivalent disjunction wherein the protasis is a negated disjunct and the apodosis is not a negated disjunct. "If P then Q" means "Q or not-P". In conventional notation of symbolic logic, P→Q is a hypothetical proposition that is logically equivalent to the disjunction Q∨¬P. Therefore, modus ponens has the following form: