I'd venture this guess: both "wash" and "bear" stem from the same observation. Bears are part-time bipeds who occasionally use their forepaws as "arms"; raccoons appear similarly humanlike when engaged in their washing behaviour. A similarity in body shape and fur colour reinforced the association, but probably wasn't its starting point. 

As a native speaker of Russian, where [k]/[kʲ] and [g]/[gʲ] are phonemically distinct, I've always been intrigued by the fact that several languages that don't have that distinction, and are in fact hardly "into" palatalisation at all, tend to favour what I'd describe as [kʲ] and [gʲ] realisations over "plain" [k] and [g], or at least go for something in between. This includes many varieties of English, as well as French, Swedish, Persian, and perhaps some others that I'm not aware of. In most if not all of these cases, the plain and palatalised versions co-exist as allophones, depending on position; [kʲ]/[gʲ] is especially frequent word-finally. On the other hand, this doesn't happen to any other consonants: the English take, depending on the speaker, is about equally likely to be pronounced as [teɪk] or as [teɪkʲ] (or close to it), while in no English accent does tape even remotely sound like [teɪpʲ]. Also, the phenomenon appears to be rather sporadic; it exists in French but not in Spanish, in Swedish but not in Danish. Have there been any studies or proposed explanations as to why and under what conditions these palatalised allophones develop? 

Learn some formal language theory via Sipser's Intro to the Theory of Computation. Having the background will be useful when dealing with Minimalist Grammars and their parsers. 

Many aspects of cognition lack neurobiological evidence - consciousness for instance. Now if Cartesian duality is correct (and given its formidable presence in the history of philosophy, it's not a totally insane possibility), it follows that human cognition will never be completely understood within any biological framework. The language faculty can then be one of the 'magical' aspects of cognition, in which case, biological inquiry will be useless. However, this does not preclude the notion that the language faculty employs computational mechanisms like Merge. In light of such possibilities, the computational approach to the language faculty, namely that sentences are formed via Merge, is correct to the extent that we can successfully account for natural language syntax with Merge along with the other assumptions of the minimalist program (e.g. The Strong Minimalist Thesis). I would say that Merge has been very successful in this regard. On the other hand, it's possible that neurolinguistic research will one day provide a more illuminating account of the language faculty. For instance, perhaps Merge can be localized to Broca's or Wernicke's area. Or as an extreme case, perhaps the language faculty doesn't exist at all, and by extension neither does Merge. That language is nothing more than the result of domain general cognitive processes is a view held by many (e.g. Lakoff and most functionalists). My personal view is that the current generative approach will be vindicated when generative ideas are used to solve the central problem of AI. Once we create robots that speak indistinguishably from humans, using such hated principles of Universal Grammar, generativism's detractors will be at a loss of words. 

O is basically just a circle, so unlike with C/G, the visual similarity with Q is trivial. You could equally wonder if C being O with a chunk taken out has to do with anything. Q and O derive from two different Phoenician letters, qop and ayin; back then, they actually did have something in common since both were "throaty" consonants; however, since the shape of the letters is ultimately hieroglyphic, the similarity is either accidental or — if we credit the theory that the hieroglyphic meaning of qop was "eye of a needle" — based on a real-world visual similarity, since ayin/O represented a (literal) eye. 

It didn't. English used one prefix to derive this meaning from the more general root for taking; French used another. You can turn it around and ask, from a French speaker's perspective, how the English under "sous, sou-" evolved to mean "entre". While we're at it, Russian formed its word for undertaking by adding the equivalent of "fore-" or "pre-" to the equivalent of "receive" or "accept". The starting point may be more or less the same ("take"), the end point may also be the same ("undertake"), but individual languages simply took different paths to get from one to the other. I don't see a reason to use any specific version as a semantic standard. 

My assumption has been that this [di] for "-day" was a part of general reduction of non-first elements in compounds the likes of [vUł] for "-ville" and [mIn] for "-man" that occurred over the centuries. That could explain why "freeway" doesn't do it: it's too new. Notice that English spelling generally has retained the original forms ("-day", "-ville", "-man") even when they were reduced at least by some in pronunciation. I have observed children sounding out words like "Fri+day", "milk+man", "fore+head", and I therefore suspect that the conservative, etymological spellings of these variably reducible forms in English combined with the mass literacy of the last couple of centuries could be exerting a push in favor of the full, rather than reduced, forms. 

Another example in another language (English): English "go" and "wend" share the same past, although Dictionary.com & Amer. Heritage say the past of "wend" is now "wended", and "went" is archaic: I went; (thou wentest); he/she/it went; we went; you went; they went 

Is "used to" an adverb-phrase meaning something like 'for a long time in the past'? Or is it a finite verb? If it's an adverb-phrase, it's worth noting that we don't have a past-tense main verb, as: 

Perhaps that's evidence that "used to" is actually a finite verb? I believe I may have read somewhere that "used to" evolved from "was/were used to" (meaning 'was/were accustomed to'); however, if this be the case, then I would expect a gerund instead of a base infinitive, as: 

Thus, it is possible to strand the quantifier in intermediate Spec, CP. This lends support to the cyclicity of wh-movement shown here. Angled brackets indicate lower copies. 

Merge is more useful as a structure building operation than traditional phrase structure rules or X-bar theory, because unlike the latter, it can freely intersperse with movement. If you require structure building to precede all movement processes, you're in some sense postulating at least two different levels of representation. Economy of derivation principles say that one or zero levels is always preferable to two. Furthermore, once we adopt Merge, movement does not need to be a separate, primitive operation, since any instance of movement is equivalent to copying the relevant object and Merging it. This is known as the copy theory of movement. Note that syntactic computation begins once we select items from the lexicon and form a numeration (i.e a set of ordered 2-tuples consisting of the lexical item and the number of times it was chosen (Lexical Item, n)). Since n can be as large as we wish, it follows that the copy theory of movement does not introduce a new operation into the system. Economy principles are observed. There's much more to be said about our Lord and Savior, Merge. We are humbled by His Recursiveness. 

Your analysis is not correct. It is well known that wh-extraction out of adjuncts is impossible. See Huang 1982. Thankfully, the derivation of your sentence involves neither wh-extraction nor adjunction. Notice that it involves the passive construction The plot was discovered by the authorities, in which case the plot and the authorities are both assigned theta roles by discovered. Ignoring the technical details of passive constructions, the derivation involves building up [TP the plot was discovered by the authorities] And in the usual manner, we merge in an interrogative C bearing a wh-feature that needs checking [C [TP the plot was discovered by the authorities]] The subject inverts with the auxiliary, and then how gets merged into the tree to yield [how [[C+was] [TP the plot was discovered by the authorities]]] 

The "why" of it is essentially a question of whether the participle refers back to the subject. The être verbs all refer to a changed state of the subject — which is particularly obvious with naître, mourir, tomber and rester. Now you might ask: why just those thirteen verbs? Aren't there many more that can be construed to involve a change of the subject's state, and hence require "be" rather than "have"? Why is "I have grown up" J'ai grandi, not *Je suis grandi? That's a reasonable question. In fact, there are languages that are more consistent about be/have, such as Danish: Jeg er vokset op "I have ('am') grown up", as opposed to Jeg har set noget "I have seen something". It must have been the case with French at some point as well, before avoir began to take over, so that only thirteen être verbs remained in the end, most likely because they were common enough for their existing perfect forms to survive as set phrases. 

In languages that express grammatical number in nouns with suffixes, usually there is either a suffix added to an unsuffixed singular to form the plural (cat—cats), or the suffix (or inflectional ending) is replaced (Italian gatto—gatti). Are there, however, any languages that consistently use unsuffixed plurals for nouns and add a suffix to form the singular? I'm aware of Arabic examples such as ghurfah "room" — ghuraf "rooms", but they're rather sporadic and involve internal flexion. Collective nouns such as al-ˁarab being the basis for ˁarabîyyun "an Arab" come closer, but I'm not at all sure they're technically the same noun in different numbers, as opposed to separate nouns. Theoretically, I can think of two scenarios in which suffixed singulars and unsuffixed plurals could occur: one where the plural inflectional ending is lost historically but the singular one remains, making it seem as though something is added to form the singular; and another one where all of the old inflexion is lost and there is no number distinction for a while, until a partitive suffix of some sort is grammaticalised as the new singular. 

Does anybody know anything about the distribution of the modal "ought" without "to" (in other words, "ought" taking the base infinitive). Eg: They ought to go home. vs. They ought go home. Is "ought" without "to" an occasional variant? Is it archaic? Is it regional? The reason I want to know is b/c I teach ESL, and would like to tell my students accurate information. Thank you. 

Does anybody know a cover-term for "declarative", "negative", and "emphatic"? One of my ESL-students asked me, and I cannot remember a term for this (tho' I've been teaching ESL for over 20 years). We were dealing with aux. "do" in English, and practicing declarative, negative, emphatic, y/n-questions, topicalized syntax (eg, "Seldom do I go"), and the use of "do" as a pro-verb as in "Mary doesn't smoke, but John does." Thanks. 

What about dialectal remerging? In Dialect A, [Uu] remains [Uu]; in Dialect B, [Uu] goes to [U]. Perhaps the change in Dialect B might be 100% (ie, "regular"). But later (perhaps generations later), for non-linguistic reasons (economics, social unrest, etc.), massive migration between Dialect A and Dialect B occurs. This results in a hybrid A/B dialect. In this hybrid A/B dialect, we wind up with some [Uu]s and some [U]s. Now, there is no regularity; some of the original [Uu]s are still [Uu]; some of the original [Uu]s are now [U], and there's no phonological reason for it; rather, sociolinguist forces have chosen here [Uu]; here [U]. (I am using [U] for a high back, lax, unrounded vowel; and [u] for a high back, tense, rounded vowel; I am glossing the vowel in "food" as [Uu], and the vowel in "foot" as [U]. With this gloss, I imply that "foot" has undergone a loss of the off-glide [u].)