Stoicism adopts a theory of oikeiosis, the root desire of all animals, human beings included, for self-preservation. An individual human being is, however, not only an animal but also a rational being. So self-preservation extends to preservation of oneself as a rational being; and this involves a correct attitude to things that are good, things that are bad, and things that are indifferent. The only things that are good are virtue and whatever pertains to virtue. Our physical existence is counted as not bad but not good either - only indifferent. A rational being will put the full focus on acquiring, exercising and preserving virtue. Since virtue involves interpersonal relations - the respect for justice between one another, for instance - human interdependence, if this means the recognition of others as moral subjects, is intrinsic to the Stoic condition. You refer to duties. The Stoics do have a notion of duty but the emphasis is not on duties imposed on us, whether specific or general, but on the requirements of virtue which are voluntarily accepted. However, the Stoics recognised three good emotions that were a proper part of a rational life : ▻ eupatheiai (joy) ▻ eulabeian (caution) ▻ boulesin (wishing) These can fan out into benevolence and friendliness, modesty and reverence, good humour and cheerfulness. The Stoics were notable for inculcating apatheia or freedom from passion. All interpretation is tricky but it is clear that this does not mean the cauterising of all emotion or there could be no good emotions. Apatheia more likely means (a) indifference to merely physical, non-rational existence as mentioned above) and freedom from a life held in the grip of bad emotion. The Stoics definitely recognised bad emotions, among them : ▻ phobos (fear) ▻ epithumia (greed) ▻ lupe (grief) I am not sure how far this account of Stoicism answers your question or how far an answer to your question can be derived from it. Perhaps it will rotate your perspective on your question. I am not sure that from a general view of Stoicism your specific queries can be directly answered. I have offered what I can. REFERENCES John Sellars, 'Stoicism', Chesham : UK : Acumen Publishing, 2006, ch. 5 'Stoic ethics', pp. 107-134. E.V. Arnold, 'Roman Stoicism', London : Routledge & Kegan Paul, 1911/1958, ch. XIII & XIV, pp. 301-356. 

If you have no knowledge of how you perceive the cube, could you even know that you were presented with a three-dimensional object ? Wouldn't there just be a two-dimensional shape in your visual field ? The same with the sphere : it would appear merely as a circular shape, and still only a circular shape even if it were rotated. You could gain contrastive knowledge of the kind you indicate. The sphere, even qua circle, presents an object without angles; so you now know about the square (a) that it is not the only shape an object can have and (b) more specifically that there are objects without angles. You might also gain comparative knowledge. For instance it might occur to you whether the cube has or can have the same volume as the sphere. You would of course need some maths to work this out. You don't say how much background knowledge the observer has. It's not a criticism but that does limit the range of potential answers. Nice question even so. 

One criterion for a good question on this site is that the answer is not obvious. I can't speak for others but I had to pause over your question, so in my book this is a good question. 

If I lost an arm, I would still be me. If I adopted a religion or changed it, I would still be me. If I had gender reassignment surgery, I would still be me. Is there any change, short of dying, that would cause me to cease to be me ? 'Cease to be me' - to anticipate the obvious comment - is a vague phrase. The very point of the question is to clarify it. I would have a clearer idea of what it is to be me if someone were able to specify what changes if any would cause me to cease to be me. 

The concept of the noosphere is basically that of a sphere of mind or thought that emerged in the course of evolution in the last 50,000. The idea was put together in the 1920s by Edouard Le Roy, Teilhard de Chardin and Vladimir Vernadski but it is principally associated with Chardin, who did most to elaborate and develop it. I have my doubts about the value of Chardin's work but the following extract from T. A. Goudge, 'Salvaging the "Noosphere"', Mind, New Series, Vol. 71, No. 284 (Oct., 1962), 543 may make things a little clearer. I think its explains the nature of the noosphere (supposing it to exist) fairly clearly - far more clearly in fact than Chardin does himself : 

Conifold's point, his caution, about subjectivity is well taken. What might usefully be done, however, is to reconstruct the moral thinking that would make A's reaction intellectually coherent. What view of morality, regardless of whether I or anyone else accept it, makes sense of this reaction ? This can be done, I think but could be wrong, without undue or any subjectivity. A is inclined to what Sir David Ross calls 'beneficence' - making the condition of others, in this case B, better in respect of pleasure (or some other metric). A also, however, appreciates gratitude (which also appears in Ross). B does not reciprocate A's beneficence with gratitude. If A just practises benevolence because s/he feels like it, it is hard to see A as a moral agent as distinct from just a nice person to have around. If B's ingratitude merely pains or irks A, then it's just a psychological matter how A reacts. If, however, A believes that s/he is acting morally in practising benevolence, then benevolence remains a moral requirement regardless of B's ingratitude. A did not act benevolently for any return, and receives none : morally B's ingratitude then is irrelevant to A's benevolence. The moral requirement of benevolence remains. Suppose, too, that A believes gratitude to be a moral duty. A can perfectly well point out to B that B is failing in this duty. None of this expresses my opinion about how A should conduct her- or himself. But it does outline a coherent scheme of moral thought in which the situation described in the question is intelligible. The references to Ross are from 'The Right and the Good' (Oxford, 1930), 21. And I am not making a plug for Ross. On a contractarian view of morality, which assumes and requires reciprocity and mutual benefit, benevolence and gratitude can be seen as paired requirements. If A is beneficent to B but B shows no gratitude, including no reciprocity, then A can claim that the contract has been broken and that B's ingratitude releases A from beneficence. David Gauthier's 'Morals By Agreement' (1986) explores the thinking that supports such a view of morality. Not a plug for Gauthier either. 

Some things cannot change, e.g. the number 7 though our knowledge of its properties might alter. There are changes which some things cannot undergo because the alteration of their state causes them to cease to exist. If I die immediately after writing this mail, I have not changed; I have ceased to exist. 

Yes, if you accept realism as the theory (very roughly) (a) that some facts, events, states of affairs exist independently of experience, (b) that these facts, &c., can be known, and (c) that they can be known (or can only be known) conceptually and not through experience. Descartes comes to mind as a candidate for this view. Experience, or 'phenomena' as Descartes sometimes calls it, provides the material for science but as such it explains nothing. On the contrary, it leaves everything to be explained by principles, namely laws, which are formulated by reason. A clear statement of this position is Descartes, Principles of Philosophy, 1644, II, art. 64 : 'The only principles which I accept, or require, in physics are those of geometry and pure mathematics; these principles explain all natural phenomena, and enable us to provide quite certain demonstrations regarding them' ('The Philosophical Writings of Descartes, I, tr. J. Cottingham and others, Cambridge, 2009, 247). We might want to retreat from Descartes' belief in 'quite certain demomstrations' but he does outline the kind of position you asked about. 

Marcia Baron takes a deontological line, similar to Kant's but also critical of it, in THREE METHODS OF ETHICS: A DEBATE. By MARCIA W. BARON, PHILIP PETTIT, and MICHAEL SLOTE. Oxford: Blackwell, 1997. Pp. vi, 285. Baron's own : Marcia W. Baron, Kantian Ethics Almost without Apology ISBN 10: 0801486041 / ISBN 13: 9780801486043 may be useful - she only says 'Almost Without Apology', which so there's critical distance as well as sympathy of viewpoint. You might also care to take a look at : Stephen Darwall, Deontology. Published by Wiley-Blackwell. ISBN 10: 0631231129 / ISBN 13: 9780631231127 This is a collection expressing a variety of viewpoints; here you're very likely to find some useful material both sympathetic and critical. There are well-known similarities between Rawls and Kant but these are not close and direct enough for your purposes, I think. 

'Validity' has different senses but the questioner has made plain which one is involved in the question - the sense given by the author. 

I must extend some sympathy to Charlton because Aristotle's remarks at the start of Physics I are compressed and gnomic. ▻ SUBJECT-MATTER OF PHYSICS The subject-matter of Aristotelian physics is, Carlton tells us, 'things which are subject to change, things which are not without matter, and things which have in themselves the source of their changing or staying unchanged' (W. Carlton, Aristotle's Physics, I, II, Oxford : Clarendon Press, 1970, ix. This clearly suggests that Aristotelian physics is concerned with physical things, their states and attributes : physical entities or objects, one might say. The field of inquiry is thus, to a first approximation, entities rather than formulas. ▻ METHODOLOGY : ORDERS OF CLARITY Aristotle's real analytical object in doing physics is to discover the archai, the ruling principles or origins of things - their formulas as you might prefer to say. However, if we want to be acquainted through discovery with the archai, we need to take an oblique route. In order to come to know a thing's own essential nature but we have to start with what is clearest and most familiar to us, given our own natures. This means starting with observation (aisthesis) of the physical world; this is what is initially clearest and most familiar to us. Gradually we are able to apply induction (epagoge) to the data of observation : from observations we can derive universals (kinds), we can work out what a particular thing observed is an instance of, the kind of thing it is. From this in turn we can analyse a kind of thing as a specific type of combination of form and matter; ad from this we can ascertain its essential nature. We discover its arche, its ruling principle or origin, what makes it the thing it is. Now, the archai, which make kinds the specific kinds they are, are 'clearer or better known by nature' in the sense that they are primary in determining what kinds there are and what their essential natures are : they are first in the order of explanation of nature. But when we started our inquiry we could not start with them, since they were veiled from us. We had to start from what was clearest and most familiar to us, namely observation of the physical world. We started with what was clearest and most familiar to us (with what was knowable by us). We did so in order to reach eventually what was initially not clear or familiar at all, the essential natures of things (things known in their fundamental natures). Aristotle does not use the term, epagoge, at the beginning of Physics, I. I have moved his argument around a bit to make it less puzzling. ▻ REFERENCES Russell Winslow, Aristotle and Rational Discovery, London : Continuum, 2007. G.E.L. Owen, Logic, Science and Dialectic, Ithaca : Cornell University Press, 1986. R. Bolton, 'Aristotle's Method of Natural Science : Physics I', Aristotle's Physics : A Collection of Essays, Oxford : Clarendon Press, 1991. 

One line of thought here is that of existentialism. Philosophers from Aristotle to Aquinas and beyond have thought that there is a human essence, an essential human nature; and that actions flow from this nature. 'To be' a human being is 'to act' in certain characteristic ways and to have certain dispositions to act. Our essence is intrinsic to our existence; it's like the blueprint from which we are made. The phrase for this is that our essence precedes our existence. Existentialists such as Sartre reverse this relationship between being and action. For them, there is no essential human nature, no human essence, just the endless possibility of defining ourselves through our actions. As we make choices, and as we act, so we become certain kinds of persons : through our actions we come to exist ('to be') the persons we are. As Sartre sees it, our existence precedes our essence. We first exist, then define our nature.