In mathematics everything that is different is distinguished and one considers a totality of distinct things. This avoids the tricky part: human judgement. This judgement is often easy for us. It is clear that we perceive many things as distinct and that the world "crystallises" into objects. Although this perception is not always all that is needed for distinguishing between things, in most day-to-day situations it is enough. It is only in edge cases where we need to go beyond our the appearance of objects separated in space, and use some other mode of judgement. The ability to distinguish between things is the main topic of the scientific field of psychophysics, which really got going around the 1890's and continues to this day. There have been many philosophical writings about it this human capacity too, in fact I'm of the opinion that it is the main question of philosophy (others may not agree). To answer your question directly: mathematics excludes human judgement, so when constructing a formal system we must start after judgement has been made - we do it by assuming that its objects are all distinguishable from each other. If objects in mathematics are not distinguishable they are taken to be the same. This is not true of real things, which can be different but not distinguished. 

3. The Distinction Between Truth and Existence: The fallacy that leads to equating "Existence" and "Truth" is that only the "Truth Value" of "Existence" is compared to "Truth", not the "holistic" value of the qualities that make up existence, (time, location, form, nature, etc.). 

Obviously, I am speaking to some common Scriptural passages - to avoid the meritless claims of a mis-deific characterization, (like "God" as a "celestial-dictator", solipsistic, and self-fulfilling, etc.); Obviously this argument only aspires to an abductive or inductive conclusion - through analogy, as it probably isn't valid to actually dogmatically represent a non-corporeal "God" dwelling in a transcendent domain of reality - which would be hard to relate to. 

There is quite a tradition in philosophy concerning the setting aside of various beliefs about the world, with the aim of getting a better understanding. It stretches back at least as far as ancient Greece, and continues today. However, the idea of setting aside certain beliefs about the world is not in conflict with having knowledge. In fact, without knowledge it is impossible. Let me explain, I'll try and phrase things to match your question, but it is not my usual mode of expression... When we embark on the journey of comprehending something we bring with us certain beliefs. This is the case whether this undertaking is one we have actively sought or otherwise. These beliefs are silent, they sit in the background, unobserved. When we are first acquainted with something, we unavoidably comprehend it in terms of these hidden beliefs. Luckily, we can do something about these preconceptions by making effort to be aware of potential hidden beliefs, whether it is in the form of reading philosophy, meditation, socialising, exploring or whatever. Whichever it might be, this gives us knowledge in the form of awareness of how our beliefs might affect our comprehension. This knowledge gives us the ability to step back and see things in more clarity and depth, the ability to see that something can be seen from other perspectives (or as Hunan put it, we get "awareness of realities") - we need knowledge to set aside beliefs. Now the idea that anyone could be unbiased in this way at all seems kind of natural because at one point in everyone's lives they were unaware of the possibility that they had these biases. Everyone knows what it was like to think that they were not bringing prejudices into their understanding. This experience coincides with the least knowledgeable parts of our lives (i.e. childhood). What one seeks when setting beliefs aside - in it's most comprehensive form - is the kind of certainty in the self-evident truth that the naivity of childhood once afforded. We wish to return to a state where things are what they seem to be: but not through the naivity we left with, but through wisdom. To comprehend to our greatest ability we should be mindful, not mindless! 

2.2. Evolving Definitions and Perceptions: Deism, Atheism, and Mysticism, in their various forms, throughout history, are relative constructs, and have changed over time. It is absolutely certain that our concepts of theism/mysticism will mature further. Consider: Justin Martyr defended Christianity against accusations of atheism. 

Partnership: Advocating for, helping, and Challenging each other; (Psalms 21:1, Isaiah 7:1; Matthew 1:23). Intimacy: In-to-me-see, revealing own heart and perceiving the heart of others; (Isaiah 66:2, etc.) Beauty: Art, Form, etc.; (Isaiah 61:3, etc.) 

2. The Text, Epictetus Discourses 1.11: Because ἓν / one is given emphatic placement, and because I understand ἐπὶ πάντων to indicate "Primacy / Importance", I read it as: 

Note 1: In Deductive, Inductive, and Abductive Logic, the term "Necessarily" changes to "Probably" and then "Plausibly". Note 2: This "definition" applies within the contexts of logic and even causality, (it breaks down in metaphysics, etc.; In metaphysics it is not necessary that "a square must have 4 equal sides"). In the context of logic, this definition could be falsified if these definitions somehow do not apply to a valid conclusion following a valid syllogism. Disproving a "Truth": 

In other words, this God who looks at the entire cosmos from outside, does not know what it is like to be part of it. My first question: I'm aware that Jonas was interested in Gnosticism, something I know nothing about, is this Jonas' argument part of the Gnostic tradition? Does it pre-date it? Does it have a more recent origin? My second question: Gnosticism aside, there seems to be a whole category of arguments of which this is part. Is there a review of them anywhere? 

This just means that he knows this is something that happens, the word see is often used like this in English. Generally, word see is often used to refer to facts which are more objectively true, or at least have some privileged position - compare with "I hear that ...". This association has roots that go back at least as far as Aristotle's Metaphysics (see Jonas, The Nobility of Sight). 

2. The Plausibility of Pleasure: Suppose that "God" is defined, (at least in part), as the creator of beings. Then analogously, if we created beings - we could be considered "gods". And, if we find pleasure in our creation - then it stands to reason that our own creator would plausibly find pleasure too. The question then becomes - why are we finding pleasure in creating beings? 

Specific Examples where Objectivity was appropriately set aside for other forms of reasoning would sufficiently answer the question. 

Because of this "injection", there is a lot of equivocation between the terms. But, abstractly: even if "2 + 2 = 4" is true AND ALSO exists. ... It would appear that "2 + 2 = 4" would exist in a different "domain of reality" than where "my tomato" exists in my own "causal domain". Causality does not necessarily apply to logic, but can certainly be a factor. And, when one domain of reality is plausibly affected by other domains, it is plausible that certain domains might "override" each other. 

Legal I don't think anyone should consider you guilty for having your car stolen, no matter how easy you make it. It's illegal to steal cars. The person who stole it is guilty. Law is very particular about what is deserved. Intelligence It's generally considered pretty stupid to leave your car unlocked with your keys in it in a place where it might get stolen. However, if you had some other reason or principle which lead you to believe that that was the way you should act then it might be considered brave. If you are making a calculated stand by doing it then it's not being stupid, it's accepting the costs of living how you think you are entitled to live. Do people deserve the consequences of bravery? No, they suffer them. They think the consequence are unjust but are willing to accept them in order to affect change or defend their own integrity. Moral From the various senses in which one could use "deserving", the that is left out from the above concerns morality. If you are deserving in this sense it would imply that you have done something morally wrong yourself. If you are deserving, the theft is a fitting punishment for your amoral behaviour. Is it immoral to trust other people not to steal your car? I think very few people would say yes to this (objectivists, perhaps?). You wouldn't get money from insurance though... Insurance is a different matter. It's just about financial risk. In signing an insurance contract you are accepting that you wont expose the insurance company to a level of risk greater than a certain amount. In the sense you would be in breach of your contract by leaving your car unlocked and you might well be considered deserving of no insurance money. I've known people to confuse insurability with moral responsibility... a real shame (and very widespread). Conclusion In conclusion, there is nothing above that suggests anyone has a moral or legal responsibility to prevent people committing crimes against them. However, for other reasons it might be a good idea not to take unnecessary risks and keep your insurance premiums low. You have things that are required (not stealing cars, not rape etc) and you have things that are permissible (lock your car or don't, wear what you want). Preventing crimes to yourself is permissible (as long as it isn't criminal itself), but it is not required. The worst quality a permissible act could have in the context here is being stupid or risky.