It isn't really feasible. They would need an unbroken line of trees stretching the entire distance. Unfortunately, there are deserts and planes in the way. You can see this map of tree cover for North America: 

One possibility is to avoid the problem entirely by making the place you store the dishes also be dishwashers. So you put dirty silverware in the silverware drawer, and clean silverware comes out. The drawer detects dirty silverware and washes them automatically. The cupboard where you store your plates and bowls also washes those plates and bowls if they are dirty. The cupboard where you store your pots and pans cupboard also scrubs and washes those pots and pans. If you take it a step further, you don't deal with the storage at all. You stick your dirty dishes in a machine. The machine washes them, sorts them, and stores them inside itself. Next time your kitchen makes a meal, it knows exactly what dishes you will need and the machine provides them for you. The washing, storage, and retrieval would all happen on belts behind-the-scenes. 

No. The answer to your title question is "yes", there is nothing about black powder specifically that makes it inevitable that it would be discovered before steam power. But your full question is a very different one, with a different answer. It isn't really feasible feasible for steam engines to be developed without gun-like weapons also being developed. The simple reason is that the same principles used in a steam engine can be used in a projectile weapon: a steam cannon. In fact, such a weapon is considerably simpler than a steam engine and designs of such weapons predate any usable steam engine. Steam guns were never used in warfare because by the time the technology was made to manufacture them in usable numbers and quality, easier-to-use gunpowder was available. But if gunpowder were not available, steam guns would have been a natural outgrowth of the much more complicated steam engine development. It is true that Heron made a very early steam-powered device long before gunpowder or steam guns existed. However, this device wan not a practical way to use steam to power machinery. It produced far too little power to do anything useful for a feasible amount of water and fuel. The machinery to get useful work out of steam is much, much, much more complicated. 

The main reason they wouldn't view humanity as a monolithic whole is that we aren't a monolithic whole, and we live very spread out over the planet. So wherever they first land, they'll meet whichever humans live there, and those humans will be only too happy to tell them how awful the other humans are. The aliens will side with these humans if they can offer something the aliens want. The answer that first comes to my mind is that the humans offer to give the aliens the other humans' land, natural resources, or people (as slaves). It's in the aliens' best interest to take this deal because then they can get the land/resources/slaves with less effort and expense than if they had to take them on their own, and they don't have to worry about all of humanity banding together to fight them off. 

Having fertilized eggs disintegrate pretty much goes against your assumption of immortality. Biologically speaking, a fertilized egg is a living organism in its own right. What you're talking about is the mass death of the very young children of immortals. Of course, you could just let your immortal women go through menopause and be infertile after that. Alternatively, recall that regular human women are born with all of our eggs--(actually, we have them all before we're even born. In real life, these eggs degrade over time, which is why it's harder for older women to have children, even if they haven't hit menopause. If you keep either of these effects, you're capping the number of children each woman can have. Iboth these mechanisms are too much like aging for you, how about this: An egg is only viable for about twenty-four hours after ovulation anyway. After that it can't be fertilized.* So you could (a) shorten that time, or (b) lengthen the time it takes an egg to travel far enough down the fallopian tube to meet the other cell, or (c) both. [*Note: probably someone's wondering whether this means a woman can only get pregnant from intercourse within twenty-four hours after ovulation, i.e. twenty-four hours every month-ish, and the answer is no. Prior to ovulation, a healthy woman produces cervical mucus that both provides "swimming lanes" for sperm to get where they need to go and also actually keeps the sperm alive for a matter of days. It varies from woman to woman, but the actual (potentially) fertile window can be around a week.] 

There could be as many pathogens as there are types of self-replicating organisms or molecules. Bacteria and eukaryotes are earth organisms. Other planets would likely have radically different organisms, any of which could be a pathogen. Both single-celled and multi-celled organisms can act as pathogens here on Earth, so alien single-celled and multi-celled organisms (or even organisms that lack anything we could identify as a cell) could be pathogens. It wouldn't have to be a full organism, any self-replicating molecule could be a pathogen, as long as it can successfully enter the body and find the raw materials to replicate inside. This could include molecules not found on Earth. It can also include molecules that are found on Earth that have the potential to self-replicate, but don't currently self-replicate on Earth, such as RNA or DNA (there are "naked" RNA pathogens, viroids, but they use a cell's replication machinery rather than replicating themselves, and in the cell RNA and DNA need other molecules to replicate). Similarly, prions work by causing other proteins to mis-fold into more prions. But RNA and DNA also fold in important ways, so there is a potential for RNA or DNA equivalents of prions to exist (although as far as I am aware none are known). Finally, from what I have found there is one (and only one) group of organisms on Earth for which no known pathogenic forms exist: archae. However, archae are particularly hardy, often living in extreme environments. This could make pathogenic archae hard to defeat with our natural defenses or medicine. 

It's important to the country to have a lot of llamas, like some kind of Strategic Llama Reserve. Possible reasons for this: 

Someone mentioned communist brain drain, but let's look at something more specific: the brain drain the Soviets created by purging the engineers. Solzhenitsyn goes into a lot of detail in Volume 1 of The Gulag Archipelago, but the basic idea is this: Accuse your country's engineers of "wrecking," or intentional sabotage of critical infrastructure and industry. Put the leaders on trial publicly, detailing their treason and malevolence. (Minor figures like good foremen can be dealt with in smaller and less well-broadcast trials.) Then exile, imprison, or execute them all. Now everyone who knows how to run a power station efficiently, repair a drill press, or build a road is in [Siberia|Gitmo|the grave]. Things start to break down, and there's a massive recession. 

Everyone else has disappeared, but presumably many of them have left their cars behind. So go out and collect all the car batteries you can find, and then connect them to blinking Christmas lights. String the lights around the top of the tallest building in your area (like in "28 Days Later"). If you use efficient LED lights, they should last for about a day on a fresh battery while you explore the rest of the city. (Feel free to use your library to set up a more elaborate circuit, with more batteries, for multi-day trips.) Unlike a flag, they require semi-frequent maintenance, so you won't keep attracting people to your area if you die. You can either keep stealing car batteries, or hoard gas and recharge them in their cars. (This is how they keep the radio on in Alas, Babylon. If you don't have a car of your own, the library will tell you how to hotwire one.) 

Another solution is segmentation. Some organisms have multiple body segments, each with its own set of organs. Although vertebrates are segmented, we only have one or two of most of our organs. But a more strongly-segmented organism could have one complete set of organs for certain segments. There wouldn't even need to be a strong reason, it could just be imposed by their evolutionary history (like the fact that human segmentation is laid out for an animal that walks on all fours). 

A more selfish reason: the Gods have limited reserves of power. Affecting the material world drains them of a little bit of their power. Perhaps this power takes a long to regenerate, or perhaps they have a total amount for their existence and they die when it runs out. So they teach humans not to rely on them so that they either have power when they need it, or so they can extend their own lives. 

One possibility would be to give the planet some sort of long-term cloud system forming a belt around around the equator that blocks out sunlight, or perhaps even having the clouds form high-altitude ice crystals that reflect sunlight away. You could still have day-night cycles even at the equator, it is just that the equator blocks enough of the light to reduce temperatures. Some of the gas giant planets have storms lasting for centuries or even thousands of years that form bands around the planet vaguely similar to what I am describing. However, I am not sure what specific set of geographic features would encourage the formation of such a weather system on a rocky planet. 

But it's also important to the country that llama-tending not just be the work of a minority, lest they become a permanent underclass and lest the non-llama-tending people forget the importance of the SLR. So every citizen has to spend a year taking care of a llama as a form of national civilian service. It happens in middle age because youngsters are just not that good at taking care of llamas, but they also want to wait for people to get sufficiently established in their careers that a year-long absence won't mess them up too much. Many people do in fact skate by with just a day of llama-tending, but many people take their duty seriously and find it to be a life-changing experience. 

For the purposes of this answer, I'm assuming that "a clone of yourself of the opposite sex" just means a clone who shares your genetic material, except that one of your sex chromosomes is swapped for a "synthetic" one. In this scenario, people don't "date themselves." Identical twins have identical DNA1, but they're different people with different personalities. Your opposite-sex clone has an entire chromosome that you don't have, and doesn't have one that you have. Realistically (ha), my man-clone is not going to be that similar to me. At best/worst, people are marrying people with similar personalities--which is already something that happens all the time. Marriage and family law Option 1 Leave the law pretty much as it is. In most countries, people can contract legal marriages without passing any kind of fertility test, let alone a "will your fiancé(e) save you from clinical depression?" test. Why should clones be any different? Option 2 The government decides people should only be allowed to marry people they can have children with. Fine, so pass that law/issue that royal decree/certify that bureaucratic regulation. Then you need some kind of system that allows people to find the people they're allowed to marry. This could be based on a government clone-registry, if such a thing exists. You could even turn it into a dating app! In our dating apps, you can set it to only display men or only display women. Building an app that only shows you people you're genetically compatible with won't be hard. If each person only has one clone, then you're looking at a society of mass arranged marriage. This is not without precedent, and generally means a society that doesn't strongly associate marriage with shmoopy-doopy romantic feelings. You get married because that's your role--to run a household and raise a family together, not because you're in wuv fowevuh. Just like we don't expect to be BFFs with everyone at work, but still decide to get along and do our jobs, these people and their clones will get along and do their jobs of raising families. This can be facilitated by clearly delineated gender roles. For example, if it's understood that women are in charge of childrearing, then it's not an issue if your arranged husband has a different philosophy of sleep-training than you, because it's not his domain. 1 Well, almost--they have slight genetic differences due to random in-utero mutations, but it's likely that clones would experience the same mutations. Even if not, the genetic differences between twins are less than an entire chromosome. Insofar as personality is determined by genetics, the chromosome swap outweighs the non-mutation. 

Unintelligent but fast-reproducing nanomachines. In the same way that simple, fast-reproducing organisms dominate the world today (there are more bacteria cells in a human body than human cells by number, for example), simple, fast-reproducing machines would dominate your AIs. However, they could lack many of the limitations that keep biological microorganisms from completely replacing us, allowing them to replace their creators entirely. 

Electromagnetic waves can carry information, but as far as we know they can't process information without some sort of physical object to mediate the interactions between the waves. So the aliens could convert themselves to waves to travel from one place to another, but they would need some physical object that could carry out the computations their brains normally would carry out at either end. It would be like copying their brains from one location to another, they would not be capable of any thought while traveling in wave form. Even if they could be waves, there is a problem with the idea of them being "all around us". Electromagnetic waves face a number of problems when traveling over great distance that would degrade the quality of the information in the waves. They get smeared both in time and space, they lose energy, they get absorbed, their frequency shifts based on the relative speed of the source and destination as well as the general expansion of the universe. On top of that electromagnetic waves are pretty slow, potentially taking decades or even centuries to travel interplanetary distances. Further, the Earth itself is really good at absorbing electromagnetic waves, so if they were all around us they would be dying as the waves containing them were absorbed by the Earth. Of course you could throw out the rules of physics as we know them, but then there isn't really any way to answer the question.