Early in Mobutu's long spell in power he instituted a policy of Authenticité, promoting African names over colonial ones. As part of that policy the name of the country was changed from Congo to Zaire. Additionally, the flag was changed radically, from the pre-1971 blue background/yellow star flag (influenced by the earlier Belgian Congo flag) to a predominantly green one. Flag to 1971 | Mobutu's flag 1971 to 1997 | post-Mobutu 1997 flag In 1997, Laurent Kabila's AFDL overthrew President Mobuto of Zaire and Kabila was named president. The name of the country was swiftly changed back from Zaire to Congo and the flag also reverted from Mobutu's authenticity policy flag to a version of the old blue and yellow one. I assume the reason this happened was that it underscored the break with Mobutu's rule and was intended both domestically and internationally to make exactly that statement. However, it still seems a curious set of decisions. Horrific and disastrous though Mobutu's rule was, the Zaire name and the updated flag, both of which had been in place years for 26 years aren't obviously terrible. And Mobutu's names for Kinshasa and Kisangani were left alone. Especially curious is that the Congo name and the reverted flag both hark back to the even more horrific period of Belgian rule. Simply renaming country and flag isn't the norm, even in Africa, when a terrible dictator is overthrown. Zambia didn't when Kaunda was ousted and Zimbabwe won't when Mugabe goes. Is there an explanation that goes beyond "breaking with Mobutu"? 

That means that the price of gold is driven by the size of the money supply, so changes in interest rates would theoretically drive real gold prices largely to the extent that they expand or contract the money supply. Exchange prices of gold internationally would be more of a measure of the relative strength of the exchanging nations' economies. 

Reprisal indeed sank in a storm, but there seems to be some dispute as to whether it was on October 1st or November 1st. This is one of the surviving contemporary reports from an "Extract of a letter from the gentleman of this place, dated at Bourdeaux, November 20, 1777".1 

Image credit NASA Take a look at the topographical lines around Coats Land - the ascent to the Antarctic Plateau is more difficult from the Filchner-Ronne Ice Shelf than it is from the Ross Ice Shelf. It doesn't look that bad on the map, but there is roughly a 10,000ft (~3000m) elevation difference from the ice shelves to the Plateau. The second reason was that the Weddell Sea is extremely inhospitable compared to the relative calmness of the Ross Sea. To borrow Thomas R. Henry's quotation from Wikipedia: 

This was a variation of the F.N. model. 1910 that was commissioned by the Yugoslavian military in the inter-war period with 60,000 ordered with both general issue and "officer" markings. Note, the Wikipedia article is horribly referenced, but you should be able to confirm this in Anthony Vanderlinden's book FN Browning Pistols: Side-Arms That Shaped World History as several other sites refer to it (I don't have a copy so can't verify this). 

There weren't "countless" border crossings between East and West. The checkpoints Alpha, Bravo and Charlie were the designated checkpoints for use by allied forces personnel (there were others which only West Berlin citizens could use). Alpha and Bravo are less famous because Alpha was the main crossing for the "inner German border" dividing East and West Germany proper, while Bravo was in the south-west of Berlin. Alpha and Bravo were used for transiting between West Germany and West Berlin (crossing East German territory but nothing to do with East Berlin). So these crossing points were rather mundane compared to Charlie which was in the heart of the city and was used to transit between East and West Berlin. 

In Lynne Olson's recent interview in the New York Times dealing with her book Those Angry Days she notes that isolationism was "finished" by late 1941 and that a "sea change" occurred in American public opinion in the two years leading up to Pearl Harbour. She talks about the dominance of the isolationist lobby in 1939, about both liberals and conservatives at the time having powerful reasons for wanting to keep the United States out of the war, and about the importance and strength of women's groups in the isolationist lobby. She says little about why all this faded through 1940 and 1941 except to mention a disastrous anti-semitic speech by leading isolationist Charles Lindbergh in September 1941 which badly backfired. She does claim that key interventionist groups were lobbying the president and congress to come to Britain's aid but doesn't say what motivated them or how ordinary public opinion in the United States was swayed in favour of interventionism. It's a given that Pearl Harbour itself transformed the landscape. I'm interested in the period prior to that. 

He eventually arrived in Le Harve on June 20th, after brief layovers in Santander and La Coruña in Spain and Plymouth, England. The picture below purports to be of the Ypiranga entering the Le Harve harbor with Díaz aboard. 

The Hunt and Lipo Late Arrival Hypothesis You can get a little better understanding of the hypothesis put forward in the article linked to in the question in this Terry Hunt's 2006 paper in American Scientist3. Much of the hypothesis put forward in The Statues That Walked stems from the conclusion that Hunt puts forward in that paper - that the settlement of Easter Island occurred much later than previously claimed (this effects population growth estimates and rate of deforestation). This claim is rejected (with the requisite amount of academic politeness) by quite a few others in the field based on what they see as flaws in Hunt's methodology. Bahn and Flenley write in their broadside rebuttal of the book that; 

It arrived in Havana with the general on board 2 days later, again as reported by the New York Times on June 4th: 

According to the Wikipedia article on Trinity, the estimated yield of the device was between 18 and 20 kilotons from a 6.2 kg plutonium 239 core. Complete fission of Pu-239 yields 19 kilotons per kilogram, giving an efficiency of somewhere between 15% and 17%. 

The villa in question was Villa Gaggia, a pleasant enough villa in the foothills of the Dolomites. The North East of Italy makes sense geographically for a meeting between the two dictators. But why did Hitler, having flown as far as Treviso, then set off north again, by train, all the way back up to Feltre? Feltre is nearly half way back up to the Austrian border. Then, as Kershaw points out, the "Feltre meeting" didn't in fact take place in Feltre but an hour further on, by road. I know the area. If a comfortable, secure and secluded villa were required, then the entire Treviso area is dotted with suitable residences. Villa Gaggia would seem a strange choice for a lightning visit. Does anyone know why they went there? Incidentally, Kershaw notes this was Hitler's last visit to Italy. Does that make it his last foreign trip of any kind? 

Britain and France were allies and equal partners in shaping the post-WW1 settlements, and French interests in the Eastern Mediterranean and Middle East were powerful and historic. Presumably, also, France was just as interested in oil as Britain was. How was Britain suddenly able to gobble up Mosul simply because oil had been discovered there? Did Britain concede territory to France somewhere else as part of the negotiations? 

A couple modern authors note that his politics were a strain on his career, such as this passage from Fighting Elites: A History of U.S. Special Forces by John C. Fredriksen (p101): 

I would suggest reading Book 1 of The Gallic Wars (link has both English and Latin if you want to see the untranslated text), which is as much a political history of the conquest of Gaul as it is a military history. Julius Caesar starts the book with a description of the political landscape at the time: 

In 1774 James Cook gives a slightly different picture, noting that while he didn't see abundant surplus, it was attributable to the extent that crops were planted and the amount of labor involved. He also comments on the apparent lack of fishing as a food source given the low abundance in the coastal waters. What is conspicuously missing is any characterization of the population as undernourished. 

The long strap you are referring to is called a "Guige" strap, and the original intention was likely not to allow the shield to be transported on one's back (although it would have been an added bonus) - the primary purpose was likely to distribute the weight of the shield during use. Given that a shield could weigh upwards of 5-10kg, being able to support the majority of the load on the shoulders would be a considerable advantage even with any loss of mobility. For soldiers wielding spears, the guige also allowed a shield to be used in combat while freeing both hands for the shaft of the weapon. In addition, they were also used on horseback to either entirely support the shield to allow a free hand on the reins or again lighten the load enough to allow the shield hand to do so more effectively. In fact, you can sometimes see how they were used in period art, such as this plate from the St.Etienne Bible for Cîteaux. 

Between 24th June 1948 and 12th May 1949 land routes into West Berlin were blocked by Soviet forces and West Berliners were supplied entirely by air (the famous Berlin Airlift). No one connected with the Soviet authorities had thought Berlin could be supplied this way. But contrary to expectations the airlift was an astonishing logistical succcess, eventually bringing in supplies at a rate which exceeded what had been provided by road and rail prior to the crisis. So, although "because it wasn't working" is the flippant answer to my question, that doesn't explain Soviet thinking. While the blockade was clearly a failure from the Soviet point-of-view, at the same time it (seemingly) cost nothing to maintain. It was a success for the western allies, and a glorious one, but its costs were high. Wikipedia's article only suggests that "humiliation" forced the Soviets to lift the blockade, but surely ending the blockade and admitting their defeat was humiliating in its own right. Why not just impose the blockade indefinitely? Airlift or no airlift. Did the blockade impose costs on the Eastern Bloc which aren't immediately apparent? Damage to goodwill (both inside Germany and in the wider world)? Trade costs? Were there economic levers which the western allies were able to apply quietly to help end the blockade? 

It apparently didn't have much passing power, as the top speed was specified at a blazing fast 4.8 miles per hour and it didn't achieve that in practice. Edit: After a bit of searching, I found a reference to a specific date that the testing started, which is given as October 20th, 1769 at the Paris Arsenal. Note that there aren't any citations given on the page, so I can't verify it (even if I could read French). The original concept seems to have been proposed in Cugnot's 1766 book Éléments de l'art militaire ancien et moderne, although work didn't begin until a commission was granted in 1769. I can't locate the date that the commission was given, but if you read French, this document might be a good starting point for more research. 

...and in countless other engagements from North Africa to the Eastern Front. As to your follow-up question, whether there was a different type of tank used to counter infantry, the obvious answer is that any tank is useful in countering infantry. That said, there were some purpose built mobile howitzers and assault guns such as the Sturmgeschütz III or the Wespe, but these were frequently pressed into anti-tank roles. 1 Military Intelligence Service, United State War Department, 1943-02 Intelligence Bulletin Vol 01 No 06, p 39 2 ibid. p 41 3 Angier, John C., A 4F Goes to War with the 100th Infantry Division, p 50 4 Smith, James, Western Front: The Second World War, p 84 

Yesterday's Daily Express decorated its WW1 piece with a picture and caption. Link to the story here. 

This source, a review of War for Oil by Dietrich Eichholtz suggests the Germans did get close enough, at least as far as bombing in and around Baku was concerned. It suggests that the Luftwaffe were ... 

This chart from The Economist lists the tallest building completed each year since 1885. It seems a tallish building (over 100m) was completed in Europe in 1940, and indeed this was the tallest building completed during that year, across the whole world. 

At the height of the war between UNITA rebels and the MPLA government of Angola there was - I recall - for a time a plan to fully partition Angola and create two countries. UNITA would have the southern half and the existing MPLA government would hold on to the northern half (including the capital). This would have been in the 1990s? Maps showed a line of partition approximately along the line of the Benguela railway. Obviously the idea fizzled out because we still have one Angola. I remember it being thought of as a deeply radical solution to the seemingly interminable civil war, and probably too radical (maybe less so now we have the example of Sudan). How far did the plan get, and why was it killed? 

The Lexington had been taken prize by the British on September 19th, and was put up for repairs in Dover shortly before the loss of Reprisal, as noted in The Public Advertiser (London), 3 October 17772: 

In 1928, equity prices were booming due to the increase in the money supply, and the Federal Reserve feared that this was a speculative bubble driven by low interest rates. The Fed's action was intended to encourage people to move money from investing in the stock market toward bank savings in an effort to stabilize the economy, not to borrow. 

The longest running that I can find is the property dispute of Raja Rajkrishna Deb, which was started in 1833 and is as far as I can find still pending after 181 years. 

However, the preponderance of materials I could find gave his age at 15. Note that this is the youngest that I can find substantiating record of. The database at deathpenaltyusa.org lists an unnamed white male executed for arson in Suffolk County, Massachusetts in 1837 at the age of 13, but I can't find any source material that would corroborate that. EDIT: In response to the edited question, the youngest person (and certainly the youngest female) generally believed to have been legally executed in the United States is Hannah Ocuish, executed at age 12 in Connecticut in 1786. Note that the deathpenaltyusa.org site linked about records 2 other 12 year olds executed, both black slaves, a boy in Virginia by the name of Clem on 5/11/1787 and another boy named Bill on 7/30/1791. In the latter case, there seems to be a disagreement on the location. I'm guessing that the LA Times is the more accurate account.3 1 Radelet, Michael ed. Facing the Death Penalty: Essays on a Cruel and Unusual Punishment, p 52 2 Morning Examiner. (Bartlesville, Okla.), Vol. 15, No. 46, Ed. 1 Saturday, April 9, 1910, p 3 3 Los Angeles Times. Death for Juvenile Crimes : Execution, a Practice Dating to 1642, May Continue This Week, January 07, 1986 p online