It's your duty to remind your employer of past promises, even bringing up the subject periodically to verify you're still on track. If left to their own devices, most bosses would rather spare the cost. You shouldn't wait for them to offer to hire you now, but you should ask. I'm guessing that the other offer has an expiry date, and if you don't accept it you're likely to lose both that and the promotion you've been promised. 

If the situation is likely to be solved in the near future I'd go with option 1, but that doesn't sound like it from the tone of your question. Regardless of what you choose to do, once the difficulty is over I would thank him for his understanding 

I've read a few answers here advocating asking for more during the initial salary negotiation. The amounts I see leave me dumbfounded, and I suspect it's because these answers come from a US-centric point of view. For example in Just got an initial job offer. How do I ask for more without any real justification? we get this piece of advice: 

Summary: Depends on how long you think it'll take you to resolve the issue, and how noticeable the decline of your performance has been thus far. 

There's no reason to do one or the other. You can test out content on Reddit and keep the best ones in a curated list on your blog. If you keep making good content, it'll boost your blog's rank which, needless to say, boosts your personal brand. 

If you invariably end up re-writing his code, treat the code as a prototype. Prototypes are made to fail to teach you why, so now it's a part of your job, instead of something annoying. It takes a lot of skill to get a design right on the first try for anything reasonably complex. 

With the above points in mind I don't think I should proceed with the plan, but I'm not sure if my fears are justified. Of course I could do the same in my CV, which has a completely different character as a document. Have you ever seen this done? Would it help first impressions at all? And finally, what would a hiring manager's reaction be if this were on a CV? 

1 Every time you do something great, you put it in this file. When it's time for review, you pull it out to show what you've achieved 

Professionals are always concerned about themselves and their careers, and if the project / team happens to align with that, all the better. That's perfectly acceptable. Your colleague wants to go somewhere where they use these new technologies, and probably pay a lot better than you do. 

They're asking for details so they can weigh their offer against the competing one. As far as I can tell, revealing the terms of the other offer will lead to one of two outcomes: 

I'm a foreign student nearing graduation but I've left nationality out of my CV as I thought it irrelevant. I don't intend to include it unless explicitly required, or perhaps "give it away" by listing my mother tongue in a language proficiency section. 

Prove it. Make a forecast, send it to them, and a few months down the line when it's obvious they would've [saved / made more] money had they took you seriously, point that out. You may have to rinse and repeat. Inaccuracies in your report might fuel their confirmation bias, if they've already decided that forecasts are a waste of time. Keep that in mind because you'll have to answer for it. 

The fish rots from the head so I'm focusing on B, leaving the rest of the gang as an afterthought. Again, the rest of your examples are not serious enough to even merit a complaint (others may disagree) so I wouldn't even mention them while drafting such a letter. This is your nuclear option and should be reserved for special cases of idiocy (wow... mewoing?). The letter will put them in mind of legal issues. They will think about firing you, and then think about the ramifications of doing so (you can raise a hell of a stink for it) and will probably decide against it. I hope this helps you or anyone who happens to read it. Good luck. 

To address the points raised in answers so far: My home country doesn't have the equivalent of A-levels. You do a national exam, submit a list of your preferred colleges, and they get to pick which students join them. Unless you want to continue at a private school, or study abroad (as I did). So there's nothing to include really. Even if I were to include high school maths grades, for example, these grades reflect the institution which awarded them and my attitude towards it at the time. Not very indicative of my numeracy. I'm an EU citizen and have no visa restrictions. Of course I'm not trying to conceal my ethnicity (my accent would give it away during the interview anyway) but I really don't see the point in including it in the CV. 

You did the right thing to follow his instructions. I would either send 1-2 more emails a week apart or call him on the phone (but not both!). If he doesn't answer, he probably never will. It might just be that he lost interest or forgot, but culture could also be an indicator; he might just expect you to take a hint and drop the matter entirely. Regardless, I wouldn't expect to hear back any time soon. 

Manager asks you to delete data he deems irrelevant Data exist in automated backups and are retrievable You manually extract the deleted rows from the database despite (2) 

They've already done that: An offer is issued after three interviews The 3rd interview requirement might be a formality, or they're stalling to interview other candidates, or any number of things, none of which matter. You don't have an offer letter so you don't have a job offer. Keep calm and keep looking for a job. 

If by other things you mean other commercial activities, the answer is no. You're still on the clock and being paid for your time. Your boss pushing you to use more than your allotted vacation time, or their not assigning tasks to you has nothing to do with the above. Also: Depending on your locale your boss will likely have a legal claim to any income derived from your work on the clock. So not only it's unethical, it's also dangerous. 

When I interviewed for my current position I was asked to do some tasks in JSP. I had never seen JSP before so I told the interviewer just that and asked if I could use Google as an aid. After a brief dive in Oracle's and SO's most relevant results, I was able to complete the task, save for a small detail. The interviewer noticed that I had basically got it right and decided to spare me guarding against that weird corner case I thought he'd set up as a 'trap'. When I was introduced to the codebase I was told the story of a previous developer, Martin, who had left about a year ago and who's mess is still being cleaned up. When he was hired the company was not doing code interviews, and he had aced his. The programming questions were all from some of Oracle's Java Certification study guides, which I believe he also holds. 

Some recruiters send me cutesy messages starting with Do you remember me? but they're aiming for Silicon Valley-style directness and informality. Again, depends on your relationship with the recipient. You didn't specify locale, if you're both in the same culture, then cultural norms must also be observed (obviously), whatever they may be. Otherwise, your template looks perfectly fine. 

You may be dropped from consideration if they realize they cannot offer you as much as company B. If, on the other had, what they were preparing to offer is close to what B is offering, then they can match that. The third option, not revealing anything at all, yields this: 

We do not know what borderline racist is. It's presumably not racist, otherwise you or someone else would've taken action already. At this point I would go back to the source material and see if there are other jokes aimed towards another ethnicity. If there are, I would contrast each joke to see if the ones aimed at your own are of the same type (the ones he finds funny). If not, mystery solved. This concludes the investigation section. 

...after you verify that he knows you're on holiday. If you think this brusque or curt, remember that the guy interrupted you in the middle of your holidays, which means he doesn't know where your boundaries lie. 

The only problem is, in a salary negotiation the one who names a figure first loses. The best tactic is to ask management how much they think you're worth. 

Does being deliberately obnoxious in such fashion count as unprofessional behaviour? I think it does. Have any of the managers noticed? If any are as annoyed as you your problem will go away quickly. In the meantime you can send a group email asking them politely to stop, 'them' being the 'unnamed perpetrators', I wouldn't name anyone specifically at this point. 

You might as well retitle Is it OK to laugh at my boss with others behind his back since this is what you're asking. I hope this simple rephrase makes it obvious how this can backfire for you. Only you can decide if you'd take the risk and if it's OK for you; for me it would be a no way. You must also examine what you stand to gain from sharing these emails for laughs. Your boss might as well never find out, but then you might be known as the guy who makes fun of people behind their backs. 

A few weeks is not an overly long delay. If in doubt, I'd make sure to reply to the same thread rather than sending a new email, so your recepient has a chance to refresh their memory. Your relationship is significant: are they a supplier to whom you are a customer? In this case you don't need to be overly polite, they're keeping customer records and it's part of their job to 'recollect' past conversations. If the relationship's more balanced, or if the recipient is in power (ie. they're the customer), it might be courteous to start with a brief sentence on where you left things off: 

Your mileage will vary wildly. This has not been my experience. It took me more than 6 months to get another job after 2 years and change. I can tell you that 10 interviews was the warm-up period. I used each and every one to refine my approach, until I finally found an excellent company that made me a great offer. You might not think you're doing anything wrong, but the evidence suggests otherwise. What worked for me was learning how to think like a business person (a bit counter-intuitive as an engineer), and also how to fix my presentation and soft skills. Again, your mileage will vary. I suggest you work towards a backup plan. My plan was to ask my manager what I can do better, so that in 6-9 months I can have a nice raise, outside of the formal annual review cycle. That way if the job search didn't pan out I'd have a cozier job to fall back to, and that helped my morale quite a bit. In the meantime there were some weeks I couldn't schedule enough phone interviews, and others with complete radio silence from any leads. When it rains it pours is the saying I believe. I realized that was the normal rhythm of the game and not worry too much if I didn't pursue a lead every day. A slightly crazy idea is to shift your mindset: You'll get interviewed for a lot of jobs but will only accept one. So, don't think about getting one job, think about getting rejected by X per month. For a while my opening gambit became Let me tell you why you shouldn't hire me. If this seems suicidal, you are essentially preempting the well-known What is your weakness question, but, if done confidently, it's dressed in a veneer of professionalism and a desire not to waste anyone's time. I keep editing this question to add a paragraph or two, so I think I'll stop now. I hope you find some of this useful. 

I read your question as you taking offense at a joke because of the source material uses your ethnicity as the punchline. This is regardless of your customer's deliberate omission of such information. The best course of action is to let it go and learn to, well, take a joke. You or your ethnicity is not being made fun of. I don't know why you think it is, but maybe there's something you didn't convey in your text, so I must give you the benefit of doubt. Since this is a customer it's best to enlist your manager's aid, or at least sympathy, rather than take first action on your own. Before you do that you must decide what you're looking for: 

I disagree with listing it as anything other than work experience, because it is work experience. On the not getting paid part, did your family provide you with food to eat and a roof over your head while working at the restaurant? Even if that's not the case, is it really possible to volunteer for a for-profit organization? I honestly don't know the answer to that but I'm guessing you shouldn't even if you can, and even if you do, advertising it is revealing your past salary, which invites other considerations. 

In this case you might push for other things that translate to money: More vacation, a faster review cycle, bonus... etc. They probably won't retract their offer just because someone asked for more money, but you might come off as greedy if you phrase it the wrong way. What constitues a "wrong way" depends on the people you deal with, and perhaps subject to another answer, so I wish good luck to you. 

It's not immoral at all. When a cashier hands me lots of small denominations I assume they're running out of larger ones and trying to manage their cash reserves. It has never occurred to me that someone's trying to encourage my tip-jar contribution, but there have been times when I didn't donate to charity tip-jars because I didn't have any loose change. 

It's OK to have multiple meetings. You don't always need the manager to organise it, or even attend it, if he's not part of the coding team. Make sure to let him know of what transpired and be prepared to be overruled. There are many unstated assumptions here about your company and culture, therefore season to taste. 

Your boss is not required to give you written documentation of the task assigned to you (it would be great if every manager did that, but what are you gonna do). It's your job to keep track of your tasks, as well as update your manager on your progress. In this spirit, 

Big companies move slowly. Since you've accepted the offer from B (who have been quite patient with you - 2 weeks!) you should call A and tell them not to bother. Company B looks great on paper but you want to name-drop Company A on your CV. That's fine. But that shouldn't matter too much really, what does matter is what you actually did during your employment. Consider two candidates: The first has worked for a giant conglomerate and spent their days being a lowly corporate pleb, dragging themselves from meeting to meeting. The other applicant has worked for a company you've never heard from, but actually helped them build and advance their business. This example is a bit extreme but you get the point. It seems you'll be doing more important stuff at B going by salary alone (but that's not a good metric, only you know which role is better). If you keep playing games with B they might get the idea that you're not really into the job and you're using them as leverage to get somewhere else. You don't want that. It looks like Company A missed their chance. 

Yes it is rude, it's not a huge deal for you, and they're well aware of the cost. If you don't wanna go to Goodwill you can always make a cleaning rag out of it. They get the things in bulk and probably costs them no more than a posh cup of coffee a piece. Take the shirt, put it on, say thank you, and then do with it what you will. 

Sounds like you've already done that. Small nitpick, just because your abilities are great doesn't mean they bring value to the company, but that's just me being pedantic. Bring your I'm awesome1 file with you, and good luck 

This is a question for your manager. If you caught something contagious, you'd be protecting the company by taking a few days off and not spreading it; but it sounds like your issue is stress related. Pro tip: When you look at other examples, take a few moments to compile notes on what you find. You'll start building a knowledge base which will become amazingly handy in the future, for you and other potential future hires. It'll also work wonders for your image, especially when the documentation culture tends to anarchy. It's always a good idea to ask your manager how things are going and if you're meeting expectations, especially when you're new. Your success is your manager's success, and his job is help you do that. Asking how taking a day off or two will be perceived is perfectly pertinent.