On a perfectly smooth road you want your tires to be equally smooth and rock-hard. On a rougher road it's more efficient if the tires have enough "give" to "levitate" you over the smaller bumps, so that you're not using a lot of your energy to make the bike bump up and down. A significant amount of energy can be lost (in addition to the wear and tear on the cyclist) due to bouncing the cyclist up and down over bumps. So on a "sorta bumpy" road you'd want to have tires that weren't quite rock-hard. On a really bumpy road you'd want tires that are more along the line of mountain bike tires, running at a significantly lower pressure. Basically as hard as possible without transmitting too many of the smaller bumps to the bike (and the cyclist). 

Snow and ice are two entirely different conditions. For snow more or less standard "mountain bike" tires are generally fine. Lowering tire pressure is NOT usually a good idea. For any amount of ice you need studded tires. 

A 700c wheel has a 622mm bead seat diameter, which would mean a 311mm radius. But note that, according to Sheldon, "The rim's diameter will generally be 5-10 mm larger than the bead-seat diameter, depending on how high the rim flanges stick up above the bottom of the rim channel." So when Paparazzi measured a 12.5 inch (317mm) radius on a 700c wheel he was seeing 6mm larger than the bead seat radius, which is in the expected range. 

Yep, I'll agree. To "claim your lane" you ride roughly in the middle of the lane, though precisely where depends on the situation. Eg, if you're in a right-hand turn lane, "claiming your lane" is best accomplished by riding near the left-hand edge of the lane. And vice-versa when in a left-hand turn lane. The idea is to not give the motorist any impression that you are intending to share the lane with an automobile. Of course, there are many more times when it's safe to "share" the lane to a degree, such that the motorist does not need to completely change lanes to pass you. This is the polite thing to do when conditions permit. It requires some judgment. 

100 RPM minus your age. (Only half kidding.) 80-90 RPM is a good target for younger, fairly serious bikers. When I was in my 20s-30s I could do that for several hours. As I get older (I'm 63) I find it harder -- 70 RPM is probably closer to my "optimal" speed now, and I drift down toward 60 if I don't keep at it. One rule I tell folks that I think is good for almost all environments, whether flat-out or casual, uphill or down, is to never pedal slower than you're breathing. Keep your cadence at 1-2x your respiration rate. If you're riding along lazily with a resp rate of 30 you can get away with a cadence of 45, but if you're resp rate is 60 your cadence should be at least 60, maybe 80-90. Similarly, if your cadence is 90 and your respiration rate only 40 then you should be using a more difficult gear. 

I've never seen brake levers that WERE adjustable (*), other than by sliding the unit up/down a drop bar, and that's probably not what you want. The shims sound like your best bet, though I would think it's also possible to shim up at the bar/lever mount point, at the expense of affecting the brake hood fit. After shimming (however you do it) be sure to check that the brakes don't drag and the levers don't "bottom out". (*) However, you might look and see if any of the sites specializing in women's bikes has something. I checked the Terry site and didn't see anything, but I think there are a few other sites specializing in women's stuff. 

Though they sorta look like grease zerks, I doubt that. They could be used to somehow secure the crank bearings. I would guess that they were used for retaining/adjusting the eccentric, but you indicate that's elsewhere. Note that what you see may be caps over smaller screws. Have you tried removing one of them? 

Yeah, I'd go with the undersized bike, or at least lower the seat all the way. Maybe remove the pedals. He doesn't have to be flat-footed on the ground, but should be able to push reasonably well while seated. Get him comfortable (on a smooth level surface like a parking lot) with pushing along and balancing, steering, braking, and coming to a stop. Once he's halfway good at it, run along behind him, pushing, to give him more speed and distance. Then add in pedaling after he's comfortable. As to protective gear, a helmet for sure, just to establish the habit, but don't overemphasize the other stuff. Knee pads, eg, would be apt to get in the way and just make matters worse. Training wheels are not a good idea, even for a kid. If all else fails, see if you can find the Fraiser episode where Fraiser and Niles learn to ride a bike. Then tell him to do the opposite. 

If I were going cross-country I'd figure 60-80 miles/day, except in the mountains (which I probably can no longer manage), and many riders would figure 80-100. Generally you ride 5-6 days/week. Meals can be cheap or expensive. If you carry expensive camping food then that's probably $15/meal. If you carry pasta then you can get by on $2 per meal, I'd guess. Meals at restaurants can vary a lot, of course, but mostly you'd stop at diners or fast food places where you could get out for $10 or less. Of course, you also need a good supply of munchies, and that would be another $10/day for me. So I'd figure maybe $30/day if I were trying to be frugal, $40 if not. Others could no doubt get by on $20 or spend $100. $40 for 80 miles is $0.50/mile, and the frugal guy could get it down to maybe half that. Gas for my 25mpg buggy would be about $0.15 per mile. (Of course, this isn't counting food eaten on down days.) Of course, we're not computing how much we pay for the energy expended, vs what we'd normally use to feed our faces. You burn maybe 800 calories/hour cycling at touring speeds. Figure 6 hours/day or 4800 calories. That's roughly 4 Big Mac Value Meals at $5 apiece. So in BMVM terms you'd be spending about $20/day, which is roughly $0.25/mile. You could of course eat more frugally and probably get it down to the $0.15 auto figure. 

The "rule of thumb" (which as you stated is slightly different from the one I know) is only that. The geometry of the shoe and pedal can easily make a half inch to an inch of difference from one pedal/shoe combo to the next. (I learned you place the heels of your SHOES on the pedal and pedal backwards to check seat height -- the legs should go fully extended.) Not clear why you have trouble starting. I always start with one foot clipped in and clip the other foot once I'm going, and I suppose that makes one a little less stable standing. But a lot depends on how much momentum you get from that first quarter rotation of the clipped-in foot.