We generate infinite energy. Gravity does not pass through the mirrors but mass can move through them. This lets us temporarily violate conservation of mass which lets us build an infinite energy machine. This is simplest and most efficient in space were we don't need to worry about friction or other gravities as much. We have a movable mass m near a very large empty container with a mirror with a lid on it. We a large reservoir of water or mercury on ~Earth on the other side of the mirror. We open the mirror and water flows into earths container, then we shut the lid. The gravity of the new mass pulls m forward/Down to the mass's gravity. As the mass falls inward it pulls a turbine and produces energy. We will have the mirror on the same side of the container as m. So once m reaches the container its gravity will pull the liquid against the closed lid. Once m reaches the edge of the container, we open the mirror to let the water return to ~earth, and we shut the lid. We then reset the system by pulling m back to its starting point which now takes less energy then it produced falling in since the container no longer contains all of the mass of liquid. There are other variants but we can generate infinite energy which will have many implications including economic as energy production industries crash. Energy will be abundant and cheep, space travel becomes feasible on a large scale. There will be a growing need for new ways to store and move energy 

A giant lion would be capable of impressive destruction, but if a lion reaches you, you are dead anyway whether or not it is giant or normal. 

It would be a lunar calendar based on the Jewish Calendar Many Christian events are based around the timing of Easter which is closely tied to the Hebrew celebration of Passover. Easter happened on the first day after the Passover Sabbath. Since the Sabbath is always a Saturday then Easter is always a Sunday. The Hebrew calendar already has the 7 day week and naming for the days and the lunar cycles. Christians may have also carried over the idea of special years from the Old tenement commandments such as the Jubilee year (year of returning land and forgiving debts) as well as the numerous festivals and sacrifices prescribed in the old testament. All of which are based on this lunar calendar. 

Add oversight. The creepy / dangerous part of vigilantes or underground organizations is they can operate with no bounds. If they wanted to they could kill you for no reason at all. They become better when they are accountable. A protective group like the one you mention often has a symbiotic relationship with its protecties. They support it supply it and give it bases. The gang is restrained because if they damage their supporters they will lose their base, or be ratted out to the cops. The protected group becomes a restraining influence on the gang. In the traditional role a gentleman is a man who answers to a lady. With many criminal organizations family ties were key. You would trust a guy because he is your cousin, and if he wacked you the family would kick him out. You extend this oversight from immediate family to extended family and neighbors and eventually you start to approach local democracy. 

Farming is the key... You want to level up soldiers safely and cheaply. Its hard and expensive to level them up in open battle because many will die. There are non sentient monsters that would grant you experience if you defeat them, up to a point. You should trap and bread some of these creatures as training stock to ramp up your army with, that way everyone goes into their first battle as a level 2 or 3 not a level 1. Mock combat and training can be another way to accomplish this. 

Not as long as you would think. Their kids will depose them So the dictators can't die of old age and their powerful government will make rebellion by the humans difficult but possible. The real threat is from the vampire kids and lieutenants. Imagine yourself as the son of the vampire king of England, you are the prince and you will never rise to more power or responsibilities unless your father "has an accident" or you conquer a neighboring kingdom, that you could rule on your own. There will be a constant tension between the old guard who want to hold power and the next generations who want to rise and want change. Among humans this is solved by younger generations agreeing to start at a low rank and gradually rising as they learn and as older more experienced workers retire. There is a constant inflow and outflow. But in the vampire world there is no such peaceful cycle, because there is only inflow. To rise in rank all the older vampires above you would have to die or quit. Among humans you only need to compete with the humans born within 40 years of you. With vampires you have to compete with all the vampires ever "born". We would expect frequent violent explosions as this tension is bleed off either in coups by lower rank groups or in wars against neighboring nations in an attempt kill off some members and open some positions. As vampires stuck in the same job for the last hundred years try to either grab more power in their country or gain power over a neighboring region. 

Why not on the ground? -sensor blocking Computers are not good at image processing. It is hard for them to identify objects by sight or deal with foreground objects blocking background objects. From the air it is much easier to see and there are fewer obscuring objects -navigation as noted earlier autopilot in the air is much easier than on the ground there are no obstacles to avoid, no people to not run over, no mud to get stuck in. -Delay loop The army wants a human to be "in the loop" when ever a drone kills something due to speed of light limitations to get up to a satellite back to Nevada and back down this can cause a full second delay between an even and the drivers response. On the ground that second delay is very costly. The enemy can see you coming you are firing unguided munitions(bullets) so you have to lead the enemy its a harder problem. In the air there is a building or a car and a guided missile it still works even with the delay. Why not Armored Drones mean you don't have to survive. Why is a tank armored? So it can survive being shot. Because a tank crew and their tank are expansive and hard to replace. A destroyed drone is only expensive if the drone is expensive. This means that drones will tend to be lighter and cheaper than the normal versions. A tank drone is more likely to be a lightly armored golfcart with 2 sidewinder missiles than an Abrams with computers stuck in it. 

How are capitals chosen? Growth or Placement Growth Most capitals are chosen by growth, we pick the largest or wealthiest city in the country and make it the capital. In this case what makes a capital is what makes a city large: good trade routes, good water supply, good place to build. This encompass the majority capitals (London Paris Cairo Moscow and so on). Placement Sometimes a political decision is made to make something other than the largest city the capital. This can be a political compromise between factions (Washington DC), an attempt to urbanize an area of the country (Brasilia), or an attempt to move the capital to safer territory (Tel Aviv vs Jerusalem speculation about moving Seoul south) 

Two methods - disrupt its internal structure or exhaust its supply of energy. No matter what material the Protomolecule is made of it must store information about its form, so when it reproduces or divides the new Protomolecule will know what form to take. It also needs this information to know how to heal when part of its body is destroyed. Humans store it in DNA but binary code or elaborate silicon structures could server the same purpose. All of these storage methods are based on the physical location of atoms and the chemicals between them. If we rearrange a vast majority of the atoms and their bonds the structure will be broken and the Protomolecule will cease to be alive, just like if we took the same elements and put them in the same configuration we would have a new Protomolecule. This says that anything that breaks the bonds of the Protomolecule will kill it. So hot fire, plasma, in some forms strong acids and basses, can purify matter, by randomizing it. Noble gasses won't form chemical bonds, plasma is to hot to from them, so either can be used as a barrier to stop the spread of Protomolecules. It also takes a great deal of energy to switch forms so we could try to exhaust the Protomolecule by keeping it in a space shielded from ionizing radiation(Xray - gama ray), and exposing it to many weak easy to defeat life forms. Most space ships could be shielded and the Protomolecule could be tricked into bonding with dodo birds for instance which would be easier to defeat. When it runs out of energy the Protomolecule becomes harmless.