I think this is an interesting question but things might be cloudier if we ask what is meant by knowledge in each case. Yes, on the simplest reading, if JTB states all knowledge is justified true belief, then it would, as Derek suggests, seem to be incompatible with a claim that people can have innate knowledge. But we need to ask if these two things do mean knowledge in the same way. JTB seems to be mostly talking about facts (Sache) or states of affairs. And it's a theory about when we "know" a state of affairs to be true. A relevant SEP article for instance points out that what is meant is "propositional knowledge." Innate knowledge, in contrast, may or may not be about facts. Plato's version clearly seems to include something along these lines in that the true knowledge (which depending on the dialogue is either innate or inaccessible is the Forms). More often, in contemporary versions, it seems to be about structures or even a theory about how cognition works (i.e. Kant or perhaps implicit grammar). As such, the idea that there's some sort of "innate knowledge" or "a prior cognition" is not automatically incompatible with a JTB approach to fact claims. Moreover, it seems difficult to design a form of JTB that by that means something completely expansive about "knowledge." For instance is knowing that JTB is true a JTB? Is recognizing that we apply cause to things in the world a JTB? See also: If there is a difference between a priori knowledge and innate knowledge, what is it? 

Some view is neither a religion nor a philosophy Some view is a religion but not a philosophy Some view is a philosophy but not a religion Some view is both philosophy and religion 

The idea here is that space for the subject is not something we experienced and then abstracted as an idea. Instead, it 's something that we have to bring to our experience to experience anything in space: 

Note that I said above "distinguish". The question, however, is what is different between the things I'm doing with consciousness. For phenomenologists, the answer would be: 

As Swami indicates in a comment, the task of philosophy as an academic discipline often directly relates to reading the classical texts. In this sense, an education in philosophy is sometimes perceived as learning a canon, which would probably include say Plato, Aristotle, Descartes, Locke, Hume, Kant, and Mill at a minimum. On such a model of philosophy, the task is to learn to understand the positions and thought of certain thinkers as they fit into the history of philosophy. To put it another, philosophy as an academic discipline could be described as learning to analyze hard texts. In part, philosophy is about how we think, so I'm doing you a disservice if I merely share my views and present them as the answers. On this detail, I at a minimum should try to find someone with opposite views and we could talk about the issues together. But it's doubtful I'm competent to write a full textbook that covers the entire history of philosophy (The most recent such text that has a good university level grasp is Coppleston's). And it's doubtful I could make it short enough to be one book without just highlighting the views I study (so if it was me, you would get some Plato, some Mencius, some Aristotle, a little Descartes, then jump to Kant, add Hegel and Kierkegaard). To simplify this point, philosophy has a lot of disputed questions where I'm not doing my job if I boil it down to a simple digestible version of how I read things -- a premise in philosophy is that it'd be very difficult to know the subtleties of every single argument. 

I would call this form a faulty argument by analogy. Some links on the internet will claim that this is the fallacy argument by analogy, but I think the category is not automatically invalid. What makes it faulty or not is the extent to which the property in question makes two things the same (presumably the same category rather than the same physical object). 

Some system of care for the young Rules about truth-telling Rules about life-taking Rules about who we have sex with and when 

I don't think the passage specifies whether you have weapons or not. Also, there's some question as to whether Sun Tzu is really about military tactics or also has a deeper meaning (this is debatable). But the basic idea is that idiots fight hoping to win but smart people fight when they know they're going to win. Worded negatively, don't take a fight you won't win. And attack your enemies when you know you will win. 

(Of course once it's accepted, there may still be a lot of work to do on it). This takes months or even years in actual time (though actual time is interrupted by many other obligations). If there's a better method that would get me either (a) better publications or (b) more publications for my time, I'd love to hear it. 

There's a lot more that could be added to the picture, but these are important pairs. The thinkers in the above category tend to posit views that we can understand as somewhat dualistic in nature. Plato famously calls the body a trap for the soul. Descartes' confidence in the mind is much higher than the body. Kant's philosophy centers on giving us a faculty that makes us free despite the determinism in the world. The thinkers in the below category are more positive about the body (for now let's leave out some of the complexities of saying this about Hegel. Thus, while for Plato, the body is the trap for the soul, for Aristotle, the soul is the principle that organizes the body as the sort of thing it is (here following Sir Anthony Kenny's definition provisionally). It's important to realize that for Aristotle, every living thing has a soul (but no everything has an immortal soul).The way he means soul is not a religious concept per se (though it was adapted to be one by Muslim and Christian thinkers later). To give a clear example, the form of a giraffe (i.e., it's soul) is what makes the difference between having a giraffe in front of you and a pile of matter composed of the same elements that would make a giraffe but are dead. (This is an image from Thomas Nagel). Again, "soul" here means precisely this difference. It's not some further difference on top of all the processes that lead to this matter being organized and sustained giraffe-wise. To put it another way, if we kill the giraffe, nothing is organizing that matter giraffe-wise anymore and over time it will break down whereas as long as the giraffe is alive, the whole giraffe is organized and continuing as certain type of living thing. As a theory in philosophy of mind, the idea of hylomorphism is that it's a mistake to view brain as identical to mind, because mind is something that occurs not just when certain matter is present but precisely as an organizational process that orients all of the activity of brain-wise matter and neural networking in a mind-wise way. Thus, it's not any standard sort of reductive materialism about mind, because it asserts mind is more than matter. Conversely, hylomorphism thinks its a mistake to view mind (at least human mind or animal minds) as possible apart from matter organized brain-wise. Thus, it's no dualism because it does not think mind occurs without this organizational activity occurring over the right sort of matter, i.e. brain. For more, see William Jaworski's index of terms. 

This again is a bold assertion and interpretation. Depending on what is meant by "logical constructed system" (avoiding the circularity in your claims of calling that "philosophical"), you might be right that they didn't see the point of doing philosophy as trying to break the world down into analyzable bits and pieces. But the second half of the claim ( "but in expressing ideas about life as it is lived" ) seems to be much more dubious to me as a description of their philosophies. I'd be interested to see it defended from the text. Sartre and Kierkegaard do start from the subject -- but that's not the same thing as trying to engage in a description of "life as it is lived." Instead, I take it that both accept Kant and Hegel's idea that we cannot escape our cognitive (and rational) apparatus well enough to do pure analysis. Kierkegaard, for instance, does not deny that there are objective truths. Instead, his point is (greatly simplified) that we don't have limitless access to these and we are limited beings. In terms of your comment about Nietzsche, Nietzsche speaks in many poetic ways, but his critique there is actually quite close to the logical positivists. The point being, that it is slavish (i.e. without reason) to derive morality from the instruction of others rather than from your own reason and power. 

Moving to three your suggested tests for universalization. Drugs for Kant will need to get treated in the same way as alcohol as Mozibur notes. Kant has such a treatment in the Metaphysical Principles of Virtue for alcohol. Working from memory, drinking is okay, but being so drunk that you are not rational is not. Thus, the same question is going to arise with drugs. If you become irrational, it is immoral for Kant, because morality is about acting rationally. And whenever a creature capable of acting rationally doesn't, that is immoral. For the not giving to the poor, that's not actually a duty for Kant in the strict (perfect) sense. So he would agree that there's no logical contradiction. It is a form of imperfect duty under the obligation to help others. But this duty, at least as far as I argue, is one we hold insofar as we creatures who sometimes need help. This is already in the Groundwork but gets repeated with some details in the Metaphysical Principle of Virtue Smoking for Kant would be fine if it does not impugn rationality or would need to be treated in the same way as obesity (also handled in the Metaphysical Principles of Virtue 

Sartre's claim that we are condemned to be free can be understood on a phenomenological level without reference to whether or not we would actually prove free on a final analysis. The important thing to remember here is that Sartre is actually responding both to the phenomenology of Husserl and to the Phenomenology of Spirit by Hegel. I'll begin with the older text. In Hegel's Phenomenology, freedom and necessity are both truth of the human self. We are free insofar as we are rational beings engaged in thought (ala Kant), but we are determined on several levels: physically, psychologically, and spiritually*. I mark spiritually* with a star because the standard English word is misleading about what that means. First, it does not necessarily mean a religious sort of spirit (nor does it mean a non-religious one though). Second, it also refers to a certain mode of thought which, ,spoiler alert, refers to our acts of consciousness. But these acts of consciousness and their progress to their ultimate form are for Hegel necessitated. As in, he believes we will ultimately improve in these things and arrive at a rational community. Note, that Hegel's version is explicitly metaphysical (in contrast to Kant's skepticism about metaphysics) with metaphysics located on the plane of reason (= spirit) rather than the understanding. Moving from the direction of the Husserl and Brentano strain of phenomenology, we can suspend questions about the metaphysics of things. Note that this is confusing in two important respects. First, this is not identical to a total agnosticism about metaphysics. Rather, it is a reordering of the question. Second and consequently, this does not entail a disbelief in metaphysics. Instead, what it does entail is an overturning of the dictum that we should only believe that for which we have sufficient evidence and its replacement with we should believe we are seeing what's appearing to us. This brings us to Sartre. For Sartre, the most real element of our experience is that we are free. In fact, he strongly agrees with Hegel that we are free in the use of our reason on the basis of our own experience --we constantly experience ourselves as choosing. What we don't get from Sartre is a belief that this choosing fates us to something better or is a tool of hyper-advanced reason. Instead, Sartre believes that we can be deeply mistaken in our reason but guided to that place by our freedom. Moreover, while the Hegelian account of reason turns out to be social, the Sartrean one focuses on the need for the self to abandon some of this freedom and to be made an object for others to enter community. For Hegel, freedom is naturally limited and subordinated to reason (and the two are brought together as necessity and probability to produce actuality). For Sartre, there are no phenomenological limits on freedom, but that also means there's nothing that insures that freedom is well-used. Moreover, freedom turns out to be a burden because nothing forces to choose anything. Is this good phenomenology? I don't think so at the end of the day. But if you look at the examples and experiences on which Sartre builds his phenomenology the result is not surprising: being a peeping tom, being hated by others, using others as sexual objects, struggling with the other to dominate identity. 

The Answer You're Probably Looking For Under a common "critical thinking" or "intro to logic" in philosophy approach, the following definitions apply: validity: an argument is valid if it is the case that the conclusion cannot be false when all of the premises are true. consistency: it is possible for all of the premises to be true. The answer is that you do not need a truth table on these definitions, because inconsistency in the premises means that it is impossible for all of the premises to be true. In turn, this means the argument is valid. Behind this is that the definition of validity is this: were the premises all to be true then the conclusion could not be false. Since an inconsistent argument can never have all of its premises true, it can never attain a state with all premises true and a false conclusion. 

Of the three texts you have, I think the easiest place to start will be with the Cartesian Meditations. Husserl studies is a messy business with subtle differences in the nature of the epoche and bracketing between texts, but the CM is a good starting point because you know (or should know what to compare it with): Descartes. Bring to it the basic task of abstracting away from the modern obsession with knowledge deeply linked to metaphysics and moving towards what we can learn through impressions as they occur for our conscience and you've got a good start to reading a thoroughly challenging text. I don't know which texts are captured in The Essential Husserl, but I would guess it contains key excerpts and is designed for classroom use. It may have a very helpful introduction you may want to read even before CM. Basic Writings in Transcendental Phenomenology is anything but "basic" under the meaning "easy or simple" but rather is about what is fundamental to transcendental phenomenology for Husserl.