can be true without the conclusion's being true : 'Paris is in France.' The fact that all three statements are true is irrelevant as the author knows. The truth of 'Paris is in France' is not guaranteed by the truth of 'London is in England' and 'Beijing is in China'. The truth of the premises is completely independent of the truth of the conclusion; there is no logical connexion between premises and conclusion to guarantee the truth of the conclusion. On your own intriguing example : 

p & not-p (self-contradiction) p (from 1.) not-p (from 1.) not-p v q [not-p or q where 'q' is any arbitrary statement] (or-introduction) 

Normally I should say that your responsibility stops at the point where someone else makes a decision. You do not make the decision or cause the consequences. However, there are two complications in the example you describe. I think you are responsible for what you can reasonably foresee as practically certain or highly probable. You could reasonably foresee the strong probability that the addict would choose the Heroin door. Moreover, you created the situation of potential harm. You interfered with the addict's circumstances in such a way that, given his or her character or personality, you put him or her at greater risk than that to which, all else equal, s/he would have been exposed. 

▻ REALITY IS NOT COMPOSED MERELY OF IDEAS If Berkeley held that reality consisted purely of ideas, he would be in trouble. How could ideas exist independently of minds that have them ? (This rules out the account of Idealism as the view that all that exist are ideas and that ideas exist by themselves.) But he holds no such view. Look at the quote from para 28 : 'I find I can arouse ideas in my mind at will'. In my mind - how could he arouse ideas in his mind if there were no minds but only ideas ? ▻ NO ENDORSEMENT OF BERKELEIAN IDEALISM I am not trying to sell Berkeleian Idealism to you but to explain how and why your source, which aims to refute Idealism by 'showing' that Idealism cannot accommodate activity because it does not recognise entities that can be active, is mistaken. Berkeleian Idealism runs into endless difficulties but this is not one of them. It's possible to argue, of course, that Berkeleian Idealism cannot really accommodate activity because there are no such things as immaterial substances to be active. But this is circular reasoning : it assumes that Berkeleian Idealism is false in order to refute Berkeleian Idealism. It has first to be proved that there are no immaterial substances before their non-existence can be used against Berkeley to show that he cannot accommodate activity. REFERENCE G. Berkeley, 'A Treatise Concerning the Principles of Human Knowledge', 1710 : permanently in print and available online. 

Plato seems to have derived the idea of metempsychosis from Pythagoras but this leaves open how Pythagoras came by the idea. (Long, 151.) Metempsychosis as such does not imply immortality; extinction could intervene at any point. Plato/ Socrates has separate 'proofs' of immortality. REINCARNATION OR REBIRTH I take this to be the idea that the soul or self survives death through rebirth in another body. This also does not imply immortality; again extinction could intervene at any point. There appears to be no essential difference between metempsychosis and reincarnation but the terms tend to be associated in different traditions of thought with extra ideas. Long's account of metempsychosis, for instances, includes beliefs which are not present in the bare idea of reincarnation or rebirth. REFERENCES Herbert S. Long, 'Plato's Doctrine of Metempsychosis and Its Source', The Classical Weekly, Vol. 41, No. 10 (Feb. 16, 1948), 149-155. Steven Collins, 'Nirvāṇa, Time, and Narrative', History of Religions, Vol. 31, No. 3 (Feb., 1992), pp. 215-246. Dorothea Frede, 'The Final Proof of the Immortality of the Soul in Plato's "Phaedo" 102a-107a', Phronesis, Vol. 23, No. 1 (1978), pp. 27-41. 

If God is omniscient then God knows now that X will happen at future time t. Knowledge cannot be false. Therefore God does not now have the power to prevent X at t, else God could not know that X will happen at t. Power cannot falsify knowledge. In this case, then, omniscience sets limits to omnipotence. 

The classical example of this is Epicureanism. Epicurus (or, closer to the Greek, 'Epikuros'), 341–270 BCE, supposed the gods to occupy the empty space between the innumerable worlds - the intermundia. Their lives were blissful, undisturbed by any concern with human beings, and passed in the eternal enjoyment of peace. The life of the gods served as an ideal for the Wise Man, sophos, who could never attain on earth the state of blessedness of the gods. But the Wise Man's ideal was a matter of indifference to the gods. Deism : the reason I have not mentioned this is first that it appears in the previous answer and secondly that your question concerned 'gods' - in the plural. I understand 'deism' as a historical term, belonging mainly to 17th- and 18th century Western European theology and referring to 'God' or 'a God'. God exists, there is a God, Creator and First Cause, but God is uninvolved in human affairs. That is my understanding of the Deistic view; if I were to refine it, as I might easily do, I would still not pluralise. I note that a single God is assumed in the definition of deism cited above. I can only plead that I took your question, and its reference to gods not God, literally. REFERENCES A.J. Festugiere, 'Epicurus and his Gods', tr. C. W. Chilton, Oxford: Basil Blackwell, 1955. J.M. Rist, 'Epicurus : An Introduction', Cambridge : Cambridge University Press, 1972. 

Indicative conditional : 'If Oswald did not kill Kennedy, then someone else did'. Counterfactual conditional : 'If Oswald had not killed Kennedy, then someone else would have.' 

The initial impression is one of mayhem. One can't readily see any continuous lines of thought in the Pensees. Matters have not been helped by the fact that different editors have numbered and sequenced the 'thoughts' in different way, though the Lafuma and Mesnard editions order them more coherently than others. Some parts of Pascal do make independent sense, for instance 'The Spirit of Geometry and the Spirit of Finesse' (differently titled in different editions but easy to find). The basic key to the Pensees is that Pascal investigates the nature of mathematical and scientific knowledge and is dissatisfied with the limited certitude it yields. He then seeks to persuade us - or expresses at least his own belief - that religious experience delivers a greater degree of certitude. This will strike most readers nowadays as implausible but he was writing in the 17th century and not for a sceptical 21st-century readership. If it's of any reassurance I had the same sense of random disconnectedness in the text when I first read the Pensees. But do at least go for the 'Spirit of Geometry', really a short essay, which does make fairly easy sense. Good luck ! 

I share your difficulty. It really isn't clear what the 'internal and external' aspects of an ethical issue are. What contrast is being drawn here ? One possibility is that the internal aspects of an issue are the reasons why you are interested in it. There might be a standard mathematical technique that has not been applied to the issue and which you think could produce useful results. This aspect would be internal to mathematics and to your research interests. Then the external reasons could be the ethical significance of the issue. Why it matters morally. What implications it holds for public policy or for an ethical theory or for other ethical issues. These would be aspects external to mathematics. These suggestions may help. I hope they do. Ideally, seek clarification from whoever has set the task.