According to previous definition, the beginning of the escape would be reaching immortality. A constant quality during more time makes a greater integral. Therefore, in the creation of the previous perception (subjective and therefore possibly an illusion), we have objective factors that influence it, for instance life expectancy, health, leisure options, freedom of speech and all kinds of freedom, etc. The point is that we have a perception of progress, but that perception is falsifiable because it has implications on objective data, and it hasn't been falsified yet, so it looks like a somewhat reliable hypothesis. Moreover, we can falsify your assertion: 

How could we study gravity before? Because it's not constant. For instance it is weaker in the mountains. Therefore we don't really need the opposite, but variability is definitively interesting and important. With a differential in gravity we can study it's causes, define gravity as dependent on those causes, etc. If gravity was constant, like the speed of light, we could still know it and have some information about it, but the greater the entropy (contingency, variability, etc.) the more we can know about something. 

Evolutionary theory is how we explain these physical facts that we have dug up. An evolutionary theory must be able to explain the evolutionary facts that we have been presented with (dug up). If you present an 'evolutionary theory' that does not support the facts, then it is not a theory it is an unfounded conjecture - a guess. Calling a conjecture a 'theory' does not make it a 'theory' - as can be seen from Prof. Gould's quote above. Scientific evolutionary theories have some variations (witness Gould's own punctuated equilibrium theory vs classical slow or gradual evolution), but they are all based on the facts that have been literally dug up. Creationist 'theory' or better guess or conjecture, does not base itself on the evolutionary facts that have been dug up. As far as 'evidence', this is a term that is not a part of the scientific method, and has a generic meaning that observations have been made but those observations have not been firmly established as facts. A theory rests on being able to 'predict' future events. 

Nothingness doesn't be, that's the definition of nothingness (at least in this question) that what is not, does not exist. If there was no Universe, if there was nothing, nothingness would be, that is the only thing that there would be. Therefore, for nothingness not to be, something must be. Therefore, the existence of something (in our case what we call Universe) is necessary. Am I right? PD: this is hard in English, but I'm going to try to write it in a different way. If nothing existed, for example as an empty set, then something would exist, the empty set, in any possible way that can be. If something exist we cannot say that nothing exists. Therefore this is a contradiction, as @stoicfury pointed. Therefore we must conclude that the "presence" of "nothing" is impossible and something must exist, maybe a singularity from which everything else spawns. If no-being was, there would be a being, the no-being. Therefore we would not be able to speak about no-being because there would be a being. This is a contradiction from which we conclude the no-being is not, cannot be, must not be. If no-being is not, then there must be some being, necessarily. In short. An empty existence, a lack of universe, is a contradiction, that "nothing" would be a thing, the only thing, everything. It is the kind of contradiction that causes the explosion of the universe. 

"In the external world the idea of law is the same as the internal - the expectation that a particular phenomenon will be followed by another, and that the series will repeat itself. Really speaking, therefore, law does not exist in nature. Practically it is an error to say that gravitation exists in the earth, or that there is any law existing objectively anywhere in nature. Law is the method, the manor in which our mind grasps a series of phenomena; it is all in the mind. Certain phenomena, happening one after another or together, and followed by the conviction of the regularity of their recurrence - thus enabling our minds to grasp the method of the whole series - constitute what we call law." Swami Vivekananda, Complete Works, Vol 2, pages 94-95. 

Yes. A Hindu philosopher by the name of Gaudapada wrote a commentary on the Mandukya Upanishad called Gaudapada's Karika. It is a defense of the Hindu Advaita (non-dual) monistic philosophy. Chapters 2, 3, and 4 specifically are arguments for the non-dual Brahman using reasoning and logical argumentation alone, no scriptural references. In those chapters Sankara in his commentary of the Karika gives opposing arguments of nihilists and materialists and defends his arguments against those opposing views as well. He gives arguments that the only reality is the non-dualistic Brahman and that the world or reality that is perceived is an illusion. It is best read in conjunction with the Mandukya Upanishad and Shankaracharya's commentary on both (also referred to as Adi Sankara or simply Sankara). Another good one is Plotinus's Six Enneads. I also like Quantum Physics and Ultimate Reality: Mystical Writings of Great Physicists by Michael Green 

It's more of a sign claiming "I'm up to date" than any aesthetics, but being up to date is very valued by many people, even if it is about something as irrelevant as clothing and even if being up to date about irrelevant things implies an opportunity cost and means lost opportunities to be up to date about relevant things. Subconscious thoughts are not characterized for being very deep. 

By the quality of life, where quality is subjective and people judge their own life quality. With this I mean the value that people assign to being alive. This is not in the encyclopedia that @ChristopherE links (very interesting, BTW) but probably we could classify it as a pragmatic (and possibly utilitarian) approach, there are probably authors that have elaborated on this better and more extensively that I would be able in a dozen of lifetimes, but if you are interested I could elaborate more. Before you ask, no matter if you measure the global quality as the average or the absolute values, in both cases basically we are going to see that people think there has been some progress. This could be an illusion, so this doesn't really answer the question, but it helps, as we will see. 

There are several existing and past non-theistic or atheistic religions. Theravedic Buddhism, one of the 2 main schools, does not believe in any God. There are several old philosophical schools of Hinduism that are atheistic, specifically the Sāṃkhya, Vaiśeṣika, and the Pūrva Mīmāṃsā schools. 

The US Declaration of Independence starts with the following: When in the Course of human events, it becomes necessary for one people to dissolve the political bands which have connected them with another, and to assume among the powers of the earth, the separate and equal station to which the Laws of Nature and of Nature's God entitle them, a decent respect to the opinions of mankind requires that they should declare the causes which impel them to the separation. We hold these truths to be self-evident, that all men are created equal, that they are endowed by their Creator with certain unalienable Rights, that among these are Life, Liberty and the pursuit of Happiness. That to secure these rights, Governments are instituted among Men, deriving their just powers from the consent of the governed, That whenever any Form of Government becomes destructive of these ends, it is the Right of the People to alter or to abolish it, and to institute new Government, laying its foundation on such principles and organizing its powers in such form, as to them shall seem most likely to effect their Safety and Happiness. Prudence, indeed, will dictate that Governments long established should not be changed for light and transient causes; and accordingly all experience hath shewn, that mankind are more disposed to suffer, while evils are sufferable, than to right themselves by abolishing the forms to which they are accustomed. But when a long train of abuses and usurpations, pursuing invariably the same Object evinces a design to reduce them under absolute Despotism, it is their right, it is their duty, to throw off such Government, and to provide new Guards for their future security. 

1 is wrong, IMHO. Consider a serial killer that wishes to live to continue killing and who cannot be stopped by any means but killing him. Consider this is completely clear and beyond any doubt. I'd say killing him is the right thing to do. 2 may be right, I cannot really quantify how much do those animals suffer/enjoy in their lives. But maybe you should consider that if nobody was eating them then they might not exist at all. We could also consider how much do these animals suffer, if they experience pain, discomfort, existential angst... 3 is irrelevant. If I am asleep I don't show much conscience or sentience, but that doesn't mean I'm impaired, or that if you try to kill me I'll wake up and suffer. The point is, we cannot really ascertain the level of sentience of animals or people just by how they look, it takes a deeper analysis. Therefore, the sentience that animals and people show, on a shallow analysis, is irrelevant, as it is far from reality. The main argument in favor for vegetarianism is sustainability, IMHO. Also, if we are to worry about animal lives so much (as to prevent them from being born in the first place, as in genocide) then I'd suggest to worry a little bit more about human lives before. More precisely I'd consider giving a higher priority to transhumanism, and research on life extension and immortality technologies, such like reversing the ageing process or enabling mind-uploading to the cloud.