There are at least two assumptions in this argument that religious people would object to: There are many who would disagree with it, but one of the major points of Christianity argues against this: Jesus (Christians say), being both fully God and fully man, was almighty, yet in some sense fearful, praying "Father, if you are willing, take this cup from me" (Luke 22:42). Certain Christians in one particular prayer, pray to receive courage by meditating on his passion. There's also the point you say "The spirit of self-sacrifice creates trust in the power of love" ... Many philosophers (more recently Peter Kreeft and Robert Baron come to mind, both of whom quote Aquinas, who in turn takes the idea from Aristotle, Rhetoric ii, 4) define love instead as simply "willing the good of the other." For a finite being, yes, that might require some sacrifice, but for God who can create things ex nihilo, his Love need not take away anything from himself. Perhaps there are rebuttals in turn for these, but in any case, there are two common objections to the proposition. 

The original saying "Do not judge," is a Biblical one. In that context, it means not to pass a sentence on someone the way a judge would (in the Biblical logic, not because the person won't be judged but because God reserves the right to judge to Himself). That of course is different then making statements about how an action fits into a moral framework. To take your example: smoking is bad for one's health, and if it is "morally" bad (whatever that means) to do things to harm people including one's self, then one could say "smoking is morally bad." But that is a different statement than "smokers are bad people," i.e., to condemn that person to some eternal punishment in your mind. In many circles, the phrase has been taken to mean not to "judge" any actions, i.e., not to place the actions into any moral framework. Ultimately, this seems to render moral frameworks useless, even very practical ones. In this world view, the fact that someone's actions make their future worse cannot be said to be morally wrong. 

Joseph Ratzinger (more popularly known to the world now as Benedict XVI) wrote both before his papacy and during about the important interplay between science and religion (often phrased as "reason" and "faith"). An important element about science even making sense is that the universe is intelligible. That statement is (1) not a scientific one (cannot be verified by the scientific method) and (2) is nevertheless prerequisite to science making sense. There are many questions that science is simply not equipped to answer. It can answer questions about what the world is; it cannot answer about what the world should be. It cannot say anything about ethics or morality. For many believers (myself included), religion doesn't work the way non-believers think. I don't hold my religious beliefs out of superstition, I hold them because I have considered the evidence of the different claims and found one claim in particular to be compelling. 

Some philosophers (which are called realists) hold that some questions about existence are not merely semantic. They might point to, for example, "natural rights" as a thing that really exists independent of language or an individual or society's concepts. For realists, this distinction is not a matter of semantics - it allows one to say that such-and-such an action is wrong because it violates "natural rights." Some of these questions, as you point out correctly, get into different sorts of existence: whether something exists in fiction, presently, historically, in the future, etc., are all different senses of what it means for something "to exist." 

So, as I began saying, group-think, credulity and hearsay are bad ways to make decisions, but they are bad whether in a religious or non-religious setting. I of course put forward the above not asking anyone to agree with any aspect of it (I know many don't!), but only to offer a contrasting view point about religious people, and how much has been examined by one particular faith tradition. 

The Ku Klux Klan is essentially (literally, by its essence: that is it's defining characteristic) anti-black people (more broadly, they are against all but a certain group of people, so they have seen there enemies to also include Jews and Catholics, but their violence and focus has always been focused on African Americans). People who are against abortion are not essentially against women, they are just against what they see as the killing of fetuses. There are, for example, many women who are in the pro-life movement. There aren't any African Americans in the Ku Klux Klan outside of Chappelle Show skits. To say some group "causes offense" means that it is comparable to the Ku Klux Klan quickly leads to absurdity. Take the opposite view you've proposed - pro-life people find abortion morally offensive, but I doubt from the tone of your question that you would say that means that those who perform abortion are to be compared to the Ku Klux Klan. To say that the Ku Klux Klan "offends black people" is also a gross understatement. The Ku Klux Klan has performed countless acts of physical violence against black people, including children. Finally, the Klan endorsing the pro-life stance says nothing more about the pro-life stance than if it endorsed the pro-abortion stance, as you say, because that is an association fallacy. 

I never have, and it's largely inconceivable to imagine anyone changing their mind because they've been cursed at. But, let's take it a step further. Russ Roberts makes a point that I think many of us have experienced. Consider again the argument: 

So, as jobermark pointed out, one should never reduce anyone to a caricature. However, the question from the OP seems to be, in what ways do that caricature fail to explain who Smith is? From the Theory of Moral Sentiments, one can conclude that Smith was not in favor of a cut-throat, profit-at-all-costs existence of society. Rather, Smith acknowledged these two sometimes competing, sometimes cooperating urges that each person has: to benefit one's self and to benefit others one interacts with. I haven't read enough Smith to know this for a fact, but I know many philosophers since have concluded (based on Smith and based on other independent sources) that the appropriate mechanism for a society is a free-market capitalism in which people are bound by some idea of virtue (treating others with respect, worrying about reputation, etc.). 

- Most Christians would say something slightly different - creation was unnecessary for God to do, which is different than it being meaningless. Since it was an unnecessary act, Christians usually say that creation itself is an act of Love, and therefore the meaning behind everything in creation is Love. For our part, the way CS Lewis described it is that the actions we take help shape our immortal soul, and so our actions derive meaning from this process aside from whatever happens in the material world. From this perspective, even if the universe "will just freeze into an eternal motionlessness" there is still meaning in what we do, for us and for God. Since reality has meaning for God, it is not as far that goes dismissible that God would change reality. This is a different question from "Does God change reality?" It seems quite plausible that God could and would change reality but chooses not to. Different religious traditions (even within Christianity) have different opinions on this. 

Aristotle's Rhetoric is one obvious example on the subject itself. Other works of Cicero, while perhaps not addressing oration in the content, are themselves considered useful examples of oration. See Pro Archia Poeta as an example. The Wikipedia article discusses (and I've seen other similar discussions in introductions to book versions that concur) how the speech is structured. Augustine was trained as a rhetorician before his conversion, so addresses rhetoric and oratory in some of his works. I'm not sure of any work that addresses rhetoric at length itself, but he discusses his education in Rhetoric in The Confessions and in all his works follows similar patterns based on his earlier training. He studied Cicero extensively and states explicitly that Cicero was an influence on him, so any of his writings are going to have a rhetorical style similar to Cicero's. The speeches in Thucydides might also be interesting. He doesn't write anything theoretical about rhetoric, but he says himself that the speeches are largely what the speakers should have said, and so in that sense are an applied guide to oration. A list of more modern theorists of rhetoric, Wikipedia has a list. I can't say I've read any of them though. 

I think there are two issues that need to be defined: what is meant by "complex" and what is meant by "more." There are a few different definitions I've seen of what is meant by something being complex, here are three examples: 

The implicit crux of the analogy is that Gun Control only affects law-abiding citizens. The idea is that law abiding people don't misuse guns, the same way that sober people don't drunk-drive. Meanwhile, criminal elements will continue to obtain and use guns, so if the problem with gun violence is from criminal elements, making it harder to have guns won't fix anything. It seems like the analogy is easily confused, so while the point behind it might be valid (some will agree, some won't), the analogy itself is unlikely to convince anyone who disagrees with it. 

A lot of this will of course depend on who you ask. In my own religious tradition, the claim is that miracles rarely happen (i.e., they do happen, but even the circumstances in which they happen is not a repeatable common-place process). The Catholic Church does have groups that asks a different but related question: for a given claim of something miraculous (a miracle healing or an apparition, for example), was it in fact miraculous? 

This question as asked does not distinguish between accuracy and precision. A projectile might hit the target (and therefore be accurate), but if it hits a bunch of other things, then it is not precise. If your projectile contains a bomb, then even if the target and projectile get smaller, the likelihood of hitting the target does not seem to change. If you have a more precise projectile, then hitting the target at all might get harder, but it seems more likely that you will just hit the target. So, the problem is underspecified, and both conclusions you offered above seem possible but not necessarily true. 

Macchievelli noticed "when states have arrived at their greatest perfection, they soon begin to decline." Thucydides wrote about the Peloponnesian War, "not as an essay which is to win the applause of the moment, but as a possession for all time," because he believed that much about the human condition was stable (i.e., not a random walk) There is a quote from the Bible: "That which has been is that which will be, And that which has been done is that which will be done. So there is nothing new under the sun." (Ecclesiastes 1:9) which scholars estimate was written between 450 and 180 BCE. 

Two points: Deviations from Moral Intuitions It seems a simple consequence of logic that if you identify certain moral positions (X is morally right, Y is morally wrong, etc.), any system of ethics that goes against those positions must be incorrect. In questions of right and wrong, whether a belief is commonly held is potentially informative but not of ultimate importance. Constructing an Ethical System Most philosophers I've read alternate between appeals to intuition and laying down specific rules: 

Given that in your quote Hitchens himself says that this koan is only "attempted" and is a "brief parody," it seems unlikely that Hitchens spent long pondering his own sentence. Given that this occurs in the context of thought, reflection here likely means contemplation of an idea. The joke comes in, of course, that contemplation requires thought, which requires a mind, which the irritating sign indicates should be left at the door. I am not an expert in either Hitchens or Eastern thought, but I would mention that my own religious tradition finds the idea of abandoning one's mind at the door every bit as irritating as Hitchens finds it. As anyone who has read Augustine or Aquinas (for only two examples), reason is an important element to at least some religious traditions. 

A lot of these sort of questions lately - I'm fond of referencing Joseph Ratzinger, who before becoming pope and afterward often wrote about this. 

Two points I'd like to make: Dealing with Uncertainty Anytime you start saying something about certainty of beliefs, it seems useful to think in terms of Bayesian approaches. In Bayesian methods, rather than throwing together all knowledge together, we separate out preconceived notions (priors) and new knowledge acquired. As you say, certainty need not correlate with correctness. But, if you look at things this way, you can see that strong arguments either way need not "convince" a rational person with strong priors - it merely shifts the posterior confidence one way or another. You can then break the problem down into two: (1) how should arguments for/against God change the posterior confidence, and (2) what is an appropriate prior. There are many many research-level papers on the theory on picking an appropriate prior that you can find quickly by a Google search. I'm not aware of any that address your question in particular, but it seems like a good framework for dealing with practical uncertainty in the fact of conflicting evidence. Should we average people make a claim Second, one can look to Plato (as recounted in the Protagoras) about whether an "average" person should try to answer the question for himself (or herself): 

As a devout Catholic, I agree that basing decision making on credulity and group think is a bad idea. I cannot speak for all religious people, but at least in my own religious tradition, the understanding of faith is quite different from how you've characterized it. Specifically, it is different as the Catechism says: 

The idea of this division even among free people was not unheard of in antiquity, with the most prominent example coming in Plato's The Republic, discussing how the "gold-souled" people should govern over others. 

Many, although not all, determinists are also materialists (as Alexander King said above, for them determinism is just the corollary to the laws of physics). Since for these, there isn't really much to meta-physics, one wouldn't expect meta-physical arguments. Within the theologic philosophy/philosophy of religion, however, there are those who are deterministic but not materialistic, so their attempts seek to explain things on a more metaphysical basis. See for example, Martin Luther's On the Bondage of the Free Will - 

We call the entity from statement (3) above God. One must also remember that for the most part, the target audience of "proofs" of God's existence are believers so that they may understand some aspect of God better. This is obviously different than a proof in math or science.