I dodn't see why you wouldn't want to wish that terrorists were free of animosity and oppression etc. 

So maybe "awareness" is also used for sense-impressions (e.g. visual sight), which "consciousness" then reifies into a chariot, and/or "consciousness" is also used in the sense of "wisdom" (one word for which is 'higher consciousness') 

Any compound object (for example, a tree) might have some of these characteristics: but the object (e.g. the tree) is impermanent, and (therefore) the characteristics of the object are impermanent. 

The Patimokkha Rules Translated & Explained by Thanissaro Bhikkhu, on pages 49 through 50, uses the word "or" (not "and"): 

Was rebirth introduced in the First or Second Turnings, and why did the Buddha teach it? I think the idea of rebirth preceded (predated, already existed earlier than) the Buddha's doctrine: 

I think that this is an important part of the conventional self -- it's relative -- there's a "this world" because there is (or was) "another world", there's a "next world" because there's a "this world", there's a "mother" and "father" because there's a "child", etc. "Relative" also implies "conditioned" -- A exists because B exists, A and B are related, A is conditioned by B -- and anything conditioned is impermanent (A ceases or changes when B ceases). Although these relations exist, they're impermanent (so shouldn't be taken to be a permanent self), yet they exist (to deny they exist would be wrong view). Salvation We're told to consider that, 

So I think that explains what "drunk on the shravaka wine" means (where Śrāvaka means "disciple"). Now in context perhaps you understand the effect of such speech and why and when it's effective. It would work because (and only because) it's from the "drunken" disciple's formal teacher. Also IMO perhaps it happens to be not incompatible with the formal rules of orthodox/traditional Right Speech of which one of the important definitions is (third item in the following list), 

I think that psychosis is a state of disordered thinking, confusion, delusion (a "mental disorder"). It might seem, superficially, like Buddhism -- some withdrawal from ordinary worldly activities and concerns, for example, an unusual understanding of what's valuable, of who owns what -- sometimes also grandiose delusions, or a wide range of other possible symptoms, for example flattened affect, and so on and so on. What is going on these sorts of lives Well, by the definition in your question, you're saying that psychosis is going on. It might possibly be that Buddhism (a Buddhist environment, values, practioners) is helpful for them and for those around them -- psychotic people behave abnormally, and maybe uncooperatively, and/or are less able than you might want them to be. So your being able to detach a bit from what you expect of people -- your wanting to behave morally, independently (or unilaterally) of whether other people are behaving too -- might help to enable a better relationship than otherwise possible. 

I'm not sure that "speculative" is good nor related to equanimity. There is one paragraph later on, though, which clearly relates delusion with equanimity ... because, it says, delusion is an equanimity cased by unknowing, 

I think that the most common way in which the word "insight" is used in Buddhism is to contrast two types of meditation: one is samadhi (concentration) and another is vipassana (insight). The "insight" in this context is insight into the nature of things, especially the Three marks of existence. Conversely, "knowing that I know" (which you mentioned in the question) is maybe not what's meant by insight. "Knowing that I know" reminds me a bit of Descartes' motto, i.e. "I think, therefore I am", which I think is actually to some extent opposed to a Buddhist ideal of anatta (non-self). "Knowing that I know" might be classified as a view-of-self or identity-view (sakkāya-diṭṭhi), or perhaps it's a conceit. I don't know, maybe it's possible for me to understand how an automobile works without being especially self-conscious about that. I'd call that understanding "insight", i.e. it's "insight into how a car works". Similarly insight in Buddhism is insight into the nature of the world, the nature of things ... I don't think it's especially/necessarily being self-conscious about that (in fact, preferably not). 

A famous example is Thích Nhất Hạnh, who is Vietnamese. He has given talks in several languages, including English and French. There's also Korean Zen, and of course Japanese. There are (and/or have been) many English-speaking Zen teachers in, for example, America. 

Non-dual system For the Vedanta, non-duality (advaita) means the absence of an ultimate distinction between the Atman, the innermost self, and Brahman, the divine reality, the underlying ground of the world. The Mahayana schools, despite their great differences, concur in upholding a thesis that, from the Theravada point of view, borders on the outrageous. This is the claim that there is no ultimate difference between samsara and Nirvana, defilement and purity, ignorance and enlightenment. For the Mahayana, the enlightenment which the Buddhist path is designed to awaken consists precisely in the realization of this non-dualistic perspective. Not a non-dual system As for the Theravada tradition: 

I agree with Matthew's answer. Note that the reference for #37 says (unlike most of the other precepts), 

... and goes on to claim that the doctrine that there were previous Buddhas was invented after the historical Buddha's death, 

There's an old (2004) article from the CBC: INDEPTH: MEDITATION The Pursuit of Happiness It includes: 

"practice that is pleasant in the present but yields pain in the future" -- seeing no harm in sensual pleasures "practice that is painful in the present and yields pain in the future" -- an ascetic life, which is "devoted to the practice of tormenting & afflicting the body" "practice that is painful in the present but yields pleasure in the future" -- someone who is passionate/aversive/deluded and consequently experiences grief (in the present), yet lives the holy life "practice that is pleasant in the present and yields pleasure in the future" -- someone who is not passionate/aversive/deluded, who is equanimous, withdrawn from sensuality, entering the four jhanas 

If you feel the need to correct someone there are instructions related to Right Speech. I may feel tempted to correct a "wrong concept", even without having been invited to. Part of the (secular, non-Buddhist) way in which I've been taught to express disagreements is to use so-called "I-messages". For example, instead of a 'you-message' like "you are wrong", an 'I-message' like "I didn't understand that" is less aggressive and maybe closer to the truth (or at least closer to the way that leads towards understanding). So perhaps you can phrase any "corrections" as questions, "Where did the Buddha say that?", "Does that contradict this sutta?", etc. 

I need help here because I don't think that at this rate I guess you'll find that it (i.e. narration) is subject to cessation (i.e. that it stops sometimes), and/or replaced by something else (e.g. by mindfulness of breathing). Maybe it would be encouraging to think of those moments (of success) as a gain, a reward for practice, rather than thinking of other moments (of failure) as a hindrance which prevent practice. Perhaps you're taught equanimity (that sounds like what you talk about in the question, e.g. "non-judgemental or non-reactive"); I think it may also be good to feel some enthusiasm for a success. Also note that, according to the Anapanasati Sutta, equanimity is the result (i.e. not necessarily the means or the way). I think it takes time (and practice) to learn new skills. Also for what it's worth I'm told that a little practice every day is the best way to create a new habit. For example, perhaps you couldn't learn to play a new musical instrument in a few months, nor learn to speak a new language -- maybe you shouldn't expect too large a change in too short a time. Even so, people do learn new skills if and when they keep practising. Stories like Banzo's sword warn against being in a hurry -- being in a hurry is kind of inimical to being "content with the practice". 

The Pali word for that ("taste of freedom") is vimuttirasa. rasa is literally the word used for flavour -- in the Sabba Sutta for example, the phrase translated "tongue & flavors" is "jivhā ca rasā ca". I think the word is also used metaphorically to mean "function", for example (from Understanding sense organs): 

That being so I don't see how it's possible to compare two Buddhas, to ask whether they're the same or different. Asking the question might presume some Identity view (sakkāya-diṭṭhi), which the Buddha denied. 

Attachment (and the other things you mention) are described among the Twelve Nidānas. For example chocolate exists as: 

There are several (many) Schools of Buddhism. Here is one article, titled Two Main Schools of Buddhism, which claims that, 

So the Yogācāra develop the doctrine of The Three Natures, one of which is the world as it's understood according to the theory of dependent origination. 

Therefore I wouldn't have said this phrase to you: I guessed you could find it disagreeable. One possible (perhaps not certain) bad impact is that it may lead to inhumane actions ("humane" means "having or showing compassion or benevolence"), even a disregard for "human rights". "Nobody gets beaten" is the subject of one of the famous Zen (teaching) stories: 

Or I think that meditation teachers (here is just one example) suggest you investigate the hindrance, as being a mental phenomenon which arises and which passes away. 

Two of the ones you quoted are new to me (and two are not). There's a collection of 101 such stories here: $URL$ 

I seem to have only a rough understanding of the first two noble truths. dukkha and dosa Apparently 'dukkha' and 'aversion (dosa)' are not the same thing. So, why or how not: in what way are they different/distinct? second noble truth Also, does naming aversion as one of the 'three poisons' imply that aversion is on a par with (i.e., is equal and opposite to) desire? If it's true that aversion is of the same rank as desire then why isn't aversion mentioned in the Second Noble Truth? taṇhā and lobha Similarly (in case it's a similar answer) what's the difference between taṇhā (which is the subject of the second noble truth) and lobha (which is one of the three poisons)? attachment and desire In English I'd guess that 'attachment' and 'desire' might have two different meanings: especially, attachment is semi-permanent, may last a longer time. If you're hungry, eat, and then are not hungry, maybe that was a transient desire but not attachment. Conversely, a story like Muddy Road (it's the story which ends, '"I left the girl there," said Tanzan. "Are you still carrying her?"') seems to be warning against attachment (i.e. keeping the same thought stuck in your mind for a long time even after the physical reality has changed) rather than desire. Other stories too seem to warn that it's no so much 'desire' that causes suffering, but rather some kind of inflexibility. Does Buddhism distinguish between attachment and desire? If lobha is translated as attachment and as desire, then which is taṇhā? 

Andrei's answer defined "anxiety" as "remorse" or "expectation of remorse". Assuming that's so, then the "way to work with it" might be sila i.e. virtue. The Kimattha Sutta says, 

There's a relevant newspaper article here -- It's not so strange for a Buddhist to endorse killing -- it's partly factual and partly opinion-based, so you may or may not agree with it. There was also this factoid which was questioned on Skeptics.SE -- Did most of the American riflemen in combat during World War II avoid firing at the enemy? -- perhaps that suggests another "way out" for any individuals who refuse violence, even if they don't escape conscription. 

This answer is incomplete in that I won't try to explain how to recognise dhamma (or adhamma) other than the suttas -- so it doesn't do justice to the rest of the tripitaka or to later (e.g. Mahayana) authors, which are unlike the suttas both in content and in style, so beware of that. I recommend the answers to What should you do when someone teaches false Dharma? which help to answer this question. You mentioned examples of "obviously non-Buddhist" and "seemingly Buddhist" teachings. I like to end this answer with a reference to AN 11.12: 

The context is the Buddha's not talking about other topics (for example the existence or non-existence of the Tathagata after death); but I think it's a good summary: "stress, and the cessation of stress". So if and when I become aware of stress, then that is a thing to remember; or that is a time to remember Dharma. Stress and cessation. The next increment of Dharma, the next atom to remember or be aware of, for me at least (albeit not for everyone) are the four noble truths: which add "craving" to the equation, craving as a condition of stress. So if I become of aware of stress, then the consequent question is, "ah, stress; so what's the craving this time?" Having thought to ask that question, it may be obvious on introspection that there's some kind of craving happening, and that the craving co-arises with the suffering, and so on. And so I might ask myself, "Should I really want to pursue this craving if it's going to involve suffering?" and of course the rational answer may be "no" (like the joke, "doctor, it hurts when I do this!", and the doctor's reply is, "Well don't do that then!") So craving (especially unskillful craving) is associated with stress. The next little increment of Dharma might be anatta: for example "I am craving something" or "I am suffering". Cessation of craving involves views like "I am not that craving", "this craving is not me", "that is not my craving" and so on. More generally (and I think that people learn to generalize from having had several experiences ... once you've been hit on the head with an apple several times you begin to realize that gravity is involved) you begin to see that "wrong view" is associated with the three characteristics: i.e. not seeing impermanence (e.g. seeing impermanent things as permanent, or wanting impermanent things to be permanent); and views of self versus non-self (where any view of self is associated with suffering). The four noble truths introduce one more thing, i.e. the noble eightfold way. But I find that (eight) is too much to keep in mind, so I remember it as the three-fold training. 

I think that a standard Buddhist view is that the "origin" is unknowable or not evident -- one of the famously unanswered questions, which the Buddha wouldn't answer, because the answer wouldn't be helpful. I think that Buddhism is more concerned about this life. 

Christianity has a famous motto, Love the sinner, hate the sin. Similarly a preschool teacher might be taught to say, to a misbehaving child, "that's a hurtful action" not "you're a bad boy/girl": because you're supposed to love the child (unconditionally) and disapprove of bad behaviour. So you might dislike terrorism. You could wish that all sentient beings (including terrorists) might be free from the anger and ignorance associated with terrorism. A sutta quoted in Wikiedia is, 

Sankha's answer says, "It's not very effective, trying to pull others out of the mud, if you yourself are still stuck in it." Some would go further, and suggest that if you are in the mud then your attachments might be part of the problem (your views and your behaviour may be helping to put or keep your friend in the mud). From an Al-Anon web site: 

Also if you're worried that you're expected to force warm fuzzy feelings to be a Buddhist, I don't think that's true. Buddhism is kind of a Middle Way. Sometimes its doctrine is pretty absolute (e.g. "no killing, no lying, etc."), at other times I find that there are two sides: for example it teaches compassion but also dispassion, good-will but also non-attachment, non-aversion but also dismay and urgency, having "admirable friends" but also "solitude" and renunciation, release. 

The Buddha was never to give him any choice food or garment (*) gotten by him, nor appoint for him a separate "fragrant cell" (residence), nor include him in the invitations accepted by the Buddha. Further he was to be allowed to accept invitations on behalf of the Buddha; to bring to the Buddha those who came to see him from afar; to place before the Buddha all his perplexities, and the Buddha was to repeat to him any doctrine taught in his absence. 

There are some edge cases, so people manage to argue over whether copyright is theft, whether intellectual property is a thing, and so on, but in general I think it's clear and not abstract. You might have some personal or political belief such as "Property is theft!" -- I think the Vinaya (which are the detailed rules for monks) mention the King's law as a standard of conduct or definition of theft: 

I don't know what "when the baby is fit to be taken out of doors" means. The above quote claims that, it's "a common sight at the the Temple of the Sacred Tooth Relic" (especially on an auspicious or full-moon day). Wikipedia's Childbirth in Sri Lanka says,