demonstrative determiner: Ginny likes that cake. demonstrative pronoun: Ginny likes that. demonstrative adverb: Ginny is that hungry. subordinator (i.e. subordinate conjunction): Ginny said that she likes the cake. relative pronoun (controversial): The cake that Ginny likes is chocolate. 

Sentence (a) is the starting sentence. Sentence (b) shows proform substitution; the personal pronouns he and her have been substituted in for the noun phrases the man with the hat and the woman with the scarf. Based on the acceptability of sentence (b), one concludes that both the man with the hat and the woman with the scarf are constituents. Definite pronouns such as he and her (and them) take the place of constituents, in this case of complete noun phrases. The unacceptability of sentence (c) reveals that the strings the man and the woman in (a) are not constituents. In other words, the definite personal pronouns he and her cannot take dependents (=modifiers), since they necessarily replace an entire noun phrase. This fact explains why them who lost their money in the question is bad English. The relative clause who lost money is a postdependent (=postmodifier), and as such it cannot modify them (because them as a definite personal pronoun cannot be modified). The plural demonstrative pronouns (these and those) behave differently. They can take postdepndents (=postmodifiers, i.e. a modifier that follows them), e.g 

I have a couple of examples of degemination and prenasalization of the same geminate affricate/stop in Calabrian: 

I sorta-kinda was "taught" that Sicilian turns all unstressed "e"s to "i"s and "o"s to "u"s. Then I got to know a couple Calabrian songs whose dialect seemed almost Sicilian, so I extended that principle to Calabrian (at least Siculo-Calabrian) as well. Except I was given the lyrics to them, and one of them has both unstressed "e"s and "o"s, and the singer in the linked video clearly pronounced e.g. "oliofanti" as /ɔ.li.o'fan.ti/ and "contentezza" as /kon.tɛn'tet.tsa/. 

The Latin word for "finger" is . In Italian, I assume the "gi" was lost, perhaps via some lenition of the "g" to and then was lost, giving , or perhaps accusative , whence Italian "dito". What happened in Sicilian though? THe corresponding term is . Could it be that there was a metathesis giving (as happened with , where is found on the Wiktionary), and then the "g" was lost? Or is completely unrelated to ? 

"menzu", which should have evolved from "mediu(m)" through "mezzu", or maybe this assumption is just because I'm Italian and want to reduce this Calabrian word to its Italian counterpart "mezzo"; "mentu", which Sicilian Wiktionary links to Latin "mitto", which would be Italian "metto"; the other (to me) strange evolution is the "i" becoming an open "e" /ɛ/, which in Sicilian normally doesn't happen, but that is another matter. 

Trubeckoj disregarded any type of variability as irrelevant in Phonology. Variability is concrete and physical and therefore belongs to the realm of Phonetics. In Saussure's terms, unsystematic variability is automatically reckoned as pertaining to parole. Hence the second part of the equivalency: 

Let's say that by "Boolean logic" you mean "Formal logic", and, moreover, let's restrict your question to the example you are commenting about, rather than to the whole logic. A first, obvious, answer is no, since, by definition, no natural language is a formal language, and ambiguity is always to be taken into account. However, your question can be reformulated in a more linguistic fashion: is there any language distinguishing nominal conjunction from predicate conjunction? If attested, such a system could potentially express the difference between 

Now, let's remember the PIE vocalic alternations: roughly speaking, every vowel could change into a zero. In the case of the suffix we are looking for this would result into a variant form -i-. Therefore, what we really need is a declension type with a stem ending in -Vy- in full (i.e. non zero) grade, preserved as such down to the Classical period. Unfortunately, there is no such thing. 

This question arises from my research on Si maritau Rosa, a Sicilian song, where I found what seems to be a clear diminutive of vanedda, that is vanidduzza. Nowhere do I find that word directly, so I have no better guess as to its meaning than assuming it is indeed a diminutive of vanedda and see what the latter means. And here I find terralab, which gives me "stradina [little road] = vaneddha" – is the way that site denotes the retroflex that others (me included… well, I use to be very precise) indicate with plain – and salviamoilsiciliano, which explains vanedda as "piccola strada di campagna, o in città, vicolo" (small country road, or, in a city, alleyway). So I come to interpret "apru / a porta a vanidduzza" (which is the part of the song using vanidduzza) as "I open / the door to the small road". Then I find Sicilian Wiktionary, which gives me a vanedda as "a fessura, socchiuso" (in a slit-like fashion, ajar) in Italian, "entrebâillé, entrouvert" (ajar, half-open) in French, and surprisingly "small street, alley" in English. This gives me a meaning of "slit", with which I interpret "apru / a porta a vanidduzza" as "I half-open the door", which interpretation I prefer, also because of another version of the song giving me "Tegnu la porta aperta / La mettu a padiduzza", which seems to mean "I keep the door open / I put it ajar". So I wonder: does vanedda have both senses, i.e. mean both "small street" and "slit"? And what sense is used in the song? I try to go back into the etymology to see how this word formed and maybe choose the option closest to the meaning of its ancestors. I find this blog post which, while discussing the etymology of finestra, mentions vanedda as a possible cognate of vano, itself possibly related (at least semantically) to fanu in Etruscan, which the post says Pittau (never heard that name before…) gives as the ancestor of "finestra" (=window). So vanedda would have formed as a diminutive of vano, originally meaning passage, via addition of -edda, or -ella in Italian (cfr. Grotta delle Vanelle, which I gather is a cave on the Etna volcano in Sicily), so it would mean "small passage" and therefore allow both the above interpretations. However, when I look vanus (Latin) up on the Wiktionary, besides not finding any such sense (nor do I find it on this dictionary), I find etymological information linking vanus to PIE h₁weh₂-, which means "empty", and does not seem to support that other meaning, and is consistent with the meaning of "vanus", "vain", "empty", "useless". So where does this word come from? Is it possible that it does come from vanum, which had a semantic shift from "empty(ness)" to "passage", and then to "road" and "slit"? Or is this a bogus etymology? And in the latter case, where does vanedda stem from? And what does the word mean? Does it have both the meanings suggested above, or only one, and if the latter, which? And if it has both, which one is used in the song? Edit «Language-specific grammar and usage questions are off-topic unless primarily concerned with linguistics rather than usage», says the on hold banner on this question. So it appears that the last part of the question, about the meaning of vanedda, is off-topic. However, I have reason to believe that the etymology part of th question is not off-topic. Alongside the etymology question, the question "How did the meaning of this word evolve in the ages?" should be on-topic. So let me drop the "current meaning" part, and sum the question up as: 

If a true auxiliary is present, though, then there is a clear preference for the modal adverb to immediately follow the auxiliary verb. This is the case in the second example sentence in the question: 

Sentence 1b is strongly marked; it needs a quite special context for it to occur, but given this context, it can be acceptable. It involves copular inversion; the subject NP has inverted to the other side of the finite verb, forcing the predicative adjective to appear in first position. Copular inversion in English is a remnant of the V2 principle of Germanic languages. Now with examples 1a-b in mind, consider the following sentences: 

We can see that the same basic thing is going on in these cases. English, like most languages, has varied means at its disposal that allow it to express closely similar meanings. When the verb and the object noun together form the predicate, as in (1c-d), the language can use an adjective to modify the complex predicate. When the predicate is simple, as in (1a-b), in contrast, the language uses an adverbial expression to modify the predicate (here for twenty minutes). Another example: 

We see here that the possessive suffix -s in German cannot attach to a phrase, unlike the clitic -s in English. What this means is that it is difficult to view possessive -s as a case marker in English. Thus the hypothesis and most direct answer to the question that I would like to offer is that case is assigned to elliptical answers in the same way that it would be if the answer were to appear in a full sentence. Exceptions to this rule (such as the distribution of pronoun forms in English) may have to do with the fact that the language at hand more or less lacks a robust case system to begin with. 

So I ask: how common is the phenomemon of an afficate/stop both degeminating and prenasalizing, in Sicilian specifically but also more generally in other languages? And are the above etymologies correct? 

Words which have the sound sequence /s/-/t/-/r/ in standard Italian (and probably had that sequence in their Latin ancestor form) have a simple retroflex fricative in Sicilian, which is spelt "str", perhaps copying the Italian spelling of the word. Now I get how "r" could have become a retroflex /ɻ/, maybe due to external influences, and then /t/ could have been retroflected to /ʈ/ when near a /ɻ/, which in turn was devoiced to produce the affricate /ʈʂ/, spelt "tr" in Sicilian. I could even imagine "str" becoming /sʈʂ/ and then /ʂʈʂ/. But how did this turn to a simple /ʂ/? Is it actually the case that ? Or is the evolution different? 

Years ago, I met this guy from Cameroon. I asked him what language he spoke, and, besides Italian and French (and maybe some English), he said he spoke Kwa, a Bamileke language from his home country. I looked it up on Wikipedia, and I thought I'd found it as Kwa', but he said no, the apostrophe shouldn't be there, because apostrophes mark "fat" (his term, probably means "glottalized", will be discussed at post end) vowels, and the name of his language doesn't have a fat vowel in it. But "Kwa" with no apostrophe is either the Kwa of Nigeria aka Baa, or one of the Kwa languages aka New Kwa, none of which are from Cameroon. So what language is this? Is my friend being confused by the apostrophe or is there really an apostrophe-free Kwa in Cameroon? (Also, what does that apostrophe denote?) Extras I tried to study the phonology of the language by asking him specific questions, and the following are excerpts from an article I submitted for creation on Wikipedia which will soon be deleted for lack of information. Vowels 

If there are crossing lines in the syntactic tree, then one or more discontinuous dependencies is present. A projectivity violation is a discontinuous dependency. There are a lot of terms used to denote such dependencies, many of which are listed at the start of that Wikipedia article (discontinuous dependency, long distance dependency, displaced constituent, discontinuity, projectivity violation, etc.). These terms are denoting the same thing for the most part, although there are preferences acoss various theories. Looking at some of the trees in that article, the discontinous dependencies are the ones where the solid dependency edge (line) crosses one of the dotted projection lines. Note that each of the trees that contains crossing lines contains just one such discontinuous dependency. The interesting question concerns how theories of syntax address the crossing lines. Chomskyan syntax has traditionally assumed syntactic movement: $URL$ Other grammars (HPSG, LFG, some DGs) assume feature passing instead. In any case, most theories examine the tree structure and consider the path through the tree that one can trace from the displaced unit to its governor/head. 

I am living in China and studying Chinese. The question is a good one insofar as the misconception is very widespread. I have heard educated people say such a thing, i.e. Chinese has no grammar, people who should know better. Interestingly, however, the source of the misconception originates from both outside and inside of China. The first books written by Westerners about the Chinese language were authored by missionaries during the Ming Dynasty in the 1600s. These missionaries had probably studied Latin and Greek, highly inflected languages. They were interested in spreading Christianity, and in order to do this, they needed to speak Chinese, so they studied it. If one is used to Latin or Greek grammar, then Chinese is undoubtedly a shock due to the almost complete lack of morphological markers. Chinese is quite analytical; it lacks inflections almost entirely. In this regard, it is understandable how those missionaries might have claimed that Chinese lacks grammar. But the misconception that Chinese lacks grammar also stems from within the country. There has been, namely, a considerable school of thought that tries to make sense of cultural differences in terms of language (think Sapir-Whorf Hypothesis). Some Chinese scholars have characterized Chinese as a "spiritual", "non-formal", "flexible" language, whereas European languages have been characterized as "formal" and "rigid". This understanding of language has certainly contributed to the misconception that Chinese lacks grammar. Worth noting in this area is that the misconception was relatively prominent in Chinese linguistics not long ago. In fact the misconception was being propogated in recent decades, for example in "General Linguistics" by Shen Xiao Long: $URL$ I haven't read this book, but my colleague states that it was influential. My colleague also states that the modern understanding of grammar did not really begin to take hold in China until after the Cultural Revolution. It was therefore not until the 1980s that the modern understanding of grammar started to spread in China. 

One famous example in such respect is the name of Pakistan, which however was coined purposedly when it became an independent nation. It comes from an acronym formed from the names of the five northern provinces of the British India: Punjab, Afghan Province, Kashmir, Sind, and Baluchistan (see here). The i vowel was inserted for euphonic purposes. However, the word paki has also a separate meaning in Urdu (where it means 'pure'). Another such artificial creation is the name of Banzare Coast, coming from British-Australian-New Zealand Antarctic Research Expedition that discovered it (see here). You probably prefer some natural developments rather than an artificial creation. I am sure there are many examples. I can mention two Russian cities. First is Saint Petersburg which is commonly known, and effectively called, Piter by the native speakers. Someone calls it by the acronym SPb, even if more in writing than orally. Another example is the city of Yekaterinburg which is commonly abbreviated into Ye-burg, including also the spoken language. The city names in the Spanish domains in South America were often derived from quite lengthy phrases with some religious content. Later they underwent spontaneous abbreviation. This is the case of Buenos Aires coming from the former denomination Puerto de Nuestra Señora Santa María del Buen Ayre (at least, according to the popular sources) P.S. I suppose I don't need to mention Frisco for San Francisco. 

The comments by user2619 and jlawler answer the question directly. I can add more information here, so that a deeper understanding of the distinction between predicative and attributive adjectives is established. A predicative adjective is (part of) the main clause predicate, hence the term predicative. An attributive adjective is also a predicate, but one that is not part of the main clause predicate, e.g. 

While these comments may not be quite what the question is looking for, I hope that they help reveal the problems with the X-bar schema in general. My preferred analysis of such examples assumes a relatively flat structure in which the distinction between arguments and adjuncts is encoded in terms of distinct types of dependencies, as opposed to in terms of varying positions in a prescribed structure schema. 

I have tested such examples on informants extensively. The coreferential reading is very unlikely, but it is not completely impossible. The opposite order of noun and pronoun allows the coreferential reading easily, of course: (1) John wants Bill to be smart more fervently than his mother does. The acceptability contrast across the two variants illustrates for me that above all, linear order (i.e. precedence) is a main factor influencing the distribution of pronouns in relation to their antecedents (and postcedents). Pronouns in a large majority of cases prefer an antecedent, as opposed to a postcedent. Only in very limited cases is the opposite order preferred, e.g. In her Bed, Zelda spent her sweetest hours. Examples like these have played a central role in the development of binding theory. Reinhart (1976, 1983) appears to have struggled with the acceptability of such data. The marginality of the coreferential reading in the first example (in the question) motivated her to allow some similar examples to allow the coreferential reading, and others to disallow it. This is precisely what is done with the two examples in the question, where the first is deemed to be much more acceptable than the second. The acceptability contrast between the two is probably not near as robust as the question assumes. Reinhart sought to accommodate degrees of acceptability in terms of sentence vs. VP adjuncts. If the coreferential reading is deemed possible, the adjunct at hand is a sentence adjunct, but if it is not possible, then it is a VP adjunct. The problem with Reinhart's explanation in terms of c-command is that acceptability of such cases is not black-and-white, yet it should be black-and-white given the approach to binding in terms of c-command that she was espousing. In fact this a major weakness in the study of syntax in general in my view. Marginality is messaged in one direction or the other in a manner that supports the particular theory at hand. In short, the answer to the question is that the coreferential reading for both example sentences may be possible, but it is quite unlikely. The Wikipedia article on binding has more to say about such cases: $URL$ .