Almost 2 months ago, my manager left the company. My group reports directly to the CEO, so I was made acting Director, reporting to the CEO. It looks like I'll be in the position for somewhere between 4-6 months while we search for a replacement. My day job is an engineer, not a manager. I would love to list the position of acting Director on my resume but I'm not sure how to list it. 

I'm almost 2 months into an internal transfer. I found a position on our internal careers site, applied, and was accepted. The company paid for relocation, including a hefty cost-of-living adjustment. I took this position both for personal and career reasons - the position seemed more in line with my career aspirations. Now that I'm 2 months in, I am pretty unhappy with the position. Without getting too specific, I think that the job was oversold to me and I'm not doing the design/analysis work I thought I would be doing. Right now I've been given just a bunch of grunt work. Other coworkers my age are in the same boat, and they've been around for between 1-2 years. There is a bad dynamic in the group where the senior engineers are not giving us young guys enough background or training to do anything more useful than relatively menial tasks. Based on the others' experiences and on my own observations of how this group operates, I don't think my skills, experience, or career will grow if I stay here. I believe I was sold a false bill of goods, and management did not act in good faith when they told me I would be doing design/analysis of systems. Per my relocation contract, if I leave for any other reason than layoff due to reduction-in-force before 1 year I am liable to pay back the entire relocation bonus. My current plan is to put in notice the day I am eligible to do so, but I am so unhappy that I'm considering moving on now. Do I have any leg to stand on to try to keep relocation by saying I was not hired in good faith? Generally speaking, are there any circumstances where it's possible to keep a relocation benefit like this? 

The likelihood that they would re-hire you after firing you for "gross misconduct?" Sorry to be blunt, but the odds are zero. If it was a matter of it being one mistake, and getting a second chance, that second chance would have come in the form of not firing you, and opting for some form of internal discipline, demotion, etc. Since they did dismiss you, there would be no conditions under which they would bring you back. That would entirely defeat the purpose of letting you go. 

There is absolutely no reason to go into the details of your personal circumstances, especially painful ones, for something like this. While not usual, I don't think most employers are put out by workers wanting to get back to work, so they're not going to demand an explanation in order to allow it. If they do ask, out of curiosity, a vague "some of my plans for my time off fell through (or "changed," if that statement feels too much like lying for you), so I don't want to waste my time off just sitting around" will be more than sufficient. 

Personally, instead of telling the sister that the brother should write, I would have declined to move forward with the person. My response would have been something along the lines of: 

I agree with not disclosing current salary, and your reasons for doing so are exactly correct. I also agree with answers that say your response was not the best way to go about it. Here is the perspective that I would operate from - First of all, your contention that your salary would be used for the company to figure the absolute least they can offer you to get you on board, and to use it as leverage is correct. More importantly, what you make now, and what you used to make is completely irrelevant. You are discussing their position, with responsibilities, requirements, and market forces that are specific to that position, not your current one. If I'm making $3/hour, or if I'm making $30000/hour, neither has any bearing on the fact that the market range for a Senior Widget Designer with 10 years of experience in the greater tri-state area is $70K - $80K with a full benefits package. You need to assess your skills and qualifications, and determine the kind of positions you want to pursue with that. Then you have to figure where you fall within the expected compensation range for that kind of position. The correct response would have been "For my skillset, experience and the market for those qualifications, my target compensation range is {X to Y, or ballpark X}, depending on the entire package, the company and the opportunity, of course." At least, this way, the recruiter and the company know, generally, if their position with targeted compensation and you are a match or not. Having that information, if the recruiter insists that they need to know, you can then say "that's not relevant to this discussion. If I am qualified for this position, then the expected compensation should reflect what is appropriate for that position, not anything else." Of course, my answer is from a US and western European perspective. It seems like that is not the norm for some other areas, even if, philosophically, I think it still applies. PBS Newshour:Ask the Headhunter: Should you tell a recruiter your salary? Forbes: How To Answer The Question 'What's Your Current Salary?' 

A while ago, a recruiter on LinkedIn reached out to me and we discussed a position. I interviewed and it looks like they are making an offer. I'm not necessarily in a rush to leave my company, but the offer is very good. But I like the company culture, the people, the commute, everything (well, my job itself isn't as great as it could be but I think there's a path forward to improve that.) If I was being paid this amount at my current company then I would outright decline the offer. Most advice I've seen is "don't ask for a counter offer" but that seems to be geared towards people who are actively looking to leave a job. Does that advice apply in this situation? I'd love to stay at my job but this offer is very enticing. 

I'm part of an interview panel this week. I have only ever given a structured interview before (all panelists have a list of the same questions, and we use the same questions for all candidates; cannot lead the candidate; etc), whereas now I am being asked to evaluate the candidate for cultural fit, interest in the position (this is "just a conversation", we reached out to the candidate and do not have an actual open position), etc. I have the freedom to run my 1:1 interview however I see fit. We would consider the candidate for a hardware design engineering position at a startup firm. In searching around on Workplace.SE, there's lots of input about what to expect as an interviewee, but not an interviewer. I want to ask good questions that properly evaluate the candidate without leading or otherwise biasing the process, and actually add value to our hiring process. (I also don't want to provide a bad candidate experience that might lead to a post on Workplace.SE!) What types of questions should I ask the candidate? 

Recruiters work for their client companies to fill their positions. The client company pays them. They are also in a business where any "leads" might help them to enhance their income. While there are some who are very nice and care about their candidates, there are some with a more impersonal approach. In any case, they are trained to be more coldly business-like. In your case, the recruiter decided you were not a good enough candidate or fit for the position he/she was trying to fill. So you are rejected. Your value as a candidate-commodity, unless they have other positions that might be a better fit, is not much. So, they ask about other positions you are looking at. It might suggest a fit for positions they have that might be better for you..... so far, okay. But that's not really what the conversations were focused on, by your description. Asking about your specific interviews, companies, and people at those companies? This is strictly milking you for valuable "inside" information that will help them to circumvent the standard gauntlet set up to screen people like cold-calling recruiters out. "I'd like to talk to the person who makes hiring decisions for Accounting professionals" "{Click}" "I'd like to speak with Bob AccountingManagerGuy, please." "Please hold, I'll transfer you." If they have information about specific needs or what seems to be exactly what they are looking for, they are more likely to be able to fashion an opening pitch that will grab that person's attention and keep them from hanging up. This recruiter is mining you for information they can use to get a foot in the door with a new client for new positions. Obviously, this gives you no benefit, whatsoever. They will say, perhaps, that they are just "networking," but they seem, in this situation, to have no interest in you beyond potential leads they can get from you. This is part of what I was trained to do as a recruiter. When I got a potential client on the phone, that was great, but I was expected to find out who they knew in other companies. Qualified, heavy-hitting candidates would be great, but a hiring manager or someone with positions to fill? That was pure gold. When talking with candidates, I was expected to try and get names of other candidates, and when I talked to them, I was to try and find out if they could help me to find people with openings or companies that might have openings.