Office manager saw my hair in basin in WC. It accidentally felt inside and has been partly washed away while I was washing my hands. She contacted me by Skype and asked to clean it in the future. Now I'm confused what to tell her. Circumstances: our company has started to rent an entire floor, so all the WCs there are in their responsibility now. They didn't hire a cleaning company or person and don't plan to. Only office kitchen gets cleaned once a several months. Other office rooms hasn't been cleaned for a year so far. Although I agree we should keep office clean, I feel strong revulsion at being forced to dig into the basins each time I wash hands. There is no equipment or disinfectant liquids to perform such manipulations, not even spare paper (company bought electronic hand drier to save money on that and everything else). I can't stop my hair falling even though I comb it regularly. My responsibility, which is written in office regulations and I agree with, is to keep my desk clean. I don't mind because I'm the only one using it. I'm usually not conflicting person, but this goes overboard in my opinion. I'm planning to disagree with her. The problem is I'm a bit socially awkward, our Office manager tends to be unprofessional with the stuff. She is often rude and talkative while I'm shy and can't find proper words to answer on time. So I haven't been able to come up with some lines besides "Should I clean the carpets too? My hair is also falling while I'm walking, I bring soil from the outside as well". We are somehow on good terms (but not so good to blatantly tell her this). Other women' hair also occurs there (we are just 5 females in IT company beside this manager), they leave coffee/tea and other lumps in basins. But I can't simply approach and ask them "What would you tell her in my situation?", because other employees are arguing aggresively and openly (I can't choose this option) with her or ignoring completely. Am I right thinking like that? What other people do with their falling hair? How to tell her I won't clean the basins in a most professional way? Update. 

It is not pushy at all; I find it perfectly friendly. If I were to suggest any edits, I might suggest being a bit more concise (particularly if you are in a STEM field). I might say something like: 

Does she really? If your supervisor is serious about you handling this, then you need to do so. I would 

Contacting the company is a good idea. Things may have fallen through the cracks, in which you following up will help, or they may be on the fence about you, in which case you following up will also help. Contacting upper management is more sensitive. How large is the company? For a small (<15 person) company, this is maybe a good idea; for a very large company, maybe less so. If you do contact them, make sure you indicate that you applied through the proper channels and are contacting them just to make sure that nothing falls through the cracks, as you weren't sure who is leading the search. Contacting upper management through Facebook strikes me as unprofessional. Things may be different in a young, start-up culture though. If you go this route, I would be very brief and simply say that you sent in your application, haven't heard back yet, and hope to be able to meet with him soon. 

Ask the supervisor to tell your co-worker that you are in charge Clarify what sort of recourse you have if she does not comply (can you send her home, fire her, etc.). It's likely this person will eventually need to be fired, so you should clarify what steps have to happen before she can be fired. Sit down with this person and tell her your expectations. You can be friendly, but be very clear. Don't expect her to offer to help you - explicitly order her to do what you want her to do, and don't be mad at her for not doing things you haven't clearly asked her to do. If she refuses to follow your instructions, use whatever recourse you have. 

If your CV states that you have experience with these technologies then it's not an unreasonable request in my opinion. 

Good luck and hopefully it works out (and if it doesn't there are plenty of software developer jobs out there that allow remote working!). 

Speak with your team lead/project manager and explain the working arrangement you agreed (presumably with HR). If they weren't part of this decision they may feel aggrieved so be prepared for that. Explain why it's beneficial to you and agree that if your performance is affected by it then you will review the arrangement with them. Be open with your colleagues and explain the arrangement. It does sound like they're also making the assumption you will be slacking off/less productive when you work from home but we do only have your phrasing to go on! If that's really the case (do try re-assessing this after you've explained it to them) then the only way to ease their worries is to prove that you aren't going to be any less productive. Make sure you are contactable when you work from home. Whatever communication tool your company uses make sure you're signed in and super responsive. There's very few things that annoy office workers more than when someone is working from home and not responding. I'd keep your team informed of your status as well. If your baby starts crying and you need to take him/her for a walk, tell your team - that way when you don't respond they know why. And make sure you make up the time so you stay productive! 

It were 2 strings of my hair inside the sink's hole almost washed down but wrapped around litter others leave. Bathroom... is completely dirty. I hate coming there, but have no other choice. All my proposals are ignored, the company doesn't bother with cleaning. It wasn't a problem while we didn't have company's WCs (and it was also a mess). I do clean after myself. But I'm on a verge of vomitting just thinking of doing it after others. I work in separate, just mine, office room and I clean my desk and stuff every week. Also, after reading SE, I got myself one spare mouse "for guests". Beside the dirtiness, it's a very good company and people. Right now I just can't afford leaving. At least for several months. And I am really pessimistic about it... 

Is it unprofessional? Yes. Should you resign? Don't think so. You can resign, you don't need anyone's acceptance to do it for whatever reason. But you may be not so lucky to find one more company like that. If you eventually resign, don't tell your future employers the real reason behind it. It will damage your chances to get another job greatly. Should you just sit and wait? Totally No. Get up and tell your manager about your situation and make some proposals on how you think it can be solved beneficially to both of you. Ask if you can shift your schedule if it's temporal issue. In many companies managers understand that anything can happen in life and they can help you. But they need to know about when you'll have your piece of work done to plan further. Keep them notified and most of them will be satisfied. BUT you MUST make them know. It seems like your company puts up with it. Hang onto them. If it's just your behavioral problems - your vacation won't change anything. Learn how to get over them. It may impede your carrier and life. Such situations may happen endless times. You'd better learn how to solve them on the fly. P.S. I'm from Russia and a programmer too. FYI If your company has annual vacation plan, they have every right not to let you go on vacation. 

Your new CEO is right and you are being overpaid. In this case, looking for a new job will convince you of this before you burn a bridge. Your new CEO is wrong and you are being underpaid, and will change his mind when presented with new evidence. Since you are underpaid, it should be easy to find someone who will compensate you properly; with another offer in hand, he will pay you more. Your new CEO is wrong and you are being underpaid, and will not change his mind when presented with new evidence. Since you are underpaid, it should be easy to find someone who will compensate you properly; you can then accept this job and all is well. In this case, your current company is about to have problems, and it will be good that you are out. 

Or, your supervisor may be saying "handle it" as in "don't bother me." In this case, I think you should make your supervisor aware of the situation -- I would draft a memo (you may need someone to help you with the writing) where you say something like: "Here is a list of what I did last night: [blah]. Here is a list of what coworker did last night: [blah]. This happens every night. I wanted to document this so that I will not be blamed when things get missed. Please let me know how you wish to proceed." Then I would just do your work and ignore the coworker as much as possible. 

I don't know about European/USA practices, but in Russia the most of available vacancies for juniors are like this one. 1-3 years of work experience, long list of requirements. Personally, I think it's wrong way to find an applicant, but the employers and recruiters think, that this way they can get both experienced and graduates for the same position to choose from. They want to assemble as many of them as they can to select the best. That doesn't necessarily imply you'll encounter all of it at work. It's common for mid-sized or micro companies and usually means you will be wearing many hats. Therefore you shouldn't look at requirements at all. Just send your CV. But, again, it really upsets young job-seekers like you (and me not so long ago). 

In my company we still use Skype for internal purposes. One client can have many projects and each of them can have one or more chats (sometimes my list can easily contain dozens of them). Even if you turn off notifications, those chats are always going up and down, blinking, making it harder to look for current projects info (another dozens of chats). Usually when you are being assigned to another client, a manager of former project excludes you from chats of their responsibility. The last time I switched projects one of the managers didn't exclude me from his group chats and recently one of those became so annoying I left it and others by myself. A few moments later a manager of one of the most annoying project's chat said that I was rude and said to just turn off the sound and never leave the conversations. I left that project 2 months ago and will never ever come back to it. The manager was one of the many and not a senior one. We have no internal regulations on this regard and I never had such problems before. But now it bothers me if he really was right. Are there any rules of etiquette that apply in my situation? 

I would argue that most companies would expect a contractor to have their own equipment. You are self-employed and part of the reason you are paid more as a contractor than an employee is that you have to cover costs that an employee wouldn't, ie: laptop, software licenses (for example if you use InteliJ you would pick up the cost of this). 

The other answers have some useful, actionable suggestions but I hesitate to up-vote them because they mostly seem to take the stance that you have been, or will be, less productive at home than in the office. From what you've written I don't believe there's any evidence to suggest this has happened yet. Given that you've had the wherewithal to post about your situation and ask for advice to remedy it, I'd imagine you wouldn't let that happen. A lot of how you can resolve this (if it can be resolved at all) depends on your company culture, particularly in relation to their work from home policy. My company (a software development shop) employs a "we don't care where you are as long as you are contactable and are getting your work done" policy. On the other hand my fiancée's company (also a software development shop) prefer its staff are in the office so she and I would have to resolve this in very different ways (if I had anything to resolve at all). My advice would be