The strength of the light from the Sun scales with the inverse square of distance [note 1]. That means that we would need to have the Earth-Moon system at $\frac{1}{\sqrt{2}}$ (approx 0.7) AU for the full Moon to be twice as bright [note 2]. Note 1: The fact that the Sun is not a point source of light has only a very minor effect on the scaling. Note 2: Technically, it will be slightly brighter because more of the absorbed radiation will be radiated away in the visible spectrum. This is however also a negligible effect. 

There exist websites that do exactly that for you, like Phases of the Moon . For your parameters, the phase was between the last quarter and new Moon, so just a tiny edge. Visualized: 

Yes Tidal locking is a mutual process, and both the satellite and the parent body will eventually permanently face each other. However, while tidal locking of a satellite can happen relatively quickly (that is, within the life span of the solar system), tidal locking of the parent body is extremely slow and will in a practical sense never happen (the current age of the universe is not enough in most cases). The relative mass of the satellite and the parent body is one of the most important factors: 

Time will show ...although that is a very long time. If the grid of the universe was static, objects moving away from us should continue to move away from us with a continues velocity. That is not the case from observed data: Things farther away from us seems to move away faster. This is known as Hubble's law, and is one of the basic concepts of modern cosmology. The model of an expanding metrics fit that data, in that when there is more space fabric between us and the far object, there are more space that stretches, and therefore the velocity is higher. That things move away from us, and have an accelerating velocity, should suggest a universe that expands faster and faster. There are however other forces limiting this growth, most notably gravity. The fate of the growth of the universe is determined by that unknown balance, that must also consider dark matter and energy. The magnitude, or even the validity of those models is the current frontier of astronomy, and cosmology in general. Nothing is settled yet. 

From the any of the planet's point of view, the encounter is exactly the same regardless of direction if the relative speed and force is equal. This should be pretty clear for symmetry reasons. For any encounter, the law is $v_{in} = v_{out}$. However, if the encounter takes a long time, you would also have to consider the influence of the central body of the system. The problem then becomes a three-body problem and this case is not restricted enough for an analytical solutions. We can make a few observations though: As the velocity vectors of both objects before the encounter have no radial component, both orbits are going to get a higher eccentricity. Any other information depends on knowing the distance of the encounter and the relative masses. 

That is only by its gravitational influence alone. As a rule of thumb, incomplete and inaccurate data always imply the risk of causing virtual objects. It should also be noted too that observations in the Kuiper belt generally can not yield how a orbit changes, due to the extremely long revolution times. observing "Interactions" are actually mostly about tracing an orbit back from its current state vectors, to find probable interaction events in the past. That is literary to ask for data artefacts and virtual objects. 1Before anyone objects about how easy it is to falsify that: Yes it is easy to determine that there can not actually be an object there, based purely on observing the two bodies. But, that requires 1. accurate data about the motion of the two objects, and 2. their mass. Our current data about the Kuiper belt fails to give good enough data on both points. 

This is almost certainty ending in a Nobel prize, and they do not necessarily have to wait till after the results are confirmed by other experiments. That said, verification by peer researchers is one of the core principles of science. 

The method for the mass estimate is described well by @Rob Jeffries, but an even simpler point can be made: There are no other ways to measure their mass more accurately. 

For an orbital spacecraft, the word 'distance' is mostly not used when referring to the central object. The terms 'altitude' or 'orbital radius' are preferred. Altitude is the distance to the surface (or rather, to a theoretical sealevel. It may also refer to the actual surface though, so be careful). Orbital radius is the distance to the centre of the Earth. As a side note "average distance" in an orbit is referring to the semi-major axis as that is the number used for calculating the orbital period and different velocities. 

However escape velocity decreases by distance, so even though you are travelling at only 100kph, that is eventually going to be above escape velocity, as the escape velocity goes towards zero when the distance goes towards infinity. You can not really escape a gravitational field, so the only meaningful metric is if you have enough kinetic energy to not be pulled back. That is not possible by your constraint of not having escape velocity. In a sense though, you can escape the Earth's gravitational field, using the common approximation of sphere of influence. It defines a region for Earth's gravitational influence, and ignores it outside of it. The border of the SOI can be reached without ever going at escape velocity. 

I have not heard "antipodal points" used in this way before, but it is probably fine. For a tidally locked moon, this point is called the inner pole. It should in some sense also apply to the parent body, as that point is also facing the barycentre. The direction "down" is generally called Nadir. For planetary coordinate systems, the constantly parent-body facing/moon facing point is used for 0,0. 

Compare that to the mass ratio of Juptier and Europa of 39,600 (or Io: 21300, Ganymede 12,800, Callisto: 17,600). While the time required for a locking of Jupiter itself is difficult to measure due to the fact that we don't have the necessary data about the moons, this is not a noticeable effect before the Sun dies. Tidal locking of the parent body can most likely be justified by conservation of energy, but conservation of momentum gives a more intuitive view: As the satellite slows down and moves away from the parent body, its angular momentum increases (angular momentum is proportional to distance times velocity, and the orbital velocity is proportional to the square root of distance). This angular momentum must be supplied from somewhere. The only source for that is the rotation of the parent body. Even if all the moons of Jupiter were to completely escape, the angular momentum drain is not enough to stop the rotation of Jupiter. 

Hertz is the frequency, 1/s. That is the number of waves per second. 100Hz is comparable to normal sound waves. 

More serious though, the only possible place I can think of is Io. There may be some reactions taking place in the sulphur material ejected from the volcanoes that produces light. 

Yes, there are exo-planets discovered in the Orion constellation, for instance, the stars HD 37605 and HD 38529 both have two known planets. HD 38858 is also interesting, as it has a known planet, and also a disk of comets. 

OK, Imagine the stars at distance x block an area of the sky. At a distance of 2x there should be four times as many stars, but they would seem four times smaller in terms of area covered. Thus, the blocking grows linearly until a significant part of the sky is blocked. The stars within 20 light years (excluding the Sun), blocks approximately $4.3 \cdot 10^{-16}$ of the sky. Even if we scale that up to the radius of the universe, 45 billion light years, only about $2 \cdot 10^{-6}$ of the sky is covered. Even that tiny number is an overestimate, as we live in an extremely star-dense part of the universe, our galaxy. Space is simply too big. 

In every context we talk about "mean free path", we talk about particles. Particles usually bounce around a lot, from collision to collision. In between two bounces a particle moves in a straight line. That is the expected behaviour from Newton's laws of motion. Between one collision and the next, a particle therefore moves a distance. That is the "free path". So why do we need to include "mean"? The thing is, you can never be sure about how far the particle moves after a collision. It might as well immediately bounce into another particle, as well as move a considerable distance. However, if you measure really many particles, their average is going to be pretty stable and predictable. That gives a nice, usable number. The "mean" here is for average. (In case you wonder, yes, this applies to optics too, but the concept requires a little more abstraction). 

Sounds like homework (correct me if that assumption is wrong, as you may want a somewhat different answer then.), so here is a hint: Clean up the equation first, to something that looks more like an equation for mass: $$\frac{L}{L_{sun}} = \left(\frac{M}{M_{sun}}\right)^{3.5}$$ $$\left(\frac{L}{L_{sun}}\right)^{\frac{1}{3.5}} = \frac{M}{M_{sun}}$$ 

This works well in reality too, and helps to reduce heat loads. The reason this is not used is the fact that you must then pass through the Van Allen radiation belts multiple times, where you ideally want the crew to spend as little time as possible due to the high levels of radiation. Another reason is redundancy. If the heat shield is not able to the whole deceleration in one go, how can you be sure it is safe enough? The final part of the aero-braking from orbit that you must do in one take is close to 8000 m/s, and that is not so much smaller than the 11000 m/s you have when hitting the atmosphere when returning from the Moon. 

Please note that the overall charge has not changed, and can not possibly do that by any means. The charge is always preserved. The other way electrons can disappear from a star is through the formation of a neutron star. There, the particles has are pressed together so strongly that the protons and electrons have merged into neutrons. Note how the charge is preserved here too. 

Your question is: Why does not the object spiral in? You are perhaps thinking that as it comes closer, the gravity becomes stronger, and therefore the object is forced to come even closer. But when it falls closer, its velocity increases. As we have seen, the velocity of the objects tries to make it escape. So when it is closer, it has more velocity to counteract the increased gravity. Edit: Just in case of a more literal interpretation of your question, the trampoline in the original analogy causes friction, and therefore spiralling, but space is a vacuum. 

Planets does not go through all the constellations. The path the Sun and the planets (approximately) follows is called the ecliptic. The constellation this line goes through is known as the Zodiac, but the current number is actually 13. A star map, with the ecliptic drawn: 

The basic concept here, that you instead of relying on having a large enough velocity that the Earth can not pull you back in time just have a low and constant velocity, and keeps thrusting to counteract gravity instead, is not flawed by default, given your assumptions 

Then, that blue object will become more and more distant, if it continues in the same direction. But it does not continue in the same direction, after a while, the gravity of the big black object has changed its course: 

The Wikipedia article on apparent retrograde motion seems to have a table containing exactly what you are looking for: 

That is not correct. The area is the total area between the two radius lines, so there is a curved side. Imagine you have two points almost 180 degrees from each other. Using just a triangle, the area is close to zero. Now, two points placed closely together can have the same area in between them. Then you have an equal are, but not equal time, so your hypothesis can not be correct. 

One thing that is, if not unique, unusual about the Sun is the size of it. It belongs to the top 5% brightest stars, meaning that 19 out of 20 stars are smaller than the Sun. 

"nebula clouds" sound a little bit redundant, because, is there any nebula that is not a cloud? I would stick to "nebulae". (And if you want to be consistent, you should be writing "supernovae" too). I am not an expert on this topic, but I have never seen any use of "nebula cloud" before. 

Ceres is 2.76 AU away from the sun, so the sunlight is seven times weaker. That is comparable to the levels of illumination 30 minutes before sunset on Earth, so you are not going to have any problem seeing the surface. The albedo of Ceres is quite low, comparable to worn asphalt. But it is still easy to see it. 

You are right that the tilt of the asteroids are distributed in very random way, and that the rotation of the Solar nebula is a minor contributor to that tilt, and only skews it a little. However, you are not right that randomness simply adds up. The randomness does in fact cancel out more and more when you combine a large amount of asteroids, until the rotation of the nebula becomes the dominant factor. This is related to the Law of large numbers. For instance, throw a dice. The outcome is random. Throw 10 dices, calculate their sum, and divide by 10. Not so far from the average any more? You can do the same thing with thousands of dices, or millions of asteroids. When the number of asteroids that form an object is really high, the tilt is not going to be far from the average value, determined by the nebula's rotation. The same argument goes for inclination, and the fact that even though the planets' orbits are elliptical, they are not as far from circular that a random orbit would be.