China is not so populous. By population density it is on 84-th place, after Italy (65), Nigeria (64), Germany (58), Pakistan (56), United Kingdom (51), Japan (40), India (33), Netherlands (31), Bangladesh (10), not mentioning small countries. See $URL$ So the correct question would be "Why China is so large?" Why so many separate peoples were united into one state. The answer lies in the history of conquests. If I understand correctly, the last "unification" which essentially determined the modern territory of China was performed by Genghiz Khan and his descendants. 

All this is described in many books on the history of laying the first transatlantic cable. For example, in J. S. Gordon, A thread across the ocean, Walker, NY, 2002. The story is too long ans exciting to tell it here but some of your questions can be answered shortly. 

What your teacher teaches you is unfortunately a complete nonsense and political propaganda. There were no "Ukrainians" until the 17 century, and the notion of "proto-Ukrainians" (as people who lived of this territory) is unscientific. This is a good example of the use of history for political propaganda. Very many different peoples lived on the territory of current Ukraine in the past. Descendants of some of those peoples are called "Poles" now. Where the ancestors of modern Poles "proto-Ukrainians" because they lived on the territory of modern Ukraine ? Why not "proto-Poles"? Consider the Jews living in the US now. Most of their ancestors lived on the territory of modern Ukraine. Were they "proto-Ukrainians"? Then why these Jews are not called "ukrainians"? There was no Ukrainians before 17 century. And there was no such thing as "proto-Ukrainians". All these are projections to the past of modern political realities. The distinction between Poles, Ukrainians, Belorussians and Lithuanians was established only AFTER the final partition of Rzeczpospolita in 1795. Actually much later. EDIT. Let me give two concrete randomly chosen examples. There is a city of Lviv (Lwow, Lvov, Lemberg, Lemberk) in the current territory of Ukraine. It was founded by prnice/king Danila/Danylo in 13-th century. According to your teacher this Danylo was a "proto-Ukrainian". But every high school teacher in Moscow will teach that he was "proto-Russian", or simply "Russian" Now, in 19-th century Lwow was a part of Austria. Should Danilo be called a "ptoto-Austrian" because of this? In the first half of 20-th century Lwow was in Poland. Is Danylo a proto-Pole? What can the other criteria be? Language? You can say that Danylo probably spoke "proto-Ukrainian". But a Moscow teacher who will say that he spoke "proto-Russian" will be equally right. Besides the Moscow teacher will have the advantage of saying that Danila was a blood relative of a Yuri (from the same family) who founded Moscow. Religion? Danylo was probably brought up Greek-Orthodox. But they say he converted to Catholicism. Is he a "proto-Pole" because of that? What else permits to quality him as "proto-Ukrainian"? Only the fact modern Ukrainians like him. Second example. The great poet of 19-th century Adam Mickiewicz. He wrote in Polish, but his most famous poem (Pan Tadeusz) begins with the words: "Lithuania! My Fatherland!" He was born and brought up on the territory of modern Belorussian state. Is he a "proto-Pole", a "proto-Lithuanian", or a "proto-Belorussian"? Ask you teacher. High school teachers in Warsaw, Vilnius and Minsk will give you 3 different answers: all of them count him as "theirs". (Ukrainians usually don't. But a famous monument to him stands in the center of Lviv). These little examples are given to show that there is no reasonable notion of proto-Ukrainian. This is a meaningless word. And a high school teacher prescribes a meaning to it, depending on the MODERN political division (or to her own political affiliation). That's why I called all this business political propaganda. Suppose that tomorrow Russia invades and annexes the whole of Ukraine (God forbid!!). Then teachers in Lviv (which will become "Lvov" again), will teach you that "Dan-e-e-la-ah" was a proto-Russian, (or simply Russian, as they teach in Moscow nowadays). These examples were related to 13-th and 19-th centuries. But speaking of "proto-Ukrainians" earlier than that is even more nonsensical. Of course you are not advised to contradict your teacher:-) What I recommend is to use some criticism to what you are taught, and read Sienkiewicz novels, for example, to complement what they teach you at school. Just try Sienkiewicz. You will not regret. Most of the action is on the territory of the modern Ukraine. This is a fiction, of course, but this is much closer to history than what they teach in the modern high schools. And then just think yourself: who are his heroes: "proto-Ukrainians", "proto-Poles" or "proto-Lithuanians"? Who were Adam Kisiel, Jeremia/Yarema Wisniowiecki, Ivan Bogun and Bogdan Khmielnicki? All proto-Ukrainians? Or some of them were Proto-Poles? And why? 

The distance to horizon is approximately 3.6 sqrt(h) where h is the height of the observer in meters and the distance is in kilometers. So your 4.7 km is the distance to the horizon for a person standing on sea level. And from a 30 m tower the distance is 20 km. 

Research on history and prehistory shows that there was no such period, contrary to some common myths about "golden age", and "peaceful primitive people". Moreover, they argue that the chances of violent death in 20s century were lower than they were in the primitive societies. That is the fraction of total population killed in all wars in 20s century is lower than during comparable periods in prehistory. See, for example: Keeley, Lawrence H., War Before Civilization. Oxford University Press, 1996. Concerning the historical times (after the invention of writing) the evidence is abundant: war was one of the main activities of almost all human civilizations. Of course some local exceptions happen. There was no war on Canadian territory since 1812 (but Canada participated in overseas wars). Switzerland or Iceland probably did not participate in any wars for centuries. People kill each other in many other ways (crime, death penalty, etc.) but I suppose you are asking about wars. In primitive societies where there is no legal system as we understand it, the difference between wars and crime can be fuzzy. 

Very little is known about Mongol siege equipment, and how it was different from the equipment of other peoples. I tend to agree with Tom Au that the main difference was in tactics, rather then the equipment. But to answer the question directly: yes it was very effective. In fact I know only ONE fortress that the Mongols (Under Batu and Subutai) besieged and failed to take during their invasion of Europe. This is the fortress of Kremenets in modern Ukraine (the fact that they failed to take it is mentioned in Wikipedia, under "Kremenets"). 

It is difficult to give a definitive answer to such question. I can only tell you my experience. The university where I teach (in the US) has a lot of Indian students, and I discussed these questions with them. Of course they were born after the liberation. Many of them recognize the substantial contribution that the British made in the development of India. All of them speak perfect English, btw, better than many Americans:-) None of them denies that the British introduced the "modern civilization", and science, and built infrastructure, and made a lot for bringing the country to its modern sate. (Ghandi and Neru were also British-educated, as you know). I would not call this "nostalgia" because none of them said that s/he would like a return of the British rule. And everyone understands the drawbacks of this rule. But the general assessment they made was that it had a positive impact overall. Of course, I understand that our students are not average Indians. They come from the Middle class some of them have several generations of ancestors educated in English language and science. But this is not an indicator of what Indian peasants think. 

At the time of discovery of America, the Europeans also did not have especially large sailing ships. The epoch of large sailing ships starts only in 17s century. In general the American civilizations when discovered by the Europeans were very far behind of the Europeans (ans Asians) in technology. They did not use wheels or iron on large scale, the things which were already common in Europe for more that 2500 years. So boats and ships of the native Americans should be compared with boats and ships of the Bronze age Europeans, not with 19 century Europeans (as you do when you mention clippers:-) Polynesians certainly do not fit to the general pattern. Because the very existence of the Polynesians is due to ability of their ancestors to sail in the ocean. How else could these islands be populated? Another important reason was geographical. The more developed American civilizations did not depend much on the sea. Unlike the Europeans North Africans, Middle Easterners and Far Easterners in Asia. And those living in the Caribbean were really very far behind in the technological development. EDIT. I could predict that this answer will result in commentaries blaming me in violation of PC rules. And I am perfectly aware that Americans had some achievements. Nevertheless the fact remains: their technology in general was thousands years behind, in those respects which are important for shipbuilding. Perhaps this can be explained by geographical reasons that I mentioned: there was no much need in seafaring. Unlike in Mediterranean and East Asia. EDIT2. It is an interesting question by the way, whether native Americans used sail at all. I am aware of T. Heyerdal's theories, but as I understand they were never widely accepted. 

There are very few sources on Pechenegs, and they do not tell us the details of their religious situation. By analogy with other tribes which inhabited this area in the Middle Age, one can guess that they had a variety of religious beliefs. Some of them could be Manichean, others Christian, Muslims or pagan. It was normal for that times and that place to have diverse religions within one "state" or tribe union. Contemporary Khazars and later Mongols and Cumans had variety of religions. But the best guess would be that most of them were pagans. (Because religious intolerance and unification is a feature of monotheistic religions. It usually begins with conversion of the rulers to Islam or Christianity. And for Pechenegs we do not read this in surviving sources. Russian sources call them pagans.) 

No one in the Soviet Union of that time could even dream that the Union will ever dissolve. "Sovereign Ukraine" was a fiction invented by Stalin to deceive the naive Westerners and to obtain an extra seat in UN. In 1944, the whole native Tartar Crimean population was deported (30%-40% lost their lives in the process). One had to populate the area, and this was difficult to do from Russia (Russia has no land connection with Crimea. All roads and communications to Crimea go through Ukraine). So it was a purely administrative decision to transfer Crimea to Ukraine. But in fact, Crimea has much closer historical connection with Ukraine, just because of the geography. For example, it is Crimean-Ukrainian troops that wrestled the Ukraine from Poland in XVII century. While the experience of Crimean Tartars with Russians consists mainly of 2 genocides: one in XVIII century and another one in XX century. 

There was no reasons to attack Spain. Franco's regime was not really an ally of Germany. Hitler spend enormous efforts trying to convince Franco to attack Gibraltar, and to no avail. One can say that Franco's extraordinary political skill saved England in the most dangerous time. 

Most military commanders knew about diseases and did what they could do, or what they thought was right to do to prevent them. The large numbers of victims were due to insufficient knowledge available at that time. For example British admirals perfectly new about scurvy and about tropical diseases they encountered in the Caribbean and elsewhere. They were intensively looking for methods of prevention of scurvy, and tried various things. They tried everything, like sauerkraut etc., until they found that lemon juice helps and since the beginning of 19th century started to distribute it regularly to all hands. They knew that camping near a swamp is unhealthy and there is a rick of malaria. They did what they could to restrict or prevent the exposure of their people. But insufficient knowledge frequently led to large losses. By the way the fact that the sailors rations included enormous amount of alcoholic beverages (by modern standards) is explained by the impossibility to preserve fresh water for long time. Roman army used vinegar instead. 

Muzzle-loading weapons were apparently frequently loaded with multiple shot. You can read this in the old literature, for example in Robinson Crusoe (17 century), where the procedure is described in detail. Multiple shot scattered increasing the probability of a hit. 

"Alexander Nevsky helmet" most likely has nothing to do with Alexander Nevski. (Like the "Monomakh Hat"). These are just traditional names, and the objects come from the inventory of the later Russian tsars. They collected beautiful things, and sometimes the most beautiful things were made in the Middle East. 

There is little doubt that until 19s century most people could communicate and socialize only with those in close proximity to them. Travel was slow, expensive and dangerous. But regular mail service was also not available to everyone in most places, most of the time. When we read in the history of mail that such and such emperor "established mail service", this usually means that he established it for himself, not for the general public. Regular mail which anyone can use seems to be the 19s century institution, even in the most advanced countries of Europe. Until that time, rich people could use couriers and messengers (or various kinds of private mail), and ordinary people had to use occasions, passing a message with someone traveling. The examples are abundant in the literature. Even in the first half of 20s century, people traveled much less than they do not, much less people could travel, and the main mean of communication was mail. $URL$