He's shown up enough with a consistent appearance for everyone to agree he exists, but because he has neither blessed nor condemned the religion(s) that developed, there are believers and non-believers in the sense that there are people who do and don't belong to the religion(s). So what would the religion that naturally develops in this situation look like? More information: As for the basic moral rules, I mean things like "don't murder", "don't steal," and "be honest." I don't have the specifics nailed down, and I'm having trouble thinking of a way to summarize them other than "don't do anything clearly bad." Also, this god is more interested in the spirit than the letter of the law - using legal loopholes/shenanigans to take everything someone owns is still going to count as stealing. As for enforcing the basic moral rules, I'll say that yes, he does enforce them sometimes. Creatively. There's a legend floating around of a man who murdered his neighbor and was then turned into a lizard. If his legs were pulled off in a specific order and then thrown into a pot of boiling water for five minutes, he would pop back into human form (with limbs intact) for the rest of the day (retaining all the memories of being a lizard, including the process of being turned back into a human). When he gave (and if he ever has to give again) the moral rules, he did tell the people that they in particular and society in general will be better off if they follow them. 

On Earth, a lot of satellites are in low-Earth orbit. This extends out to 2,000 km, which is a safe distance away from the innermost part of the rings around your world. So you can put satellites into orbit around your world in the same way that we put satellites into orbit around Earth. Medium Earth orbit satellites would have to worry about the rings, but not too much. Wikipedia states "the most common altitude is approximately 20,200 kilometres", safely beyond the rings. Because the rings are not very tall, you don't have to worry much about them blocking communication with the satellites—giving their orbits a little bit of inclination relative to the rings will guarantee that communication will only be blocked for a fraction of a second at a time. Any orbits farther out will be similarly unobstructed. Again, a little bit of inclination will go a long way. The rings also won't make it much harder to get out to those orbits. You get into an elliptical orbit around the planet that takes your apoapsis (far point) out past the rings, then at your apoapsis you accelerate into a circular orbit. 

TL;DR: It is unlikely that this is the best option Let's look at some numbers that describe the amounts of energy needed for some of the things you're talking about. First, let's assume that both the planet and the asteroids are in a circular orbit around the star. Also, let's say the star and the planet have the same mass as our sun and the Earth, respectively. Now, some formulas: $$M_p = 5.972*10^{24} kg$$ $$M_s = 1.989*10^{30} kg$$ $$G = 6.67*10^{-11}\frac{m^3}{kg\cdot s²}$$ $$E_{orbit} = -\frac{GmM}{2r}$$ $$1 AU = 1.495*10^{11}m$$ These are $M_p$ the mass of the planet, $M_s$ the mass of the sun, $G$ the gravitational constant, $E_{orbit}$ the potential energy of a mass $m$ orbiting around a mass $M$ at radius $r$, and $1 AU$ in meters. Using these, we can determine how much energy it would take per kilogram to drop an asteroid onto the planet and then cost per kilogram to remove it from the system. The potential energy of an object orbiting the sun at 2.5 AU is $-\frac{GmM_s}{2*2.5AU}=-1.775*10^8J/kg$, while at 3 AU it is $-\frac{GmM_s}{2*3AU}=-1.479*10^8J/kg$, for a delta of $2.958*10^7J/kg$. That means to move a $10^9kg$ (pretty small) asteroid you'd need $2.958*10^7*10^9=2.958*10^{16}J=8.217*10^9kWh$. A nuclear reactor generating 1,000 megawatts (i.e full scale terrestrial nuclear reactor) would need close to a year to generate that much energy if there is no waste energy. The Tsar Bomba generated about that much energy total but most of the energy would just be lost to space, it would be very hard to aim, and it's likely that the energy would shatter the asteroid anyway, leaving very little to fall on the planet. Once you'd gotten the asteroid (or most of it) to the planet, you'd need that much energy again to move that much mass back from 2.5AU to 3AU, plus about that much again to account for escaping the gravity well of the planet. You'd need to use a ridiculous amount of energy moving asteroids (even ones nearer the planet) down to the planet and then getting the mass back out, especially with how much loss you'd get from the asteroids missing the planet or not being entirely salvageable. It would be far easier to build some mining facility on an asteroid and then pack up and move the entire facility to the next asteroid once you're done. Even if you're using applied phlebotinum to move the asteroids, you'd have an easier time applying the phlebotinum to moving the facility. *Note: My calculations for dropping the asteroid onto the planet assume you'd try for a relatively gentle collision with the planet. You can save some initial energy by putting it into an elliptical orbit, but then the impact will be more severe and your aim has to be much better. If those aren't an issue, then you can save 50% energy on the initial drop to the planet. Also, I don't expect that these completely correct, but it at least gives you an idea of the scale required. 

This allows for more time for the boiling oceans to help coastal forests and prevent total devastation. Trees and other land-based plants will take a major hit, but the survival rate right along the coast will be reasonable - they won't go extinct altogether. Life will go on. Inland areas will become desolate for thousands of years, but gradually the atmosphere will be replaced and life will return. Conclusion The visiting aliens arrive to find a booming tourism industry. As they visit one history museum, they see a chart with six mass extinction events - the Cretaceous–Paleogene extinction event, the Triassic–Jurassic extinction event, the Permian–Triassic extinction event, the Late Devonian extinction, the Ordovician–Silurian extinction events, and the atmospheric disappearance event. 

Holding your breath as you ascend. It feels pretty natural to continue holding your breath until you reach the surface, especially because it makes you more buoyant and helps you ascend. However, 

Producing exotic chemicals off the grid The first big thing to realize is that radioactivity isn't common. If something is radioactive, it is trying to decay into something else that is more stable (there might be cases where it first decays into something even more unstable). That means in order to have enough radioactive material to be significant, they're going to need to be producing radioactive material. This means they should have a nuclear reactor on site. "A typical 1000 MWe light water reactor will generate (directly and indirectly) 200-350 m3 low- and intermediate-level waste per year." That's about two to three thousand barrels of radioactive waste a year, enough for it to be quite plausible that a hundred barrels could have been left behind when the facility was abandoned. If the base is powered by a nuclear reactor, they can use a lot of energy (opening the door to doing a lot of fun science) without noticeably impacting the power grid. This fits in quite well to the theme of a secret facility. Besides powering the base, the nuclear reactor also results in useful things like depleted uranium. As for what else they're producing, you probably don't have to be terribly specific. There are loads of very dangerous chemicals. This is a fun video with some examples of dangerous chemicals. One quote from the video, talking about what happened when one of the chemicals spilled - "the concrete was on fire!". The barrels can contain byproducts and materials that were rejected because they either weren't toxic enough or were too toxic to work with. 

In this case, A will win seats 1 and 2, while B wins seat 3. However, if in the next election it changes slightly: 

If you're talking about ALL magnetism, the answer is pretty boring - everyone and everything immediately and literally falls apart. Electrons are bound to the nuclei of atoms through the electromagnetic force, so without magnetism electrons would fly off. Sharing of electrons is what binds different atoms together into molecules. Protons would not push against each other, so larger atomic nuclei should be more stable. The strong and weak nuclear forces would still be in play, so I'm not exactly sure how they'd behave. So without magnetism, all electrons go whizzing off, all molecules fall apart, and the nuclei of the approximately 10^50 atoms in the Earth all clump together, potentially forming a single atom with atomic number of somewhere around 10^51. 

This is for a 20-kiloton explosion. At sea level, you'd get 10 rads from being a mile or so away from the explosion. In space? It looks like we're at about 60 rads when you're 40 miles away. To reduce that by a factor of 6, we'll need to go $\sqrt{6}\approx 2.5$ times as far away, so about 100 miles away. Of course, you'd still survive short-term if you're closer than that, but the closer you get the worse the radiation sickness will be. Something else to remember is that in space 100 miles is not very far - the international space station goes that far in about 20 seconds. 

High levels of space radiation might do the trick. Having powerful AI requires fast computers with quite a bit of memory at their disposal. However, space radiation can damage electronics. This requires building a system with more redundancy and more shielding. Building those in means the computer does not have the resources it would otherwise. You don't actually need to use space radiation - your Minovsky Particles could be to blame. Perhaps it's a byproduct of the energy shields your ships have. Whatever you decide, it is something that limits the complexity of electronics in your ships. So rather than having futuristic terahertz processors, they could be limited to megahertz processors with megabytes of ram (which should be enough for an AI that helps the pilot fly the ship). This severely limits how powerful a shipboard AI could be and means that a trained pilot would be absolutely necessary. This also leaves you with some options for allowing AI controlled ships. The evil space empire could develop a better means of shielding their electronics, allowing them to have AI controlled ships that could be at or above the level of the average spaceship pilot. They could also have short-lived AI ships - they could be far superior to any human pilot, but if a pilot can manage to evade them for a few minutes the AI would begin to noticeably degrade and significantly improve the pilot's chance of beating it. A third option would be AI ships that forsake the energy shield. These would go down from a single shot but, depending on the weapons systems you have in mind, a powerful AI might be pretty good at avoiding being shot. 

Without Magic: If the air in the crater is rather cool, then I believe Twelfth's answer is correct. If the crater is full of hot air (I assume this because you mentioned the creatures "have learned to ignore the heat of the air") I don't believe that this will work. First of all, what you're describing sounds like an inversion, but those occur when their air is colder than the air above it. If you have a hot environment the air is going to rise and mix with the air above it. I believe the convective forces that emerge would cause the crater to be rather windy, with lots of updrafts and downdrafts. That would most likely clear out any water vapor that would form. Also, fog would have trouble forming in such an environment. According to Wikipedia, 

About 100 miles (160 kilometers) for no injuries Something cool that I found a while ago is NASA's report on Nuclear Weapon Effects in Space. First thing to keep in mind: 

Let's say you end up stuck in a friendly medieval-tech-level community that is willing to let you stay and help get you on your feet. So even though you'll miss high-tech society, you're going to be able to survive. However, medieval-level communities don't know much about nutrition, vitamins, minerals, etc, and you'd rather not get scurvy or any other of the nasty diseases caused by nutrient deficiencies. As a bonus, helping your community to become healthier will improve your standing with them, which certainly wouldn't hurt. How would you go about making sure that you will be getting enough of all of the necessary nutrients? 

John is walking in the park one day, ranting to himself about stupid drivers not obeying the speed limit and roaring down his street and the stupid police not doing anything about it, when he comes across a bottle half buried in the dirt. To his surprise, when he pulls it out and opens it, a genie comes out! Unlike other genies, this one will only grant a single wish. John, still thinking about those drivers, makes a spur-of-the-moment wish: "I wish all laws would be enforced!" POOF! All laws are now magically enforced. Nobody can willingly and knowingly break a law, ever again. Of course, dictators love this. They can make all the laws they want, and their subjects have to obey them! (Way to go, John) But what about elsewhere in the world? How would lawmakers try to use and abuse the opportunity to make laws that will be obeyed? Notes: You have to know about, understand, and be capable of following a law in order to be required to obey it. Also, only humans are affected. So 

Unless the powers also cause an inherent shame that causes the people to want to hide it, knowledge that this is happening is going to spread very quickly. The government won't be able to do anything to prevent that, even if it wanted to. Someone is going to make a youtube video of their new powers, and it's going to go viral - not because people believe it, but because of course the person is going to do something dumb with their new powers that makes for a funny video. People aren't going to believe it at first because they'll just think they did a good job with special effects. Then when a local news agency goes to investigate the person's insistent claims that the powers are real, they'll be presented to a nice demonstration of that reality. That news segment is going to be shown again and again and again. By this point, the government has no capability to cover this up (unless they get someone who can perform mass memory wipes). If the number of people with powers didn't reach into the thousands, then pretty much anyone with powers would be offered quite a lot of money to let scientists attempt to understand what is going on. With more people than that, there's a good chance some scientist will develop powers and be super excited to try to understand them. This isn't going to be some shady government agency attempting to dissect them to learn the secret of their powers - this is going to be one of the best research facilities in the world. Also, dissecting someone is like killing the goose that laid the golden egg. Doctors can do x-rays, ultrasounds, and CT scans to get a good picture of what their insides look like. Blood samples and DNA samples (i.e swabbing the inside of their cheek) provide more information about what might make the individual different. They'll also want to see what happens as the powers are used - what (if any) kinds of radiation are given off and see if there are any indications as to how it is happening. The biggest thing is going to be the people who can do magic. It will be pretty easy to determine that something is violating the laws of physics as we know them - most magics as shown in fiction clearly violate the conservation of mass and energy. This alone will cause quite a bit of excitement, both in and out of the scientific world. Scientists will be excited for more people to develop powers and hope that they'll be able to explore a brand new field. Gamers in particular are going to be incredibly excited - finally all of their fantasies might be able to come true in real life! Now, how can a government react to this? They're going to have to admit that this is actually happening. They can, however, do their best to prevent people from panicking: 

If you really want the captain to be a homicidal maniac, he really doesn't need to do much damage. All he needs to do is sufficiently intimidate us to leave them alone. Simply nuke a couple places near where he wants to set up a base, and leave his big ship in orbit. Then send out the message that if anyone tries to get close, they (and the city they came from) are gonna get nuked. We would not know what their tech and supplies are like — we don't know how much destruction they could do before running out of supplies, and we don't know how good their sensors are so we don't know how hard it would be to pull off anything (even sneaking into their base to just peek at their tech). Your captain can make good use of bluffing, too. We would have no way (or desire) to check a claim that he had a weapon that would cause a grey goo scenario for us. He'd only have to sell it as something that would be rather inconvenient for him.