I am buying a second hand frame (Dawes 201 hybrid) build up (first time doing that, so exciting). I'm paying cash on collection, so can back out if anything looks wrong. What should I look for on the frame to make sure it's up to scratch?. 

$URL$ I asked the company that manufactures them, they said they didn't know. Idiots. Does anyone know the sizes? I ask because the set is not available in the UK. Flying it over the Atlantic seems ridonkulous when I could just buy some o rings here. 

I am thinking of replacing the latter with the former. Someone said that the chain having to stretch 11 different ways would wear down the drive train faster. I think that the chain will last longer if it's not being thrown around at both ends. Who's right? 

About 4 miles away from me, there is a bike hire shop that has tandems. I'm trying to work out the logistics of getting the tandem to my house to pick up the other rider. I'm an experienced cyclist, but have never ridden a tandem before. It's not convenient for both of us to go to the shop. Is riding a tandem particularly difficult for one person? I suppose I'll get the bus there... 

I weigh about 120 kilos. Saddle rails bend. I don't care about the weight of the saddle, just how strong the rails are and how comfy it is (I admire but have no desire to emulate people who cycle standing up. I have a bmi over 30, give me some credit for voluntarily cycling 20 miles a day) 

I have a wheel with a puncture. It seems to be a pinch flat (the air is shooting out in the direction of the rim) but I can't get the tyre off to investigate. This is an ex-tubeless tyre that I put a tube in once. Guess I should have cleaned up the sealant first. Now I can't even move the tyre, let alone remove it. The rim is aluminium. Is there a powerful solvent that is safe to use, that would weaken the old Stan's + muck glue? I googled around this, and most answers are 'be a man! use tyre levers! No, they're for girls, use your thumbs!'. Well, I'm beat. I have poor muscle tone and bad motor skills for medical reasons, so I accept the possibility that 'normal' people could just pull it off. I, however, can't. The suggestion here was use a credit card but that didn't work. I could take it to the bike shop, but something tells me this isn't the last time something like this will happen. I'd like a solution for next time. I need a solvent that won't attack the aluminium. Ideally I'd like to save the tyre/tube, but that's a bonus. Edit: whoever suggested a vice, that worked. It unstuck the tyre and I could remove it normally with tyre levers. 

The specific swap you describe may work just fine since nearly all SRAM chainrings and cogsets use the same spacings as Shimano. So, mechanically, the SRAM cogs and Shimano cogs are interchangeable under whatever FD/RD you have.(Campagnolo, not so much!) This assumes you are using a briter/shifter set that is compatible with your FD+RD combo. (e.g. early D.A. or something else wacky won't work) That's the real potential issue. There are also concerns matching brake lever pull (range/ratio) if you use brifters too. Those aren't even guaranteed to match across the same MFG line anymore... (e.g. Shimano's ultegra recently had a change to the brake pull setup... they'll still 'work' with mismatched components--old&new ultegra, just not as shimano intended--Brakes are one of the few dedicated safety systems on a bike, so make sure you're extra careful with mixing MFG/Lines there.) In the end, it is all just simple ratios and lengths. $URL$ may help explain some of this more in depth. (as the question is a little vague for a really short answer.. e.g. would need mfg part#'s for chanrings, cogs, and shift-levers--which are not provided) So, generally, for indexing to work, which I think is your concern... the gears really don't matter as long as the levers match them and the levers have a proper pull for the FD/RD. (e.g. worry more about the lever compatiblity than the RD/FD) However... After the swap, the bike will shift differently. The big-three all sound slightly different when they change gears, so don't be surprised if the bike feels/sounds a little different after the swap. A (new) chain that matches the rear cluster can help, but YMMV... your old chain may do just fine too! 

Check your headset as part of your efforts. A loose headset can cause shudders, even with rim brakes. Also, check the general adjustments of all the 'front parts'... Hub bearings, spokes, stem, rotor bolt torque, Caliper bolts, and check the fork for damage as well. (damage isn't likely, IMHO). Also, make sure the QR is tight if present, and if not, check the front wheel bolt torque. If that doesn't address your problem, I'd suggest doing a run-out measurement on the rotor and compare to your manufacturer's requirements. Also, clean the disk, trash/oil on it can cause problems too. The pads can do a wonderful job on this, but sometimes they need help... especially w.r.t. oil/grease. What really occurs during bedding-in is not important, nor is how you do it... what is important is that the rotor is cleaned and the caliper+pads get a final micro-alignment to the rotor (via the initial wearing of the pads). Once this micro-alignment happens, the braking should be very consistent... which is why some shops may want to 'bed your pads' for you. Any material 'deposited' on the rotors will be quickly removed as dust by the pads anyway. 

My back brake (top picture) is clamped down, as it should be. The quick release on the front won't stay down. I have tried loosening the cables, tightening them, nothing works. As you can see in the gif at the bottom, it keeps springing back. I've decided enough is enough. I braked hard while going down a hill and the front brake just pinged open. Not good. I didn't get hurt, but it's only a matter of time. Why is this? What can I do? just get a new front mech? 

I need to replace my chainwheel and cassette, and it made me think. I know that the chain has to be a specific length relative to the number of teeth on the gears. I was thinking about changing the cassette for one which a bigger 1st gear. Suppose I could get one with whatever number of teeth I wanted. The bigger the better, right? If better means less effort to climb hills. But I have never seen a really big gear, like almost the circumference of the wheel. I assume that's for a practical reason, not just because it would be very lazy if it worked and look ridonkulous :) 

If this is a stem... ... what's this? I'm asking because I need to buy a taller one so I don't have to bend over as far. It's not convenient to buy a new bike, and I already have an adjustable stem which just doesn't quite get me there. 

My saddle's rails have become bent so that the saddle is askew. Rather than get a new saddle, is there any way to replace just the rails? I assume bending them back is useless, as even if i could get them totally straight they would be weakened and just bend again. 

Could I buy such a wheel, or would I just have to build it? I've heard disc-wheels won't take the punishment from normal brakes. Edit: I want to get new wheels, and I want to be able to swap them between frames. I don't want to convert all my frames to disc brakes, but I do want parts compatible between all my bikes. 

I feel dumb asking this, but how should the chain be routed around the cogs on this deraillier? I had to split the chain and then put it back on. I didn't pay attention to how it went round. This is not the right way (below) as the chain is extremely slack. 

In short, no. Bad idea. But if you get lucky a couple of times, yes, it could work like you want. 8spd freewheels cost about the same as 7spds, so not much risk in 'going for it' and failing. Realistically, stick to 7 spd and upgrade the RD for the extra capacity to deal with the big cog if you must... but I'd try it out first, they usually ship long cage derailers on those bikes, so you are most likely fine as-is. I liked the megarange gear selections when I swapped to it. Potential problems: -There is a chance that your old 7spd and the new 8spd do not index the same... 4.8 vs 5 mm -You may need to re-dish your rear wheel to deal with the extra room for the extra cog. Again, you'll have to fit the 8spd freewheel to see if this is the case, but I'd say there is likely a problem here... and that may mean new spokes and a wheel re-build. (or forking out $11 for a 7spd freewheel) -Freewheel stackup is different between the 7spd and 8spd.. the 8spd is longer... This can cause problems like your RD getting into the spokes to hit that last gear... so even if it fits, you may have to use the smallest 7 and not the largest 7 to keep your RD out of the spokes.. The issue isn't so much the O.L.D. (135mm) it is the stack-height of the 8spd freewheel and where the 'extra' height of the 8spd vs your 7spd goes in relation to the spokes (e.g. that 8th gear is closer to the spokes) Back when 8spd was new I did see a lot of these conversions work just like you want this one too... some were super picky and the RD would need near constant adjustments due to temperature changes throwing off the indexing (5mm vs 4.8mm gear center-to-center) A lot of pain when you could just pay $23 for a 8spd right-only shifter that would index properly... But the gears have to fit and the RD has to stay out of the spokes! Good luck! 

Best solution is going to be to replace the hangar and the rear Derailer. However, you can take the hangar off and use a vise to get it flat. Clean it and the frame around that area to keep dirt from interfering with the attachment. Use blue loctite (formula 242) on the fasteners and a light coating of grease on the flat areas to keep dirt out. For the final alignment, what you want it is the rear derailer jockey pulleys to be perfectly parallel to the cassette/freewheel's cogs. The whole purpose of the rest of the derailer is to keep those jockey pulleys parallel as they move. Same is true for the rear derailer itself, but it is going to be more fragile than the frame hangar--you can try to straighten the RD, but it looks fairly cheap, and the metal used my be significantly work-hardened by all this bending, so it may break during the straightening attempts.... a replacement shouldn't be more than $10-$15 anyway. The LBS may have a 'pull' or used rear derailer that they can let go for a significant discount that'd still be an upgrade too. (If they don't, they don't... some shops don't allow this sort of sale...) Also, the jockey pulley brackets (that attach it to the parallelogram of the RD) may need to be straightened to be parallel to the RD body... but the majority of re-bending of the RD should be done close to the attachment point of the RD to the hangar, as it should be 'designed' to be adjusted there. Good luck!