Correct me if I'm wrong about my current understanding of Buddhism: There is no eternal self or essence in me, but am just a conditioned-self, an illusion created by the interaction of the five aggregates. Each time I do something, or will something, its this distorted conditioned-self in play, right? Now, I want to understand what happens to this conditioned self when we die. You say its just an illusion, but lets take a practical example: A person dies in New York, and then is being reborn in Washington D.C the next moment. So here, you want to say the conditioned-self (illusion) travelled all the way from New York to D.C. to affect his/her next birth? As a corollary to this question, I would also like to understand the technicality of . Say a person violates the precept of non-killing in New York in his/her present birth. How does the know whom to punish 50 years later when that same person is reborn in D.C.? (You may say here that there is no external law-maker, but is just in our . But that's still begging the question - How does it know whom to punish 50 years later?) 

There is the much talked about example of "zen sickness". But I wondered can any buddhist theory or practice can ever be harmful to a human? I'm looking for an answer from anyone, not necessarily a Buddhist perspective. Though, of course, I'd be dismissive of anything unreasonable. 

I wondered if there was a consciousness that underwent nirvana? Is there a consciousness of nirvana? Is there a consciousness that creates either of these consciousnesses? I would call that the "good" consciousness, like the good guy in the movies. i.e. salvific. 

Yes of course. I doubt you can call your belief Buddhist, but maybe in zen (which I have heard informs us to only believe in rebirth if it comes up in practice). It less like not believing in the resurrection of Christ than not believing in the trinity. This is because IMVHO anyway the Buddha's life did not include parinirvana. It included nirvana, whereas Christs life was not ended. Anyway that's not to say that you can call yourself Buddhist and be really obnoxious about it lol. But then that doesn't have much to do with religion, it's just general life advice :-) 

So you see, there needs to be an or who needs to take the decision or make the , so to speak. As a practical example, I decide to lift my hand right now, and lo and behold! my hand is lifted instantly. So, who is this or that made the decision of lifting the hand? You say there is no self? Now saying that the made the decision is not something I'm going to buy. How can anything as lowly as an illusion, decides to take control of things and make an impact on the real world? It is just an illusion after all. That's the reason I'm unable to bring anatta in sync with this practicality of life, however hard I try. Please care explain how do you explain volition if anatta is a reality? 

But I'm totally unsure how to make sense of its four (famous) components! I probably think that "emptiness" means no causation, the idea that conditioned (caused) things don't exist in reality: that any supposed knowledge about them is bound to be found out as a form of ignorance. So then I understand them as: 

The following section in the Modernist poem The Waste Land is often linked to Buddhism, in the academic literature. 

I took the lay precepts after a short retreat. It was suggested that we say them however loudly we mean them. I'm kinda worried about this. I may have over-estimated how much I meant them, and also, I may have said them too loudly anyway due to getting caught up in the moment. This concerns me: what does it mean to break the precepts? 

Ever since I've started practicing Vipassana, I'm starting to feel two distinct and diametrically opposite intentions are developing within me. The first one says "I've suffered enough, not any more! I'm prepared to do anything to experience Nirvana. Enough of supporting these cravings and desires, they have only lead to great suffering. I don't want to take another birth." Au contraire, the second one says "I want to enjoy the basic things in life. Though I've undergone a lot of sufferings, I should enjoy at least a little before leaving this world, its only fair. Is it wrong to enjoy things?" Whilst I vaguely used to feel this divide since long, its only since I've started practicing Vipassana that it has become more pronounced. Its as if like a big battle is going on between these two forces, and I'm just a spectator. Is this feeling normal, or my case is any different? 

OK literally off the top of my head. Zen sickness is a thing. Hakuin is said to have experienced it. It's meant to be brought about by intense meditation that is in some sense gone about incorrectly - though really all errors are just something to learn from, so I wouldn't think about it in those terms. You could perhaps work through (these) problems by discussing it with a teacher, or even an actual psychologist. So, the "symptoms" (I use this both in the buddhist and psychological sense) of zen sickness include IIRC: excessive pain and uninterest in life. FWIW I kinda experience stuff like that ^^ but it's not really "zen sickness" because I don't regularly practice, just think and read. Hope that you find your spark, anyway. 

If you want to ignore the more subtle differences between philosophical arguments it seems a bit like 1st cause argument for God, except God is replaced with the self. 

There are two things I want to understand here. Firstly, though I'm not overly disturbed by thoughts during vipassana sitting, I just don't know how do I treat them. What I presently do is just try to ignore them and continue observing the . But if the thoughts are too strong and persist, I tend to observe them impartially until they leave of their own accord (but during this time my observance of has stopped). Am I doing this thing rightly or not? Secondly, I want to understand the reality of thoughts. I know that ultimately none of these have permanent reality, but compared to what is the ? Basically, I want to know whether they have any objective reality, or they are subjective (just things in my head)? I recently read in a book that reality keeps vibrating each and every instant, and we need to look into the arising/vanishing of these vibrations, as that is what is all about. My question is do these vibrations apply to thoughts as well or just sensations? 

if they don't, and the Buddha-nature is identical to the body, then maye it could be said (likely not) that rebirth has no phenomena whatsoever? 

The feeling that one is constantly one step away from enlightenment: does it have a Buddhist term for it? Pejorative or otherwise. So I've heard of beginner's mind, but I doubt it covers it. 

Gudo Wafu Nishijima (incidentally Brad Warner's teacher) the soto monk, claimed that sentient beings in pain are just in hell, and hell is a supposition. I take this to mean that pain occurs without rebirth, already in this life, andt hat we cannot know that we will suffer pain after death: so I'd conclude that rebirth that isn't painful. What I think I'm adding to his exact words is just that facts like suffering are all or nothing, nothing real is incomplete. That may seem crazy, but I like it. I'm highly skeptical that we need to experiecne more pain to experience the dharma. Even if sentient beings do (and do not!) experience the result of their evil acts. Is there any basis in the sutras? Not to my conclusion, but his claims about pain. I've read that zen teachers are often ambivalent on their students belief in rebirth, but I mean something more than that, that to experience the result of bad karma is either in this life or not what we usually mean by "painful". 

A mention regarding this could be found in Ashoka Vadana , a Buddhist text that describes the birth and achievements of Emperor Ashoka the great, perhaps one of the most prominent Buddhist Kings described in the literature. Though Ashoka turned to Buddhism after having seen the perils of destruction in the Kalinga war and generally followed the principle of non-violence, the text describes that Ashoka did break the first precept many times in order to fulfill his military tasks. For instance, 

I'm just trying to understand the concept of better here. Buddhism tells me there is the concept of no-self (), and even the so called is actually an illusion that arises out of my ignorance (correct me if I'm wrong). But psychology tells me on the other hand, that there exists something called Volition or Will. From Wikipedia: