Pretty much everyone who has an online persona has something that a potential employer could object to. Much of which is information that is illegal for you to use in hiring decisions. From their online persona, you can often deduce someone's religious beliefs, political beliefs, race, age, sex. You can also see things that were maybe posted years earlier and the person has matured and would no longer do or say such things (especially things from high school and college). Some of the data may be associated with the wrong person. And some things that are positives (like a high Stack Overflow rep) may be negatives to other employers because the data is interpreted differently by different people. Asking for my password to see my private persona is completely out of bounds and would immediately terminate an interview because I would not work for a company that was that unethical. Looking a the public persona is acceptable, but it is far more likely to harm the company than help it as they might elimnate the best potential employees based on personal criteria of the person doing the checks. So while I may not be able to ask if you are a liberal athiest in an interview, if I can see it from your public persona, then I might choose not to hire you even though you are far better than the other candidates. And remember the people doing this check may not be the people who work with the person daily. So their refusal to hire anyone not conspicously like themselves can cause corporate harm (choosing less skilled employees) in the name of promoting some personal value. Practices that lead to eliminating people based on criteria not related to their ability to the do job are wrong and should be prohibited. Checking the online persona is one of these practices. It's sole purpose is to get around labor laws that forbid asking those questions. In general it is an unethical practice. 

There is a very large difference between, telling your boss as soon as you know that the disability will be a problem on a particular task and using it as an excuse when something isn't done afterwards. It is unclear if your friend is this person's boss or not, so I will addess both conditions. First if the person with the diability is not your subordinate, all you can legitimately do, is make it clear when this person's failure to inform in advance is causing an issue for your ability to complete your work. At this point, it becomes the supervisior's reponsibility to handle. If it is not affecting your ability to complete your own tasks, then simply butt out, it is none of your business what is happening. IF the friend is the boss, then the options are different. First you need to discuss the issue with HR to know what you can and cannot say and exactly how much accomodation you should be giving. Next you need to discuss with the individual the problem of not meeting deadlines and the problem of excuses. You need to make it clear when you need to know if the disability is going to affect the ability to complete the task, so you can reassign it or move the deadline. You need to consider things like scheduled doctor's appointments in setting deadlines, so you need to know in advance as much as possible and immediately if there is an emergency requiring the person to leave for the doctor. In no case should the person be leaving without you being informed unless an ambulance was called (Even in this case, you are likely to know about it). Doctor's appointments are not an excuse for not letting someone know how this will affect work deadlines. Yes, you may need to accomodate the appointments in setting deadlines, but you can only do this when informed in advance. If the person has regularly scheduled appointments (such as for dialysis) you need to think about those in all task assignment deadlines to make sure you are not giving more work than the person can do in the time available. But you can do none of this until you know, in advance, the schedule. Check with HR, but I see no issue in asking someone who is expecting a disability accomodation to provide such a schedule on a weekly basis. As far as the excuse of I couldn't do it due to my disability, you need to make sure the person is clear that this is something that must be brought to you immediately as soon as the person figures out there is a problem. Then the two of you can figure out if it is something where an accomodation of some sort can be made or if the task should be reassigned. As the supervisor of a disabled employee, you have the resopnsibility to discuss what accomodations are needed and what the business needs from the employee in order to make appropriate accomodations. At the same time the employee must be aware that no business has to retain an employee who, after the accomodations are factored in, is not pulling his weight. So if he appears to be using disability as an all-purpose excuse to avoid doing his job, you need to make sure he knows he can't play that game. So you need to have documented meetings where you discuss openly what he can and cannot do and what the expectations on both sides are as far as accomodation and then you need to document when he does not hold up his end of the bargain. Because there is potential her for legal action if you give him a poor apraisal or fire him, you need to be espceially careful how you document things and exactly what steps you take. That is why it is critical to get HR in the loop early and keep them there through the whole process. 

This is really more about how so you respond to a coworker who is making you feel uncomfortable about anything not necessarily sexual harassment (although it certainly has the potential to turn into harassment if he doesn't stop). There are several dynamics going on her that can make it difficult to deal with, you are opposite sexes, you have a third party involved who may or may not also feel uncomfortable, you're are different generations and from your description, you are relatively new to the workforce and you are female which means you have often have a lot of cultural programming about not speaking up. All of this makes this a difficult situation for you. The first thing you need to understand is that he does not know he is making you uncomfortable unless you tell him. He probably thinks this is acceptable behavior and that you are flattered by the attention. This is the part that is not about sexual harassment but about learning to set clear boundaries with people who are not like yourself. If a female friend of yours in a social situation did something like this, you would likely have less trouble saying, "Look I am not interested, please knock off the matchmaking." Young people are often not used to dealing with older people as peers and especially not with older people of different genders. But you have a right to not be uncomfortable and you have to draw the line. You don't have to do it rudely or angrily, but you need to tell him that what he is doing is making you uncomfortable. If this escalates later and you ended up in HR with a complaint, the very first thing they will ask you is if you told the man he was making you uncomfortable. So make sure you tell him assertively, but not aggressively, that you are uncomfortable. Do not accept that it was all in fun. If you are uncomfortable it is NOT all in fun. If you don't have this conversation now, what will happen? He will continue which will make you more and more uncomfortable and frustrated and you might start avoiding working with him and the guy he is trying to match you up with. Often this ends with you being perceived as having a performance problem. Or it might build up until you explode in frustration and then you will be reprimanded by HR. So really it is best to approach things like this as soon as they happen and not let them fester. Because this guy does not seem to be the aggressive type who makes you nervous to be around, it is probably best to save face for him and approach him privately. Tell him that it makes you uncomfortable because you are not going to have an interoffice romance. Tell him that you don't want the other person to get the impression that you might be interested. Tell him that you want to be judged on something other than your appearance. Tell him whatever you need to say as long as the conversation remains relatively calm and not angry, snarky or sarcastic. Tone is important here, you want to sound professional, not bitchy. Practice what you want to say in front of a mirror if the idea of bringing this up makes you nervous. You need to learn how to frame an assertive no to people of any sex or gender in the workplace. This is skill you will need for lots of situations beyond harassing behavior. You need to be able to say no when expectations are unrealistic, or when you don't have time available to take on another task or you get asked out on a date, or if people ask you to do something illegal or all sorts of things. Learning to be be able to set boundaries is one of the things many young people of all genders have little experience with. If you feel as if you aren't sure how to be assertive without being aggressive, then read some books on assertiveness. After the conversation, if he continues to "tease" you about this, then tell him right when it happens that you don't appreciate the behavior and remind him that you asked him not to do it. Some people need multiple reminders because they do this sort of thing reflexively. Still be calm and professional. You will never be the one who comes out ahead if you come across as nasty. If it continues after a couple of mild reminders, then talk to your boss.