You can certainly go too far and be considered a "creeper". Don't do that. Keep any comments relevant to the company, job, and perhaps some common interests. Don't comment on the interviewer's family, or the childhood pictures of themselves that they posted on Facebook. That wouldn't go over well. 

Although the answer seems obvious to me, perhaps your personal ethics lead you to conclude that this is okay. I suspect you know the truth though and perhaps this is more along the lines of a humblebrag than anything else. [Based on your edit, it now appears that you were actually just looking more for support of your decision to continue this practice.] One way to check this is to ask yourself if you would be proud to let others (including your employer) know what you have done. 

Remember, while feedback is valuable and important to you, the developer gains nothing. And if you are given feedback, then feedback must be given to everyone. Coding exercises aren't designed to help you improve your skills - they are designed to help find an applicant who best meets the hiring company's requirements. The process wasn't a waste of time. It was a necessary step because you wanted the job. You learned that you were not considered up to their standards. 

In the US for at-will employees, companies can change titles at will as long as there isn't an employment contract with a contractually-specified title in it. It would be rare to find a contracted title outside of a union setting. (Note: an offer letter is not an employment contract.) 

When I interview candidates, there are some large companies that get my attention. On the other hand, I know a lot of the small startups in the domain in which I work, and they get my attention as well. For me, there is no black mark. For other resume readers, their reaction may be different. In my case, I've gone from large to small and back again. I've never found this to be a problem on my resume. The only issue that you may encounter is the "Could he fit in here in my [large/small] company?" question that is always part of the interview process. Since you may end up with experience in both large and small companies, that will probably be less of a concern. 

Companies budget annually. They occasionally revise them quarterly, but seldom monthly. This makes is harder to give unplanned raises each month. It takes a lot of work to go through the evaluation process that leads to raises. A lot of discussions, a lot of approvals, a lot of paperwork. No manager I've ever worked with (and certainly not me) wants to go through all of that more than once per hear. Most hate it annually. Next time your annual raise comes up, you should propose that you don't get your full raise all at once, but instead get the same amount parceled out over a 12-month period. Be a pioneer and see how it works out. I can't see how this could be a good thing for you, but perhaps your company will. 

It sounds like you have tried coaching her several times already and made no progress. It also sounds like her manager reports to you, so this is really her manager's problem to deal with. Perhaps you haven't made it clear to her manager that this is a problem that needs to be stopped. If you feel that you must personally deal with this then telling her directly that she must "focus on her job and stop "bossing around" on matters outside her responsibilities" should work. Also saying "and if you can't stop doing this, you will be let go" will make it clearer. If you and/or her manager have tried and failed to convince her to stop, then it might be time to put her on a Performance Improvement Plan. Enlist HR's help in this, as most companies have a formal process that must be followed. 

I wouldn't. With non-software side jobs, I think they are best kept to yourself, unless your contract requires disclosure of all side jobs. While they might add a tiny bit to your perceived value ("hard worker!"), I don't think that would overcome the worry ("what if we need him to work a night or weekend?" or "why food service rather than software side gigs?"). I might think differently if these were two software-related side gigs, but since they aren't, I just don't see much added value for the interview process. I'm sure they do add value to you in your checkbook and your feelings about getting things done! In my distant past I held two jobs simultaneously - one in IT, the other in a super market. It "exercised both sides of my brain" while adding to my savings. My advice: Keep it to yourself. 

It is a tricky conversation - on both sides. As a hiring manager, I never attempt to match an offer that an employee got. As others have stated, money is very seldom the only factor in why someone wants to leave - often it isn't the biggest factor. And offering more money won't change those other factors. In my personal experience, people who threaten to leave and are convinced to stay end up leaving very soon anyway. If they are any good, there will always be offers elsewhere for more money. So if someone is actually very money-motivated, they won't stick anywhere for long. While 18 months may seem long for an employee, for an employer of medium-to-higher level professionals, that is a very short duration. I would never hire someone if I thought they would be gone in under 2 years. Instead, I'd bring in a temp. If you choose to have this conversation, be prepared to talk about why you want more money now, and why getting this money will keep you around for the long haul. 

I'm not sure about the term "blackmailing", but threatening the developer that way is extremely unlikely to get you any feedback on your coding skills. You may get some feedback on your personality that you wouldn't like. You would be best served to just put this behind you and move on in your job search. If you remember the details of the coding exam you could study it on your own and in that way learn what you might have done better. 

Sorry, but I want to be honest here. For an entry level job, there are no cases I can think of where I would take a kid out of high school over a degreed college graduate. There are simply too many risks, and no need to take the chance. At least in my part of the US, there are always plenty of applications with degrees. Additionally, if your High School grades haven't been good, that's likely to count against you. Consider taking some other job and trying to get a degree through night classes in a Community College while you work. 

I'm not sure it's a matter of "fairness". Projects in a corporation all vie for limited budget money. Sometimes that puts them in conflict with each other. If a project is deemed sufficiently worthy, then they are given the money to achieve their goals. If not, then they aren't given the money. If a room remains vacant, then that says no project has been deemed worthy enough to have the funds to cover the rent. That seems fair to me. This is more a budgeting issue, not a fairness issue. Unless the rooms are just considered a "resource" (just like people, equipment, and dollars are "resources") and included as part of the project initiation and budgeting process through which every project must pass, then it's probably unavoidable that one or more rooms remain unoccupied on occasion. 

While in the general case, the answer might be different, clearly in your company the answer is - Yes, you need to develop the demeanor that your manager and stakeholders require. There are many ways to achieve success. Not all companies have a culture that requires a "positive, happy face" demeanor. But some companies do. Some managers/companies don't want to hear inconvenient truths, some do. This is just like the first few school days with a new teacher. You need to reverse-engineer what will make the teacher happy. Observation, experimentation, and a few "will this be on the test?" questions help get you there. In your company, you have already discerned that your management requires a positive demeanor. It's always important to understand what the people signing your check want from you. So your mission is clear - become that kind of person. In this situation, a "fake it until you make it" approach may be best. Be positive, suppress the negative (or even the realistic), keep the tough stuff to yourself. Project the kind of "success" that management wants to see. Do this long enough, practice it hard enough, and it might become second nature. If not, this company/environment might no longer fit you. 

In your question you indicate that your boss is already aware. You said "My boss is aware of the situation and I took off a day or two, or left early a day or two, with his knowledge in order to handle these issues." I don't think that awareness would cause him to lose trust in you. On the contrary, being honest and open, particularly when you have decided that you will work hard to regain any trust lost to date could easily help the situation. On the other hand, just performing poorly, without planning to change and without informing your boss about your how you will handle your situation could indeed erode trust further. So choose to be open and honest. A good manager will understand your situation, and offer to help you do better in any way possible. Your family comes first of course, but it's also really good that you consider work implications as well. That shows a commitment to work that many managers really appreciate and will respond to in a positive way. I've had folks come to me (as their boss) when they have had personal or family situations. The best cases by far were when the employees had a clear picture of what they needed to do for their family, how it might impact their work, and what they intended to do in order to minimize the impact on their work. The worst cases were when the employee basically made it solely my problem. I can often find a way to work with people on my team to help them and their families as best I can. Sometimes they some need time off to dedicate to their family situation. Sometimes they need a change to their work routine so they can deal with issues at home - perhaps they need to travel less, or change the hours they work. Sometimes they need a reduction in hours. Sometimes they need advice. Sometimes they just need someone to hear their struggle. I can do any/all of these if given a chance. Give your manager a chance to help. Ask for what you need. And work with your manager so that it works for both of you. 

If the president of the company asked you for an estimate, then you must give him one. Make it clear that you are speaking only for yourself and not your team. Also make it clear how confident you are in your estimate (if it's just a guess, then indicate that). And if there are other things on your plate that would get in the way of completing the project, you should mention them. You should also copy your manager on your answer. That way your manager can choose to follow up with any corrections/clarifications as needed. 

Yes, your manager will know. You are on the hiring plan to start at a certain date in the future. If you request not to be on that team, the manager must be notified so that they can find someone else to fill that role. Your mistake was in accepting a position that you don't want. "Dreading going back to that team" should have been the clue. Instead, you should have thanked them for the offer, but indicated that while you love the company, you'd like to start out with a different team. (You wouldn't need to get too specific about the reasons). You may have very well ended up with a good internal recommendation, assuming your internship work was well-regarded. Now you are in a rather awkward position. You could withdraw your acceptance and apply for an open position on another team (if one exists). Or you could notify HR and just hope for the best.