The first thing you must know in order to understand the situation is that under a fractional reserve monetary system: Bank loans create money The repayment of bank loans destroy money In the up phase of a house price bubble, millions of people are borrowing like crazy to get on the property ladder, whilst after the bubble bursts, the enthusiasm for borrowing suddenly collapses. However, the high rate* of repaying all these mortgages will continue for years or decades to come. This means that if the central bank did nothing the money supply would start shrinking dramatically. QE is an attempt to counteract this fall in the money supply. If the rate* of money creation via QE is too slow then it is perfectly possible for the money supply to fall despite QE. (*The word "rate" here, means rate of flow, not the interest rate.) The idea that there is a "risk" of QE mainly comes from people who believe the "money multiplier theory" of the money supply, where an increase in base money automatically leads to an even bigger increase in the broad money supply. This theory is completely false despite being in many textbooks, as was confirmed by the Bank of England here. This does not mean that there are no downsides to QE. QE does tend to artificially push up the price of various assets which may not be a good thing. EDIT: This book is probably the most authoritative book in English about the behaviour of the Japanese central bank around the time of their property bubble. It's actually written by the guy that invented the phrase "quantitative easing". 

Bankers that choose between borrowers wishing to borrow for productive investment are doing a an important and difficult job that benefits the economy. Sadly this only accounts for a small proportion of bankers. Bankers that choose between borrowers wishing to borrow to purchase pre-existing unproductive assets are not doing a very useful job, indeed much of their work does positive harm to the economy. Sadly this accounts for the majority of bankers. The banking sector is probably four or five times bigger than what would be optimal for the sake of the economy. EDIT: Adair Turner has said similar things in many places, including here. EDIT: and here, with more detail. 

As John L said "Lower interest rate => Loaning money is cheaper" - agreed. The next link: "Loaning money is cheaper => More money in the system" is rather more subtle. It assumes that you know about fractional reserve banking and that bank loans create money. You should also be aware that bank loan repayments (of principal) destroys money. So the money supply will only rise upon lower interest rates if the rate of making new loans is greater than the rate at which existing loans are paid back. It just so happens that central banks are likely to lower interest rates at exactly those times when the enthusiasm for taking out new loans is falling. So the relationship between interest rates and inflation can end up being quite complex. And another factor is that not all stuff that money buys in the economy is stuff that is measured by inflation statistics. For example shares and houses. If the proportion of money being spent on those things (as a fraction of total spending) rises or falls then this too can cause inflation/deflation. 

The key thing to note is that the interest paid does not simply accumulate at the bank. Nobody runs a business in order to just make a big pile of money to keep in a safe. The banks spend the money back into the economy through staff wages, running costs and dividend payments to shareholders. All these outflows of money will ultimately be spent on real goods and services produced by the rest of the economy. This flow of money is a source of money for the interest payments. You can get an idea of what is going on by imagining an economy with a fixed money supply. The figure below shows a hypothetical flow of the money in the economy. The flow marked "trade" and is simply the money circulating back an forth between households and industry as people earn money and spend it on what has been produced in the factories. In a steady state, the rate of flow of money being created as new loans (shown as "loans" in the diagram) will be equal to the rate of flow of money being paid back in principal repayments (i.e. before interest payments). At the same time the loan interest payments are equal to the spending by banks (those staff wages, running costs and dividend payments to shareholders). As you can see, the flows can balance. Nothing is broken, no new money needs to be added to pay the interest. The system can continue indefinitely. 

Many organisations borrow money to purchase shares (trading on margin). Their enthusiasm for doing this will depend on the interest rate. So lower interest rates means more borrowing for purchasing shares, which means prices rise. A similar thing happens with other stuff that people tend to buy with borrowed money - like housing. 

Given all these additional factors, its no surprise to find that in the short term the money supply does not correlate brilliantly with inflation... but in the long term the correlation is definitely there - i.e. if the money supply grows by a factor of ten over many years, then prices would probably grow by a similar factor. Milton Friedman won his Nobel prize for his work highlighting the long term correlation. 

By any reasonable definition a period of economic downturn has to mean that the slope of GDP vs time is negative. If the second derivative (i.e. rate of change of slope) is positive then we could say that the downturn is becoming less severe, but its still a downturn until the slope goes positive again. 

The video gives the impression that the Fed "sets" the money supply. However this is not true at all. Surprisingly the money supply is mostly determined by private banks and the amount of lending that they do. The Fed then has some things it can do to influence the money supply. It's a system called fractional reserve banking and its very hard to get your head round. For a less technical explanation, watch this. You will learn that there is more than one possible definition of "the money supply" (M1, M2 etc). The amount of each can be found at the St Lois Fed website - try doing a search for "money". 

What is the definition of "demand for money". The definition given by Wikipedia appears gibberish to me. And just to double check - what are the units of demand for money? Is it measured in "dollars"? or perhaps "dollars per unit time"? Or a ratio between two things? If I understand it correctly, the level of demand for any produce (other than money) is the rate of flow of money that is currently being used to purchase that produce. So for example, if there is 1 million dollars per day being spent on VW cars, then you can say, "the demand for VW cars is $1m per day". Clearly the meaning of the word "demand" in the expression "demand for money" can't be the same thing - can it? EDIT: Some definitions sound an awful lot as though a person's demand for money is exactly equal to the amount of money they currently have (and its units would therefore simply be "dollars"). Please include in your answer, an indication of whether or not your definition is identical to a person's current holding of money. EDIT: Looking at the suggested answers and doing some more reading, I get the feeling that the word "demand" in economics is actually not a single number, but a set of numbers, or a curve. In the case of normal goods (call them Widgets), then the x axis will be price and on the y axis will be "Widgets sold per unit time" (the unit of time could be days, years etc). Please advise if you think I have this bit wrong. 

I have been trying to find a reliable source for the UK money supply over the past couple of decades, but it seems that in each different place I look I get completely different looking answers. Now I am aware that there are different measures of the money supply (M1, M2 etc) and I am also aware that these are defined differently in different countries, I am also aware that these definitions change from time to time. What I would really like is the sum of instantly spendable British money that is currently possessed by all individuals and businesses. So I think this is the sum of notes&coins held outside banks plus the sum total of all sterling denominated demand deposits. Certainly notes&coins on their own is not what I'm after because there is much more spendable money than that. This measure would be too small. Also certainly I do not want to include the value of bonds or shares owned by people because that has to be sold (taking money from someone else) in order to convert their value into money. This measure would be too large. I suspect that the data is probably available on this page on the Bank of England website, but there are so many choices and so much jargon that I am not at all confident of choosing the right data. Can anyone give me any pointers? 

Thanks to Ubiquitous for finding this paper. Just scanning by eye it seems it could be summarised by saying: the bulk of items have a tariff in the range 5-10% with a smaller amount either less than 5 (including some 0%) or in the range 10-12%. Very few items have a tariff of over 12%. 

Amongst central bankers there is no controversy, the money multiplier is plain wrong, see this definitive paper from the Bank of England here. So assuming that loans create deposits... Imagine a bank lends (i.e. creates) 1000 dollars for person A to buy second hand car from person B (for simplicity imagine they both are customers of the same bank). Person B stores the 1000 dollars in their bank account, expecting interest to be paid on their savings. The bank then makes its profit on the difference between the interest A is paying to the bank and what the bank pays in interest to the saver B. Note that as A repays the principal on the loan the money disappears back out of existence. The bank only gets to keep the interest. 

This may be a UK only thing but... I have noticed that it is very common to see current accounts that offer some interest on the first couple of thousand pounds deposited with them and then less interest on sums over that amount. Why is this so? Surely they should offer more interest due to economies of scale. Examples: Starling bank 0.5% up to 2,000 - 0.25% above Nationwide FlexDirect 1% up to 2,500 - 0% over 2,500 Tesco current account 3% up to 3,000 - 0% above 

The paradox is that as people attempt to save more, the total amount of savings decreases. Before I explain how this can be so, we need to understand a couple of things: First of all, when economists talk about savings in aggregate, they consider the full spectrum from at one end saving a lot, through zero savings (quickly spending exactly what you earn) through to the opposite of saving - which is borrowing. I.e. "borrowing less" can be described as "saving more". Similarly the process of repaying existing loans will be described by economists as "saving more". Then you need to consider the effects of our "fractional reserve banking" monetary system. In this system loans create money and repaying loans destroys money. This means that if an economy moves to a state where the rate of repayments of existing loans is greater than the rate of taking out new loans then the money supply will shrink (at least without any QE or similar). Put these facts together and we can have a situation where we have "more saving" (which to an economist may just mean less borrowing), leading to a shrinking money supply. Given that savings are money - then if there is less money around then our ability to save as much as before, diminishes. 

Re: "You could say this is 'creating' money" - no you couldn't. This would be conflating money and wealth. Wealth can be created without new money being created - indeed wealth was created before money even existed. Conversely money can be created without creating wealth. So they are entirely separate things. A crude analogy: wealth is to money as apples are to numbers. You can count apples using numbers, but growing new apples does not create new numbers. With regard "In the end logically, this money becomes concentrated in a few people." - not true. People don't earn money in order to collect big piles of it and spend all day counting it. Instead they use it to buy stuff which means that the money circulates through the rest of the economy. With regard "How is it the United States can still grow, despite sending more money out than it takes in?"... it doesn't send out more money than in takes in (at least not to any great extent). Foreigners do not accumulate great piles of dollars that they earned from selling American's stuff - instead they use their dollars to buy American assets, like US government bonds. With regard how money is created, please be aware that this is a controversial area and there is a huge amount of misinformation on this subject. The best document to read that I know of on the subject of money creation is this one published in the Bank of England Quarterly bulletin in 2014.