Yes the sensation is a normal condition. It is just muscle/nerve spasms. They may be happening throughout the day but go largely unnoticed. They are also at level of neuron firings so you typically will not be able to see them physically. During meditation you are probably more aware of the tiny changes in your body. One thing I notice during meditation is how loud my stomach has been this last week. The more you become aware of them the more intense they will probably appear to manifest. Unless it is a medical condition such as a hemifacial spasm they will typically go away on their own. 

Being mindful means being awake to the present moment. When you are sleeping and/or dreaming you are not awake nor are you awake to the present moment. I do not think that there are any monks that are mindful when sleeping. 

Check out the Fifth Mindfulness training listed here: The Five Mindfulness Trainings (Page 19). These are the precepts written by Thich Nhat Hanh. I am not going to summarize his commentary, but hopefully his writing can help shed light on what you are looking at. May you be happy. 

Alright, lets give this a shot. Lets write down a chain of how reality is perceived before we start. That way, we can understand where this question lies on the spectrum of experience. The fundamental nature of reality of an unenlightened being is described as thus: 

What you are observing here, if I understand you correctly, is what is called emptiness. All experience is. No experience has any qualitative aspects. No experience holds any meaning. No experience holds any wisdom. No experience holds any concepts. No experience holds any truth. It is not that snakes are not real. Our experience of any type of snake is real, waking or dreaming. They are both equally empty. There is only experience. We single out one aspect of experience and say "this is a snake!" A snake is nothing more than an interpretation of experience. A snake is the conceptualization of only a small aspect of experience. A snake is just a concept that we use to label experience. A label is empty. Just a word or idea. A concept can be realized, but that doesn't mean there is something behind the concept. 

The Buddha knows everything in the universe because he understands interbeing. He undersands that everything is interdependent on each other thing. There is no separate independent black hole in the center of the galaxy that is separate then the keyboard I am using to type this response. The Buddha can look at this keyboard in front of me and see the trees, the sun, the people who designed and created this keyboard, the black hole in the center of the galaxy holding us all together, and even you and me. 

Try to understand her perspective. Why does she not support your choices? What is her intentions? Perhaps she just loves and cares for you and her thinking/rational is how she is trying to care for you. If you can better understand her it will help her to better understand you. Practice metta (loving kindness) meditation with her as your focus. Perhaps even practice loving-kindness meditation together. 

I have never found a "not so nice" leader to be a very good leader. A good leader knows how to lead without having to resort to not being nice to his or her followers. A great example of a Buddhist leader would be Siddhārtha Gautama. 

The reason the Buddha suggested we abstain from certain things is not because of the morality of the actions themselves, but because of the effect these actions have on our minds. The fact that you are even asking this question illustrates there is some sort of mental suffering/inner conflict that has arrisen. This is the suffering we are attempting to avoid by abstaining from specific actions. This is what the Buddha warned us of. You are always free to do whatever you wish! I would just suggest you not do something that brings you suffering. 

Before you go on reading my answer, know I have no familiarity with Karma Kagyu or Guru Yoga meditation. 

The beautiful thing about being dissatisfied is that although it is painful, it is an insight jumping in front of your face, ready to occur! Best of luck to you and I hope you find what you are looking for! 

What changes do you need to make? What roadblocks do you believe you can't overcome in your current situation? Enlightenment can be attained no matter what your circumstances are in life are. Living using monastic princaples can assist in removing distractions that can be enticing, but if your practice is strong, you can walk the path no matter where you are in life. There seems to be some sort of misconception that you must ordain to become enlightened or must live according to specific guidelines. The key to walking the path is cultivating morality, concentration, and wisdom. Use the five aggregates to help balance you along the path. Follow the Buddha's teachings in morality as best as you can. Cultivate concentration and wisdom through meditation. No matter your living conditions, you will still be observing and analyzing the same experience. I encourage you to ask yourself while meditating, what makes up my desires to make changes in my life? The beautiful thing is, you already (and always will) have everything you need to attain new wisdom! 

We do not even keep our memories from moment to moment and day to day. Memories are relative. They have no intrinsic self and are impermanent. Certain memories change over time, or are covered with a lens of delusion. Other memories are completely fictional. 

When you are chanting you are breathing differently then when you are not. When you are chanting your body is vibrating differently then when you are not. It makes reasonable sense that the differences in breathing and vibrating could cause "tingling feelings" in your body that would not be there when breathing normally. This is a very normal event. 

The Gateless Gate. The Heart Sutra. The Diamond Sutra. The Shōbōgenzō. These are the first ones that come to my mind as a Zen Buddhist. Here is more information: $URL$ 

Science is really the Scientific Method. The Scientific Method is: Observations Hypotheses Predictions Experiments Analysis As a Zen Buddhist, specifically Vietnamese Engaged Buddhism here is what I see. Most all of the studies (book, dharma talks, dharma sharing, sutra) have the elements listed above. A typical dharma talk (whether oral or written into a book) discusses observations. These observations lead to "insight" or a hypothesis/predictions about the true nature of reality/the mind/etc. Every dharma talk I have ever heard in zen has always asked us to take these insights and test them. Apply them in your life and see the outcome for yourself. I am not just told theories but asked to practice them. This is the Experiments phase. Then I am always asked to examine the practice to see the fruits of my effort. This is Analysis. So basically I find that Zen Buddhism follows the scientific method quite perfectly. Thus I would say any Zen text could be considered a scientific text by the standards of the scientific method. Now of course you are asking for a single book that "none Buddhist can read to understand that philosophy better". As a Zen Buddhist, this is pretty all-encompassing of Zen Buddhism: The Heart of the Buddha's Teaching by Thich Nhat Hanh. I read this book with non-buddhist weekly, as well as read this book with monastics. The approach in this book follows the methods I described above and is written in a way that is very approachable regardless of your skill level in the practice. Here is the Table of Contents of the Book so you can see what is all covered. Part One The Four Noble Truths Chapter One Entering the Heart of the Buddha Chapter Two The First Dharma Talk Chapter Three The Four Noble Truths Chapter Four Understanding the Buddha's Teachings Chapter FiveIs Everything Suffering? Chapter Six Stopping, Calming, Resting, Healing Chapter Seven Touching Our Suffering Chapter Eight Realizing Well-Being Part Two The Noble Eightfold Path Chapter Nine Right View Chapter Ten Right Thinking Chapter Eleven Right Mindfulness Chapter Twelve Right Speech Chapter Thirteen Right Action Chapter Fourteen Right Diligence Chapter Fifteen Right Concentration Chapter Sixteen Right Livelihood Part Three Other Basic Buddhist Teachings Chapter Seventeen The Two Truths Chapter Eighteen The Three Dharma Seals Chapter Nineteen The Three Doors of Liberation Chapter Twenty The Three Bodies of Buddha Chapter Twenty-One The Three Jewels Chapter Twenty-Two The Four Immeasurable Minds Chapter Twenty-Three The Five Aggregates Chapter Twenty-Four The Five Powers Chapter Twenty-Five The Six Paramitas Chapter Twenty-Six The Seven Factors ofAwakening Chapter Twenty-Seven The Twelve Links of Interdependent Co-Arising Chapter Twenty-Eight Touching the Buddha Within 

The purpose of Vipassana is to gain insight. Is there any way you can gain insight into the workings of your experience through your newfound aversion? You can observe any experience to gain insight into the truth, but looking into suffering is particularly helpful. Moments of suffering house so much delusion, they are information treasures! Wishing your physical condition to go away is a manifestation of fundimental aversion. Next time you are meditating, I encourage you to ask yourself these questions. 

The Buddha teaches us the path to enlightenment. When enlightenment occurs, the sense of self, attachment, and suffering no longer arise. In my opinion, the Buddhist way is analyzing your experience in order to cultivate wisdom and become enlightened. If someone attepts to steal from you, yes a Buddhist who is attempting to emulate an arahant would give the thief their belongings. But now that your things are gone, how do you react? Are you attached to those possessions? Where does that attachment come from? What does it feel like deep within you? If you have walked the path, it is impossible for someone to steal from you. If you are walking the path and your goal is enlightenment, what is most important is not what happens and how you act, but how through your investgation of your experience is. Training in morality is essential, but I would argue not as important as concentration and wisdom. 

Buddhism is about having in-body experiences not out-of-body experiences. Psychedelics distort one's experience/perspective of reality and Buddhism is about experiencing reality for what it really is. Thus psychedelic drugs are the opposite of the dharma path and not used by monks or nuns. 

Of course. True love is full of happiness, compassion, joy, and equanimity. Non attachment is a condition of true love. 

I am 32 and I live in Florida. Florida is full of older people and they outnumber us 20s and 30s year olds. As for Buddhism, the ratio stays pretty consistent to the overall demographic. In my sangha of over one hundred, and I maybe one of three people under 40 years old. Our local university often sends students to experience the sangha for extra credit, but they rarely stay past the assignment. However I have started a wake up sangha for people in their 20s and 30s (www.wkup.org) here in Fort Myers, and the wake up sanghas do seem to be growing. 

This weekend I will be attending my first retreat with Zen monks. It is at a camp ground and I will be camping in a tent for the weekend. Does anyone have any advice on attending a retreat for the first time? Is there anything I should expect, or bring that I might not think of? Any advice or experiences with retreats and facing monks for the first time will be appreciated. May you be happy. Bowing to you. 

I think at times it can be helpful, and at times, harmful. The teachings of the Buddha are his experiences. By sharing his atainments, he helps us all walk the path. Unfortunately, if you are too descriptive, people will seek your experience in their practice. They may come to false conclusions that make guiding themselves toards the next attainment much more difficult. I think it may be more helpful to others if someone with attainments focuses on another's practice, and asks them to answer questions that spark introspection that leads them toward their next fruition. 

I have no idea whatsoever. That being said, if it is a breach of tradition, for what reason is practice not allowed at home? In a best case scenario, tradition can be helpful in that it may be a reliable way to accomplish something that has lasted through the test of time through its repeated success. Worst case scenario, tradition could be in place just because "it is the way it has always been done" and perhaps could inhibit your practice and slow your process of achieving your goals. Only you though can make that assessment and decide which is true for you, or if the truth lies somewhere in the middle.