The following article Thousands of Venomous Portuguese Man O’ Wars Wash Ashore in Australia: ‘It Was the Stuff Of Nightmares’ details an event where a large number of a jellyfish creatures washed up on a beach in Australia. Mostly, the article is just about the alien and disturbing nature of the sight. However, the author claims: 

Disclaimer: The allergic response is a very complicated medical topic that is still not well understood, and I am no medical professional, so I suggest that all readers follow up in a more medically adept venue. However, I am confident in at least the basic understand of this answer. 

I want to be sure that prospective answers don't argue from a lack of evidence. I couldn't find much; Wikipedia mentions a few small scale studies that favor the treatment. It mentions a few others that were all retracted. The gold standard here would be a study that is not retracted that shows it doesn't work or isn't safe. 

Mr. Slay is claiming that the number of kids who test positive for lead poisoning has decreased 85% from 20% to 3%. I see no reason to disbelieve him (though confirmation would be nice). Ms. Brucker is claiming that the mayor's statement is "[r]egarding the latter", that is regarding the decrease in lead poisoning among kids. In other words, she's claiming that there's been a decrease in the percentage of lead-poisoned kids — not just in the percentage of tested-positive-for-lead-poisoning kids. Note that, precisely because "more kids are being tested", there may not have been a decrease at all in the percentage of lead-poisoned kids, even though there was an 85% decrease in the percentage of tested-positive-for-lead-poisoning kids. 

[1] It's actually edited by one Steven P. Shelov, but has the imprimatur of the AAP. The edition I'm quoting from is the June 1998 Bantam edition, ISBN 0-553-57904-5, and the quotation is from page 52. 

He offers up as markers "social justice, happiness, freedom, and equality". He further lists as examples "Sweden, Denmark, Norway, Benelux countries, Britain, and Holland", countries all with kings and/or queens and "constitutional monarchies". I would hope that someone of his caliber would have actual empirical studies in mind when he lays out freakonomics like this. What evidence is there to support or reject this claim? 

I've known the average was 250 words per minute or so for quite some time, but people reading over 1000 wpm is extremely rare (I've only known one such person). So to increase the average reader at 250 by nearly four times, puts them in a bracket that doesn't exist. It would be a statistical anomaly. And they are not claiming to have done it just once or twice. They claim to do it consistently. Does the PX Project increase reading speed by an average of 386%? Can an average reader's reading speed be increased in the first place, or does the science show it is a skill that quickly tops out? Are any methods proven to work at all? 

What exactly do you consider a state's "contribution"? Absolute payment? Net payment, substracting the payments the state receives in regional support, as part of the Common Agricultural Policy etc.? But judging by the readily available numbers, the answer would be: Germany does NOT contribute 1/3 of the whole EU budget. But it is the primary contributor, at a bit over 22% for the 2014 budget, after contributing slightly under 20% in 2007-2013. 

I doubt the media really makes the claim that the robot "committed suicide" in the abovementioned meaning of the word; they just phrased it that way as it will attract more readers than "robot had malfunction that led to destruction of said robot". Point in case, the linked article also states the robot "drowned himself". Drowning is usually connected with asphyxiation. I very much doubt the robot breathed / required oxygen to function. It is much more likely it short-circuited, but "drowning" sounds better. 

I have a bottle of Clorox Clean-Up Cleaner with Bleach, marketed for sale in the United States. Its label reads, in part (and with emphasis removed): 

Your Baby's First Year by the American Academy of Pediatrics[1], in a chapter about very young babies, includes the following paragraph: 

I seek confirmation for either of these claims, especially the latter. If I could also get the actual percentage decrease in lead-poisoned kids, that'd be even better. (I don't know Mr. Slay's definition of "kids" or Ms. Brucker's of "children", so I guess any known percentage decrease for some class reasonably termed "children" will suffice.) 

I wonder what evidence there is for "You cannot spoil a young baby by giving him attention". Was there, perhaps, a longitudinal study done of children who were paid less and more attention, and how spoiled they were — which I take to mean how much attention they demanded — when they were older? Is the claim pure conjecture on the AAP's part? Or what? 

The study by Orb Media was subject for articles in German news website Spiegel Online (commercial) and WDR (public service broadcasting). Both articles, quoting staff from the German Federal Environmental Agency, agree on criticism of the study: 

So, allowing for some ship being closer while the ISS is on the other side of the earth, at least some of the time the claim is true, and quite possibly by a comfortable margin. You can possibly find places on land where the ISS crew is closer to you than the next person on earth... 

The fact that the study you quoted did not find "evidence" of significant increases of measles infection among the unvaccinated children is the result of herd immunity, a well-researched and well-understood effect. If enough members of a population are vaccinated, and (quoting the linked article)... 

Sorry for linking German-language articles, but I can judge the merit of the sources much more easily in my native language, and it's a very emotional subject for some, leading to highly-vocal participants in the discussion I would rather not quote.