The only way to know for sure what happens with your fork is to take it apart and have a look. Any other suggested procedure will be a guess. So if that noise bothers you, get your tools out and open the fork. Apart from checking the internal condition, you will gain a better understanding of the fork structure and operations, and you'll know what to expect from it. And next time you face with strange sound, you'll know what's happening there. 

I've done something like that ages ago. But had a friend working in CNC shop - he made a steel insert to fix the threads. And 10 years after - the cranks are still going fine. But not everyone have access to CNC machinery. So it might be easier and cheaper to replace the cranks. 

I'm about a month into using my bicycle to commute to work, and one thing I've definitely gotten better at is pacing myself to conserve energy, both for the rest of the commute to work, and for the commute back. What I'm still unsure of, however, is whether or not I should pace myself on one day to conserve energy for the next. Assuming I ate the same thing, and got the same amount of sleep each day, would I have relatively the same amount of energy each of those days despite a decent back and forth commute? Today was the first day of my commuting week, and I had a lot more energy (granted, I have been drinking chocolate milk per the advice of bicycles.SE, which may be having a physical or psychological affect AND that my body should be adjusting to the increased activity), so I ended up biking a bit faster than I normally do. Am I going to pay for this tomorrow? edit: the commute is 15 miles. 

Given all the above, plus possibility to keep normal shoes in the office, I cycle to work and change shoes there. 

No, these don't exist. You can get cable-pulled disk brakes and hydraulic disk brakes. Also you get cable-pulled rim-brakes or hydraulic rim brakes Sram S-700 (thanks to @mikes for the pointer) or Magura variation: 

A lot of your questions are down to experience. You'll know when you need a better rear break and what other parts to change. And you'll slowly assemble a great bike, going along with your skill level. And good luck! 

Pretty much all bike-related lights for helmets are mounted with velcro straps. My mate was riding in full-face helmet with lights on helmet. He had vents on top of the helmet and mounted the lights through the vents. Worked just fine. We use Light and Motion for "battery in the pack, light on the head" set up. If you are planning a DH in the dark, I highly recommend have 2 lights - one on your helmet to shine where you are looking at. And another on your handlebars - to put light just in front of the wheel. You can never have too much light for DH, and even with all the lights you can get, it does not give you the same confidence as with day-light. So take care when you are trying to do that drop you usually nail daytime. In the dark it'll be a whole new territory. 

I too am a type one diabetic and I understand your concerns, how ever I might have some suggestions to help with your problem. I always make sure to carry a Camelbak pack with me to enure I have my Glucometer and other supplies along. I check my sugars before I start the ride, if possible I might have a little extra food at the time, just to get me started. I also make sure to carry along some chocolate bars if my sugars get low. I find Oh Henry or Mars Bars to be good, since they have various types of sugar in them and they also have peanuts to help sustain the glucose intake. In addition to the sugar I bring along, I also bring protein bars since those have carbs in them, but also a lot of protein to help release the glucose in to your system slowly. The name brand or protein bars I use is called "Clif Builders" and you can get them at Costco in Canada, hopefully you could get them in your area as well or a similar product, the important thing is that the protein bars release the carbs slowly. I also drop each of my insulin dosages by 2 units on my morning dose and sometimes my evening dose also gets adjusted because after a long ride your body continues to burn sugar at an accelerated rate. This helps me not need to overeat, the high problem of high sugars after a ride is due to over compensating for the amount you fuel being burnt on the ride and most important of all at least until you get to know you routes really well and what you truly need for food intake, make sure to check your blood sugars on the ride before you eat and on a regular basis and bring along extra protein and chocolate bars, they don't take up much space and the Camelbak will have lots of room for them. Remember the Chocolate bars are only for when your sugars get low, otherwise stick to the protein bars. You will also find your rides will be better and more energetic if your sugars are in the nominal range. The other advantage to lowering your dosage on riding days, is that it will help you lean down. It doesn't help you at all if you have to overeat to keep your sugars at a normal level, but if you lower your dosage and understand that the bike riding it self will lower your sugars to a degree it will make it easier, it really is about knowing your body how it burns sugar and how to balance it all on days you ride. P.S. My longest ride so far was 55Kms and I found by dropping my morning dosage, it helped me out in not battling the insulin to keep my sugars up at a normal level. Perhaps if you are going on a longer ride you might need to lower your dosage another unit or two, don't make huge changes in dosages until you know your insulin needs. 2 units less is quite safe and make sure even if you lower your dosage to bring plenty of food along. I hope you find this information helpful, enjoy the rides. 

Perhaps you'll have more luck with answers on specialised trials forums, like $URL$ However, I'll try to address your questions briefly. 

On Trek 4300 you have RST Gila fork which is cheap and simple. You can't really lock it completely, just pre-load the spring to maximum. I'd say you should not worry about it - the internals are very simple and can't really be damaged easily: this is no oil/air fork. It has a steel spring and some rubbers to work as dumper. And most likely the juddering you notice is not from the fork, but rather from the breaks themselves. 

Is the chain always goes up/down? In this case usually the adjustment is off. Try adjust the cable. Is the mech hanger bent? Sometimes during a crash you can bend a mech hanger. Most of the times you can bend it back, but there are cases where you need to replace the mech hanger for a new one. Usually they are cheap £5-15. Is the shifting very slow? Dirty outer cables and rusty inner can cause the problem with shifting. Replace inner cable and outer cable for new ones. Is the shifter clicking OK? I've seen cheap shifter wearing out and not "holding" clicks properly, so the chain would jump. Are the mech cogs (small chainrings) worn out? are they wobbly? Chain can only be placed properly if the cog is not moving sideways. If that is the case, replace the top cog. Also worn out cog can affect the shifting performance. Is the mech itself not bent or otherwise damaged? There are plenty of ways to destroy the mech.. usually that is beyond repair and you need to get a new one. If the mech is very-very cheap, it sometimes gets bent while in normal use (not MTB abuse). Only replacement will fix that. 

A couple weeks ago I bought a new road bike for commuting to work with. Part of the commute is along the beach bike path, so there's usually some sand on it. Last week my tires slipped on the sand and I scraped my leg a bit. There was quite a bit of blood and a lot of sand in the wound, but luckily I had brought a rag with me (it was clean, but I brought it thinking I might need it to wipe chain grease of my hands) and some sanitizing wipes so I was able to do a decent job of cleaning it until I got home. I used the rag to wipe up the blood so I could see what I was doing and also to wipe off as much excess sand as I could. I then poured some of my water over it, then used the wipes to clear up some more of the blood and try to get rid of more of the sand. I was about 12 miles from home and this was all I did before I got there. There are few questions I have at this point. Was there something else I could have done about the sand? I REALLY didn't want a ton of dirty sand in an open wound, but I also didn't want to rub the sand into it either. Should I have used the ocean water to clear away more sand and further sanitize the wound? I considered going to the water to help cleanup, but I didn't want to get my feet sandy and socks wet, and wasn't sure if it would even help at all. Should I have done anything else before biking back/while biking back? It's been more than a week, and each day I've been putting hydrogen peroxide on it, letting it get as much air as possible, and then putting a band-aid on it. I'm a little concerned though, because it hasn't scabbed yet. It seems like the band-aid is absorbing everything that would be forming the scab. I would leave the band-aids off more, but I'm still biking into work and wearing jeans there. How should I be taking care of the wound now? Any advice is appreciated! 

Risk to damage the fork/frame? Yes, absolutely. But all depend on what you are doing and what bike it is. I've snapped a few frames doing trials and stunts. But chances of damaging are less if you are using trials frame. Wheel size is a great debate in a trials world. There are 26", 24" and 20" (19") wheels. All down to the preference and rider level. I'd start with 26" and then once you know what you want/need, decide on the sizes. If you are very keen on trials and have finance, definitely get a trials bike. Many times while learning I found my bike stopping my progress. Good quality parts... get a good chain and good freewheel. Because if freewheel slips while doing gaps - you are going down. And that can lead to an injury. Also get a great rear tyre with good brake. A lot depends on that. Other parts are essential, but these are high priority. Breaks are another point of debate in trials world. Magura HS33 - hydraulic rim brakes used to be very popular 10 years ago. Now I'm not quite sure about the trends. Certainly I'd put some cash in for a good rear break - that is a vital part of the bike. 

Someone mentioned a GPS system, my buddy and I go for street rides, the longest one so far 43 kilometers. He uses an app for his iPhone called "Runkeeper". It tracks your speed and distance, it even shows you areas that you might have ridden faster and you can post your map online if you like. The one thing to keep in mind if you are using a GPS app on a smartphone, you might need an additional external battery pack as the GPS uses a lot of battery power. The one for the iPhone is called a "juicy pack" I believe, and the iPhone can switch automatically between the two batteries when the external one runs out of power. This "juicy pack" fits on the outside of the phone like an external case and is designed for the phone, it works great. I just thought I might share that, hopefully it might help out. Definitely keep up with the riding, I used to be a trial rider and nothing else. When I first started riding longer distances on the road, it was brutal, but as I kept going the previous rides that seemed so long, started to feel shorter and easier every time. In addition to that I am really enjoying the fun of getting out and just riding and the GPS helps you keep track of your progress. Cheers, and good riding