It varies by the situation. Some teams send requests to companies to sponsor them, while other times companies ask teams to represent them. Usually it is the latter. In F-1 companies such as MacLaren, the company has ties with tire and parts companies and therefore is able to use those logos and get their products for a greatly reduced price. Some cigarette companies or condom companies would also put their logos on Formula 1 cars in the early years, but not anymore. 

The majority of the time it is a better plan to draw the penalty then immediately get the 5 on three. This situation actually just came up one the Blackhawks vs Kings games for the Semi Finals of the Stanley Cup. One of the Hawks forwards drew a second penalty in the offensive zone. They pulled the goalie and tried the 4 on 6 for about 25 seconds but had nowhere to go with the puck. Unless an obvious opportunity presented itself, such as one of the King's defensemen was without a stick, it would have been better for them to get the 5 on 3. It gives the primary PP forwards a chance to rest, regroup, and decide how to proceed on the play and hopefully convert. 

Although this may put the definition of "professional" in question, there exists a North American club team that's existence does date before the Cincinnati Red Stockings. Some lesser known history, there exists a sport in North America that has been around for many centuries. That sport is lacrosse. Believed to have originally been played by the Native American Iroquois people, historians have traced the general sport of lacrosse back to the 1100's.1 The game was predominately played by those Native American people in what would become the North-Eastern United States, and lower parts of Ontario and Quebec. Explorers and missionaries have recorded details about the game as early as 1637.2 As time wore on, the people of Canada grew fond of the game and began to play it themselves. According to the "Canadian Encyclopedia": 

After collating the Eagles 2004 Roster with the Eagles 2017-2018 Roster, There were no returning players. The method performed to calculate this was to prioritize the 14 years that have advanced since the 2004 roster. Using this criteria, we can eliminate any players that were over the age of 26 on the 2004 roster due to the striking unlikelihood of any players over the age of 40 still playing other than the Kickers and Punters (both were checked, and both retired before the 2017-2018 season). So, we are left a handful of players 26 or younger from the 2004 roster. Of the 32 players from the 2004 Eagles roster aged 26 or younger, none of them even made it to the 2017-2018 NFL season. In fact, most of the players from that great 2004 team didn't even make it out of the 2000's. 

That could possibly be considered interference. The initial throw to the third baseman was legal and just a bad throw, with a legal run scoring. On the second throw to home, however, play should have been stopped by the umpire. Once a player is called out they are to return to the dugout directly, but his continuation on the base path was not necessarily an interference (stated below). This means that play should have been stopped and the batter should have been at first. Section 5.02 reads: "5.02 After the umpire calls “Play” the ball is alive and in play and remains alive and in play until for legal cause, or at the umpire’s call of “Time” suspending play, the ball becomes dead. While the ball is dead no player may be put out, no bases may be run and no runs may be scored, except that runners may advance one or more bases as the result of acts which occurred while the ball was alive (such as, but not limited to a balk, an over- throw, interference, or a home run or other fair ball hit out of the playing field)." Although, section 7.09 Paragraph e states: (e) Any batter or runner who has just been put out, or any runner who has just scored, hinders or impedes any following play being made on a runner. Such runner shall be declared out for the interference of his teammate; 

So, this is indeed not random, but the systematic selection method for determining the 1st seed being placed in the first group, and the 2nd seed being placed in the second group. From this point on however, The 2017 ATP Rulebook does not prescribe a specific order of play in which the seeds of each group must play, nor on which day of the tournament the seeds will play, but only states that each seed must play 1 match against the other players in his group; 3 matches in total. Traditionally yes, the way the matches have been broken down is that within Group 1 and 2's first round of matches, the (1) or (2) seed will play the lowest seed (7) or (8), and the two middle seeds will play each other; (3) plays (5) or (4) plays (6). The 2017 ATP World Tour Finals follows this format as well! Indeed, it appears the 2013 World Tour Finals is the only instance in which this format was not followed, and the reasoning for this is ultimately conjecture. However, we can deduce from the absence of Official ATP Rule direction on the matter that the order of play is ultimately up to the discretion of the venue hosting the event. Also, as long as each player plays the other three in their respective groups, the event is still abiding by ATP rules, so the tournament organizers really have the ability to schedule the order of play however they see fit, perhaps with player feedback. The rationale behind this sort of information is rarely disclosed to the public though, and is shrouded in doubt and ambiguity; as seen with this year's controversy in Rafael Nadal supposedly asking tournament organizers to push back his day of play. Ultimately however, the ATP has produced no official order of play that The World Tour Finals must abide by and has left this up to tournament organizers and directors. 

These are indeed lead ponies or companion ponies. This horse(s) are brought along with a race horse to and on the road to keep them emotionally stable and focused on the race. These ponies help them to stay calm before races. This is a common practice for many race horses. 

Most of the time a 'dynasty' refers to a team that has once consistently over a long period of time. Canadian hockey has indeed dominated the international ice for the past decade and become a superpower in the sport. It would be fair to say that their team is running the show when it comes to international ice time, but not necessarily a dynasty, as in competitions they have not always come out on top. It just happens that over the past six years they have built up an extremely strong team. If their streak continues into the next winter olympics, the world 'dynasty' would indeed be used to describe Canada's team. 

They do this to prevent their shoes from getting slippery. It is the same reason they mop the floors near the hoops. It is important that the players have a good grip on the floor, and if their shoes are damp they do not have enough traction. It reduces the risk of injury and helps them to play better. 

The article is based on a source-less example which narrates Chamberlain's "unorthodox" free throws: 

After watching many Wilt Chamberlain dunk compilations and reading many articles on The Big Dipper, I can say with a large degree of certainty that Wilt Chamberlain was able to dunk the ball from the free throw line. For the second question, if by "proof" the OP means "video evidence" then I'm afraid it simply cannot be found if it even exists. On the other hand, in terms of proof, a strong case can be built that Wilt Chamberlain was able to dunk from the foul line via Witness Testimony and Wilt's Self Proclamation. On November 28th, 1956 the "Toledo Blade" (a Northwestern Ohio newspaper) published this article which details the "Big Seven" conference's 2 rule changes based on then sophomore Wilt chamberlain: 

First, a minor correction in OP's understanding of the grouping In the ATP World Tour Finals with regards to the first two seeds. 

Tex Winter (a rival coach at Kansas state) seems to affirm Wilt's ability to dunk from the foul line by stating: 

One possible term to describe this phenomenon is a "Stand-in." The usage for this term is more common in eSports than traditional sports, but it nonetheless holds a similar connotation. 

No, there is no agreement. You are accurate in your finding that there is no agreement. However in my experience it starts with one in the upper left and rotates clockwise down to the lower left to 4, with 5-hole added on. 

Alright so these are what used to be known as 'donuts.' They are a weight sleeve or ring that the player puts on the bat to make it heavier as they warm up. They take the practice swings with the bat heavier so their muscles adjust to the weight, then remove it so the bat feels much lighter and they have a quicker swing. It is a very effective tactic that I use myself when I play. 

I've been riding for 5-6 years now and skating for longer, and I tried the same thing about 2 years into it. I found that the switch took a while to get used to, but once I had the muscle memory I could switch flawlessly. What I did, as silly as it sounds, was look in a mirror while standing on my board and looked at my stance. I analyzed the key points in my stance, such as the angle of my feet and legs etc, and essentially replicated this with the opposite legs. I went from goofie to regular, but the same technique should apply to the opposite. As for practice, I did a couple things: