You can improve grip strength by simply gripping the bars as tight as you can while working out. You can also get stress balls or tennis balls and practice squeezing them while you're doing cardiovascular exercises. 

Any time you exercise to the point of increasing your daily caloric burn higher than your caloric intake, you will burn fat. The body alone will decide where to take that fat from. Adding to or toning muscle in an area is not equivalent to losing fat in that same area. 

I've had issues with my knees since I tore them all up at 14 years old. If it is an injury, you need to be super careful not to make it worse. When I push myself too hard, I'll have some stiffness and pain in the joint, and the soft area directly below the kneecap becomes inflamed and feels weird to the touch. Over time, with regular exercise without overdoing it, the symptoms eventually relax to where you can push a lot further without it bothering you. Muscles can also just remain sore for several days, and if you aren't swelling or experiencing severe pain, it may be possible that it's just muscle soreness. If it bothers you pretty bad, take a little time off running and try something with less impact on your knees, like walking. Also pay attention to the surfaces you run on - certain treadmills mess my knees up after about 5 minutes of running, pavement kills me after about 30. Dirt or an actual running track I can run on indefinitely without any pain or problems. You might see if changing the surface you run on has any effect on it. 

No. To my knowledge, there is no conclusive amount of exercise for children that is all-encompassing. Realistically, just look at your kids. If they're fat, they need more exercise and less food, providing that there are no other health issues at hand. If they're too skinny (read "too skinny" as "malnourished"), they need more food, once again taking into consideration any health issues they may have. Just like adults who react differently to different amounts of activity, children react differently to different amounts of activity. There's an article on the New York Times that will offer some little more information, but not a lot. 

According to research (Source), the body only needs 0.36g of protein per pound each day for maintenance. In 2009, the American Dietetic Association, Dietitians of Canada, and the American College of Sports Medicine released an abstract supporting 0.5g to 0.8g of protein per pound each day as sufficient (Source). You can take in a significant amount more than this and be fine, as excess protein is excreted, so long as you get enough fats and/or carbohydrates as well to balance your nutrition needs and solubilize your fat-soluble vitamins that your body requires, as well as calcium to replace that which the protein will leech from your system (Source). You must consume enough water to flush the excess. There's not any point in buying "extra" protein though if you already have plenty in your diet to start with. Those doing body-building will need to be on the high end of this scale. Based on those research articles, at 250 pounds, the figures are as follows: 

You're losing around 10 pounds or maybe a little more per month. I've heard lots of people talk about "too rapid" of weight loss, but the truth of it is that you can easily lose 2 or 3 pounds a week, and it's not too difficult to lose closer to 5 pounds a week if you're quite a bit overweight. With an incredibly rigorous diet and moderate exercise, it's possible to achieve a loss of around a pound a day if you have enough to lose. Extreme calorie reduction usually leads to nutrient deficiencies, and it's not advisable to do this for extended periods of time (more than 30 days really). If you are taking in healthy foods like (intact) whole grains, red meats, fresh fruits and vegetables, etc, and you aren't feeling hungry, then you are getting sufficient energy (and likely nutrient) intake. Your body will let you know when it starts becoming deficient through cravings and feelings of hunger. Just listen to what your body tells you and typically you'll be fine. There are cases where your body's triggering mechanisms are broken, either from abuse or genetics, and your body won't tell you what it needs, so it's never a bad idea (read: always a good idea) to consult a dietitian. 

If you are looking to build mass, you should rest 45-60 seconds between sets of 8-12 repetitions for optimal gains. This timing builds optimal muscle mass and hypertrophy. If instead you are looking to improve your strength or endurance, you should be looking at a 3-4 minute break between sets. You'll want 4-6 repetitions with heavier resistance for strength or 16-24 repetitions with lower resistance for endurance. The Art of Manliness published a great article with an extremely simple strength/endurance training routine. See: World Fitness Network 

You should always mix up exercise types, as each different exercise targets different areas and muscles and stresses/strengthens different tendons and joints. After a period of doing the same exercise with the same resistance, you will no longer be gaining strength, but rather endurance. Increasing time will gain you additional endurance, but I doubt seriously that it will benefit you significantly in raw usable strength. 

There are loads of other reasons why one might have lowered circulation, and you should probably talk to your doctor about it. Your doctor might be able to identify some underlying cause and prevent something even more serious in the long run such as heart attack or stroke. 

Simple answer: if it hurts, don't do it. Pain is the body's way of telling us that something is wrong. The absolute worst thing you can do to yourself is ignore the pain and keep going. Just eat healthy, exercise what you can, and once your problem is resolved and you are through the proper recovery, then go back slowly into your routine. The single best thing you can do for yourself when you have an injury is just let your body rest. 

When you eat excess protein, your body leaches calcium from other sources in order to process the unnecessary protein. This means it will take calcium from your bones, if needed. The calcium loss can result in many health problems, including osteoporosis. According to this article from Michigan State University, the average Western diet includes double the protein needed for the body. The article also states, , claiming the repeated studies have shown that bone loss is not related to calcium intake, but calcium losses due to above-RDA protein intakes. Studies have shown that doubling your protein intake causes a 50% higher rate of calcium loss. If you want to try digging more deeply into the real science behind all of the interactions between protein and calcium, this article from The American Society for Nutritional Sciences has some less cryptic information about the calcium-protein interactions in the body, and this page has lots of diagrams of various chemical reactions in the body. The last mentioned page ends with the sentence, , and the following image: 

If the pain persists, check with your doctor and see what he recommends. There are some great products now for people who have weakened joints to help alleviate any pain from activity. 

I set all of my current running program up in my miCoach Pacer. I had just been running in free mode prior to today, the only workout I had done that wasn't in free mode was my initial assessment workout. When I hit the workout selection button it just says custom workout and how long the custom workout is. How do I know which one is selected? I pushed the button a couple times to see if it would give me any other information. It turns out that all my custom workouts for the next ~2 weeks are 1 hour 10 minutes, and so I ended up selecting one that was over a week ahead of where I should have been, which was a much more difficult workout, and I only finished a little less than half of it because of the intensity. Is there a better way to identify them in the web interface so I can tell which is which, or is there a way to get the Pacer to identify them better? 

From the Shiseido site, on the "Body Creator Abdomen Toning Gel", if you check the "Technology" tab, you'll find a lot of fluff, and an extremely short list of ingredients: 

Using more and different muscles will cause you to burn more calories and will increase your Excess Post-Exercise Oxygen Burn (EPOC). I would definitely advise you to work your entire body, and not just running. I work my upper body every other day and work my legs and run on the days between. 

While it is possible that the caffeine in the gel may be able to carry a portion of the houttuynia cordata and red peppers through the skin and into the subcutaneous layer, those elements will effectively be absorbed into the bloodstream and carried and spread throughout the body. The same is true of liquid nicotine, if you spill it on your leg (in sufficient quantity) it will kill you. Certainly, it absorbs locally, but it doesn't make your leg fall off. Such items as the red pepper and the menthol will be more noticeable at the localized area because of their extreme effects on the nerve endings and their diminished effects as they are spread thinner through the bloodstream. My advice would be to test this in theory if you really want to see if it works. Simple method: take yesterday's coffee that was left on the burner overnight, mix it into some menthol rub, add some finely ground red peppers (they will extract into the caffeine/menthol suspension), and you'll have to buy some houttuynia cordata extract. Then rub this concoction on your skin. It will sting and tingle a little bit for a few minutes. The final question is: Will it stimulate caloric burn? In order to achieve weight loss, one must burn more calories than they consume. The body's ability to absorb this mixture will require metabolization within the internal organs of the substance absorbed through the skin. This is also true if the substance were ingested. I would say that given the amount of the mixture one might use, it is unlikely that it would stimulate the metabolism enough to make any detectable change on any sensitivity of equipment used for such testing. Even from the review you linked in comments on your question: 

At this level, breathing is difficult, and I can only say a few words, but there's no way I could carry on a conversation. I've been doing this for almost 4 full weeks, though, and I am definitely improving, but would I improve more if I slowed down (into the green zone) for my running intervals? 

A proper exercise routine, including strength training, can be extremely beneficial and helpful to anyone, including the elderly. You should always consult your physician before beginning an exercise routine to see if you are healthy enough to perform it, especially if you have heart, lung, or other ailments. "Geriatric Times" published an interesting article on this in 2005. 

I like the layout of $URL$ quite well, but I agree that it's missing a lot of common ingredients to recipes. The most holistic list I've ever found is the one maintained by the FDA. It doesn't have as nice an interface, but I've found it to be incredibly comprehensive. 

Realistically, protein is just protein. Certainly there are some minor differences in types of protein as there are differences in carbohydrates and fats as well. The primary difference in terms of digestion, however, is what you are getting with your protein. Protein in fish contains a very small amount of fat compared red meat. It's difficult to take in the fat that the body needs without eating it in meats unless you want to upset another ratio of your diet (e.g. you could drink milk to increase fat, but would jump your carbohydrate intake as well). The primary idea is that you would want to balance your ratios of protein, carbohydrates, and fats to suit the type of diet you are undertaking, but don't worry too much about the various types of protein. 

I know that a lot of runners stock up on carbs before a run. What is the benefit of this? I've heard some people say that you'll "hit a wall" if you don't take in some carbs before running. I'm assuming this is like hitting a plateau in your running ability where you can't progress any further. Is this true? I'm on a ketogenic diet (low/no-carb) normally, but it seems I definitely perform better when I have some carbs before a run. Why do carbs make such a big difference during exercise while ketone bodies are fine for fuel all the rest of the day?