I've just unpacked a tubeless wheelset and I'm installing tape and the valve. Which goes first? The tape or the valve? My wheelset is the DT|Swiss Tricon R 1700. And the manual says: "Mount the DT Swiss valve as shown in the picture. Make sure that NO rim tape ist mounted."[sic] 

You say "The 8mm hex hole is now slipping so there is no more grip." So at this point you're trying to save the crank set. Depending on the age of the bike the bottom bracket may be incompatible with newer crank sets, so it may be fairly important to you to salvage the crank set. If you take the crank to a machine shop you will likely pay more than the cost of a better crank set to remove the pedal, so I would not consider that a good option. The right (passenger side) crank comes off by turning the pedal counter-clockwise when standing on the right (passenger side) of the bike. Note that if your pedals use Allen wrenches, you're probably standing on the left (driver side) of your bike when trying to remove the pedal, and that will mean that you need to turn clockwise to remove the pedal. 

While in the saddle, your feet should not touch the ground and your leg should be almost completely extended at the bottom of the pedal stroke. You ought to be able to straddle the top tube fairly easily with your feet flat on the ground. Sheldon Brown's article on starting on a bicycle may help with getting accustomed to having the seat higher than you are used to. Do visit his site to see the video, but here are the basics: 

A lot of manufacturers sell something like a road bike without drop handlebars—variously categorized as urban, city, or touring. I have a Marin Alp Series that has flat handlebars, with some short bar ends that allow you to get a bit of a different position for comfort on longer rides. You might consider something with drops which will make longer rides (I would consider 25 miles a good length) more comfortable: Raleigh Clubman, Trek Portland, Surly's Long Haul Trucker are good options, but there are certainly more. 

I don't know how common it is. I can tell you that it's not as big a problem as you would expect. Toe overlap only comes into play when you're making very sharp turns at low speed. Hitting your toe on the front tire would be dangerous at high speed - but at low speed, it's just annoying. And it doesn't even happen that often. 

Elliptical? Do you mean eccentric? Are you sure that's not what they're for? Maybe there's one set of bolts to adjust the orientation, and another to lock it in place. But there's also this on the spec sheet: 

Well, there's not much else you can do, so yeah, I'd call it good enough. If there's any doubt, I'd just replace the axles. 

Minimally, you want to be able to tighten all of the bolts on your bike (likely a few hex keys will do this) and an appropriate screwdriver for adjusting derailer & brake pulls. Separate from a multi-tool, a pair of tire levers are the other tool you should carry with you. I would add a chain tool to the above list after being left in a state where I would have been much happier were I so equipped. For that reason, I bought a Crank Brothers Multi Tool 17 which features the requisite hex keys, screwdrivers, and a chain tool, in package that is smaller & lighter than most Leatherman tools. Some of the hex key sizes don't fit anything on my bike, but it's nice to have a set that can help most other riders. 

All the other answers deal with old, worn chains. I'd like to talk about another angle. I've only had it happen once, while I was stomping up a really steep hill. It was a brand new 9-speed SRAM chain. It snapped at a link that I took apart and reassembled while installing it; I guess that I didn't put the pin in correctly. Somebody told me that this kind of mistake is easy to make with the modern narrow chains - the plates are so thin, that there's very little room for error when installing the pin. And for this reason, you should never try to reassemble the links; when installing the chain, just keep removing links until it's the right length. 

I am replacing my smallest cassette cog for the 3rd time. I have been using Harris Cyclery's Aluminum Cog Crupi's Chromoly Cog is about 3 times as expensive. Is that still worth it? Can anyone comment towards how much Chromoly increases the cog durability? 

I have a Road bike with a Shimano 8 Speed Freehub. I want to go to a single speed bike, but I'd rather not use a fistfull of spacers. Is anyone aware of a single speed freehub body that I can replace my Shimano freehub body with? If it matters, Shimano freehubs are the lose ball bearing types. 

I was hoping that someone could provide me with the precise Shimano road-bike 8, 9, and 10 speed sizes for the following: 

I assume the "29" refers to the wheel size (29 inch, a.k.a. 700c, 622 ISO, or 28 inch), but check what it says on your tires, just to be sure. See here for more information about tire sizes than you ever wanted. This is probably the most common size out there, so you'll have no trouble finding tires. If you only ride on pavement, then yeah, road tires are a good idea. You'll need new tubes as well, since the tires will be skinnier. 3 months is a really short lifespan for a tire. You probably just got the batch from that day when all the guys at the tire factory were hung over. So I wouldn't trust the front tire, either - replace that, too. 

For similar things on cars I use white lithium grease (e.g. this stuff on Amazon)—it is a good lubricant and sticks around the joint that you apply it to. Any similar thick grease should work for this joint, but the crucial thing is getting it into the right place. Taking the joint apart and applying grease to the mating surfaces is the best bet. 

I have a commuting/touring bike and my riding is a good bit of commuting mixed with weekend rides of up to 50 miles. In my lame knowledge, I'll assume that lighter wheels can be had when you spend more money, but what are other things to look for or avoid when choosing wheels for a non-racing bike? 

No, but it's not a huge problem. Your stopping power is probably slightly lower than it would be otherwise. 

The aero benefits of deep rims come from reducing the spoke length. Imagine that you're drafting behind a large truck at 25 MPH; you're not experiencing any headwind, but your spokes are still going around in a circle and slicing through the air. So reducing the total length of all the spokes (by using less spokes or shorter spokes) will give you better aerodynamics no matter what. Look at what the pro road racers do (I mean besides the doping.) They use moderately deep rims on flat races, and only use shallow ones for climbing (when weight is a more important consideration). 

I have a continuum of clothes that I add on as the weather gets colder. During the summer, I ride like you do with shorts and a t-shirt. As things cool of a little bit, down below 60F/15C, I'll put on a windbreaker over my t-shirt and some full-finger gloves on my hands. The next step for me is to add an Under Armour Cold Gear shirt (many companies make equivalent tops) but to stick with naked legs, they're doing all the wok after all. Once temperatures get down to the 45F/7C range, I'll add som snazzy leggings in a fabric similar to the Under Armour top mentioned above. When things start to freeze, my final move is a fleece vest over the long sleeve top, but under my windbreaker. If things get even colder where you are, Icebike's clothing page is a good place to look for further advice. Keep two things in mind: you need a lot less clothing once you're moving and generating heat than you do standing around, but you also need to be prepared for a problem that might leave you standing around for some time. Dress light and carry extra clothes in a backpack.