If water molecules, which are smaller do not leak through latex condoms, the larger HIV virion will not pass through. study confirms this with leak testing: 

Deficiency of vitamin A most certainly can lead to worsening of eyesight and blindness. A case study here shows that correction of vitamin A deficiency resulted in reversal of night blindness. It's findings suggest that of all the eye structures effected by vitamin A deficiency, rods and S cones are more likely to be damaged than are L and M cones. Another case can be read here. A study here is not exactly on-topic but shows data which indicates that vitamin A supplements can prevent blindness in children infected with measles (which is a fairly rare consequence, but still noteworthy). Loss of visual acuity or blindness due to deficiency of vitamin A from starvation or malnourishment is still a problem faced by many developing countries. It is also the leading cause of preventable childhood blindness worldwide. While it is true that a severe deficiency of vitamin A can dramatically worsen eyesight, there is no convincing evidence that an otherwise healthy person can increase his/her vision by consuming more vitamin A. In fact, consumption of too much vitamin A results in hypervitaminosis A which can be fatal. For reference, one can check the case of Xavier Mertz, the Antarctic explorer who died of this condition. 

This means that while there are some general aspects and theories we can apply broadly to patients with TBI, it is by no means a cut-and-dry phenomenon, and individual cases show great variation. 

First thing's first: What we don't yet know about human language acquisition could fill a warehouse. But that doesn't mean just anyone can fill it with nonsense. The science behind what could make "Baby Signs" work (or not) crosses many disciplines, and as such can be hard to validate or refute. A full analysis of their system would require a knowledge of neurology, biology, neurolinguistics, and psychology among others. In short, if you haven't read at least Piaget, Chomsky and Pinker you should, otherwise the context of academic debate surrounding the research may be difficult to impart (as there is no way possible to cover it all at length). 

Of course, the relatively modest effects shown in this study only indicate that there appears to be some evidence for a plausible mechanism by which this occurs. It's still a long way away from determining if it a reasonable and effective way to supplement nutrition. Given that this study was performed on premature neonates, extrapolation of this data with regard to older children and adults seems unwise to me at this point. Also, it would seem unlikely that transient amounts found in the localized application of various lotions and creams would have any tangible effect, and would probably only be able to shown by taking repeated blood draws before and after the application of one of these creams or lotions. It certainly would not be likely to have any effects noticeable outside perhaps, of a laboratory specifically looking for a serological rise in a certain compound. 

The condition now called "Gulf War Illness" has been studied extensively,(1)(2) however, there remains great debate about its potential causes or whether it exists as a distinct condition. About 700,000 men and women served in the first Gulf War (Operation Desert Shield, Operation Desert Storm). Nearly a quarter million of those returning were reported to have experienced or continue to experience symptoms and illnesses which led to an investigation as to whether or not they were caused by a specific toxic/hazardous/biological exposures which occurred during these operations.source Some known and documented symptoms reported by those returning from the area, as well as those who are native to the region: 

However, this isn't proof that Gulf War Illness exists as a distinct clinical entity, it is acknowledged and treated under the presumption that it does exist. Conspiracy? There are also many sources who cite theories of denial or cover-up by various governments or organizations. 

Why MLM? The MLM aspect of the business is always worthy of skepticism, however I haven't found complaints lodged with the BBB in the US, where the company is in fact highly rated and registered. Of course, that's only the parent company, and in a Multi-Level-Marketing Company the individual business "owners" shoulder the both the cost and liability, and a majority of those privateers associated with Baby Signs also seem to be in good standing in their various states: some examples from Oregon and New Hampshire, a random sampling of states I checked (although if anyone else can check the other 48, and the other countries worldwide, I'd be interested to see what comes back). I also found it quite difficult to find complaints against the company (from either customers or disgruntled multi-level marketeers) as you can easily do online with most MLM companies. So it seems while the company appears eager to capitalize on the enthusiasm of new parents, it also seems to do little to victimize them based upon it. Does it work? Unfortunately, after all that, the answer is.....maybe? Of the surprisingly few testimonials I was able to find regarding this product, one stood out to me, mostly because it read like the most beautiful, sweetly innocent version of confirmation bias I have ever come across, and I think while Baby Signs is based on research, this is what drives their sales and multi-level marketing: 

Post-traumatic amnesia(PTA) is defined as the time from the initial injury until the patient can demonstrate conscious memory of what is going on around him/her. 

Proponents also claim that cases of SHC may require an explanation outside that provided by science because: 

Apparently clarifying what they consider to be adequate information. ON THE OTHER HAND.. One of many studies done on the spread of HIV explains that moral/religious reasons are most often given as the reason for not only refusal to use condoms but for a refusal to teach others how to appropriately use condoms: 

It doesn't matter what kind of ant We are assuming an otherwise healthy and normal ant (of any kind). 

source So, it could be argued that (since we have no way of knowing) some of the drowning victims portrayed in shows like Baywatch are in the very earliest stages of drowning and have only gone unconscious rather than gone into cardiac arrest, which would make their resuscitation plausible. However, it does seem awfully convenient that they often revive their victims consistently in the most dramatic (yet, consistently vomit-free) way possible. Again, as it would seem is often the case with television and film, those telling the story tend to cherry-pick the most convenient and plot-friendly aspects of CPR. 

Interestingly, this quote comes from the same year (2000) as the debut of forensic procedural television show CSI: Crime Scene Investigation, and is one of the earliest I've found to (popularly) call attention to the idea that the outcome of criminal cases should be becoming more contingent upon the ability of all involved (police, jurors, lawyers, technicians, judges, experts, etc.) to correctly interpret and understand scientific evidence, but perhaps are not. It's been reported by some that the immense popularity of American television shows such as CSI: Crime Scene Investigation are having an apparent impact on the verdicts juries render by causing them to demand more television-style forensic proof, while contributing to a general misunderstanding of the real-life forensic investigative processes in use today. However, the demonstrable effects of such a phenomenon, if it exists, seem to be unclear. 

source There have been many IQ tests used over the years, and many different proposed scales to evaluate the results. Many tests have been revised and edited in attempts to provide more accurate results. A general outline of this can be found here. There is, of course, some criticism surrounding the reliabilty of IQ tests... There are sites like this which quote sources such as Walter Lippmann who said that 

Any time you see a claim that a variety of conditions such as this can be affected by one drug or therapy, there is reason to be skeptical. Also, just because something is FDA approved for one condition does not automatically make it safe or even reasonable for other conditions. For example, radiation therapy is FDA approved to treat certain cancers, but that does not mean it should be used to treat the common cold. Skepticism is especially warranted when you see arguments like this: 

Some have suggested psychological or psychogenic causes for the symptoms (which are no less legitimate medically). However, this is one of the theories that is most widely refuted, arguing that the evidence indicates a physical cause. The Veteran's Administration assumes that certain illnesses (even if unexplained) are related to qualifying military service. These are called “presumptive illnesses." These include: