That looks as though it was chrome plated after it was welded together, which means cleaning it up so you can safely weld it again is going to be tedious. You'll need to clean the chrome off anything that will get hot, and afterwards painting it will not look that great. It would probably be cheaper to build a new rack. One repair option that occurs to me is to cut a T shaped piece of steel to fit on the bike side of the bracket, bending the bottom of the T out to support the lower part of the rack. Then make a second piece of steel for the other wide, probably rectangular, to actually hold everything in place. Drill holes in both parts to allow the mounting bolt to go through. If you made that out of ~2mm thick steel, then painted it, you should get another year or so out of the rack. Assuming to can resist the urge to overload it. A rack like that with one bolt really isn't designed to take much more than a journal and a baguette. 

Your best bet for all around tire in the winter is going to be a cyclocross tire. They are made to race in grass, snow, on pavement, in sand, singletrack, and just about any way possible. They also have different types of treads for different conditions. You can't beat the Hutchinson Bulldogs, if you are looking for something more affordable, maybe the Maxxis Locust CX. CX tires offer low rolling resistance in the center of the tire, and have good grip on the sides. A less aggressive tread would be found on something like the Kenda Happy Medium. Give those a shot this winter and you shouldn't be disappointed. 

If you are asking how to calculate the maximum capacity of the chainrings and cogs, based on looking at the derailleur, then it's not going to be as easy as just looking at them. Finding a derailleur to fit your chainrings/cogs based on just the chainrings/cogs is going to be a lot easier than finding chainrings based on looking at your derailleur. HOWEVER, there are some standards for manufacturer, I have listed them below. I have also included the formula to find out your capacities, since I misread your question initially and decided to answer the part you weren't concerned with. I am not deleting it because, well, it took a while to type. According to United Bicycle Institute: 

First do a rolling measure while sitting on the bike to get the speedo calibrated to your actual setup. That's your method B Then I suggest also getting a proper map and making sure google's scale is correct. They care about navigation much more than 5% errors on inner-city distances, so it might be that their map is less accurate than a proper cartographical one is. Elevation change could likewise make a small difference. The small weaving motions you make while riding to stay balanced also add to the distance, especially for the front wheel. That's likely to be worse the slower you go and the more you weave around other road users. In the worst case, if you're weaving through stationary motorists at rush hour you could easily add 5% just for that. Similarly if you're travelling barely faster than walking on a crowded shared path. 

For a generator you will probably want two sets of gears. Cyclists normally pedal at about 90-110rpm, and getting a small generator to work efficiently normally means spinning at 1000's of rpm. I used a "drill pump" to make a pedal powered pump once and that was designed to spin at 1800rpm. But it used 500W or more at that speed, so I spun it at about 1000rpm using about 200W and that worked fine. Unfortunately I lost interest in taking photos after building the first, single-stage version. Most of the bicycle generators I've seen use the bike wheel as the second gearing stage, typically having a generator drum 100-300mm in diameter for a ratio between 2 and 6 to 1. The bigger the drum the lower the ratio, but the less tyre deflection so the higher the tyre/drum efficiency. Depending on what tools you have (mostly, do you have a lathe) you can either use the large cog on the cassette to drive a second cassette, or make an adapter to mount a full size chainring on the cassette. If you get a steel cassette and chainring you can just weld the chainring on, and it will probably not deform too much. Doing that lets you have a road bike first stage with a maximum ratio of 50T:12T or ~4:1. If the cassette is a wide range one off a mountain bike it could be 12-36, say, giving you a 36:12 second stage or 3:1. That's 12:1 overall, so your 100rpm input becomes 1200rpm output. You can get the same ratio with a single stage but it will be big and expensive. Assuming a 12T small cog, you will need a 144T chainring to get the same 12:1 ratio. There's one on ebay for $US500. A friend of mine sells large custom chainrings in Australia and could make you a 144T one, but a 90T one costs $AUS200 (about $US150 in April 2016). I think the important thing is to start with the generator you want to use and work out its ideal spin rate. Then work backwards to the gearing. I suggest leaving at least one derailleur in your final build so that people can vary the gearing a bit to get the most comfortable combination of pedalling speed and load. Varying the generator output has much the same effect if you can do that. 

Determine Maximum Chainring Difference by subracting the number of teeth in the smallest chainring from the number of teeth in the largest chainring Determine Maximum Cassette Cog Difference by subtracting the number of teeth on the smallest cassette cog from the number of teeth on the largest cassette cog Determine Total Drivetrain Capacity by adding Maximum Chainring Difference to the Maximum Cassette Cog Difference Record the Maximum Cassette Cog (the number of teeth on the largest Cassette Cog) 

For Shimano: SS - Short Cage Road Double - Maximum Cassette Cog is 27 and Total Capacity is 29 GS - Medium Cage MTB/Road Triple - Maximum Cassette Cog is 34(MTB)/27(Road) and Total Capacity is 33(MTB)/37(Road) SGS - Long MTB - Maximum Cassette Cog is 34 and Total Capacity is 45 For SRAM: Short - Maximum Cassette Cog is 34(MTB)/28(Road) and Total Capacity is 32(MTB)/31(Road) Medium - Maximum Cassette Cog is 34 and Total Capacity is 37 Long - Maximum Cassette Cog is 34 and Total Capacity is 45 For Campagnolo: Short - Maximum Cassette Cog is 26 and Total Capacity is 27 Medium - Maximum Cassette Cog is 29 and Total Capacity is 36 Long - Maximum Cassette Cog is 29 and Total Capacity is 39 NOTE - THIS INFORMATION IS SUBJECT TO CHANGE BY MANUFACTURER And a great source for all of this is Sutherland's 7th edition $URL$ Hope that helps 

There are some decent websites where people talk about building composite bikes, and even a couple of answers here. But those are mostly either very simple complete bikes, or aimed at people who know a reasonable amount about framebuilding. The book you found is about steel forks, and has only one chapter that seems relevant to what you're doing, and that chapter is marked "optional" in the ToC. That design stage is critical though. Bicycles are surprisingly hard to analyse using modelling tools, and the front fork is far from the easiest part of the bike to work on. It's also a part where failures are very likely to result in injury. Those two factors mean that it's not a great part to start experimenting on, especially "start toying with framebuilding". These days with cheap sensors and high-rate portable data collection units it's not impossible to get at least an approximation of the major forces on a diamond frame bike (because you only need 30 or so channels - 8-10 tubes for the frame, maybe four for the fork, with tension and torque for each), but you're only getting an approximation. I don't know of public data like this, unfortunately. Your design is also relatively unusual as far as carbon forks go, it's more an MTB fork with carbon blades. That doesn't mean it can't work, just that no-one else makes one and there may be a reason why (bast case it might be unprofitable, worst case it has bad failure modes). If you're just going to combine OTS tubes with machined lugs it should be simple enough to build one and see, though. That will also avoid most of the mess and complexity of working with composites, and that's good. In your position I would be very tempted to make another part first and test that to destruction. That way you get to run through the process and get an idea of your abilities and limits, and you get a part to test. Seatstays, for example. When they fail you tend to end up sitting on the ground, rather than using your face as a digging implement. If you threw together an inverted 4 frame with single bar seat/chain stays you'd have a part similar to a front fork, but with safer failure modes.