In my part of the world (US), I've never worked at a company where a written resignation letter was mandatory, or added any value at all. As most businesses these days are far more casual than in the past, this is sort of an antiquated nicety. Particularly since you see your boss face to face every day, just talking makes perfect sense. If you simply talk with your boss and indicate your resignation, she/he will certainly tell you if there are any additional formalities required - perhaps an online form, an email to HR, a phone call or personal visit to HR, or even perhaps a written resignation letter. More typically, after your conversation your boss will simply call or email HR, letting them know that you are leaving, and arranging any necessary exit interview. That will usually also start the appropriate actions for HR, Payroll, Security, etc. Note: as @RSmith points out, in other countries, Germany for instance, a written letter is indeed mandatory (by law even), and your resignation is not official until the signed letter is turned in. 

Be sure you know in your own mind how you will respond to each scenario, since you likely won't have much time to make your decision. As a long-time manager, I seldom make counter-offers in this situation. My experience tells me that someone motivated enough to go out and find a new job is unlikely to stay long just because I throw more money at her/him. There are always a bunch of reasons people seek jobs elsewhere - giving them a raise isn't likely to change any of those reasons for very long. You yourself indicated that the no-raise situation has been happening for 2 years, and that the whole team has been affected. If I had to guess, even if you were given a bit more, it seems most likely that you would again feel the need for a raise after a short while and will be right back where you are now. 

It's reasonable to be worried. At some point, job-hopping becomes a detriment and can cause many potential employers to reject you. Think of it from the employer's prospective. It's a lot of work to hire someone. You need to create a job description and requisition, get it approved, work with recruiters, read many resumes, conduct phone screens and in-person interviews, select a candidate, negotiate an offer, etc, etc. Then once you get an acceptance, that new employee still needs to get trained before becoming a productive member of the team. This takes time from the manager, team members, and other staff. Hiring is time consuming, and expensive. Thus, as a hiring manager, you want to make sure you bring on someone who will be around long enough to justify all that work and expense. You don't want someone who will just turn around and quit soon. In addition, when considering a job-hopper, a hiring manager needs to consider "Am I hiring someone with 5 years of experience? Or someone with 1 year of experience repeated 5 times?" 

Yes - I see lots of potential problems. I assume you gave an honest answer when asked how long it would take. Now you are being asked to complete it in 60% of your estimate. So were you lying earlier? Or are you planning to cut corners now? Either way, you might inadvertently be setting yourself up for future conditions where management doesn't trust your estimation ability ("He said 5 weeks last time, and got it done in 3. Why should we believe his estimate of 5 weeks for this new project? We know he could do it in less if he really wanted to!") or believe you deliver shoddy work ("We gave him vacation money, but his project is full of bugs!"). Your actions in this case might set a precedent. 

Many people use reverse-chronological order on their resume. That highlights the most recent work - which is what interviewers tend to consider the most relevant. You could use this traditional format, but highlight your experience in the relevant technologies in a "Summary of Relevant Skills" section. You could also choose to break from the traditional and organize your resume functionally, in order to highlight the specific technologies that you believe are most relevant for this potential employer. This might help: $URL$ Be careful here. I'm not sure what you mean by "independent project", but many interviewers will discount your non-professional work as less relevant to them. Work done to further a company's goals, perhaps under time and budget deadline, is often considered more relevant than side projects done for fun or self-education. If you have published something, and this publication involves your independent project, you can easily reference this in your resume, perhaps in a "Publications" section. Of course, you can expand on that in your cover letter when this publication and independent project are particularly relevant for one potential employer. Good luck! 

Certainly there is nothing unethical about your company working hard to quickly replace someone who is leaving. If the "hearing" part is what is bothering you, you might work harder to stop listening - perhaps even wearing headphones. To do a good job of replacing you, they may need your help. And of course, they need to understand where you will be leaving any in-flight projects, so they can get them completed. Totally normal. Nothing unethical here. Nothing to be bothered about. 

"Too early" will almost certainly be a company-specific, and an individual-specific thing. In my company, and every company where I have worked, employees were never given raises at the 6 month period, unless it was specifically spelled out as such in the original contract (and that was very rare). Otherwise, one year was always the first time that raises occurred. The fact that you are making less than you used to, less than other positions you interviewed for 6 months ago (but either didn't get an offer, or didn't accept an offer) and less than you would prefer, is not likely to be relevant to your current employer. But perhaps because 6 months is the end of your probation period, that might be important at your company. You might wish to ask around and see what happened when others reached the end of their probation. If your company happens to have a standard practice of negotiating new salaries at the end of probation, then you might have a good chance. You could always choose to ask for a raise anyway. Lay out your case, but emphasize the value you bring to the company, not what you got in your last job, or other jobs you didn't get 6 months ago. You might get a raise, or you might not. But if you talk about it respectfully and professionally, they are unlikely to get upset.