"See, imagine a giant tree with a bunch of buckets on the limbs. Inside these buckets are little keys that grant you access to special doors that live in an area, past the tree. If your name matches a name etched on one of those keys in one of those buckets, you get to open the door that matches that key and access the special information that's stored in there." And my job, as an active directory administrator, is to make sure that all those buckets, keys and names etched on each are all up-to-date, working well, removed when no longer useful or needed. In addition, I build NEW doors that protect NEW rooms, mill the new keys that allow access and even water and grow the tree that holds all of it together." (Technically, I liked Evan's answer better, but this is how I'd explain it. :) 

If you're good on the above, a too-deep file/folder path might be giving you some grief. Try navigating several folders towards the root, then cutting and pasting them to reduce some of that path. Alternately, you could rename the folders in the path to "1", "2", "3", etc. Cutting down on some of the extraneous characters. 

Ah. After much gnashing of teeth and troubleshooting, it appeared that during a maintenance period when I ran a remote, "psshutdown" command on the server, it somehow held on to the temporary service that psshutdown creates and kept re-running it over and over. What confused me was the fact that when I would shut down for the day, it roughly corresponded to shutdown times on the server. Weird. Anyway, thanks to all for great answers, much appreciated.. 

Execute LogShipping_Destination_Schema & LogShipping_Destination_Logic in master on destinations server Run: exec bts_ConfigureBizTalkLogShipping @nvcDescription = '', @nvcMgmtDatabaseName = '', @nvcMgmtServerName = '', @SourceServerName = null, -- null indicates that this destination server restores all databases @fLinkServers = 1 -- 1 automatically links the server to the management database 

Can anyone tell me what is the Equivalent of SQL 2005's SQLAgentOperatorRole (msdb ) in SQL 2000? I want to grant a login ability to disable a job in SQL 2000. Thanks in advance.... 

Work around- used dynamic sql to capture all logins, stored it into a temporary table. Scripted out for the ones needed and then ran executesql. 

We have a central management server on which we collect Baselines for remote servers. Baseline includes perfmon counters like logical disk, SQL server buffer manager, physical disk, network interface etc. We save it to a SQL server database. The problem is, it is not collecting data for logical disk for 1 server. To check that there is no problem with counters on this server, I created a server specific baseline to collect only the logical disk counters for this server remotely. It collected counter data just fine. this server specific baseline is running under same credentials as the full baseline. Server specifications: Windows server 2003 R2 standard (64 bit) edition Management Server specifications: Windows server 2003 enterprise edition Any help why it is not working for the full baseline? I have dropped and added the counters manually but it doesn't help. Thanks in advance 

fixed- since it was restored daily. i have excluded it from re-index, dbcc checkdb, update stats etc maintenance plans. even though they ran during seperate schedule, excluding the database fixed the issue. 

Yes, "We" can see what you're doing, long story short. Here, we use Altiris to enable Helpdesk to administer your machine from afar, as well as perform application metering, maintaining configuration standards in the guise of rapid image deployment. On our network and in our company, Skype is a banned application. If you install it, thanks to app metering, we'll know within 24/48 hours. Altiris also comes with a remote control function that can be hidden from the logged-on user. (At least the taskbar display icon, etc.) If the bosses-that-be decide you need to be monitored, after our system emails us that you've installed Skype, then we'll do so. Remember that "Use of electronic company equipment constitutes consent to monitoring", etc, blah, blah? Maybe it was worded differently in your company. Either way, I'll bet you a can of soda pop that your sr. IT, HR and Legal management have agreed on this policy. Let's say that you install Skype anyway and we don't catch it for a while. I'm still a pretty good network admin though, I'll probably catch the traffic from it on one of my wireshark or LanHound monitoring laptops. Or, you could just whip out your cell phone and call whomever it is you want to talk to, completely independent of your work-network. At that point, all you need to worry about is the NSA. :) And you're not doing anything wrong, right? 

We use the default Microsoft quota system on the file servers, specifically when it comes to home drives. Other than that, one of our admins down south of us has a tendency to let the users' project spaces fill up, then encourages them to run duplicate finders and large-file/last-accessed programs such as "Doublekiller", "Easy Duplicate Finder" and "JDisk Report", which is one of my personal favorites. Another solution we're looking at implmenting is Symantec's "Enterprise Vault" especially if you're doing disk-disk-tape or have the tape storage available to shuffle files off to. 

The above process creates linked server with integrated security for authorisation. Work around-change the security on linked server to use service account. 

We have a Microsoft Access database + application (on Server A) which connects to a remote SQL server (Server B) using System DSN ODBC connection (on Server A) to the SQL database server. The users are open this Access database remotely as it is on a shared location on the server A. They still have to create a local ODBC connection on their computers to connect to Server B. Is there anyway that they can access the Access database and not have to create a local ODBC connection? thanks in advance 

I can backup and restore databases on Microsoft SQL server Analysis Service 2008 using GUI as from Backup SSAS I want to schedule backup and restore it to another server every night. so what i did is : I scripted out the backup and restore process from the GUI. Created a new SQL server agent job in database engine and added a "Run SSAS query" step. Copied the scripts to this step. But it fails. the scripts that the GUI copied out look like: 

Are there any general rules/tips which we can use to run Sql Server Reporting Services 2005 reports faster? I have been tuning the Tsql behind the reports but does there exist any SSRS specific performance tuning? regards Manjot 

To find out edition of SSRS, go to: C:\Program Files\Microsoft SQL Server\90\Setup Bootstrap\Log on the server which has SSRS Open the Summary.txt file. Look for the log file for Product : Microsoft SQL Server 2005 Reporting Services. In the SSRS log file, search for keyword "edition"