I avoid riding on ice these days (way too old for that anymore), but I've only fallen three times in ten years and about 10,000 miles of riding. Two of those were in the first week of using clipless pedals. The trick with clipless pedals is to unclip BEFORE you need to. Generally you can unclip (at least one foot) and ride with the arch of your foot for a considerable distance without difficulty, and you need to get into the habit of doing this as you approach difficult intersections, etc. My third fall was a "planned" one four years ago when I had to bail out on a steep hill (my old polio is catching up with me). Skinned up my leg a bit but I don't recall any arm injuries. 

2.5mm would not be a serious issue. You may find the "sweet spot" in your gearing changes a little to favor the larger rear sprockets, but so long as you don't run a lot in your top-most gear this should not be a problem. 

You can grease the bearings, but the grease won't last very long. Better to just clean and oil them, using chain oil. Do this when you clean & oil the chain. If the derailer is really gunked up, here is what I do: 

I would think the best would be to attach to a rear rack. The posters could stick up above the top of the rack, occupying maybe 3 vertical feet. Width would be limited by heel clearance issues -- probably about 18 inches. You could also put small posters on the front wheel, mounted to a front rack. And there can be a poster in the triangle between the tubes. This would be easiest to mount -- just secure with nylon cable ties around the tubes. Depending on the durability desired, foam-core posterboard would be a good starting point. From there I'd go to "Masonite" (tempered hardboard) if you can find it, for more durability. 

You press the chuck onto the valve, then pull the lever up to lock the chuck to the valve. Otherwise pressure could blow the chuck off on higher pressure tires. 

You get more sponginess for one of two reasons: More mechanical advantage (meaning the lever must move farther to move the pads a given amount) or more flex somewhere -- either in the levers/pivots, or in the cable and it's mounting. (The cable mounting can be an unsuspected source of flex if the cable doesn't approach the mount squarely and the first bit of lever motion is "spent" just forcing the cable to line up.) There's also a psychological factor -- activating a lever in a different direction or with different parts of your fingers can seem to have more/less flex. 

It should be noted that in many/most US jurisdictions any "traffic accident" (basically, an accident on public property involving a "vehicle") that results in either personal injury (to any degree) or property damage over some dollar amount (which varies from $50 to several thousand) must be reported. And in many cases it's best to summon the authorities rather than plan on reporting the accident at a later date. Strictly interpreted, this rule could require reporting a skinned shin from a "forgot to unclip" fall at a stoplight, though reasonableness would suggest that reporting of such minor injuries only occur when there is a second party involved. 

That tube should be the right size, based on the numbers. If you inflate the inner tube outside of a tire it will generally balloon up quite a bit, becoming quite a bit bigger than the tire. When installing a tire and tube you should generally just inflate the tube to the point that it "fills out" -- not really much more pressure than you could blow into it with your mouth. Then the tube should fit comfortably inside the tire. If a tube is too big in overall diameter there is a danger that it will "telescope" inside the tire (similar to "intussusception" of your intestines), resulting in a lump and, eventually, a split in the tube. Having the tube inflated too much while installing it is one way you can get this situation. (The other is simply having a tube that's too large.) 

It's not just fat utilization but also glycogen, a chemical resembling starch that is stored in the liver and also directly in the muscles. I don't know the ideal conditions for doing so, but the muscles can be "trained" to store more glycogen. (In part this is what causes muscles to "bulk up".) Presumably training in conditions where the blood glucose level is low would help to "train" the muscles to store glycogen, though this would be a long-term thing, over months, not something to work on a few days before a big ride. And glycogen is important not only because it can help to fuel muscles several hours into a long ride, after blood glucose is exhausted, but also because it can help provide "peak energy" even when one is well-fed. (Note that burning fat directly in the muscles is quite inefficient and can lead to "ketosis", causing a sense of fatigue and loss of mental acuity. Fat is more efficiently "burned" in the liver, but the rate of fat processing by the liver is insufficient to support a sustained high-energy effort.) It needs to be remembered that there is a lot of really crappy advice out there, often from "experts", re nutrition. Probably 80% is bogus. In particular, many "experts" who talk about "burning fat" have probably never even heard of glycogen. My "expert" opinion is informed by having a genetic disorder (myoadenylate deaminase deficiency) that affects how muscles use energy, so I've taken interest in these topics for decades. 

Derailers differ in the amount of "pull" needed to get from one gear to the next, and, for front derailers, whether they are "spring in" or "spring out". Neither of these mattered much before indexing, but with indexing a mismatched shifter will mean that you can never get shifting to work cleanly over the entire cog range. As imel96 says, though, generally a shifter of the same brand and number of gears should be compatible with a given derailer. 

Poor knee "geometry", either as an inborn trait or due to some prior injury. Cycling with the seat too low and/or in too high of a gear. "Imbalance" in the muscles supporting the knee, due to lack of "training" of some of those muscles, while others are being strengthened. 

With the exception of treks across Australia or some such (where folding a stowed tire is useful), "folding" tires are mainly a convenience for the supplier. They are a major inconvenience for the user, since when the tire is unpacked it's badly distorted, and it takes considerable effort to force it into shape. It's not just that the tire wavers in and out along the fold points, but also, since it was shipped flat, the diameter of the tread is almost equal the diameter of the bead, so it won't readily take a "tire shape" with a roughly circular cross-section. There probably are "normal" tires with Kevlar beads, but they're in the minority. 

I'm reasonably confident that this is just another variation of brake chatter. The pads are generally "toed in" so that the front of the pad contacts the rim first, but as they wear that "toe-in" effect is lost, and you get chatter (which can be anything from a high-pitched squeal to a rasping sound). The chatter is caused by the "heel" of the pad grabbing, rocking the brake arm forward, then releasing. Do of course check the rims for any sign of gouging, and check the pads for any dirt, etc. (And of course check that the pads are not worn out.) But probably you will find nothing beyond ordinary wear. You can ignore the sound, or adjust your brake pads to restore a degree of toe-in. Try to avoid too much, though, as it increases (uneven) pad wear and reduces brake effectiveness. 

The wheel is poorly built -- over tensioned, improperly crossed, wrong side of the flange, etc. You're too heavy for the wheels. You're too hard on the wheels (for the ruggedness of the particular wheels). The spokes are corroded or otherwise reaching end of life. 

Not sure what kind of key is used on your specific lock. The only image I can find of a OnGuard key shows it to be a slotted key similar to recent automotive keys, so most locksmiths should have the equipment to duplicate it. The only question is whether they can get the correct blank. Locksmiths can also duplicate the barrel-style keys used on many older bike locks, if they can find the right blank. But I see a cheap OnGuards available at Target for $19.95 (with others ranging up to $80), while the new key is likely to cost upwards of $10. So it may be best to just buy another lock (which comes with at least two keys, sometimes four). 

The critical factor about aluminum frames is that virtually all aluminum alloys which are any good for building things are subject to "work hardening". What this means is that, as a piece of aluminum is "cycled" in stress-release cycles, the aluminum tends to get more and more brittle. Steel does not exhibit this characteristic to anything near the same degree. Example: Several years back I was camping on a tour. As I was assembling my tent one of the multi-segment aluminum poles developed a crack at end where the next pole "plugs in". Shifting around I got the tent assembled OK, but the next evening several more poles developed similar cracks, and by the end of the trip I needed to replace the entire set. The next year another camper in the group had the exact same problem. It wasn't extreme stress that caused these cracks, but simply the "cycling" of putting the tent up and taking it down 50-60 times. Aluminum bike frames are made of better alloys and are more heavily built, but the same mechanism is at work, and even a frame which is not subjected to any extreme stress will get more and more brittle as it is used.