Good luck! I'm not sure the perfect bike for this use-case exists in the mass market (that's why I went custom), but she ought to be able to find something that doesn't compromise too much. 

On the cheaper side, a tarp or a vinyl tablecloth should do the trick, and be more easily tidied away and stored. Even a decent-weight shower curtain! 

I'm having some pain issues (won't get specific, I know not to let the Internet diagnose me) in one foot but not the other. What kinds of motions on a bike stress one foot more than the other? So far I've thought of 

So this morning I'm riding to work on my shiny new tourer, when my trouser leg gets caught in the Gates belt drive. Not good! I'd rather not go the leg-strap route if I can avoid it, which leads me to ask whether a chain guard or chainring guard exists that would fit over a belt, given that the belt is wider than a chain. The crank is a Shimano Tiagra, if that matters. 

Just one thing I didn't see addressed in the other answers: Cycling shoes are very low-volume - which means they are supposed to fit very snugly and not have a lot of room for your foot to move around. This is why cycling specific socks are so thin - they are designed to maximize moisture transfer off of your foot (to keep your feet comfortable) while not creating extra pressure due to extra material and/or padding. Plus they're usually slathered with brand names and they match the rest of your kit. So, they're totally necessary if you're going to look pro. And as we all know, looking pro directly translates into going faster ;-). 

As others have pointed out cycling is an inefficient way to exercise the muscles in your core. Cycling will utilize those muscles and your cycling performance will likely benefit from strengthening them - but cycling specifically won't really build strength in those muscles, you have to work them off the bike. This article from Bicycling covers the topic pretty nicely and has links to some great core workouts for cyclists. Personally, I've used the exercises described on here and they're pretty good. 

my handlebar stem $URL$ I want to decrease the reach of my handlebars. Does it matter whether I increase the height or get a stem with a smaller length(extension?) on my bike? And is there any way to calculate the relation between the two? Something like, a 1 cm increase in height is equivalent to a 1.5 cm increase in length? Background : I have an old single bolt handlebar stem(see image) with it's minimum insertion not visible(if it ever had one). When I raised it enough for it to be somewhat comfortable it started creaking every time I put power while pedaling or while climbing off the saddle. I have another similar stem that is slightly more than 1 cm longer but has it's minimum insertion about 3 cm higher than what the current one does not creak at. I want to know whether it will really reduce the distance I have to extend forward. Yes seems to be the intuitive answer but I really want to know for sure because these are a big bother taking off and putting on. Edit : The handlebars I mention are drops on a road bike.The horizontal portion is parallel to the ground 

I'm considering buying a TT bike that has a full SRAM Red group. I'm wondering if it's possible to use my Shimano Ultegra 6700 left-side crank in place of the SRAM Red crank. Why? I've got a Stages power meter in the Shimano crank that I use on my regular road bike. One of the main reasons I went with the Stages meter was the flexibility of swapping the crank across multiple bikes. So, naturally I'd like to use my power meter on the TT bike by just swapping it. I'd appreciate anyone's thoughts on using the two systems together! EDIT/UPDATE: I ended up buying the TT bike. As the answer below says the SRAM crankset is not compatible with the Ultegra crank. So, I bought a used Ultegra crankset and put that on in place of the SRAM one. There was a spacer on the left side of the bottom bracket that had to be removed in order to get the Ultegra crankset to fit. I just tapped the bearing out, removed the little sleeve and tapped the bearing back in, took about 10 minutes total. The new hybrid SRAM-Shimano drivetrain functions perfectly, I even swapped out the big ring from the SRAM set for the Ultegra one (SRAM ring is a 55 which I like having on the TT bike). It looks a bit wonky with the mismatched crank/ring combo but everything works fine! 

Earlier this week my day was thoroughly disrupted by the stem valve in my rear tire tearing out of the tube. (It's a belt-drive bike with disc brakes, so the rear tire assemblage is more complex than I'm quite comfortable fixing myself.) I'd have called such a business in a shot. Ditto if that back tire ever goes while I'm in the middle of nowhere on a rails-to-trails trail. (There's a reason I run Schwalbe Marathons...) In my head, the key success criteria would be: 

So it now seems obvious to me that brand name alone is not a good quality heuristic; my Shimano Revo shifter just went south and was replaced after two years, which seems far too soon. (LBS put a SRAM of some variety on it; I hope that's better.) But I do know Shimano makes good higher-quality, more-expensive components (right?). What are the lesser-quality component lines from the big brand names? Are there any rules of thumb -- other than price, obviously -- for recognizing them at the LBS or on readymade bikes? I'm not looking for manufacturer flamewars here; I'm interested in quality differences within a given manufacturer's lines. Or is it just price? 

I would recommend using your power data to make sure you aren't going too hard out of the gate, like with any time trial. Try to keep your power in the Threshold-VO2 max range, with a high cadence, until you're within striking distance and then drop the hammer to the finish line. More on determining power levels here. This assumes you know how long you can hold a sustained AC level (aerobic capacity) effort. I would try to pace it so that you are ramping up your power into the finish, not a big burst at 200 meters out and then a gradual taper in. It really depends on the character of the climbs, I think some pre-riding of the course would be as, if not more, beneficial than power data for such short efforts. 

Since it's a new-to-you secondhand bike, for safety's sake as well as to deal with the sluggishness I recommend you take it to a bike shop for a complete overhaul. I'll bet you'll be astounded at the difference when they're done. 

You might be able to get away with a handlebar bag (Ortlieb has a waterproof one that claims to hold 7l) plus a messenger bag or light backpack, or the underseat stuff sack mentioned by Chris in AK. I agree with commenter Blam that leaving the shoes at work will drastically reduce the needed volume. A porteur rack in front might do the job too, and perhaps be a bit easier to remove than a rear rack. (Much depends on your brake setup; it's easy to get a front rack off my bike because its disc brakes don't get in the way.) Linus and Velo Orange have nice porteurs. 

I can't think of an actual physical problem this would cause. Most folks run the lever on the QR on the left, but that's just convention as far as I know. If you want you could just unscrew the nut end of the QR and flip it around, then your tire would be going the 'right' way and the QR lever would be on the correct side as well. 

It's all about core strength, not arm strength. If you want to ride like this for long periods of time you should be supporting most of your weight with your core muscles - not your arms. Your weight should be on your sit-bones, anchored on your saddle. Then your back and abdominal muscles stabilize your pelvis and share the load with your arms. Your shoulders should be fairly relaxed and your grip loose. I've have good results from following Tom Danielson's 'Core Advantage' book. It's specifically about core exercises for cyclists and has a stepped approach to take you from untrained to pretty fit. 

I do this. It works well enough. Warmers do tend to slip a bit over the knees, but honestly they do anyway. Go for it. 

There's an outside chance it's frozen cables. Definitely not the likeliest problem, but if you run through everything else and it's still happening... 

Anything else I've missed? I'm consciously changing my coasting posture, and trying to train myself to Sheldon-Brown-mount with opposite feet. If there's anything else I could be doing, it would be good to know. 

I have perfectly ordinary standard-pull brake levers on my bike. When the temperature gets below 20F or so, the left-hand one seizes up, not wanting to pull, and not braking well if I force it. Once the temperature warms up a bit, it's fine. Diagnosis? Cure? I'm pretty sure the actual brakes are fine, and the cable looks okay too. (If there's a duplicate, feel free to kill this one; I looked but didn't find an exact symptom match.) 

Is there any major bike manufacturer that still makes steel road bikes today? The frame of my old Bridgestone got cracked and the crack is too close to the alloy BB lug for me to be able to weld it. I need a new training bike and it has to be steel because aluminium goes bad too quickly on local roads and I've seen way too many carbon horror stories. Also, it needs to a major manufacturer because I won't get other stuff here in my country. PS There is a supply-demand problem with second-hand steel bikes. Only lower end steel frames are sold second-hand and then too at the cost of aluminium frames. PPS I've already checked the websites of most major manufacturers, nothing there. Edit : Seems that I forgot to mention that I need something that feels similar to my racer. Judging from some internet trawling, both touring and CX frames feel different and wouldn't make good training bikes. 

This isn't a "need" so much as a "nice-to-have," but I certainly appreciated having handy-wipes (alcohol-soaked individually-packed wipes) along after fixing a flat on my trail ride last Friday. Also useful if whatever you're looking at is so grimy/dusty you can't see or handle it properly. If weight/bulk is not at a premium, in the States it's possible to buy a can or square of diaper wipes. Same idea, different branding, works just as well. You may find that your first-aid kit has these already; in that case, just keep 'em stocked! 

Insofar possible, don't be the cyclist stereotype in someone's head. Or if you can't avoid it, find another cyclist who isn't, and introduce them. If you're the kind of Lycra Lad/Lass superhero type (right down to the spandex!) usually seen in bike advertising, this will be difficult, granted. A lot of us aren't like that, though, and that helps other people who aren't like that think "hey, if they bike, maybe I can too." Cyclists who wear street clothes (even dresses) while cycling, fat cyclists like me, middle-aged (me!) and older cyclists, cyclists who cycle home in triumph with the farmer's-market haul for the week in panniers or Wald baskets... the more visible we are, and the more we seem to like our cycling without becoming intrusive evangelists for it, the more we break down imagined barriers to cycling in others. Anecdotally, an unconventionally attractive, comfortable-looking bike can be a useful conversation piece. I got into a lot more conversations with curious strangers over my purple Electra Townie with its unusual curved outline than I do now with my somewhat more conventional-looking custom step-through. (Though it's lavender-colored, and that helps.)