Not really, many of us think that our age is good when compared with the past, but the future should be better and that we should make it better. Also we have expectations, and we are disappointed by some of the outcomes, therefore (in short) the present is not perfect. I don't know about you, but I don't like people dying, I don't like that at all, and I think that could be solved in a few centuries (from 2 to 5), depending on interest and investment. Basically we have an hypothesis that seems quite plausible. But we can go even further. This progress, real or not, looks good and feels good, therefore it should continue. This progress, real or not, is also consistent with the objective observations that are related. Therefore, from the pragmatic point of view (and in a functionalist fashion) we can say, "does it matter?". If we have an A, and another A that is completely and absolutely indistinguishable from the former A, can't we just say they are the same thing? I'd say yes, but this takes us to different philosophical problems. To sum up, if it looks like progress, feels like progress, has the same effects that we would expect from progress and relates with observable phenomena as progress then we should be able to call it a duck, I mean, progress. 

You may not take care of the light bulbs in your house, but after some time your future-self will be in the dark for your irresponsibility. This example can be expanded gradually from your house to your planet and beyond. You may be a tourist in a foreign country and not care about what they think about you, but their prejudices are going to be unavoidable (we are humans) and they are going to use the information about the people from your country that they have seen before. If you all behave well you all will be rewarded indirectly (some people for some other people) and viceversa with the punishments. It's like having a few stocks (that you can't sell) on a big company, the intelligent option is not to harm the company uselessly because its benefit is your benefit to some extent. This can be considered analogously in many other circumstances, not only tourism. 

It depends, we cannot generalize all types of problems to that. There are also many different definitions for problems, some of them listed on wikipedia. People usually speak about problems when there is some discrepancy between how reality is and how they would like reality to be. This is the definition that wikipedia lists for bussiness or engineering. So if we take this as the definition of problem then indeed there would be no problems without anyone wishing reality to be in a different way. That doesn't solve any problem (that doesn't transform reality) that simply eliminates the problems. Say for example you are thirsty, drinking some water would solve that problem, for a while, until you are thirsty again. Suicide would eliminate the problem (and some others) for ever for you, but it doesn't really solve anything. Now, this is not part of the question, but: Problems seem to be bad, which means solving them would be good and eliminating them would be equally good. However people like solving problems, to some extent games provide artificial problems and people enjoy solving them. The brain produces chemicals as a reward for solving some problem, therefore problems are good as means to get to solutions, which are rewarding. Eliminating problems by changing your mind isn't as rewarding as solving problems, although eliminating a problem could be a solution for a meta-problem. 

This is mostly why klingon is not an option, which people is that? What culture is that? Culture is again a way to control people, sets of individuals are homogenized into a mass of people, a flock to control, and that is much easier than controlling chaotic and unpredictable individuals. In short is a soft-fascism, a way to divide and control people, a way to give them something that they want (or that they have been convinced to want) and look like a good guy while actually harming these people, that in the best case are human Guinea pigs (artificially keeping the language alive) and in the worst case are sheep in a flock (controlled by the shepherd). You will say I'm an extremist because of the word "harm". Learning a language that is endangered severely limits the access to information and the possibilities of personal growth, so that's harm. You will say they can learn that language and then some other language as well. Yes, sure, but instead of those two languages they could learn English and Chinese, or Spanish, or some widely used language that is going to be more useful for them, for communicating information, for accessing information and for enriching their understanding of the world. While actively acting against those languages may not be ethical (because that is usually done by actively acting against people who speak those languages), artificial preservation of those languages is equally unethical. Any intervention, on one direction or another is unethical, for the reasons exposed and some others that are more blatantly evident. Yet politicians and other people have manipulated many people to think in a different way, for reasons they can't really explain most of the times. I don't expect this answer to be greatly appreciated due to this. Blame democracy and lack of critical thinking. 

You have pretty much summarized everything. If languages were such a valuable thing, why not constructing new languages? why not promoting the elvish and the klingon? It's not about the value of languages. If it was about musicality or knowledge in it, they could be recorded, written, safely stored and kept there. There is no reason to keep them "alive". A language is not a living being, it's information, it can be stored and retrieved. We may not be able to clone a dinosaur, but we sure can teach a language to a baby (as growing into a child) if in the future we want to have a native speaker of that language (which would be considered cruel an unethical anyway). So it's quite dubious how ethical is artificially maintaining "alive" these endangered languages, as compared to letting them die (and maybe trying to resurrect them later, if it turns out that is good in any sense). Some people say languages influence the way people think. Well, putting a name to something helps to conceptualize about that thing, we could consider granularity, etc. But this is a dangerous idea that finds few people to defend it, for one single reason. If languages are such an important tool, they can be better or worse for some specific tasks, and definitively the union of all of them would contain all the information and be the most useful tool. This leads to a partially ordered set (a lattice) where some languages may be better than others. E.g. the piranha tribe does not have numbers, they don't need them, this doesn't mean their language is better, you take English, Chinese, German or Spanish, remove the numbers and you don't get a better language, it's plain worse. So this leads to make the definite language and not speak any other, and people don't like this. It's not about utility or epistemic value (which would be useful). On the contrary languages have to be considered as "invaluable", having an infinite value. Why? because otherwise they could be on a scale and something could be more valuable than that. They don't have more value than as a mean, for communication and (through communication) sharing ideas about which we can think later. But they are considered as art, as part of the identity of the people and some other things that only have value due to a convention in their value, not any pragmatical purpose. An end on their own and not a mean, mostly to hide their own value. The value, the purpose for which they are used splits into several. 

This is a very simple question if we consider possibility theory with the (new) definition of an event without a cause: an event with exactly zero factors limiting or favoring its appearance. There are no factors influencing the possibility or necessity of the event, so they remain at zero, and thus the probability of the event remains at zero as well. This is coherent with what we seem to observe. Random things could happen constantly but they don't seem to happen. Any event with a low probability should happen sooner or later given enough time. Why don't these things happen? Because the probability is zero, at least in the macro-world. In the quantum-world things seem to be different, but the counterintuitiveness and the paradoxical nature of quantum physics leads to think that either ontologically the world is in a way we cannot understand or epistemologically we have not been able to understand how it really is. Which in short means that either the paradoxes are real or in our minds (due to a misleading framing). The only event that is special in this sense is the creation of the Universe. Probability works in a different way here. We cannot speak about the half-life of nothingness to become a Universe because there is no time without a Universe. We cannot really ask how long did it take for the Universe to start existing. 

I think this is related with the notion of entropy. If something is constant, necessary and omnipresent, it seems to be undefinable as there is nothing to compare it with. A constant, with no entropy, means no information and no knowledge, nothing to say about it. However, we don't need the "opposite". What are the opposites between vacuum, water and air? What is the opposite of red? I think the best example is gravity. Magnetism and electrical charges have two polarities, so the force can be attractive or repulsive. In quantum mechanics we can see a lot of symmetry, but gravity is puzzling because it seems not to be symmetric. Both matter and antimatter have the same gravity if I'm not mistaken. However we have fairly good definitions for gravity. We have now gone to the space and we have a notion of "weightlessness", but: 

This is a serious question and it is the same as saying: is the knowledge in mathematics universal or a human construct? Pi (the number, regardless of its base) and many other things are universals, mathematics are discovered to that extent. Then they can be used to formalise inventions that may prove to be wrong, right or paradoxical, in the same way the knowledge (discovered) about horses and rhinos can be used to (invent and) speak about unicorns (that were never discovered). Can we say (as many answers point here) that biology was invented because of unicorns? 

Take a calculator (wolframalpha, google or other software tools may serve as well). Perform some very complex operation. Write down the operation and the result separately. Go do something fun for about 10 minutes. Take the paper with the operation. Try to calculate the result. Make sure it's right, we will wait. Now check with the result you had before that it is right. Both results match, but one took much longer to be calculated. 

I'd say I'm both of my clones, where a clone is a complete duplicate at a subatomic level. I'd also be a completely accurate virtual simulation of any of them. The question is biased, and the conclusions you derive from this biased axiom are simply wrong. I consider I am the information (includes personality) stored in my brain, therefore any complete copy of my brain (in any format or substrate) is me. You seem to have a somewhat mystical notion of "I" where the soul or essence is lost in the process of duplication of the body. That is nonsense, lesions in the brain have shown clear impact on the behaviour, cognitive capabilities and personality of the people that have suffered them. Without a physical existence we would need to ask ourselves what kind of existence do we have, and that only leads to nonsense. If I get to be cloned (duplicated) twice, then the information in the brains will diverge, I'll get to live two lives. That's great. Those two people will have been the same person in the moment of the duplication, but they would be different (maybe not a lot) after some time, you could say they are different persons or different versions of the same person. that's semantics. We all should try to be the best possible version of ourselves.