Apart from a better health, a faster commute, a happier life, a better environment, and other factors, there aren't a lot of benefits. As for risks: it is easier and more attractive to steal a high-end 3000€ bicycle than to steal a crappy 3000€ car. If you cannot park it safely at home and at work, cycling on a good bicycle will leave you worrying about theft. Cycling on a crappy bicycle won't, but for a long distance commute a crappy bicycle will leave you slower and perhaps less happy than a good bicycle. (Of course, you don't need a €3000 bicycle for commuting) 

My Rohloff gearhub will only shift between gears 3 and 4 (I think; display long ceased to be readable, but it's two low gears). I tried adjusting the shifter cable tension but it makes no difference. When I disconnect the gearbox from the hub it still doesn't shift. 

I am researching into faired recumbents, bicycles or trikes, such as the Velomobile Quest or the Sunrider. I'm interested in cycling long distances as a daily commute and for touring, but have no interest in racing or mountain-biking. My current, upright bicycle (Koga Miyata) has a Rohloff gear and on my trips, I use both the smallest and the largest gear regularly. According to Rohloff, typical derailleurs do not have a higher gear range than the Rohloff Speedhub (which has 526%), although Wikipedia reports gear ranges up to 700% for derailleurs. Faired recumbents can be really heavy (45 kg for the Sunrider) and really fast (2% downhill, 100W, 63.8 km/h, but also 30% faster than racers when flat). Really fast means one wants to have a very high gear, but really heavy means one also wants a really small gear to make it up steep slopes. Considering that I'm already using the full 526% range on my current upright bicycle, I wonder; do heavy, faired recumbents need more gear range than upright bicycles? I love my Rohloff, but should one consider getting a higher gear range on a faired recumbent? 

Starting from a dead stop, am afraid it is a matter of leg and core strength and handling skills, which seems that you do not quite have yet. They will come with enough riding time. In the meantime you can try to get the bike in motion by pushing the road with your leg as when you push a skateboard or a kid's scooter, then turning the cranks will be easier. I do this a lot to start when I am in hard gears, not only uphill. If the slope is too steep it may not work, but if slope is too steep you might not be able to resume climbing unless you go down and then turn 180 degrees ti face the hill again. 

Having such a limited amount of time for a group ride that in order to finish it on time you would need to push group speed up to a point where the ride is not enjoyable or even feasible 

This is the kind of bike I would look for, that I think can give you more for your money: something from early 90's with an old shimano 105 group or similar, which provides reliable shifting and braking, steel frame that will still last a lot and not very heavy... these bikes are awesome... not too old to be overpriced as vintage, not so new that will still cost a lot, and really close to modern bike performance once you master downtube shifting. I bought a similar one for 140€ that I was very lucky to get, but I see them in the 200 - 300 € range, which is still a really great bike for the price. Now, for mountain bikes, it is another story, those have improved more with time, (suspension, disc brakes, smooth shifting under tension, whatnot ..)and I would go for a new one if I was interested in getting out to the trails. The bikes I mentioned are also easy to resell at the price you bought, so if you get into more serious riding you can always sell and get new one without losing much (which will not happen if you upgrade a lot) 

Can I use some gentle violence here, or do I need to unstuck the lid in a different way? I'm not sure if there is a thread inside the hole, and I'm not quite sure why the cap has ripples. I don't want to destroy anything. Note: I'm not sure if my terminology is correct overall 

This mechanism is supposed to move back and forth when the bolts are loosened, but it doesn't. On this photo, I removed the bolts connecting it to the dropout completely, to make sure that isn't the problem. 

This article on "bicycle archeology" (in Dutch) describes that they have almost completely disappeared, and are found only on very old bicycles. It does not really describe the purpose, except indirectly that "nowadays we don't care about scratches". But I fail to see how this block would prevent scratches. What is the purpose? 

You don't need such a repair service. There is a different, more practical solution: a loan bike. In The Netherlands, most bicycles are used by commuters, so expediting wouldn't work. However, there are also many places that rent bicycles. A good bike shop can simply have a couple of dozen bicycles on hand that they then loan out to a (regular) customer, so that they can still go to work, school, social outings, etc.. This is already common practice in The Netherlands. I believe there exist car garages that do the same, so I don't see why it would be any different for bicycles. If the bike shop is unwilling to loan you a bike, and you have the money, you can just rent a bike to cover the period you won't have access to your own. If it happens frequently, you can buy a secondary bicycle for the same purpose. 

Whereas on the other side of my bicycle, it does. This leaves me with the choice of cycling with a loose chain, or cycling with a slightly less loose chain but a rear wheel that isn't straight. Not a great choice. How can I unstuck this mechanism? I've already tried to oil it. Edit: The thing on the left (with a thread visible) is stuck. It is supposed to be connected to the thing sticking out on the right, but regardless of how much I loosed the thing sticking out on the right, the thing on the left won't move. Sorry, I don't know the right terminology. 

Because I have had my feet sliding from the pedals indeed, and foud that the shape of this sole (possibly just one of the slots/carves on the sole, not two) does make my feet grip better to the pedal and does well to avoid sliding. I'm a student so I'm not wealthy, and I rather not buy some pedals and shoes just to check and see no real improvement. But what is more, I use the same bike to commute and to go on longer routes, and I don't see myself going to class or part time job with cycling shoes, or get the platform/cleat pedal combo. But I also wanted a jersey after those rides, to keep the cereal chocolate bars in the handy pockets, and the pants with cushion, and what is more, I wanted a better, lighter, shifters in brake levers, bike. I was / am, seriusly considering spending some of my savings in this, that is, in the full equip for a road cyclist, expecting to be able to ride at the other riders pace in an easier way. But I'm afraid that the main reason that I lagged and struggled was that I am just not as fit as them in regards to longer cycling. I live way uphill and daily climb some 6 km in 5-10 % steep, in town, and I usually go on longer routes (30-50 km) some evenings and weekends, but I reckon they are simply more fit. Now, thinking of buying a new road bike, I would be afraid of leaving it on the city street, so that implies keeping two bikes. For the new bike, I feel weird to get a 1500€ bike and equip it with platform pedals, so I should get clipless, and get shoes, and then, I feel like I have to buy also jersey and pants, and then I started thinking that this is a bit like internet explorer in windows, it goes bundled, you must go with cleats and spandex, because everyone else is doing so, so it must be better, but if it was not that significantly better it is a bit weird, at least to me to just wear this, maybe with a couple pockets on the side: 

I've been commuting by bicycle even since I learnt to ride as a kid, and I've never commuted in any other way. I'd like to add one aspect that nobody has mentioned yet: be wary of theft. If you stand at a traffic light in a busy city, and have a visible laptop-bag in a pannier at the rear, it can be all-to-easy for someone to grab it and ride away with it. Therefore, you should make sure that your panniers can be properly closed and are not too easy to take off. Stealing from an open pannier is much easier than ordinary pick-pocketing! 

Since 6 years, I am the happy user of a bicycle with a Rohloff internal hub gear. German quality squeezing 14 gears and a 526% gear range into the rear hub. Less known is the newer and equally German Pinion gear, which reportedly has 18 maintenance-free gears and a 636% gear range — all squeezed into the bottom bracket. Wow. The Pinion website features the logos of many high-end touring brands like Santos, Idworx, and Koga. What are the advantages and disadvantages of squeezing the gears into the bottom bracket, as opposed to into the rear hub? 

I am considering an anti-theft GPS tracker for my bicycle, but I am worried about battery life. Are there any that recharge from a hub dynamo? 

Source: Dresinsykling på Flekkefjordbanen Alternately, is it feasible to adapt an ordinary bicycle as a draisine? Preferably in an easy way so I can ride to an abandoned railway, attach some stuff, and continue onto the railway. Do any kits to easily convert a regular bicycle into a draisine exist? 

People who are sweating when cycling but not when walking are either cycling in hot weather (worse when steeply uphill with not enough gears), or treating a bicycle as a piece of sports equipment rather than a mode of transportation. When on foot, you walk rather than run. You don't need special clothes for walking or cycling. You do for running or racing. If you depart on time, you don't need to race. To get from the sport cycling mindset to the utility mindset, get a traditional bicycle where you sit upright. Mountain-bikes and racing bicycles have purpose; they are sports equipment. Utility bicycles are simply a way to get around. They're a lot more comfortable too. 

A friends of mine just installed aero bars, we went for a 150 km ride. The aerobar advantages are mainly useful in flat terrain. If you have many uphill / downhill you will be using the side handles. And he reported shifting gears was quite annoying compared to brifter shifting. I wouldn't do it, it is for getting faster speed not for comfort or safety. Edit: I was thinking of the whole aero handlebar with shifters at the end and pushed forward saddle combination, which is expensive to have mounted. If it is only the bars, well, I don't know but it seems like a bit shoddy. Of course try it, since it is not as big an expense. 

Having considered between unsing my android phone as a bike computer and buying dedicated computer, I noticed some points that could serve you. Using cell phone: 

It is not allowed by UCI rules, but comissars usually allow it if it is due to mechanical reasons and used to get back to the peloton, since they have discretional ability to decide. Time penalties or disqualification if used to gain advantage over the peloton. So, rule enforcement may vary depending on many circumstances, and I guess they don't want to lose stars like Froome, that could also be important when turning a blind eye on some minor issue 

Because it would be just a waste of the money invested in weight reduction / aerodynamics to use it in plain clothes and with a beastly saddle. Now if you refer to something like this: 

Those are called gumwalls. With this keyword you can easily search for them. Brands I see mounted on my friend's bikes are the likes of bontrager, panaracer, schwalbe, but Id say that most tyre manufacturers have a gumwall offer.