It is not actually the case that /n/ is especially common for negation across language families. Rather the n-negatives are a particular feature of the Indo-European languages, being inherited from PIE and retained in some form in the majority of the daughter languages. Outside of the Indo-European language family, n-negatives are not especially common. Those that do exist are the result of coincidence. 

The alphabet has only been invented a few times, so this is easier to describe than you'd think. The first lineage of alphabets is the Phoenician lineage, which includes the modern Latin, Greek, Cyrillic, Hebrew, and Arabic alphabets, as well as a number of less prominent scripts both living and dead. While I haven't checked every one of these scripts, the Phoenicians themselves named their letters, and the tradition of naming letters was passed down to every derived script that I know of. Some of them kept or adapted the Phoenician names (Hebrew, Greek, Arabic), while others created a simplified naming scheme of their own (Latin, Cyrillic), but they all have names. The second major lineage of alphabets is the Brahmic lineage, which includes Devanagari as its most prominent member, but includes all of the myriad scripts of India and Southeast Asia in its family tree. Here, too, the original script had named letters, and the tradition of named letters seems to have been kept in all of the daughter scripts. That covers all of the unambiguous alphabets in the world. There is a third, somewhat contentious example, however. Korean hangul are usually presented as a syllabary, but unlike most syllabaries every hangul syllabic glyph can be fully decomposed into a set of strokes that consistently and predictably represent individual segments in the syllable, with well-defined rules for placement. Therefore hangul arguably represents an alphabet with an unusual, syllabic arrangement system, in contrast with the simple linear arrangement used in the other major alphabets. And to the best of my knowledge the individual strokes that make up a hangul glyph do not have names--or if they do, their names are somewhat specialized terms that aren't commonly used by people describing how to spell something. This is as close as I think you're going to get to an alphabet without names for its letters. Update: Hangul does have names for its letters, as pointed out in the comments. 

This can be found, in various variations, in many languages. This explains only the change before "i". The explanation for tsu can be found in this article 

Romanian has something called Genitival article (which is nothing extraordinary - just an article in genitive) The wikipedia article about "article" lists: definite, indefinite, partitive, negative. 

Having theoretical knowledge may or may not help you on the olympiad. For example, at least 3 of the absolute winners of the Olympiad had only basic linguistic knowledge, but were great problem-solvers. But recently linguistic knowledge has proved to be a major benefit. 

You are right - it is the vibration of the vocal cord that adds "voice". Distinguishing them, however, depends on the language - whether there can be two words that differ only by that sound. If this is not the case, then the two consonants are allophones In English, the voiced and unvoiced consonants are not allophones. Aspiration was suggested as a possible reason for not distinguishing them, but I'm not sure if this is the case - aspirated and unaspirated voiceless consonants are allophones in English, but they differ from voiced ones. For example you have: crap - crab bad - bat knack - nag So it might be the recordings that are causing the problem (I don't have quicktime to hear them) 

The latter phenomenon is rarer (I can't think of examples other than Japanese). But consonant changes that depend on the preceding or the following vowel are common. 

I don't think this is a common opinion. The fact that one language has been significantly influenced by other languages from other families does not change its origin. It may change some core aspects of the language, but it remains Semitic. The same thing could apply to Gypsy language - it has many forms in different countries that are heavily influenced - both lexically and grammatically - by the "host" country languages, however the gypsy language remains of Indic origin. Another interesting, related case is the Balkan language area. Romanian, for example, has taken a lot of features from Slavic languages, but it is still Romance language. To conclude - In my opinion changes in the language should not be taken into account when genealogy is concerned. 

Japanese is considered a Japonic Language together with Ryukyuan, and the Japonic languages are not widely accepted to be related to any other language family. There have been, however, many different proposals, including a relationship to Altaic, Indo-European (!), and yes, Korean. However, all of these proposals have been heavily disputed, and none of them are considered to be proven. Even if Japanese is related to Korean, it's probably coincidence that these particular particles are related. The time depth for the supposed ancestor of Japanese and Korean would be so great that we wouldn't expect anything to have survived unchanged, and so two identical particles in both languages are probably the same due to coincidence. 

The existence of a double-ð does not necessarily imply that the affricate was released twice, any more than other doubled stops are released twice. More likely the stop portion of the affricate was geminated, but the affricate was only released once. For comparison, consider modern Italian orthography, in which the letter z represents /ts/, but double zz is extremely common. This double letter does not indicate [t͡st͡s], but rather [t:s]. With that in mind, I see no reason to dispute the standard reconstruction of the tau gallicum. In particular, I find the suggestion that it could be [θ] to be very unlikely, given the available evidence. 

I have usually seen the paucal number presented as intermediate between singular and plural in the languages that have it: 

The most common ways to compensate for the loss of phonological distinction in a language are morphological: grammaticalization, as you mentioned, as well as compounding and borrowing. A striking present-day example of compounding occurs in English dialects that have the pin/pen merger, in which the compound "ink pen" has been coined to compensate for the ambiguity. This sort of thing happens frequently in all sorts of languages. But also don't forget that phonological loss is often compensated by other phonological processes, as well. There is epenthesis and straight-up insertion. There is compensatory lengthening (as Cerberus mentioned), as well as nasalization, vowel harmony, and other phonological processes that can preserve featural information and distinctiveness even if segments are lost. It's not the case that phonological change is always destructive!