It's important to note that in this study, the energy efficiency of the heater was not changed by the rate at which heat was demanded. If that assumption does not hold, then you can get into odd edge cases where lowering the set-back temperature might conceivably increase energy consumption. That would happen if the proportional decrease in heater efficiency is greater than proportional decrease in heat-energy demand. As your Capital Gazette link says, this might happen if the lower setback temperature creates a requirement for a rapid increase in internal temperature when the setback period ends, and that rapid increase has to be met by a heater with efficiency less than or equal to 100% (boiler, furnace, resistance heater), rather than a heater with a much higher efficiency (a well-specified, properly installed heat pump). 

The numbers are, broadly speaking, consistent. The lower number of pedestrian deaths reported for 2013, were from Jan and Feb 2014: that's when you'd expect that number to be provisional, and to under-estimate the total. As 2014 progressed, better data and late returns would have been compiled, leading to a rise in the numbers. So the 183 is probably about right. I believe that the Village Voice number of 286 refers to people killed, not just pedestrians. That would include cyclists, motorcyclists, car drivers, and car passengers. It's also very close to the pedestrian fatality figure (287) for New York State (rather than just city) - source as below, page vi. Exactly what consists of a traffic fatality, and what does not, might on the face of it seem to be an obvious distinction. But it's not. It might be 10 days after a collision before the consequential death. Or 3 months. Someone might die 2 years later, due to complications arising after a collision. An arbitrary line has to be drawn somewhere. And it's not always possible to keep track of someone's health after a collision: there might not be any institution tasked with owning that tracking and follow-up. Those are some of the reasons why figures for 2013 traffic fatalities would change during the course of 2014. Within the FARS (Fatality Analysis Reporting System) system used to analyse traffic fatalities, the definition used is: 

Asymptotic wind production The paper in question models the output of power per unit area, and predicts that it will level out at around 1.2W/m2. Which means that with increasing wind capacity installed, wind output would continue to be a rising curve, and would not show a peak and a down-turn. Instead, the paper is claiming that there are diminishing returns: that is, that building more wind will continue to yield more electricity, but at a declining rate. This is something that has been known for a long time. The difference is that Adams & Keith are claiming that it will happen faster than previously modelled, and that the global potential onshore wind resource is only a few times global electricity demand, rather than many times it. Their specific testable claim is that: 

tl;dr: Yes, being a strong laissez-faire free-market supporter is correlated with rejecting some specific science The Lewandowsky study looks at the attitudes of people who read climate blogs, and does indeed find a positive correlation between those who support a laisssz-faire (i.e. unregulated) view of free markets, and who reject specific areas of well-established science, such as anthropogenic climate change and that smoking tobacco causes cancers. So, it does not address the issue of people generally: it specifically addresses attitudes of one self-selecting sub-group. Other studies have looked at other sub-groups, and come to very similar conclusions. As Lewandowsky et al note: 

So it looks like neither of those implicit assumptions in the report in the question withstand scrutiny, and so its conclusions are unsafe. Which means we fall back to the basic science and economics, which is that reducing those activities that are known to release greenhouse gases, reduces the emissions of greenhouse gases. So decisions to not fly can contribute to reduced GHG emissions from regulated sources in the EU. 

Does it matter for wind-farm design? As of now, no it does not: individual wind farms still get designed using wake-modelling at the level of individual turbines, rather than relying only on Adams & Keith meso-scale modelling. If there comes a time where empirical evidence supports their parameterised meso-scale modelling, then that may get used, because it's computationally simpler, faster and requires fewer inputs. Onshore wind farms larger than 100km2 will get built in the coming decade, so the testable hypothesis I mentioned above will get tested. 

The modelling methodology smackdown This paper is part of a long on-going discussion in the literature about the most appropriate way to model the wake effects of large onshore wind farms. The difference boils down to whether one models from the wake of an individual turbine upwards (the Jacobson method of aggregating from the micro-scale), or whether one uses 

Summary: yes, the area shown is reasonable, as a visualisation of the surface area of panels required to generate electricity equal to total US electricity consumption, on a multi-year average: that area of panels would generate 500 GW, which is above the current US annual average electricity consumption of 425 GW Calculations below are taken from this blogpost at the Energy Institute, University College London. As Thales Pereira has pointed out in the comments on the question, the claim could be taken to mean that that area of PV would displace fossil fuel, and supplement the existing zero-carbon options on the US grid (hydro, nuclear, wind). That would make it an slightly weaker claim. I've assumed that it's the strong version of the claim: that that area would be the same amount of power as total US demand, even before considering existing hydro, nuclear and wind generation. If the stronger claim is valid, then the weaker claim automatically follows. 

Yes, by simple physics, it will save the customer some electricity. The rate at which heat is lost by a hot water tank is proportional to the difference between water temperature and air temperature. And it's also proportional to the U-value of the covering. Adding insulation will decrease the U-value, and so will decrease the rate at which heat is lost. Hot water tanks are typically controlled by a thermostat. So sufficient electricity is used, to replace the energy lost by heat loss from the tank, and the energy used by drawing off hot water from the tank. Therefore, by reducing the heat loss from the tank, thermal insulation reduces the electricity consumption. Source: For details of the calculation, see for example the UK government's Standard Assessment Procedure for Energy Use in Dwellings, SAP2009 (pdf) - here's Table 2, showing how the rate of energy loss typically decreases, with increasing thickness of insulation. 

At the moment, with a "business as usual scenario", we're on course for a global mean temperature change of 5-7°C or so, which would mean a loss of 40% or more of species. If we succeed in rapid mitigation, we can lessen the biodiversity impact so that there's a risk of losing "only" 30% of species. At longer timescales Looking at a scale of thousands of years upwards, things become much more speculative. We know that there are positive and negative feedbacks in the system. At some point, positive feedbacks will get balanced by negative feedbacks. However, we don't know how hot things will have got before then. Or what sort of life might be viable. However, some forms of life do seem extraordinarily tenacious even at the very extremes. 

The two quotes say subtly different things. The second quote is much harder to examine, because talking about changes in speed limits without any information on compliance levels is useless. So I'll tackle the first quote, that risk of fatality halves when vehicle speed is 11.2 m/s (25mph, 40km/h) instead of 13.4 m/s (30mph, 48km/h). And that's true, at least according to a recent study used by the UK's Department for Transport in its official research. 

"Peak Wind" is a myth The original journal article is here. The concept of Peak Oil, which Peak Wind is being held analagous to, is the simple notion that when depleting a finite non-renewed resource, there comes a time when the extraction rate reaches a maximum, and thereafter declines year on year. The paper by Adams & Keith that The Register claims to be reporting on, makes no such claim for wind: there is no claim in the paper that there is a wind resource which will become exhausted. That's because wind is constantly renewed by incoming solar radiation. A typical Peak Oil peaks then depletes. Whereas global wind generation continues to increase as global capacity increases. 

Australia, as your own references indicate, is one of the highest per-capita emitters in the world. It's a major coal miner, so has high fugitive methane emissions. Given those relatively high methane emissions, there are at least three ways that changing the system boundary would also increase Australia's calculated per-capita greenhouse=gas emissions, and thus potentially push it up the rankings: 

That's true. And there is a standard method for aggregating externalities, which is to monetise each aspect of damage, and then sum those costs. Fthenakis and Alsema (1) found that the unit damage cost for PV systems was 0.126-0.177 eurocent per Kwh, using a remarkably low value of CO2 damage (€19/tCO2e). Even at that level, the CO2-damage alone from fossil plant exceeds the total damage costs from PV (€19/tCO2e x 400gCO2e/kWh = 0.76 eurocent per kWh). Total environmental damage costs from PV, are less than those of the fossil-fuel generation that they displace. Metal specifics For anyone interested in the detail of metal extraction for PV, Ftheankis, Wang and Kim looked at the specifics for zinc, copper, aluminum, cadmium, indium, germanium, gallium, selenium, tellurium, and molybdenum (2). Sources (1) Fthenakis VM, Alsema E. Photovoltaics energy payback times, greenhouse gas emissions and external costs: 2004-early 2005 status. Progress in Photovoltaics: Research and Applications. 2006;14(3):275–280. DOI:10.1002/pip.706 (2) Fthenakis VM, Wang W, Kim H. Life cycle inventory analysis of the production of metals used in photovoltaics. Renewable and Sustainable Energy Reviews. 2009;13(3):493–517. DOI:10.1016/j.rser.2007.11.012 (3) Sherwani AF, Usmani JA, Varun. Life cycle assessment of solar PV based electricity generation systems: A review. Renewable and Sustainable Energy Reviews. 2010;14(1):540–544. DOI:10.1016/j.rser.2009.08.003 (4) Fthenakis V. How long does it take for photovoltaics to produce the energy used?, in PE Magazine, from the National Society of Professional Engineers, Jan/Feb 2012. PDF available here. 

is one logistic regression equation for probability of fatality, when vehicle speed was v km/h. Roughly speaking, that works out at 3.5% for 25 mph, and 7% for 30 mph. Source: Relationship between Speed and Risk of Fatal Injury: Pedestrians and Car Occupants, UK Department for Transport research report, 2010, quoting: Rosen E. and Sander, U. (2009) Pedestrian fatality risk as a function of car impact speed. Accident Analysis and Prevention, 41, 536–542. 

In summary At human timescales? No, global warming is very bad for life on the whole. At geological timescales? It could be very good for life. Or neutral. Or extremely bad. At human timescales Looking at a scale of decades to a century or two, global warming is very bad for life as a whole: both human life, and global biodiversity. That's not to say that there won't be individual winners, as well as individual losers. As one habitat shrinks, so another habitat extends. Oceans warm, and acidity increases, meaning that species such as coral which are highly sensitive to temperature and acidity, will suffer hugely (DOI:10.1126/science.1152509, and pdf). This will open up new ecological niches, that will allow some other species to expand in the very short term, and evolve to suit the new niches, over centuries. The problem, as with changing sea levels and other ecosystem shifts, is not that the final equilibrium result is necessarily worse than the starting point: it is that we have built our civilisation based on the existing ecosystem; and the climate and ecosystem are now changing faster than our civilisation can adapt. At the scale of decades, short by evolutionary standards, environmental change is more rapid than genetic change. Whereas previously the Earth has seen periods of warming and cooling that have raised or lowered the temperature by several Kelvin, those have happened over thousands of years or longer. Now, all the evidence is that this is happening over decades. This, combined with humankind's other environmentally degrading activities, means that Earth's ecology is now going through its sixth mass extinction. So it's an issue of rate of change of climate. The IPPC's 4th assessment report (AR4) presents the state of knowledge as of 2006-7. Specifically Working Group 2 (WG2) reported on Impacts, Adaptation and Vulnerability. This was watered down by a round of political editing. That dilution not withstanding, the following image appears in the report: 

TL;DR yes, decisions to fly do contribute to GHG emissions from regulated sources within the EU, and decisions to not fly contribute to GHG reductions. The paper is based on a set of assumptions. The paper is internally consistent - that is to say, if the assumptions hold, the conclusions hold. If they do not, there is no basis to accept the conclusion, particularly if the conclusion defies known science & economics (more flying = more emissions, ceteris paribus) Let's look at some of the assumptions in CBESS Discussion Paper 13-01 

(reproduced under fair use, Crown copyright 2010) Note that your quote says up to 1800 kWh/y will be saved: for a very large, very badly insulated tank, the savings can be very high: 6 kWh/d is certainly plausible, and that's a rate of heat loss of 250W. Let's take a large, really badly insulated hot water tank with a surface area of 5 square metres, and base U-value of 2.0, a water temperature of 70° Celsius, and an air temperature of 20° Celsius. That gives a heat loss rate of 5 x 2 x (70 - 20) = 500 W. So if the insulation halves that (and it should do better than that), that's more than 1800 kWh saved per year. The energy savings = energy loss before - energy loss after In each case, the energy loss = (water temp - air temp) x surface area x U-value x duration Insulation will slightly increase the surface area. And it may also change the time-profile of water temperature and air temperature around it. So the specific number is hard to calculate accurately in advance - it can be approximated, with fair accuracy, by making some simplifying assumptions. The U-value changes according to the following equation: ( 1 / new U-value ) = ( 1 / old U-value ) + ( 1 / U-value of insulation ) e.g. if the old U-value was 2.0, and the U-value of the insulation is 1.0, then the new U-value = 1 / ( 1 / 2.0 + 1 / 1.0) = 1 / 1.5 = 0.67 (source - as above, SAP2009) 

This is going to be something of a sideways answer. I'm going to explain why it's possible to find a "yes" and a "no" to the question, and for them both to be justifiable, and both to be supported by good references! There is no single unique calculation of total greenhouse gases emitted. One has to specify a particular boundary for the calculation; and the boundary one chooses, affects the answer. As your sources show: with one boundary, Australia will have the highest per-capita emissions; with another, it will not. In particular there are three dimensions to the boundary that each make a big difference: the what, the where, and the when of emissions. 

The Rothman study is: Atmospheric carbon dioxide levels for the last 500 million years, PNAS April 2, 2002 vol. 99 no. 7 4167-4171, DOI:10.1073/pnas.022055499 , from which the following graph comes, of historic atmospheric CO2 levels expressed as a ratio relative to 2001 levels: so a value on the y-axis of 2 means double the level of 2001: (note that the present day is on the right in this graph) 

Yes, Lovelock continued well after the damage was known, denying the significant damage to the Ozone layer from CFCs. Here he is in 1978, at Fluorostrat 78, a conference sponsored by the chemical industry: (New Scientist, 12 October 1978, p94) 

Yes, tanks are exempt from the London congestion charge. As are armed forces vehicles generally. As long as they're actually being used by the armed forces. 

That gives values for energy returned on energy invested (EROEI) in the range 10-40. So PV has a high net energy production Greenhouse gases displaced First, let's note that the power into a grid and the power consumed must match at all times. So if PV generation increases, some other source of power must decrease, in order to keep the system balanced. So some other generator will get turned down. The type of generation being displaced does make a difference. In most of the world, in 2012, it will usually be a fossil-fuel plant - coal or gas (see the World Energy Outlook, IEA). Fthenakis and Alsema (1) cite the ExternE and Australian Coal Association research on full-lifecycle greenhouse-gas emissions, and found that monocrystalline silicon PV came out at 100-180gCO2e/kWh, whereas coal was 900g, and gas CCGT was 400-439g. Their own calculations for different PV technologies gave even lower results: 37g for polycrystalline silicon; 21g for EU Cadmium Telluride; 25g for US Cadmium Telluride. Similarly, Sherwani et al (3) found full-lifecyle greenhouse gas emissions from PV were in the range 9.4-104gCO2e/kWh On a full-lifecycle analysis, there are substantial greenhouse-gas savings with PV. Total Damage costs Flimzy poster, in comments on the question, notes that: