Globular clusters vary in size quite a bit. They contain from a few hundred thousand to over a million stars. Probably best way to determine size is to measure its extent across the sky by telescope and then calculate that distance in km. One could also model the size by assuming the number of stars, the average size of the stars, and the spacing based on this size. One could build a globular cluster of 300,000 stars or so and determine the approximate size. You ask if 120-150 ly is the average diameter of such globular clusters. I'm confused by exactly what you mean but you have sampled a small range of sizes considering globular clusters can be well over 300 ly in diameter. 

This has not been confirmed so whether it is legit is unknown at this time. A recent report ($URL$ calls into question the original analysis that leads to the initial report of planet nine. The report that fueled initial interest is given below. (EVIDENCE FOR A DISTANT GIANT PLANET IN THE SOLAR SYSTEM Konstantin Batygin and Michael E. Brown Division of Geological and Planetary Sciences, California Institute of Technology, Pasadena, CA 91125, USA; kbatygin@gps.caltech.edu Received 2015 November 13; accepted 2016 January 10; published 2016 January 20) 

The mass of a planet does not affect its orbit significantly unless it is a very large planet. On the opposite end of the spectrum would be a very small mass planet that was evaporating, and that is essentially what a comet is. It's all Keplerian, though comets can have their orbits affected slightly by the tiny push they get from the evaporating gases. So it's not the change in mass, but how the evaporation actually happens, but this is a small effect. Even a large planet like Jupiter does not affect the Sun much (the Sun orbits around a point that is not even external to the Sun), so losing mass would not affect the orbit of Jupiter in any significant way either. 

There are plenty of hard-x-ray binaries that involve a compact object with a companion. Some should be in supernova remnants, but I don't know how many. Are you sure there is a problem? 

The key thing about lines is that they have a higher opacity than the continuum, so they are generally formed in layers that are above where the continuum formed. Thus there are two general ways to get emission lines (i.e., lines that are brighter than the continuum), one is to make the higher regions hotter than what is below, and the other is to make them physically larger. The first means that at line wavelengths, the object looks brighter, and the second means that at line wavelengths, the object looks larger. The first happens in what is called a "chromosphere" of the star (a shell that is hotter because of some additional heating going on above the photosphere of the star), and the second happens if the star has a wind or anything else that physically extends it in ways that are transparent in the continuum but can be seen in lines. The third way to get emission lines is if the continuum is not optically thick (i.e., the object is transparent in the continuum), as happens with various low-density nebulae, but your question seems to stipulate that there is a bright continuum there, so there is an opaque object emitting something akin to blackbody radiation. 

The gravitational is radial only. That means if you tried a different shape then you would have regions, like hills, where a change in the angle would experience a much less attraction towards the center. This region would, over time, be attracted to a different angle with a greater force of attraction. Or spherical. This results in a spherical-like shape. 

Yes. There is a chance of one or more solar flares or CME's occurring during the eclipse and these would be noticeable during totality. There are actually two NASA jets equipped with telescopes and high-speed cameras to film the Corona and any such event. The plane will track the eclipse throughout its duration. 

To add to the excellent answer by berrycarter, there are 2 planetarium-like codes, that I know of, that run on a mac and would make excellent tools for viewing certain astronomical objects. The codes are Stellarium and Celestial. Both turn your computer into your own planetarium where you can search and view objects in space. 

Amazon has solar film sheets if that's what you're looking for. It is sold by Amazon for Thousand Oaks Optical. Amazon sometimes has next day or 2 days delivery. 

The "small comets" buzz was temporary and has been completely superceded by subsequent evidence that it was all noise in the detectors. A careful investigation that produced a null result looking for the comets is published in $URL$ The moral is, beware of the "1 sigma effect," where a researcher sees a hint of a signal and is beguiled into seeing it as something real. 

It would take the same 8 minutes for the Earth's orbit to change as it does for us to stop receiving light from the Sun. No signal travels faster than light. 

The main thing a cubic spine lets you do is have a continuous second derivative. If all you need is a continuous curve, connecting the dots with straight lines suffices, with no overshoot, but a very discontinuous derivative. So if you want to think about the derivative of the light curve, you'd have to go at least to a quadratic spline, which allows a continuous first derivative but introduces the potential for overshooting (a curve that goes outside the range of the points themselves). If you actually want to think about the second derivative also, then you'll need that to be continuous, so that will require a cubic spline. But the potential for overshoot keeps getting worse when you add more continuous derivatives. Personally, I find cubic splines to be very unreliable, the overshoot can be terrible unless you have a very nicely resolved curve with not much noise, but that may be just what they do have. 

No it wouldn't make a difference unless you moved it near another star or body. If it was moved such that something was close enough to exert significant gravitational attraction it would have an effect on our solar system. 

It would look as shown below. And yes it would resemble a globular cluster except the stars move differently. Elliptical galaxies have an approximately ellipsoidal shape. Globular clusters are often associated with galaxies. The Milkey Way contains over 150 identified globular clusters. Shown below are globular clusters. 

Because scientists are now certain that dark matter exists but the exact nature of it is still being investigated. Its extremely important to understand dark matter if we hope to further our knowledge of the universe. Dark matter makes up such a significant part of the total mass of the universe that it must be accounted for in simulations and models of galaxies and other large scale structures in space. Money spent on dark matter research is certainly NOT wasted. 

The file you had linked as 'Detailed NEO Data' lists all the orbital parameters needed to determine the position of the object as a function of time. It lists these parameters for the objects orbiting the earth. This should be just what you need. They are located at bottom of file. There are routines to convert the orbit in orbital parameters to cartesian coordinates. This may be easier to use. You can google on orbital parameters conversion to find these routines. I think I have a copy in Fortran but not many people use Fortran now. 

It is easiest to understand if you fix the incident angle and explain why the emergent intensity is largest at highly oblique angles. Since the light comes from the outside, it only penetrates so far, and this in turn causes the atmosphere to act like a source of scattered light. But the source of scattered light is brightest near the top of the atmosphere, since that's where more of the external light penetrates. Whenever the sources are brighter near the top, it produces what is called "limb brightening," where if you look from highly oblique angles, you mostly probe those higher, brighter regions. Looking down the normal is where you see the deepest into the atmosphere, where the external light does not penetrate as well. You can also think about what the individual photons are doing, and ask what is their distribution over emergent angle. If cos(i)=0, all the photons scatter right at the surface, so it is tantamount to introducing an isotropic radiation field right at the surface. The photons that go outward will of course have an isotropic distribution, and an isotropic incident radiation field must scatter isotropically (that is a consequence of the principle of reciprocity). So the emergent distribution is isotropic, but intensity is also per solid angle, so accounts for the foreshortening, and that's where the 1/cos(e) in the intensity comes from. If cos(i)=1, on the other hand, the incident photons tend to penetrate more, and must diffuse their way out, which gives less of an advantage to low cos(e) after the foreshortening is included. As for fixing the angle at which you are looking and altering i, here your result says that the intensity always peaks as cos(i) rises. Your expression claims that is true at every e, so to me this suggests a normalization error. You want to keep the incident F fixed, but that requires you must get the same outgoing F if you integrate over all e. Your result says the I is higher at all e if cos(i) is higher, but that contradicts the idea that you are keeping the incident F the same. Maybe your result is actually comparing the incident and emergent intensities, not the emergent intensity to incident flux. Then at higher cos(i), for the same incident I, the incident F is falling, explaining your rise in I/F. 

You have to remember that the alignment for an eclipse is a very rare situation. It's not as simple as the occurrence of a new moon. The planet and the moon have to align just so in relation to the sun for an eclipse to occur. Sorry, no numbers here but just trying to emphasize that several factors have to occur between 2 fast moving bodies. 

We have seen galaxies around 13 billion years old. Since these galaxies formed so early in the history of the known universe, are there observables about these galaxies that are apparently different from much younger galaxies. I suppose all current physics laws had condensed out by then but was just curious about the formation and 'aging' of such old galaxies. 

Wikipedia has a nice table located here, and here. Maybe of further use is the list of references associated with these tables. There is also a nice illustration depicting the rotational axes of other planets shown here. 

There are many reasons why nothing has been detected. We could be too far away, no one is listening, listened at wrong time, and many more. But this does not mean there is no life on other planets. We just haven't discovered them yet.