I am working for Indian Outsourcing Organization. I have joined Onsite team for new project 2 months back. Below are the some points that I See risk for team. (1) Manager doesn't listen much, doesn't lead much, doesn't consider team members opinions or concerns. Hence team doesn't get much visibility and clarity about project and situations in the project. (2) Very apprehensive about documentation any communication. All the communication and commitments occurs verbally and sometimes the communication is very indirect also. The result of which any risk happens in project we don't have any option to defend ourself. Finally team has to suffer consequences if any bad thing happens. (3) Since there is no proper guiding and leading, many times the actions, the decisions team member takes does not backed up by Organization policies and team members are at their own risk. At this situation how to handle this manager in order to avoid further risk to team and project? Updates based on Responses: The major problem here is manager is highly discouraging documenting those facts. I have tried to document many times. Firstly my boss doesn't replies to my emails in which I am asking for confirmations/clarifications. He just calls me or talk to me and gave verbal clarifications. One day I got too warning from my boss saying that, If you have any questions just ask me, or call me or don't write mails. 

Dont get ahead of yourself. You asked for another internship which is exactly what you got. For all I care, they themselves may not know if they want/can employ you long-term after this. So: 

If its a one time thing I would not make a fuss out of a 1 time only 1 hour over-time. You ll be quick to get judged for this, if the very first thing you ask for is this. If its a re-occurring thing of course you can ask for specifics but make sure you clear this up before hand and not after the fact. 

Consider speaking with a team member to get substituted and not-accounted for beforehand. This way you won't be bound to this obligation by any means and the company wont have booked flights and accommodation that they 'll have to change(which may not even be possible at the time) or have to scramble at the last minute to find a replacement for you to attend. EDIT: since apparently some people misunderstood this, I suggest to be tactful about this and quote personal reasons as to why you cant make it. No need to inform your co-workers of your intention to resign. 

First complete your task in hand deliver it on time. Once done with it talk with your colleague about task and get the clear status of the tasks that has been take over by your colleague. Since the task is originally assigned to you, you might have first hand knowledge on that. Offer helping hand and make suggestions where you can make improvements. Share the load with him and complete the tasks earlier. 

I am working for on IT organization as Team Leader. I have a team member who works as developer. In age he is elder than me. He is very prone is picking argument and making offensive personal comments. Here is the latest incidents One fine morning I received a mail saying that 

As I said it is most common thing to happen. But some of the employers won’t tell to the candidate upfront. Ofcourse No body likes to hear bad things about themselves. However the good thing here is he is straight away giving his feedback and assessment. Now you can have realistic picture of where you and your skills stand in the job market. You can use this feedback constructively. If you are interested in the job profile that is similar to your prospective employer you have to focus on improving your skills which are required for that job. Or you can focus on the other job profiles where your other skills are strong. 

Its all about keeping matters civilized and polite so that you can co-exist and all get the best they can(you get your 2% almost all the time, they get their 98% uninterrupted). 

First of, I find it very good to think of the future and go for a change of career when you still have the luxury of choice and its not a matter of utmost importance to support yourself financially in a dire way. That being said I would still consider if my current line of work is welcome in another firm before I did something radical, unless you really dont enjoy it either in which case; move on. About the pay issue, its perfectly normal to say you didn't enjoy your last job or want a new "challenge" as the reason you re changing and as such you recognize you may have been fairly specialized in your last line of work(and equally well compensated- do NOT mention you think your pay was overly high even for that) but seeing you consciously looking for a change(which will come with a learning period and all) and that you will accept a pay cut in the process of switching careers and having to start lower.I wouldn't insinuate necessity as the reason for this change as it may play against you during such a negotiation. 

1) Approach manager of A whom you report, and express your interest. Emphasize on how much you value the Company A, Specify what are the unique things that you like about company, and how can you contribute to Company A and how can you help Company A. 2) And also be honest with manager A and tell that you have applied positions with other Companies. You can say like "Even though I have applied positions at other Companies, I am keen to work for Company A. If I got offer from Company A, I prefer Company A over other Companies. 3) For Company B, You need not tell Proactively that the fact you are considering the offer from Company A. However if they ask You can reveal the fact that you are Considering offer from Company A. But you can assure that if you don't hear from Company A so and so date, and if you have the offer from B you can choose B. 

Explain the acronym whenever you need to refer to in a professional context to people for the first time. "I also created EzGal, as in EasyGalaxy ..." Also add a clarification for the name on github like easy_galaxy(EzGal). and be done with it. Apologizing beforehand assumes you re guilty about it and DOES make a mountain out of a molehill. 

If it was your main source of income and you put enough hours in it to be deemed a full time occupation I don't see whats wrong in including it to be honest. Its not an illegal activity and shows many positive traits in you,as in analytical skills mentioned, if you had the prowess and intelligence to pull this through. An explicit mention in your CV, perhaps mentioned in an "Others Section", as mentioned already, or just as your last work experience can get the employer to ask more about it and you make your case about it as intended. 

I am working as a Senior Developer for US based Organization. In order to develop and deliver the project, we have to have discussions with many other departments and key persons and have healthy information flow on regular basis. We have a team member, Let us Say Bob, who solely and effectively co-ordnates all the parties and administrate this information flow among all parties. His job includes setting up meetings, book meeting rooms, taking notes in the meetings, publishing meeting notes, create followup to the meetings, send reports to management about the meetings what we have achieved in meetings etc… Recently he applied for 2 months long medical leave due to his health issues. My manager asked me to take those tasks temporarily for those 2 months and he is willing to reduce the other work load. But my problem is I don’t like that kind of work. I already expressed this concern with my manager. My manager said that, “ I understand your concern. When I look other team members you are the one who have the potential and necessary skills to coordinate and perfect replacement/backup for the job what Bob used to do. This coordination is very important for us to successful delivery of the product. Any issues this area would impact a lot in many areas. I can not rely on any one except you for this job at this situation. Can you help us on this?” By seeing the severity of the situation I have accepted to take up this assignment. But now the problem is how to handle this assignment. I have potential and necessary skills for this assignment. But I don’t like the kind of work that I have to do on this assignment. How can I subside negative feelings and will achieve maximum that I can on this assignment? 

Yes, it is. You give up your parking rights for the vast majority of time even though you technically have 1/3rd "ownership" of the slot as well. As such they benefit greatly and having priority over them for the very few times per year you need to use it should be the norm. How to get there without alienating anyone: 

First of all, consider your options. Negotiating can only be taken so far when you re not ready to walk away. Now, going through 5 interviews seems to me they re pretty invested in the idea of having you as a team member so judging from the fact you also want to work there (salary increase and better working environment) you can make some suggestions to reach an agreeable solution without taking it too far, always with the mindset of accepting their offer in the end. For that purpose I would start off by giving their HR rep a written reasoning(likewise what you did here) why you think a senior title is deserved so they can make the counter-argument to the compensation team while also stating that such a development in accordance with all your previous talk would be of great importance for you and enough to seal t the deal. Furthermore, to my understanding, there's no talk of change in the role responsibilities, just the title so if that not works, I would try getting a clue in my contract or otherwise assurance that within a specific time frame of having in essence a senior role I would get an evaluation for the official senior title to follow. 

I believe below points helps you to deal with your situation The main objective of any organization is to complete the project with in budget, with in defined time line with define quality. But we are not in ideal world, so many times due to so many reasons the project progress may lag and still dead lines won’t move and extra funds doesn’t come. So the client management still has to achieve the same dead line. At such situation it is more common the project demands more hours and extra miles from the team. It is more common thing in IT world due to competition and dynamic nature. So Organizations expects flexibility and willingness to take extra mile when it is required. It is more common and reasonable expectation from management. Some Organization set this expectation and checks candidate comfortability at the time of Interview itself. But some don’t do that but still carries same expectations. Since you showed your willingness to learn new technology, the recruiter might have taken that as flexibility to wards working hours itself. So they might place into the project. Honestly speaking there are highs and lows in IT working hours. When project requires we need to stretch ourselves and work long hours. How long is purely depend on how much project lags and till project come on track. what I mean on track is project will safely delivered with in budget, with in time line and with accepted quality with out any additional hours from team. Some times at certain phases of the project you might end up with spending less than normal work hours. It is most common thing in IT field. In my experience I have seen most of the IT professionals used to it and take this as daily part of their life including myself. The main concern of the client in your case is not showing flexibility where as others might have shown. That is biggest concern. Even if I am in client situation i would also concern much about it. I believe you missed below points before negotiation - You should have checked and understand the project situation to assess whether you are in a position to negotiate or not. - You should have checked with your competitors and other of your team members how they are reacting with such demands. Now what? For this problem you can do 2 things. 1. Go to the recruiter and client talk once and accept their demand and continue with that job. 2. Move on and look for new job. But In a long term either you be prepared to work for long hours when situation arises or bring your disability at the time of interview itself. I believe carrying this disability potentially hurts your chances of getting offer. 

It would only be appropriate to mention company b if you re given an opening to do so, ie in response to a question about previous employers, most likely in the personal interview and not the phone one, and only in the context that you ve done your research on company A and your recruiter. Asking the recruiter why they left company B would be inappropriate at all times, at least as I see it. 

Its perfectly understandable to be in an economic position that every pound matters. In which case you should clarify up-front with the company's HR their policy on expenses made on the basis of the interview process(since they knew you were not local). Its a whole different thing however to ask for compensation after the process concluded and after those expenses were already made. 

Since noone touched on this: Keep in mind the issue they face is most likely them only being able to get the FR keyboard version from the french market. Doubt it would cost them anything extra to get you the US one over the FR, if they were both offered, I mean they did offer to get the exact model you asked for, doubt they would make a fuss over keyboard layouts to begin with.