The (...) is there because I failed to translate a short part. The "violent force" is literal translation of "przemoc", which is a clear reference to words of Polish national anthem, which translated to English are: What the enemy's force has seized, we'll take back by the sword. Recruitment in camps So now imagine you're a Pole in the prisoner-of-war camp, right after Normandy. Of course the morale is at the lowest level which means completely no discipline. All Germans are angry with you, blaming Poles for not fighting. Allies realized what was happening, so in some camps, they arranged separate places for people of different nationality. But until it happened, they didn't want to interfere. So you could only stick together as a group of Poles, for better protection, until somebody came and took you out. In this situation Polish officials had to act quickly. So Polish officers were coming from place to place and talked with soldiers about Polish Army Forces, offering joining them and fighting for liberation. Now as for "Polish-Americans", mentioned by you. Of course there were around 2000 Polish-Americans who came fighting from United States and joined Polish Army Forces in 1944/1945. There also surely were some of Polish-Americans with American Army. But I don't think any of them had higher rank or any reputation, especially that American soldiers lacked experience and it was just the beginning of their campaign in Europe. And on the other side there were Polish Army Forces full of officers, already with big successes, fighting from the beginning of the war, on all fronts (they came from Russia through Middle East to Italy), who could easily turn Wehrmacht soldiers to fight for Allies. In this situation, who would care for Polish-Americans? Of course I don't suppose you thought about Polish-Americans trying to convince Poles to join Allied forces in the middle of battle, with bullets swinging above the heads. :) Investigation Those soldiers who agreed, landed in special camps in Scotland (Hamilton, Johnstone, Findo Gask), England (Grimsby) and France (Cherbourg, also Polish sector of St. Raphael camp). There were also camps in Italy (Taranto, San Basilio), but served for other Polish soldiers, not from Normandy and western campaign. Those camps were only for Poles and guarded only by soldiers from Polish Army Forces, as it was part of the agreement. Group after group, they were later sent to Polkemmet in Scotland (speaking of the western camps), for closer look. Polish officials were checking their health, abilities and most importantly, if they were really willing to fight for Poland. For example they were checking the soldier's rank in Wehrmacht. The lower it was, the better for the soldier (as any Pole with higher rank could be in fact on the Hitler's side). Also they were checking if particular soldier had anything to do with SS, which was hated by all Poles from obvious reasons. There was a case of a Polish soldier from Waffen-SS, who succeeded to hide it and claimed that he served in Wehrmacht. Nobody found out about it until the end of the world, while the soldier received a high reputation among his new combat friends for killing Germans. Consequences for soldiers Now another interesting thing. What was important for the soldiers was the fact that from that time, being officially deserters from Wehrmacht, they were no longer under protection of Geneva Conventions. So in order to protect themselves and their families, every soldier had a new pseudonym. Of course there was small probability that a such soldier becomes recognized by Germans as previous Wehrmacht member, but there were such stories, the first one noticed in June of 1940. That led to the situation where many of them, who died in fights, were buried under false names around cemeteries of Europe. Back to the front The overall level of such soldiers was different. Of course all of them had already their military training and experience, so they didn't need another one and could be sent directly to the front. Many of them had even some good habits from Wehrmacht, f.e. regarding discipline and neatness. As pretty much everywhere, they were of different abilities. Some of them were excellent soldiers, while some others rather poor ones. Among the best ones there were soldiers from famous Fallschirm-Panzer Division 1 "Hermann Göring". Also mechanics from Luftwaffe had great abilities because of special trainings. Of course at the beginning it was difficult for Polish regular soldiers to trust those who served in Wehrmacht. But later, especially when more of them came and in many units there were more than half of ex Wehrmacht soldiers, people stopped thinking about it. In overall, Wehrmacht soldiers made a good addition to Allied forces. It's was nicely described by one of Polish veterans, who said that "it was Wehrmacht itself who conquered Bologna for the II Corp" (Bologna was the last act of Italian campaign in April of 1945). That's all from me, as it's 3am here in Poland. I live the rest of nations for others. 

I've just received a confirmation from Warsaw, that as it's written in the book "Encyklopedia Warszawy" (PWN, 1994), by that time, until January Uprising, it was just a marshal prison for criminals, which was transferred there from Baszta Mostowa (Bridge Tower). The linked source says it used to be "Więzienie Inkwizycyjne", which means prisoners temporary arrested for interrogation. Pawiak was only for males, while Serbia prison next to Pawiak, served for women. In the book "Rządy księcia Paskiewicza w Królestwie Polskiem <1832-1847>", (written by Ks. Szczerbatow in 1900), which covers a.o. law and prison problematic, the only place mentioned in connection with political prisoners is Warsaw Citadel. You can find its full text here, when they turn on the server once again. 

This question is only about copies of the spear that's kept in Vienna, not the Roman one or any other that are connected with "original" Holy Lance. I'm making this research for the story I'm in the middle of writing I'll answer this question with what I've found out during my research up to this time, but first I'll wait for other responses (according to what I've understood from different meta topics, that's the way I should do, but maybe I'm wrong, I've got no experience with this site). In 1000, Holy Roman Emperor Otto III and duke of Poland, Boleslaw I Chrobry, met at the Congress of Gniezno, which was the first capitol of Poland. During the meeting, Otto III gave Polish prince the copy of Holy Lance, which (so called "original one", even if it's from 8th century) is recently kept in Vienna, as a part of Imperial Regalia. It was one of symbols of his acceptance for creation of Kingdom of Poland, which was part of Otto's idea for expanding Empire's influence in Eastern Europe, through allies with Poland and Hungary. While the wooden staff didn't survive the millenium, it's spearhead is still kept at Krakow's Wawel Castle. Unfortunately the reliquary with a fragment of nail (from Jesus' cross, according to legends) was stolen (with much more of Polish crown treasure) by king John Casimir II from Swedish dynasty of Vasa, when he decided to leave Polish throne. He took it to Paris, where he became an abbot of Abbey of Saint-Germain-des-Prés. The relic finally vanished when the chapel was robbed during French Revolution, in 1793. I know the story of Polish one well, the same with the one in Vienna and found some good Hungarian language sources on the St. Stephen's spear, at least until the 17th century. But there were few other copies and I would be very happy to receive any additional informations about them. To who they were gifted, by which of Holy Roman Empire rulers and what was the reason? What happened to them later? Especially any informations about spear gifted to Gerard of Lorraine (I believe that's the "Gerhard of Alsace" mentioned in Polish sources). 

My time to add something. Don't forget about the logistic. For example, motorized infantry has definitely bigger chances to provide good medical service to wounded soldiers, or take them out of the battlefield even during the fights. 

After Franklin suggested that no serf ever realized the potential of improving their conditions and the right to education, I'd like to introduce a story of Aleksandr Nikitenko, who went to school being a serf and later, as a free man, became a professor at St. Petersburg University. He was emancipated by his owner in 1824, at the age of 20. 

We find here some of the same surnames, while with more details who was responsible for what. What's very important is that both Brusilov and Dmowski were nationalists, who were strongly against Germans. Unfortunately I don't know if it's possible that Dmowski read Brusilov's memoir and was inspired by him to write it. From the words of Dmowski we can clearly see that many of persons mentioned by Brusilov were nominated by each other, as they surely wanted to cooperate with "their own" people. F.e. Essen, Uthof and Trauebenberg are mentioned as assistants of Skalon, Hesse was nominated by Herschelmann and Gresser by baron von Korff's, whose cousin was Skalon's wife etc. I also see there the surname of president of Warsaw, Aleksander Miller, who's also referred as Müller by Wikipedia, but who was born in Sankt-Petersburg. The list of town's presidents shows that usually presidents were Polish. There were two presidents of half-French or half-German origins, but it was 60 years later. There's also one Russian. Also governors of Warsaw Military District before Skalon weren't of German origin. Military administration outside of Warsaw With military administration, mentioned in the original question, it's a bit different. Here are some military high officers with which Brusilov could cooperate, except for Skalon's administration. What about other high officers in the same rank as Brusilov? The commander of the neighboring 15th Army Corp was an Orthodox born in Tallin. I would also take into account the leaders of units under Brusilov's command, as those officers with which he had the contact most often: 

I'll just clarify that the province name for Mascara was Couchant, while Mascara was one of three towns from which beys governed in different years, with Mascara being the right one for 1731, moved there by Mustapha bou Chelagram (Mustafa al Masrafi) from Mazouna in 1710 and later in 1792 to Oran. This way Frederik I could receive the gift from at least 4 different persons. I can suppose such a gift for an European king would come from the most important of them. But even that it's not clear. According to English language Wikipedia list, the dey in 1731 was Abdy Pasha. However French language list claims that Abdy Pasha (Kurd Abdi) was replaced by Ibrahim III in 1731, not 1732. So even in this situation, there are at least 2 and up to 5 candidates. Unfortunately, I wasn't able to find any English and French language Internet materials related to any of them. This way I wonder, who exactly made that gift to Frederik I of Sweden, on what opportunity and why? From what I know, there weren't any important contacts between Regency of Algiers and Sweden in 18th century, but my knowledge on this subject is narrow. 

The main differences that could change the possible way after 1899 were the development of Russian railways in the first decade of 20th century and the overall development and changes in railways during the World War I. Still, take in mind that when the war finished, there were only a few rail connections between areas of Poland that were previously parts of different empires. So it was much easier to go by train from Polish town to another country than to another Polish town. But... It's possible that she didn't take the train from Warsaw, as many Polish peasants who tried to emigrate were crossing the border illegally, paying the bribe, which was was much easier on smaller routes. With the help of Google you can translate this post from Polish genealogy board speaking about Polish emigration to USA in the end of 19th century, which covers this subject among others. Of course it could look pretty different in the times of World War I. Also are you sure about Gdansk? Because at the same article it's written that at the end of 19th century the main ports from which Poles were leaving to USA were Bremen, Antwerp and Hamburg. EDIT: I've found the following map, showing ports from which emigrants from another Galician town, Świlcza, were coming to New York between 1897 and 1924. As we can see, there's also Gdansk on the list, even if the numbers show it was much less popular option. More details at the linked website in Polish language.