People today think for some reason that the founding fathers were religious men, you know "Good-old Christians" and the sort. Of course this isn't exactly true. Sure, they did think a god of some sort existed, but if they said things like "It's made one half the world fools and the other half hypocrites", and "Lighthouses are more useful then churches", then it's safe to assume that they were for the most part deists, merely using a god to "Fill in the gaps" if you will. That said, they were also part of the upper class, a position that often buys you a chance to doubt your faith in a way the more desperate lower class folk often couldn't or didn't want to. Thus, it's safe to assume most people were more religious at the time. But I'm curious, what exactly did the poorer majority think of their dear founding fathers religious stance(s)? Did they know of their doubts and if so did they think less of them for that? Or is it like today, where most people wrongly assume the founding fathers to be faithful men of the book, oblivious to their actual alignment? 

Did the Nazis ever cite Martin Luther's "The Jews and their lies" to justify the holocaust and their generally antisemitic ideas? I've been looking and thus far haven't found much, just wondering if there are any records of something like this happening or not. 

The nuclear family we see today is basically the smallest most regular social structure. Others exist like the company or the church, but at the end of the day most people ether live alone or within one of these family units. That said, I'd argue this is actually not the most ideal structure, as it often results in those who live in ways that differ (gays, unmarried, alone, single mothers, etc) being unfairly shunned simply for not conforming. With this, I'm just curious, Are there any examples in history of a family structure that could serve as a possible replacement for the nuclear family? ps: Apologies if my questions suck, I'm new to this part of stackexchange. 

Stalin was an ideologue, but not a very rigid one, and he was not an idiot. He supported Israel because it was a thorn in the side of the British Empire (and its Arab relationships), not because the Zionists were left wing. After all, left wing or right wing, anyone who did not toe the Moscow's line precisely was an enemy (cf Tito-Stalin Split). Stalin knew full well that people neither join the communist camp nor enter the prison camp voluntarily, and did not expect Israel to do so; and he did not have the resources to turn Israel into another Poland or Romania. 

He prioritized it to deny USSR the Baku oil (170MB/y). Getting Baku oil for Germany was a pipe dream (OTOH, Hitler was famous for pipe dreams - the relevant one involved Rommel from North Africa meeting List from Caucasus in Palestine and sending an expeditionary force from there to India). Getting North Caucasus oil (50MB/y) was more realistic, but less lucrative. 

Austria-Hungary (until 1918) Western Ukrainian National Republic Poland (1918-1939) USSR (1939-1941) Reichskommissariat Ukraine (1941-1944) Poland (1944-1946) USSR (1946-1991) Ukraine (1991-now) 

Here stands for, as DVK guessed, generalized linear model. In other words, if we build a regression model 

Do you want to preserve the Union? Do you want the union to be preserved as a Federation? Do you want the federal subjects to be equal and sovereign? Do you want equal right for persons of all ethnicities? 

In addition to the other two excellent answers, this was the first "telegraph war": the governments in London and Paris could communicate with the field commander in (almost) real time and the newspapers received communications in real time too. Think about it: 

There is no alliance to seal (there is nothing the low-born's family can offer to the high-born family). If a nobleman lusts for a low-born woman, she would, of course, need the protection of marriage, but there is no reason for the nobleman to provide it: he has enough power to take her by force or blackmail. If a noblewoman lusts for a low-born man, she needs no protection; it is also an exceedingly rare situation for her to have a say in her life - nubile women were treated as assets to be traded to neighbors in marriage for an alliance. 

No! The US saw involvement with the Chinese war effort as very much part of their overall war effort. Ref (2) below is a US Army military history brochure which portrays the Chinese activities as a US campaign. (Probably even more than it was). By keeping China in the war, in the order of 1 million Japanese troops were kept occupied and were thus not available for use elsewhere. This was probably around 20% of total Japanese military manpower. 

Related: It's worth noting the little (apparently) known fact that the Chinese and Vietnamese held Vietnam Warr part 3* between themselves after the end of part 2 with substantial losses on both sides. (*Part 1 - with France, part 2 with USA). Significant disgreements exist to the present and various "incidents" involving deaths on both sides (mainly offshore) occurred over decades. There is an interesting website here (Googlabet translate does and OK job for those who do not speak French. The Paracel Islands, a continuing conflict I became more aware of the issues involved after being asked for permission to use one of my photos of the Paracelles* by a Quebec university. At the time I imagined it was tourist or marine related and only recently discovered the actual use. (Mine is the pretty blue photo and maybe also the rice terraces)(maybe not the latter. From that site: - translated from French by Googlabet. 

Supplies sent by Burma Road in 1 year - May 1941 - April 1942. 110,864 tons (so precise :-)) or about 300 tons per day. About 60% of what was achieved by air per day subsequently. Major impediments, in addition to the road itself, were Burmese customes procedures (somewhat surprisingly), and a very steep in-Burma railway section that required the use of "mountain railway" engines and small load sizes. A section of the Burma Road [!!!!] A degree of dedication by the Allies in maintaining supplies is indicated. Wikipedia - Burma Road 

I would love to see an answer to the "guiding questions" too. Here I will provide a mathematician's (game theorist's, in this case) background on the subject, answering the question "qui prodest" - in case of one state splitting in two. If you think this "side topic" has no place here, I will delete the answer. Tax base: this is a zero-sum game: is those who secede are "rich", then they benefit from keeping their taxes to themselves, while those they secede from suffer. This is not interesting. Presidential Elections: this is interesting because the Shapley value is super-additive! This means that the total power of the two new states will be smaller that that of the original state. This implies that the other states will benefit from the secession. To make it clear, let us consider an example. Suppose we have a huge state which has over 50% of electoral votes. This means that this state determines the outcome of the presidential election completely. So its Shapley value is 1 and everyone else's 0. Now that the state is split in half, the other states have a say in the presidential elections, which benefits them. Congress: the share of representatives is proportional to the population and thus does not change, but the number of senators is fixed per state and this does change. Since this is more visible and simpler to understand than Shapley value, the other states might incorrectly think that the secession is against their interests because it dilutes their representation in the Senate. 

I am not sure what you mean by "joined the fray", but it does appear that Rommel did not share Hitler's antisemitism despite being relatively close to him throughout the 1930-ies. Rommel admired Hitler for his success in dismantling the Versailles regime, but ... 

However, antisemitism did not disappear, it is just names its targets differently (Rootless cosmopolitans, Zionists). The roots of antisemitism are simple - xenophobia is a normal (i.e., common) part of human psyche and it manifests itself in all sorts of bigotries. All minorities suffer from its consequences (e.g., Chinese in California 150 years ago as documented by Mark Twain). When the hated minority is "invisible" (almost completely assimilated, like the Jews in Germany 100 years ago), the bigotry can feed conspiracy theories and become much more vicious. The only part of Nazi antisemitism which was unprecedented was the scale, i.e., applying the full power of 20th century industry to the task of exterminating people (Jews, Gypsies, homosexuals &c). The racial laws were not particularly exotic by world standards (cf. Dhimmi).