Three months after Shakyamuni's death the first Buddhist Council was convened. There was no written method to record his teaching so a group of monks, many with eidetic memories, were chosen to commit the Buddha's lessons to memory. This was the system used to pass down his teachings for hundreds of years. So, that said. it remains rather unsurprising that certain liberties were taken with the "facts" in order to facilitate a good story. The type of story that would survive hundreds of years of interpretations. When I see what appear to be outlandish statements I try to focus instead on the idea or feeling they are trying to emphasize with the casual approach to reality. Especially in various koans this approach becomes very useful. I see the exercise as a further lesson taught to us by the dharma. Not as some attempt to mislead. I hope this helps you. I encountered the same concerns years ago as I sought refuge in the dharma. In fact, to me this is part of seeking refuge ... how willing and successful are you at parsing the kernel of knowledge gleaned amidst the so-called chaff? Namaste my friend. 

While I have never had such an experience that lasted for days, I have had some rather zen moments upon reaching epiphanies during contemplative thought. I think the longest was about 15 minutes long and happened when I realized the true nature of the universe. Again, not during meditation but during a period of "focused unfocusing". I would simply relax, get rid of all external stimuli, and play a ringing bell tone. Once there I'd follow any thought down its' rabbit hole and see where it leads me. No single procedure regarding resting and focusing the mind covers all the ways it may occur. You may have your own self-learned method or stimuli that brings you to a similar or (obviously) greater point. Consider me suitably impressed, but not surprised. We all have our particular strengths - maybe this one is yours? I'd certainly explore it further. No matter what your faith or beliefs being able to focus your mind in such a manner will have a myriad of benefits. Learning things about your mind is a significant step forward in humanity. Congratulations!! Enjoy the ride. 

Please allow me to add another view. Keep in mind that this is part of a rather new approach combining the ancient views on consciousness and karma and finding explanations for them based on current scientific findings and theories. For a moment envision us as merely the passengers within the physical constraints of this body. Much like taking a plastic bag and moving it thru the air to inflate and then we quickly close it off at the opening. WE are the empty inside while our body (all of it including the brain) is the bag. We are merely consciousness inside. Awareness. And we only experience things as our perceptions and mind allow/interpret. Outside of our bag we were merely awareness. Everywhere awareness, but simply awareness nonetheless. While limited to measly perceptions, short lifespans, and strict obedience to linear time in these bodies we are able to affect change. This is something that we could NOT do merely as awareness. This change causes not only instantaneous effects, but also chains of subsequent events as a result. This is known as karma. Here is where it really starts getting interesting. The multiple universe theory suggests that all possible outcomes are around us at all times. The universe we select is the one we encounter based upon our individual choices and the world we have built around us. Part of that world is the karma we created by our actions and choices and perceptions and the subsequent events those create. It's interesting to note the double slit experiment here. All things that must be wave or particle are both until we perceive them. This is scientifically proven. Our consciousness perceiving things actually affects the real world on a quantum level and this in turn affects the future. Going forward. This is karma. Cosmic momentum. Now there are scientists showing that we actually store these quantum changes in the microtubules of our brain cells. article These same scientists also believe in the plastic bag theory of consciousness - that consciousness is merely an embodiment of the everything surrounding us in a human form. And that when this body passes it merely merges back into the whole. But what about that resultant karma? The leftover karma creates the issues for many. If you set a bunch of events into motion then who will be on the receiving end of those probability changes and the like that existed when that body passed away? Once that consciousness is "ejected" back into the ether what becomes of those resultants? Do they merely fizzle away? I am starting to believe that WE can actually clear our karma thru meditation. I will dig thru the vedas and upanishads and dhammapada to see if such an interpretation may fit into their readings or if it even should. But I believe this is the beginning to the confluence between the physical world and the world of consciousness. Of course this will support the idea that Karma inevitably happens no matter what actions are choices or decisions we make. But it also May support the idea that we are unable to merge with the Consciousness whole wow we have Karma results attached to us. If it is true or can be shown that meditation can get rid of karma then we may find our link between physical world and the universe on a corporeal level. This can also support issues such as the type of karma affecting the type of rebirth. Perhaps a negative resultant Karma demands a certain type of vessel at rebirth. 

All potential probabilities exist around us. ([Multiple Universe explanation here])1 It is our very perceptions that shape the material content of the universe we will experience - albeit a combination of ours and all those we bring into our world. ([Double Slit experiment explanation])2 These perceptions and their resulting change in quantum mechanic probabilities are the karma. A chain reaction of the resultants of our perceptions. Research now suggests that these changes of probability and other resultant karma are stored in the micro-lobules of the brain.([tie between quantum physics and karma])3 So, in short, our sensory experience creates the very cause and effect that further creates. Thus the maxim becomes true that nothing is experienced unless you created the cause - either directly or by your inclusion of others in your world. 

I dont understand such affinity for the complex. Granted, Buddhism remains very intellectual compared to the methodical Christian beliefs of which I was so accustomed. But why need it be so intellectual? I am looking for the answers to the Universe, not a mensa application. In fact, I often see complexity as a weakness. Simplicity is, to me, a much greater sign of intellect. Recall the first stanza of the Isha Upanishad: The Lord is enshrined in the hearts of all. The Lord is the supreme reality. Rejoice in him thru renunciation. Covet nothing. All belongs to the Lord. Thus working may you live 100 years. Thus alone will you work in real freedom. Very simple, but also quite thorough. I find these passages much more insightful than "11 factor formula sensory objects" and the like. They are usually easier to fit into a general philosophy and the latter often contradicts modern scientific methods. Much of the academic exercise requires matching concepts and terms between different fields and different languages. Therefore being pedantic and taxing over a tight fit makes little sense. Concepts should be kept at the simplest level for understanding as they are carried across different cultures and languages and even times. One of the most complicated translations involves explaining Buddhist dharma regarding the mind using current scientific knowledge. See also the 5 skanzas of existence. Current methodologies use completely different divisions for taxonomy. So much of the literature developed over the years completely contradicts that which scientists and biologists and doctors and engineers use today. So I prefer a greater emphasis on simplicity.