Besides the obvious where the company is failing to make payroll or layoffs have started, I would say the increase in meetings is a sign. There are two types of meetings you'll see as the doomsday approaches. The first is the "Drink The Kool-Aid meeting." This is the one where Management knows things are bad, but doesn't want to see any of their top end talent leave. There will be a meeting, probably around lunch, and they'll say how great things are. How people just need to rally and circle the wagons and come out stronger. The second is the "Coming to Jesus" meeting. This is the one where management all sits down and realizes they are in a bad way. You'll see higher ranking people constantly in meetings, shuffling deck chairs on the Titanic. 

Never give honest feedback in an exit interview, no good comes of it. If they care about you, the quality of the work environment and employees in general you wouldn't be in the spot you're in now. Just go through the formalities and get on out of dodge 

Performance Reviews are OK and should be welcome. Now if you go through this and they have issues with your work and throw you on a period of performance or some sort of "performance plan" then you can worry. But for now - don't sweat it 

Sounds like you might be part of the problem here. You shouldn't be whistling in an open office environment, it's annoying and rude 

If you're employed in the United States and are salary, you are most likely at-will employment. Meaning that an employer can terminate the employment for almost any reason. While no one is holding a gun to your head and making you drive into the office on the weekend, be prepared for fallout if you do not. 

I think it depends on the person, management and the organization. I've seen it go both ways as I think many others have. A former developer I worked with was not performing up to task. He was given the dreaded PIP - and from there shifted over to Q&A as an attempt to find a way to use him. 

A slight variation would be to replace the last sentence with something like "I look forward to hearing from you once you've had a chance to get caught up," which implies that you understand he might take a day or two to get through all his email and reply. 

Having read a definition of CTC and its components, I'm going to say that you have to ask your current HR for an official breakdown. For example, some of the things included are Office Space Rent, Incentives or bonuses (which might include your variable pay), and Income tax savings. There's no way for you to know what the company is spending on your office space, without asking them. You might not be able to tell what tax-free benefits you're getting that they're covering the tax on. And so on. The only way to get a solid CTC is to ask. 

I'd suggest going for a level of formality between the other two answers, although you should take your cue from any previous communications, if you can. Also, keep in mind that you don't know the reason for the travel - it could be pleasure (vacation), it could be personal (visiting family for good or bad reasons), it could be business (a conference), or any number of other situations. It's best to not make any assumptions about it. I'd reply to the "please contact me" email with something like this: 

You definitely shouldn't take any action against this person directly. Everyone else is right about that. However, as an alternative idea, you can mention to someone at the other company there that you just interviewed person X who claimed to have worked for them. You can do this officially (in the context of performing the background check) or unofficially (tell someone you know there "Hey, I just interviewed someone who said..."). Let it be on that company to decide if it's worth it to them to put out a notice preemptively saying "We did not have this person working for us," if they desire. 

Your mileage may vary but after one job of multiple years post college, the GPA is just a bit superfluous. 

Do you ever want to work with this place again in the future? Think there's a chance you'll run into this person again? Just do it face-to-face. No reason to scorch the earth on your way out. You never know who will run into who or how things will play out in the future. I still chat and keep tabs with two previous bosses from over the years because of how I handled my exit strategy. 

The question isn't stupid - if they ask you to think out the whole process as they want to see how you approach the problem. Mostly from an optimization standpoint. But ya, think about it from an optimization standpoint. Think out-loud, whiteboard, whatever and keep thinking "can I do this better?" 

Let me warn you of the cautions of using a job offer from company B to leverage a raise out of your current company. If you do this - there could be blow back and the company could get the impression that as soon as a better offer comes or more money is thrown your way you'll bail. Is that the case? Probably not. But some people get antsy and worry. Also, even if a counter-offer is made by company A, it may not be what you were offered by company B. Furthermore when/if reviews/raises come out next cycle don't be shocked to find out that the counter-offer basically negates any raise you would have received. The short version - if the only time the company values you is when you're looking to leave, then it's probably time to leave 

This isn't totally uncommon. Google for instance was known to give study guides out for a while depending on the req they were looking to fill. It was so you could be well read on the items of discussion and be well prepared. 

As an employee you have no reason to provide "loyalty" to an employer as employment is at-will. They could terminate you for just about any reason at any moment, so the thought that leaving them high & dry shouldn't be your concern. Evaluate the pros & cons of leaving and go from there. Sometimes the grass is greener, sometimes it isn't.