Did Aristotle mean by 'Mean' exactly the middle between two extremes, or just some "sweet spot" that need not be the middle at all? 

Does that imply that the English-speaking world believes in hard determinism, at least unconsciously? Does language in this case reflect the speakers' beliefs? 

What philosophers argued that in a complex situation, every individual who's involved in the situation has the same value, so to speak? So, in the case above, do the faults of Mrs. Watchit, the jeweler or the poor bastard (and of all the other individuals involved in the situation, including the robber, the protagonist that had decided to walk in that park that day, etc.) have the same "size"? 

Does this apply to humans? I'm not referring to any hypothetical intelligent designer. What I mean is that out of all animals, only humans (at least normal ones) seem to conceive children with an intention (e.g. with an intention of having another loved one, etc.) and not just because they desperately want to reproduce. 

What exactly did Hardy mean by "ugly mathematics"? For example, would Hardy find the number π ugly if he found out about the tau manifesto? 

It's not necessarily a contradiction. (By the way, the question the way you have put it has to do with logic and the philosophy of language and has nothing to do with psychology.) Before we begin, let's take a look at what definitons of the words "trust" and "anxiety" Merriam-Webster gives: 

Your question "Why am I here?" could be taken to mean any number of things, but you appear to clarify (slightly, and rather confusingly) in the first and second paragraphs when you say: 

The first could be taken as a biological question or a religious one. The second might refer to counterfactual scenarios, to a question regarding the extent of human agency, or perhaps to an inquiry into the question of why a person makes one set of decisions rather than another (if the latter is true, then it's likely a psychological question). The danger I see is attempting to answer a biological, psychological, or religious question in a manner that is uniquely philosophical. Of course, that's not always an easy boundary to discern, but it often amounts to a person conducting some ill-formed study of life (for example) from the armchair. I don't think anyone will get very far if he intends to gather knowledge of mitochondrial DNA or the history of the cosmos by means of pure speculation. I assume that many immersed in the philosophical tradition would classify topics such as counterfactuals and human agency (especially if the latter amounts to a question of freedom of will) as being properly philosophical. David Lewis and Saul Kripke (contemporary professors of philosophy) wrote quite a bit about counterfactuals, and countless philosophers had something to say about the determinism debate (Hume in the 18th Century, and Mark Balaguer this century). Additionally, if your question is related not just to agency in terms of outward action but also to freedom of belief (doxastic voluntarism), many others have commented on the topic: Dion Scott-Kakures, William Alston, and Robert Audi come to mind. Final note: Philosophy does not ask questions, people do. However, I understood what you meant. 

Is this really so? Imagine the whole English-speaking world and the people behind making leading English dictionaries gather up and collectively decide that from now on, the words 'tail' and 'leg' are synonyms. Would then the answer to the question 'how many legs does a dog have' be 'five'? What does modern philosophy of language have to say about this? 

Does the difficulty of making sense of quantum mechanical phenomena, (i.e. arriving at a nice philosophical interpretation of QM) taken together with Everett's many-worlds interpretation, constitute real evidence for accepting modal realism? I understand that Everett's worlds are just nomologically possible worlds, not possible worlds in general. Has this already been discussed somewhere philosophically? 

Are (or were) there any philosophers that argue (or argued) that the human brain cannot be understood using a human brain, i.e. that it's impossible for a human to understand the human brain completely? 

When an atheist says she's spiritual, she means that she finds beauty and balance in the world around her and in her very own self. There are lots of activities other than the ones that have to do with religion that you can participate in that will get you that outlook on life: art, science, philosophy, etc. 

As you've already stated, S→L cannot be proven (in the formal sense of the word) from any assumptions we would normally make. Therefore, because propositional logic is sound, we conclude that S→L must be false. 

This is a false dichotomy; into which category would you place moral fictionalism? To me, it seems to require an independent one. 

Axiom: Everyone believes in something. P1: I am skeptical of everything. Conclusion: I believe that I am skeptical of everything This conclusion cannot be drawn. Even if we assume that "I am skeptical of everything" is synonymous with "I don't believe in anything", we cannot infer "I believe that I am skeptical of everything". The axiom ensures only that the individual making the assertion has some belief or other. It does not ensure that every statement within L is a belief. I think you're right to assume that the axiom above would prevent someone from coherently asserting that they don't believe in anything. But to be honest, I'm a little unsure why you're attempting to rely on the inference (the conclusion), because we can obtain a contradiction prior to inferring anything if we assume that the two statements you consider equivalent are actually equivalent. With unclear terms such as "skepticism", we'd be much better off talking about more precise phenomena such as withholding judgment, doubting the truth of some statement, or asserting that every statement is potentially falsifiable. Also, I'm not sure how mainstream philosophy or logic would respond, but I think we have good reason to refrain from considering perceptual reports (There is a red car) or reports of outlook (I am skeptical of everything) as being on par with those things we normally think of when we refer to "beliefs": our attitudes toward some subjectively unverified assertion. If this is right, then it would be senseless to say "I believe that I am skeptical of everything"; you'd be, in a sense, unnecessarily tacking an attitude onto another attitude. 

Are there any examples of philosophers who did (or do) neither analytic nor continental philosophy, but rather practiced (or practice) a harmonious mix between the two? 

English speakers put the definite article "the" before the word "future" when they refer to the future (no pun intended). For example: 

In the movie Time Machine (2002) there is a scene in which the protagonist and his girlfriend are walking in the park and the robber they meet wants to take her ring (bought for her by the protagonist). The protagonist refuses to give the ring to him which results in the robber shooting the girlfriend and killing her. After that, there is a scene where the protagonist is talking with his friend about this: 

Many years ago I read somewhere that metathinking is absolutely impossible without ordinary language (be it a natural language like English, or a constructed one like Esperanto). After this statement a very persuasive argument followed, however I am not able to reconstruct it at all, no matter how hard I try. Internet searches are of no help. Can somebody present a persuasive argument defending the abovementioned view, or a refutation of it (in case I misremembered the whole thing)? This is not a homework question. 

It seems like in (ii) we posit consciousness, this complex unexplainable "thing", on billions of people. So, the natural questions are: Does Occam's razor actually favor (i) over (ii)? If so, then why is (ii) so widespread, even among philosophers? 

I'll try to offer a brief sketch that moves from what I take to be "overarching" (more inclusive) complaints to more specific ones. Please keep in mind that I am, personally, very dissatisfied by most of Postmodern thought; I'm not trying to hide that fact or pretend to distance myself from judgment. Postmodernism, at its most basic level, is a critique of Modernism. This critique is motivated by a dissatisfaction with philosophical Liberalism, which amounts to a distaste for capitalism and an appreciation of individualism, among other things. It's obvious that people who consider these "Enlightenment values" to be good (useful, respectable, fair, successful) will already, at this relatively nascent stage, be suspicious of Postmodernism. This suspicion is not unique to "right-wingers" or what the average American calls "Republicans" because this critique flows from Classical Liberals, Libertarians, many Democrats and everyone who is opposed to most of contemporary Progressivism. Related to this is the Postmodernist's attitude toward science and rationality. Social constructivism, a distaste for "totalizing statements", and skepticism about objectivity, indifference, and progress are very important features here. To be frank, I think a lot of this stems from misunderstanding what these terms mean and what role they play in scientific investigations. "Objectivity" is parsed as "unchanging, universal truths", "indifference" is considered an anti-human (or life-negating) emotion, "individualism" is thought to be identical to selfishness and opposed to solidarity, and rationality is seen as an oppressive tool of the patriarchy. To be fair, I really do think that the concept of objectivity is horribly inflated and mis-used by scientists and lay people, but there are alternatives! We can all be fallibilists about knowledge (even the kind that arises out of empirical and formal efforts) without being skeptical about science and rationality. Another feature is relativism and subjectivism. This is related to constructivism and probably stems from it. Moral judgments are relative to cultural practices and reality itself is sometimes considered as having no residue of perception-independent stuff. Gender fluidity might not be related but the attitude is similar: since gender is a social construct, we can find ourselves anywhere along a spectrum. However, there are alternatives here as well: instead of becoming relativists, we can become fictionalists about morality and gender. As I mentioned earlier, many of these attitudes are the result of misunderstandings ... ones that might possibly arise as a result of not exploring the intellectual landscape very thoroughly. Please don't take this as a complete critique of Postmodernism. I can't clarify all of my attitudes and arguments here, and it's obvious that adherents will categorize these things differently. 

Now, here's the catch: trust is something you have to a certain degree, but anxiety is something you either have or you don't. In other words, predicate like "I trust in X" "belongs" to the fuzzy logic, while the predicate "I have anxiety because I don't know if X will fail me or not" "belongs" to both the fuzzy logic and classical logic. It is surely a contradiction to say "I trust X completely and have anxiety because I don't know if X will fail me or not" , but it's not a contradiction to say "I trust X a little bit and have anxiety because I don't know if X will fail me or not". Taking this all into consideration, we can understand now why you even have this question: you speak English, and English (like virtually all natural languages) is vague. You cannot know for sure whether a person claiming "I trust X" really means "My level of trust in X is 100%" (i.e. "I trust X completely"), or if she really means "My level of trust in X is 99%" (can be obviously any number reasonably close to 100). So, in short the answer is that the statement "I trust X and have anxiety because I don't know if X will fail me or not" is a contradiction if and only if by "I trust X" the person claiming this really means "I trust X 100%". In all other cases, it is not technically a contradiction. 

What are the differences between these outlooks? What is a good source of information on this topic? 

In an essay entitled "Why I am not a Conservative", Hayek distances himself from both "Continental liberalism" and "English liberalism", while calling himself an "Old Whig": 

Think about this for a second. What kind of evidence are you expecting the atheist to have? Let's find an example of a successful negative existential in order to see if your expectations are reasonable. Surely, the claim "There are no plastic figurines filled with lemon juice on my front lawn" can be verified. But this claim differs from the claim in question ("God does not exist") because it carves out some domain to be investigated (my front lawn). If we extend that domain to include the known and unknown universe, along with any neighboring dimension that a deity might inhabit, you'll see that a problem arises: failing to come across such a figurine does not mean that it doesn't exist, because it might simply be somewhere we haven't looked. But even after modifying our example claim to render it "unrestricted", it still differs from the atheist's claim: our plastic figurine is material while God is immaterial (or so I've heard). Until we've pinpointed a way to verify this type of negative existential (one that 1. makes no reference to "where" and 2. concerns an immaterial object), then we have no reason to think the atheist can do what you've asked him to do. In other words, if this type of thing is possible, please provide an example. I have no idea how other atheists operate, but my own atheism is based on the fact that I perceive all of the theoretical and "empirical" arguments for God's existence to be unsuccessful and all accounts of revelation/miracles to be unreliable. Additionally, I feel no "God-shaped hole" in my life, I'm not convinced that another life follows this one, and practical arguments (e.g. Pascal, Kant) are unconvincing. If someone asserts that they know that God does not exist, they're being dramatic. In a situation like this, you should attribute this emphatic rhetoric to the person's personality rather than to "atheism" itself. A feeling of certainty plays no critical role in atheism just as it plays no critical role in theism. On a slightly unrelated note, you might want to practice making your questions appear more genuine. If your "question" is really just cathartic venting and if you leave comments such as