Here are images produced with radio waves in RGB, but they are frequency-inaccurate. YES, Radio telescopes can produce imagery... NO, radios are not in the visible range, otherwise a talky walky areal would glow like a lamp when it transmits information. No, Radio antenna don't capture photons electrically and it is their voltage change which is measured, they can only get hot and malfunction from light. The question is mystifying... You must read about electromagnetic spectrum energy!!! it's simple!! it is the source of all collected astronomy data and studies. It's like subtraction and division in maths, electromagnetic spectrum is fundamental. If you mix up photons and radio waves, it's like you are mixing subtractions and divisions. The bubbles here are supernova remnants, on the right is a radio galaxy. 

The waveform of binary inspiral was about 100ms with a peak for every rotation, about 10 waves/rotations were measured, ranging from 30 to 200Hz. The average female voice has a fundamental frequency of about 200hz, to have some idea, and a typical pitchfork is about 440Hz. The waveform for a head on collision would about 5ms, probably less, kindof like a snap sound. It would be indistinguishable from background noise. Sounds that consist of a single peak are like snaps on a vynil. you would challenge LIGO to detect a snap on a vynil record every hextillion years. A direct collision of solar mass bh's is something like 1 in a hextillion years for the entire universe, because the singularities are as big as atoms, distanced by 100ds of kms travelling in the 20kmps kind of range. 

The sunspots are actually depressions and low thermal pressure zones. Incredible magnetic fields are piercing the surface of the sun and the magnetic force pacifies the movement and the convection at the zone of the sunspot. that's why the surface becomes darker clouds near those magnetic fields. Elsewhere, the sun's surface has convection wells called solar granules a bit like a lava lamp, which are about 1000km diameter. You can check images of "solar convection" to study maps of convection. 

Some elements like Tg are twice as heavy as iron, melt at 2.5 times higher temps, and are conductive, so they would be much more likely than iron to be solid and to sink inwards if they are not melted into core alloys of metals. It's difficult to know the alloys and stratification of molten/solid materials that happen inside a planet. The Maximum pressure at the center of mars is about <50 GigaPascals, because earth's core pressure is 330-360Gpa maximum, and mars is 10 times lighter. Here are images where you will see that H20 at the center of mars would need over 800'C to change from ice to water. Iron needs to be over 3000K to melt inside mars at the very center , so we have no idea, all we know is that the magnetic field of earth is 40 times stronger than that of mars, which is a fairly good measure of the quantity and fluidity of metals inside mars. Scientists have more questions than answers about earth and mars's core physics, even after many years of seismology. For our planet, they have been able to determine that the center of the earth is solid iron/nickel, surrounded by a viscous and fluid outer core of similar material. If there is a lot of friction at the core of our planet, in a conductive medium, it is channeled in a N/S arrangement precisely matched with the rotation of the Earth. The Martian core is completely different, because it's magnetosphere is very irregular and lop-sided. Here are some interesting facts about martian geology: $URL$ 

By travelling to specific places, astronomers can see three thousand star comet transition events every year at m15 for the major (50km+) comets and asteroids averaging about 20 seconds, perhaps that's 25k transitions if they listed 2 seconds occultations by the same 50km comets, perhaps that's not an exhaustive survey, it may be 5/10/20k? Some easy and fun maths: There are about 500 >50km comets, and 100k >5km which would transition visibly at 40AU's, so that's 600,000 total eclipses of 

it takes a lot of hot and cold and solar wind to dry a planet into a rock, a solar system planet's natural state is to have a lot of ices, if it wasn't for atmospheric loss. You can see that there are vast amounts of H and O inside the sun and solar system, and the earth would have constantly received large volumes of water throughout it's formation. Solar radiation and freezing conditions evaporate/sublimate water and volatile gaseous chemistries, so inner planets would have more water if it were not for solar radiation and dry frost, because it sends the masses of water back out into space. H and O bond well with other minerals and they exist in many acids and minerals more prevalently than in water, i.e. there is more water 100ds of kilometers inside the planet than in the oceans. Hydrogen and Oxygen are some of the lightest elements and most likely to escape to the high atmosphere, so the end balance of the planets has been an equation between massive constant arrival of water and massive constant evaporation, where only the earth has had ambient temperature, high planet gravity, and the magnetic field to keep water as oceans, rather than H in ices and acids. The atmospheric losses can be more of light Hydrogen than Oxygen, Venus has masses of atmospheric oxygen and almost no hydrogen. 

If this is off topic, please change it to world-building. Is it possible to make a low cost heliography telescope, which is not digital, and which can be used to generate an worldwide numerical fingerprint using sun spot positions as a mathematical code? Every city in the world would have the same heliograph. Nearly all the sunlit heliographs of the world would agree what the sunspot fingerprint code is. The sun generated code would then decide who's turn it is to record financial verification tasks, government accounts, and other corruption issues. Would other cosmic signals be more practical to graph and suited to that end? Does the sun change too slowly to be useful for generate a daily random code? what about weekly? Do you have any tips of how to design a simple analogue heliograph that converts sunspots into random numerical code, (i.e. to make a crypto currency called Sun-Peso/ to decide an olympic host country)? 

Andromeda and the Milky Way are set to collide in 4bn years. Will the Local Group collide with M81, and what about further away groups? if so, when? 

The fastest hypervelocity stars are supposed to go about 900km/s 2million mph $URL$ Quasars are an obvious example of matter with near light speed velocity. When accelerated matter in the beam approaches the speed of light, astrophysical jets become relativistic jets as they show effects from special relativity. $URL$ 

The moon doesnt have really have 7 colors, you are having a slight prismatic effect from the lens. If it was an effect of the atmosphere you would have seen it. The sun's spectrum peaks in greenish colors, and the moon peaks in yellow and red colors. That explains why the moon is more yellow than the sun, although they both can look red when they are rising and setting. The colors on your photo are more blue, if you look into the lens of your camera near a window you will probably see a blue window and a white window, it is the lens flare coating and a lens artefact. The flare on the moon is also blueish green, same as your lens. Here are photos of lens flare of the sun and there is a lot of information on avoiding lens flare and different types. This pic of the sun also has violet lens flare: 

Q - How far away are approaching comets detected today? How long time before they would pass Earth orbit? A - About 30AU's. That's the same distance as neptune. Halley's comet, which is 70.56 km/s has been seen in 2003 at 28AU's away, near it's 35AU's aphelion, using three telescopes for multiple nights, Halley is 11km diameter and currently has apparent magnitude 28v. Here is a graph of apparent magnitude of a 15 kilometer comet called 2015_ER61 over 3 years from 2014 to 2017, which was detected by PANSTARRS (Panoramic Survey Telescope and Rapid Response System). It passed 0.1AU's away from us. PANSTARRS also saw the 50m interstellar asteroid in November 2017 as it was travelling away. 

The StarShot project from Breakthrough Initiatives aims to send a paper light spacecraft to alpha centauri using pressure from a laser located on earth at 20,000kms. What are the options for a transmitter that can be received from 1-4 lyrs away, if the transmitter weighs the same as a few jellybeans (<10 grams)? What wavelength and power range can they work with for that distance using that weight of equipment? 

They found in 1976 that the axial tilt and precession changes matched the geologically known ice age time periods. (see this pic for precise details) The graphs say the world will get a tiny bit warmer for a few hundred years and then colder, if it weren't for CO2 being at the highest level for many million years: 

Carbon is like lego-technic. It connects water into organic compounds which have every chemical and physical property from volatile solvent to syrup to oil to tar and rock. Silicon is like lego, try building a car out of it, it's difficult to find a good solvent for it. it can't even bond H. Silane which is the equivalent of methane doesn't occur naturally on our planet, it's too unstable. since silicon doesn't form OH compounds, it doesn't have the malleability of water, it's always rocky and unstable except at -200 degrees where it could be more versatile than carbon. silicon compounds under -180 degrees C are interesting and worth studying, they would need a kryogenic space suit to keep them cool, and if you shoot them they would spray liquid oxygen everywhere. Sulphur is even less versatile than silicon. it only forms linear chains and is hyper reactive with hydrogen. You'd need a solvent other than water which is used for carbon based. Ammonia, formaldehyde, sulphuric acid, liquid nitrogen, hydrogen fluoride, methane, hydrocarbons, supercritical fluids. Perhaps complex robotic life forms are some of the easiest to make up. Life forms that can be designed by artificial intelligence, to use most commonly available resources at ambient temperatures are more likely than complex life forms using other than carbon. That's because a large computer can design transistors/mechanics that work with any metals and conductors in very cold temperatures (aluminium can structurally handle -130 kelvin easily), and robotic life forms would prefer to be in a stable environment without biology, clouds, rain, water, in cold environments, it would be easier for them.