It has nothing to do with Plesk. The problem is with the way SSL and HTTP work. Basically, SSL doesn't know the name of your server before it starts, and so Apache can't pick which set of certs to use. See $URL$ for more detail on this chicken-and-egg problem. 

In a lab setup, I want eth0 on a Ubuntu server box to get a DHCP address for talking to the outside world, and I also want to assign it a static 10.x.y.z address for talking to other boxes on the local network that have 10.x.y.z addresses. I want to do this by editing /etc/network/interfaces. The man page for /etc/network/interfaces is modeled after "here's a bunch of examples, I hope you can figure out the actual rules on your own". I don't see a way to give one interface two addresses using two different methods (static and dhcp), and initial fumbling didn't produce useful results. 

I have a couple of VMs that cannot have guest additions installed, and I pause and resume them with days between. I normally forget to nudge NTP when I start up the VM. Is there a good way to tell ntp to be very aggressive in how often it should check for changes? 

You already have A record that says "mx.websolutions.com.ar" is "198.50.148.166", this is required for OVH VPS. So nothing to do here. This needs to be propagated well, so that OVH servers can see it that way (but you already have this, so just saying ...). Log in to your OVH manager Navigate to Web -> Platforms (left sidebar, in the middle of the screen) and select your VPS (something like vps123456.ovh.net) At the bottom you have IP Addresses - click IP tab (the second one) In the right bottom corner, click on Manage IP You should see the table of IP addresses with third column being called "Reverse" or "PTR" or something like that. Click the "-" in this column on the row with your IP address. Then enter your host name "mx.websolutions.com.ar" and click OK sign. Wait until propagated well (e.g. use dns propagation checker to check that or just wait long enough). You are done :) 

I understand the question as follows: 1) You have bought a domain from Provider1. This is your domain registrar and you can manage your DNS record within their interface. 2) You have bought a website hosting from Provider2. This is a different company. 3) You want to connect your DNS record with your hosting so that if you type mysite.com into browser, you will see your pages loading. 4) You know IP address (let's assume it is 1.2.3.4) of the web hosting server with Provider2 and you have already created DNS A record that says mysite.com is 1.2.3.4. 5) It does not work. If this describes your situation well, then there are two things I can think of that can go wrong: A) You created the DNS record, but did not wait long enough for the record to be propagated world wide and the DNS server that you use for your address resolving, does not have this updated record yet. You can use DNS Propagation Checker to get information on how well is your DNS record propagated over the distributed network. You can also flush your local DNS cache to prevent your operating system local cache from giving you the old records. B) You have not inform Provider2 that your hosting program should accept requests for mysite.com. How to fix this depends entirely on your web hosting provider's interface. However, you can tell if this is the case if you put your address into the browser and different page than you expect (which is your web application page) is displayed to you. 

In Ubuntu, I have two ethernet interfaces eth1 and eth3 that I want to call "foo0" and "foo1", respectively. Basically, I want something like "ip link alias DEVICE SECONDNAME". Is there a way to do this without mucking in the kernel? 

The "default" category is supposed to get all of the logging that doesn't happen in other categories. However, when I start named, I get a bunch of messages in /var/log/daemon.log, and then more in the named file. I would like them all to go into the named file so I don't have to look two places to figure out what might have gone wrong when starting. 

a) Yes, I have experience with this. b) The answers above about using hashes answer only the question you asked in the title of this thread, not in the body. To prove you had them before you got the CD-ROM, you will need to provide logs of when they were last touched, something you probably don't have because this kind of information is rarely kept. c) Having said that, your company probably does keep backups, and those backups have dates on them, and those backups can have files selectively restored from them for matching. If your company has a written backup policy, and the backups you kept match the policy, this will make it much easier to convince someone that you didn't fake the backups. If you don't have a policy but the backups are clearly marked, that might be sufficient (although the lawyer for the other side will question this up the wazoo). d) If your company didn't keep backups, and all you have is the described screen shots, forget about it. You will have a very hard time convincing anyone that you are in control of your data well enough to "prove" that you had those files first. 

It is hard to guess, but my would be a redirection, more specifically HTTP -> HTTPS redirection. In order to be it this case, there would need to be redirect from HTTP to HTTPS on your server and you possibly do not see those in your logs because you might have them at different place. So, the scenario would be that the client for some reason (some form somewhere misses right scheme) POSTs to HTTP, gets redirect code and navigates with GET to HTTPS. If this is not the case, it could be different redirection (like non-www to www prefix or alike). You should be see those in the logs, but you might miss them for some reason (filtering somehow based on HTTP code?). But this is not as likely as HTTP->HTTPS redirection. So, is this it or can you prove that this is not the case? 

Update 3: I have setup a similar machine locally in VMware. In my local setup, instead of /dev/vda* I've got /dev/sda* and the disk size is 20 GB instead of 80 GB and the new space that I want to add is 30 GB instead of 80 GB, otherwise it is the same. I can see in GParted the very same situation, it behaves exactly the same as the real server, the /dev/sda5 can't be resized. Here are my attempts with fdisk: 

I need to set up an ESXi 5.1 box to run some pre-made VMs that will not run well under VMware Workstation. I have started testing this, but cannot figure out where the @#$% the control comes from other than vSphere Client, which runs only on Windows. I get strong hints that, at least under earlier versions of ESXi, you could do most of the necessary things (start and stop VMs, add files to the datastore, configure new VMs, and so on) from a command line. However, VMware's site is now so littered with related products, it is impossible to find whether this low-end scenario is supported. I would imagine that a lot of serverfaulters would rather not have some of their critical infrastucture running on Windows. Let us set up a hypervisor box, and we'll control it from SSH. If there is a guide for how to do this for ESXi 5.1, I'm not finding it. Clues appreciated. 

When booting into Linux, there are sometimes one or two lines that get quickly cleared. I think that some of them don't even appear in dmesg. If nothing else, I want to suppress the clear before the "login:" prompt. Is there a kernel command or sysctl that I can set to prevent this so I can read them on the console screen after booting? 

My hosting is IPv4 only. My question is whether it is possible to allow IPv6 only clients to access my web (running Window Server 2012 R2). Is this possible using technologies like 6to4 or Teredo or something different that I can just install on my server + create AAAA DNS record and it will work? Or do these technologies require configuration on both ends, so that it won't just work even if setup properly on server side? Note that I do not mind performance impact due to any kind of tunneling. Subquestion: And vice versa - is it possible for my server to access other servers via IPv6 after some kind of configuration? 

I have a broken Ubuntu 14.04 server. Everything is OK except for apt-get, which for some reason thinks that it repeatedly fails to update mysql server package. The mysql server is updated and works perfectly, so I do not want apt-get to touch it. But every time I do anything that includes apt-get update and apt-get install (including installing completely unrelated packages), it always tries to finish the installation of mysql server. What I am looking for is to find the source of this information that tells apt-get that mysql server needs its attention. I would like to manually edit that source of information and tell apt-get that this package is all OK and it should not care about it anymore. Is this possible? Please note that I am not very interested in actually making apt-get to finish the mysql server update. This is because mysql server runs in production there and everytime apt-get tries to "fix it", it kills it and corrupts the database. If it is not possible to change that apt-get status about a package, would it be possible to somehow tell apt-get not to care about mysql server at all (i.e. to somehow exclude mysql server package from apt-get completely). 

I would like to automate the installation of FreeBSD 8.2 for a project I'm working on. I know the answer to every question in the standard installation, so even a script that just pushes keystrokes would be acceptable. All clues appreciated. FWIW, I tried this question on the FreeBSD fora ($URL$ but only got one response that didn't solve the problem. Maybe ServerFaulters will have more ideas. 

This is a feature/bug of putty, not FreeBSD. putty always tells the other OS what its width and height are. You can show this easily by doing one of your truncating commands, then widen the putty screen. You can see that the lines were truncated. Now give the comand again: you will see more columns. In essence, what you are asking putty to do is to lie about the width of your window (giving a number larger than what it really is showing) and to wrap the longer lines intelligently. That will work fine for and and so on, and fail miserably for or any other full-screen editor. Such lying can also cause display of information that can be misinterpreted because of the wrapping. There may be a mode of putty that does this, but I could not find it. 

Here I can see the /dev/sda2 (local virtual machine) even starts on the same sector as /dev/vda2 (real server). Same for /dev/sda5 and /dev/vda5. 

If I do the same on my Windows 10 desktop, I get success and can work with the share folder and map it. And I am not sure what I have not tried yet, but I have checked these: 1) network connection properties of server B, if server B has enabled Client for Microsoft Networks - yes; if server B has enabled File and Printer Sharing for Microsoft Networks - yes 2) I have tried advanced properties of IPv4 -> WINS tab -> Enable NETBIOS over TCP/IP (made no difference to default, both A and B have static IPv4) 3) enabling Network discovery and allowing its firewall rules in firewall.cpl + same for File and Printer Sharing and their rules; again made no difference What am I missing. How can I access shared folder from Windows Server 2012 R2 acting as client. 

What I need is to extend /dev/vda5 from 80 to 160 GB without losing data. I would like to be sure that I can't do it wrong (this is also why I did not do any experiments on my own). So if someone knows how to do step-by-step, so that it can't get wrong, I would be very grateful. It is possible for me to run another tool too, but I guess that would be much more difficult. Update 1: I have tried system-config-lvm, but I am in the same position, here is the pic: