The Christmas sections show the different stages through which "foolish ones" progress as they learn how to cope with sorrow and arrive at the "light". 

Even earlier than Marlowe, the Old English poem "Christ and Satan" (if it please you to consider it sufficiently "major") presents Satan in a similar vein. Satan's lament at his fate is very moving: 

It's hard to answer questions about the meaning of a particular event or object in a given work. Such questions seem to rely on a one-to-one allegorical equivalence: a clean shirt means a soul unbesmirched by sin, twilight means approaching death, etc. But literature doesn't make meaning through a system where decoding a given token yields its intended significance. Perhaps a more fruitful way to think about Christmas in In Memoriam is to ask: How do the repeated occurrences of Christmas work in the poem? What is their effect? When we compare the different representations of Christmas in the poem with each other, what similarities and differences do we see? What might we make of those parallels and contrasts? Critics generally agree that the three Christmases in In Memoriam serve a structural purpose. Philip Mitchell writes: 

The third Christmas, beginning at Section CIV, is different yet again. This time, the poet seeks to keep Christmas ("the night I loved") free of sorrow, while simultaneously abjuring all the traditional forms of celebration: 

Fish's book sought to bridge the gap between the two camps by an ingenious argument. Of course Satan is presented sympathetically and attractively in Paradise Lost: Milton's point is that our being drawn to the devil shows how and why we are fallen. We fall because the devil is attractive, and we are fallen to find him so. Milton deliberately traps us into sympathy with the devil, so that we realize and understand our fallen nature. We are, in short, surprised into and by sin. [Obiter dicta: Personally I think Fish rather than Milton has devised this wonderful way for the latter to have his cake and eat it too. But then, what one reads for has changed between 1967 and now. Those few who read Milton at all these days don't do so to figure out what his intentions were, or even to psychologize him and say that his Christian superego is unable to mask the desires of his Satan-worshipping id. That said, on its own terms, Fish's monograph is a brilliant piece of work.] So it's not so much that Milton has sympathy for the devil. It's that he knowingly makes the devil appear sympathetic in order to drive home the real point of his poem. And his portrayal of a sympathetic Satan has plenty of antecedents in English literature. One such is Christopher Marlowe's Doctor Faustus. Both Faustus himself and Mephistopheles are sympathetic characters. As a fervent opponent of censorship who believed that truth would not emerge unless we test it against falsehood, Milton probably felt some kinship with Faustus's thirst for all knowledge. As for Mephistopheles, this smooth-talking charmer also has elements of the tragic hero. When Faustus asks how it is that a devil can escape the confines of Hell, Mephistopheles replies: 

Like most English people until well into the twentieth century, Shakespeare was baptized into the Anglican church, but it does not follow that he was himself any more religious than the average Englishman of his time; and the treatment of Jews in The Merchant of Venice is a weak basis for the argument that Shakespeare himself was a devout Christian. To begin with, there's the obvious fact that devout Christianity is not a prerequisite for antisemitism: Hitler's skepticism toward the church is well attested. So the fact that Shakespeare's play could be considered antisemitic tells us nothing about his Christianity or lack thereof. Second, there's the example of Shakespeare's contemporary Christopher Marlowe. His The Jew of Malta is far more gleeful in its antisemitism than even The Merchant of Venice. Michael Keefer writes: 

If Marlowe could write an antisemitic play while holding atheist views, then we cannot assume that by virtue of writing an antisemitic play, Shakespeare must have been Christian. To sum up: 

The mirror claims to be as indifferent to human concerns as any Greek god. Even as a lake, the mirror says that when the woman looking at her reflection turns away, 

Its title is Mirror, not Mirror and Lake. Throughout the poem, the speaker is the mirror. But in the second verse, the mirror claims to be a lake. What does this mean? It's easy to see how a lake can be a mirror, since it reflects. But how can a mirror be a lake? Let's unpack the poem and see. The first verse stresses the objectivity of the mirror: 

One remarkable person to complete a circumnavigation in less than Verne's stated time was the investigative journalist Nellie Bly. Following the publication of Verne's novel, she decided to try to see whether the journey could actually be completed in 80 days. In 1889, she went around the world in 72 days. 

When the poet and his companions do attempt traditional Christmas activities, such as singing carols, those are followed by tears: 

In order to understand why The Mousetrap is an appropriate title for Christie's play, let's look at the play-within-a-play in Hamlet. Hamlet's father's ghost has told him that Claudio is a murderer, but Hamlet worries that perhaps the ghost is an evil spirit deliberately misleading him. So to verify the ghost's story, Hamlet comes up with the plan of staging The Murder of Gonzago before Claudio. In that play, Gonzago is murdered in exactly the same way that the ghost claims he himself was: his wife's lover poured poison in his ear. Hamlet wagers that if the ghost's story is true, Claudio will not be able to help reacting in a way that betrays his guilty conscience: 

It was possible, but not easy. The difficulty of the task accounts for the substantial amount of the bet: £20,000 in 1873 is worth about £2,000,000 or more than US $2.5 million today. William Butcher's 1995 translation of Verne's book includes an appendix that provides details of contemporary sources that had information regarding quick circumnavigations, both theoretical and actual. A periodical called Le Tour du Monde carried an article on the occasion of the opening of the Suez Canal in 1869, when I was but a wee lad. The article said that it was now possible to complete the circumnavigation in 80 days, with the following itinerary: 

Read the Malayalam original first. Whatever your aim in reading the English translation, you will achieve it more readily by having the knowledge of the original in mind. As the quote you have provided from P P Ravindran says, the two works are far enough in Vijayan's career as to belong to completely different stages in the development of his sensibility. So if you are interested in understanding how Vijayan's outlook and craft changed over the years, then it makes sense to start with the earlier version and move to the later. If on the other hand you are interested in seeing how Vijayan adapts the same story to different audiences (Malayali vs. global, regional vs. cosmopolitan, insider vs. outsider, or however you want to frame the difference), again it makes sense to start with the original and then go through the translation with an eye out for the changes. Even if you are interested only in seeing how The Legends of Khasak fits within the tradition of Indian novels in English, knowing what the original is like will deepen your understanding of how English writing in India works when compared to the vernacular traditions. The Malayalam version can augment your understanding of the English in all these ways; broadly similar arguments can be made for any other goals you have in mind for reading the English version. The converse is not true. The only way that the English version will help your understanding of the Malayalam one is if it lowers some language barrier. But you've already indicated that you are equally competent in both languages, so that's not an issue. Note: I said understanding, not appreciation. It is certainly true that juxtaposing the two versions will lead to an enhanced appreciation of both; for this reason (and many unrelated ones) your fluency in both languages is enviable. But reading the English one first won't help you trace Vijayan's development, or see how a different audience requires changes, or judge how Indian novels in English fit into the entirety of the literary traditions of the subcontinent, etc. And it would be awkward to get those insights retrospectively, by reverse-engineering them as it were while reading the Malayalam original afterwards. If the Malayalam version had been merely an early draft that didn't stand on its own and was interesting only insofar as it was the origin of a more complete and successful English novel, then there would be no point reading it first; its value would depend solely on the later work. But given that it has its own identity and is practically a different novel altogether, reading the two texts in chronological order makes sense. 

Keeping these issues in mind, let's see how one could think one's way to an answer. To begin with, as @eirikdaude pointed out in a comment to the question, that Satan is the hero of Paradise Lost cannot be taken for granted. William Blake was the first to assert that Milton was "of the devil's party", but since then, there have always been detractors. A blurb to Stanley Fish's 1967 book, Surprised by Sin, says: 

There’s a lot of middle ground between scribbling things here and there and writing a draft. Collins looked at the art and made notes, i.e., he wrote down his thoughts and impressions. That’s a very common first step in any research project. It doesn’t mean that the researcher makes random jottings on any old scraps of paper that happen to be lying around. Rather, Collins probably had a notebook for the express purpose of writing down descriptions of the mosaics and his reactions to them. Those notes would probably consist of such material as questions about the mosaics, speculations about why they seem inferior to their photographs, and subjective impressions of them. They might incorporate some sketches of the mosaics as well. The notes would not be organized into a formal argument; they are the raw materials for one. Looking over those notes later, Collins would structure them into a little thesis making his case that the photographs are better than the mosaics themselves. 

No. Introduction To begin with, the question Has Odysseus been unfaithful to his wife? would not make sense to the people of ancient Greece. Such a question presupposes that the Greeks had a concept of marital love and fidelity similar to ours, which they didn't. As Stephanie Coontz has pointed out, the idea of marriage as a partnership based on romantic love is a product of the 18th century: 

By the next Christmas celebration, Section LXXVIII, the mood has changed. The poet participates in the season's traditional joys again, but this time, those joys do not bring tears. Basically, the poet is all cried out: 

The sense here is definitely that the beauty that autumn brings is just a pause. Soon enough, autumn will wake up and continue to scythe off the rest of the furrow. We get confirmation of this in the next stanza, where the fields are stubble-plains. The third stanza also explicitly contrasts autumn with spring; autumn's presence means that spring has passed, obviously. While autumn has its own music, what kind of music is it? Is it joyful, as one imagines the music of spring would be? We have in a wailful choir the small gnats mourn; and by the end of the poem, darkness is gathering. Hedge-crickets sing and gathering swallows twitter (when swallows gather, it's to sleep). In other words, the poem shows us a very beautiful autumn, but alongside that beauty is an awareness that autumn is a long way after spring, and precedes the darkness of winter. The poem is about the passage of time; autumn signifies maturation, but that is only one step before death. There's a lot going on in this poem. Thematically, it's interesting to compare it to "Ode on a Grecian Urn": 

Throughout, then, there is an assertion of precision and exactitude. Yet the mirror is not merely a passive observer. Its claims to neutrality are undercut by its reference to its "heart". Furthermore, it is active: 

(Marry, like heck, is a minced oath; it refers to the Virgin Mary.) So in Hamlet, The Murder of Gonzago is a metaphorical mousetrap to catch a murderer. Christie's play is also about catching a murderer, and that makes The Mousetrap a good allusive title for it. The connection with the thematic mice of the original radio play makes it particularly fitting. Another relevant point is that the name of the play was changed: Christie changed the name of Three Blind Mice to The Mousetrap, just as Hamlet did with The Murder of Gonzago. So why was the original play called Three Blind Mice to begin with? The murderer in the play sets out to kill three people; since they can't see what's coming, and don't know why they are going to be killed, and two of them end up trapped in a snowed-in house, they are blind mice. (Partial spoiler follows.) 

His prayer too is granted, and the pool of Salmacis was reputed to take away the virility of men. (From Ovid, Metamorphoses, trans. Mary M. Innes; Penguin Books, 1955, p. 101–104) Ovid is Roman, not Greek, of course. But the story is of Greek origin. I am not familiar with the Greek sources enough to know whether the detail of Hermaphroditus being uninterested in sex with Salmacis is them. Online retellings of the myth (such as this one) don't cite sources, and might well be taking that detail from Ovid. So this is more an avenue for research than a definitive answer. 

In other words, the Christmas poems do more than simply mark the passage of time. They also show how the poet's response to that death moves from despair and denial to acceptance and hope over the years following Hallam's death. This view goes back at least as far as 1883. In a work published that year, Tennyson's In Memoriam: Its purpose and its structure, John F. Genung observed: 

(p. 144) So the idea that Satan could be charming, or sympathetic, or heroic, has a long history prior to Milton. And Milton perhaps expected us to succumb to his charms. Nevertheless, it does not follow that Milton wanted us to maintain our sympathies for Satan. Given the overall arc of his personal life, political engagements, and written works, it seems safe to say that he would be shocked and alarmed by that interpretation. One might instead read Paradise Lost as very much a Reformation poem: a work written in the thick of the Reformation, as a way of engaging with the question of the relationship between humankind and God. The work seeks to "justify the ways of God to men": to explain directly, and without any intervening church, how sin, grace, and redemption operate in our human world. 

The nursery rhyme is thematically apt to the story, and is used as a motif throughout the play. More generally, Christie was fond of using nursery rhymes as titles and themes for her work. Here are some examples: 

In short, the antisemitism of Shakespeare's play is no evidence for ascribing devoutly Christian beliefs to him. 

(Emphasis added) That of course is exactly what happens. The lady sees Lancelot in the mirror, stops weaving, and rushes to the window to catch a further glimpse of him as he rides down to Camelot. This sets the curse in motion. 

It means that Jenkins has embarked on a social reform agenda to build “cottage estates”, i.e., public housing: a tract of cottages for the poor. The dialogue suggests that the speakers don’t think he is doing this out of sincerity, but because he hopes to get a Peerage out of it. A Peerage can be awarded for extraordinary achievement in some field. The idea is that Jenkins first thought that he could get his Peerage for animal husbandry, improving cattle by selective breeding. But many people have already done that, to the point where another person attempting to improve cattle would yield diminishing returns, at least as far as the possibility of a Peerage is concerned. Hence Jenkins turned to social reform as a more likely route to getting a Peerage. 

The famous New Year poem that immediately follows underscores this commitment to letting go of empty grief as well as empty joys, and to a renewal: 

Perhaps a case can be made for Hermaphroditus. The son of Hermes and Aphrodite, he was a remarkably beautiful youth, but uninterested in sex. Or at least, the way Ovid tells it, "he did not know what love was"; and when the water nymph Salmacis offers herself to him, he spurns her. Salmacis hides until he strips to bathe in her lake. She then jumps in. Despite his strong protests and attempts to throw her off, she forcibly entwines herself around him. She prays that the two of them will never be separated, and as a result, Hermaphroditus becomes a hermaphrodite. He prays to his parents in turn: 

Already, then, in the first verse itself the mirror is a bit like a lake. A lake swallows anything you put into it, and the mirror swallows everything it reflects. A person who has been swallowed by a lake is, of course, drowned. So also the ageing woman has drowned her younger self in the mirror: 

In "Grecian Urn", the figures on the urn are outside time and not subject to its destructive power. So they stay young and verdant; but there is a loss there too, as they never experience the "bliss" of fulfillment. The contrast with "To Autumn" is clear. Fructification, maturation, ripeness are all wonderful things, but they imply operating within the cycle of seasons, which in turn implies eventual death. I don't know who said this poem is "nearly perfect, but doesn't have a lot to say"; that assessment is laughably wrong.