By WW2 technology had progressed to where very large guns were no longer considered the way to go, so by your own statement that that's the level of technology your ship would be obsolete by the time it was launched. For shore bombardment, a larger number of smaller guns, possibly in combination with rockets and/or aircraft is far more effective. Larger spread of fire per salvo if you so wish, shorter reload times (thus higher fire volume on target), more stable (and thus more accurate), easier to transport (smaller ships, or same size ships with more guns), and losing one ship is less likely to cost you the bulk or all of your firepower. As said in the other answers already, the stability of a ship as a firing platform for something this massive is highly questionable to put it mildly, another reason shipboard cannon peaked at the 18" mounted on the Japanese Yamato class battleships, and at 15-16" for other navies. Another major problem for a weapon that big is that the barrel of the gun only lasts a very limited number of shots, and replacing the barrel while underway is next to impossible. After a few days of firing (at a rate of 1-2 shots per hour) your ship is useless unless it were as a command ship or for its secondary batteries and sensors, just a big inviting target for enemy forces. Not only do the barrels of smaller guns last longer, they're also easier to replace (whether that was ever attempted at sea with main battery guns I don't know, most likely they were replaced regularly during port visits). Another point not mentioned yet is that the weapon, in order to have both the shell weight of the Gustav AND the range of the Paris gun, would have to be humongous. Just adding a longer barrel to the Gustav (which was a mortar btw) wouldn't do it. You need a lot more steel, making the barrel extremely thick (and thus heavy) in order to contain the propellant gasses from the massive charge (several times larger than the charge used in the Gustav OR the Paris gun). And to elevate that massive weight you need far larger mechanisms as well. End result is a weapon of utterly impractical dimensions, a weapon that's probably too large to fit on any ship envisioned in WW2 or since. 

Yes but... The problem would likely be the cost of shipping. Raw oil is very unlikely to be found on Mars to make the plastic with, so your down to synthetic and high energy processes to manufacture them locally, or shipping them in. It would likely be more helpful to a colony to have actual plants around, this would have the added bonus of filtering air as well. Though they would require water. These plants could be shipped to Mars as seeds to cut down on the weight requirement. Locally generated compost could be used for soil and presumably the colony will have some source of water or they are going to have trouble lasting very long. From the physiological point of view plants have been shown to have a therapeutic effect on astronauts. Don Pettit famously kept the blog of the astro zucchini while he was in orbit ( $URL$ ) I can see this idea helping, however there would have to be a significant advantage over say some clever 3D effect screens acting as windows to make it worth the extra cost. As they say in space travel every gram is expensive. 

Earth is not a closed system, even ignoring solar (and other) energy impacting it and heat leeching out. 

Let's draw on the works of John Norman, creator of the Gor universe, which has exactly that and without the magic. In his world there are swarms of airborn cavalry and raiders, human beings flying giant birds of prey and armed with swords, spears, and crossbows, plus lasso and bolo style devices to capture people (usually women to be carried off as slaves). Cities employ archers on their walls, flying patrols of their own to intercept raiders, and giant nets of thin metal wire strung between towers over the city to deter the raiders and prevent them from landing (the raiders can carry a number of troops holding on to rope ladders to insert into the target city). 

Certainly. Dogs "see" in high detail with their noses. Bats and owls "see" with their ears. Sharks and fish have lateral lines that respond to tiny electric field changes in water and can paint a picture of their surroundings that way. 

Joining the ranks of the EMP crowd I'd go with Explosively pumped Flux compression bombs. These work by generating and compressing a magnetic field using a power supply, a coil and some explosives. See the the wikipedia entry for a full description and description of how they work. The magic trick with most of these emp type weapons is the power supply but given we are talking 200 years into the future it is not unreasonable to assume that power storage (batteries) have got a lot better. Look how far we have come in the last 100 years and extrapolate forward. An explosively pumped flux generator is actually quite simple to build given a power supply and explosives. However it is single shot, quite small, and usable like a Molotov. The hardest bit to get hold of is probably the explosives to blow the coil. These would be used in a riot to disable the police vehicles and any electronic equipment on them. Cameras, Radios, movement assist devices. This might even completely immobilise them depending on how their armour works. 

Don't use it in places where the enemy may gain access to the device. This is pretty much standard procedure where feasible. For example the first Meteor jets the Brits built during WW2 (yes, the first units were active before the war ended) were barred from flying over German held territory to prevent the aircraft from falling into enemy hands if it were to crash. Similarly, early radar equipped aircraft owned by both sides were not allowed to overfly enemy held areas. In both cases of course the security was moot as the other side already had similar or identical technology, but that was in both cases not known (though suspected no doubt). Also, you keep the people involved strictly incommunicado (or try to at least). That's how the secrets of Bletchly park and the Manhattan project were kept until well after the war. Not just was the machinery involved (early computers, nuclear weapons technology...) top secret to the point nobody except a few key people knew what they were working on or with, but those people were housed in remote areas with no contact with the outside world that wasn't strictly censored (and despite that, the Soviets were still able to steal the nuclear technology from the Americans by infiltrating...). Having a good story to explain the effects without exposing your secrets is core to the disinformation campaign that's going to be needed. So if you've broken the enemy's ciphers, be prepared to spread rumours about secret agents inside their security agencies. If you've a new weapon, invent stories about something else that'd people could believe can do the same thing. In the ultimate scam, invent and build entire labs and fake experiments and make sure the enemy gets wind of their "successes". The biggest hoax of all that was perpetrated like that was the US Space Defence Initiative (SDI/Star Wars) which never existed as such (or rather, never was more than a paper study, but fake experiments were staged to make the Soviets think that working prototypes existed of weapons entirely different from what was being studied and were ready for deployment). Smoke and mirrors... 

The trouble here would be dealing with more complex components. There are two main types of electrical components. Active and Passive components. Passive components tend to be simpler, your resisters, capacitors, transformers and so forth. These it should be possible for our engineer to work out given his multi-meter and some basic knowledge. Does it measure as having any resistance? (Resistor) Does it allow an AC current to pass? (Capacitor) Is it made of a lump of ferrous metal wrapped in two sets of wires? (Transformer) Though our engineer will probably still destroy quite a few components working this out. Active components on the other hand are an entirely different kettle of fish. Most active components look like a blob of plastic with some metal sticking out and some markings to tell what they are. Think every thing from the classic transistor to the CPU inside your computer. Almost every engineer when faced with a component he doesn't know will stick the code printed on it into Google to find the datasheet. Our poor engineer doesn't have this option. (Language being the big barrier here) Many many human components are encased in very similar packages, this makes standardisation of machines to produce things easier so I would expect the aliens have probably done some thing similar. 

Being a red dwarf, it will have a relatively high percentage of its energy output in the infra red part of the spectrum. The planet will be bathed in a dim ruddy light, with lots of infrared energy warming it up. The star will likely be far less volatile than our sun, so don't expect short duration climate cycles like El Nino. Climate will be a lot more stable overall. 

Exact conditions of course depend heavily on whether the planet is tidally locked, and how far from its primary it orbits. But overall you can probably expect a climate that's far less variable over time (unless the planet's orbit is highly eccentric of course, or heavily tilted, which is the cause of most of the earth's seasonal changes) compared to earth. 

As I commented, one example is how David Weber uses the terms in his Honor Harrington series. Missiles are long range, semi autonomous, weapons with very high speed used to degrade a target vessel's defenses (and possibly disable or destroy it). Torpedoes are shorter ranged, slower, weapons used by mostly smaller ships when they "move in for the kill". As they're smaller (in his universe) a smaller ship can still carry a large short range punch when they would only be able to carry a very small number of missiles which would have little effect against the defensive systems of a larger vessel. There's also a difference in warheads. His missiles tend to have a variety of warheads, mostly designed to overload shields and other defenses and render the target vessel incapable of defending itself. The second strike with torpedoes or laser fire at shorter range will then finish him off (the torpedoes having large thermonuclear warheads). 

Now pick-up the longest path. Hold it up so that the two safety pins on each end are level. Shake out the mesh then take the lowest hanging loop and pick it up and hold it up so the pins on both ends are level with the pins from the first loop. Repeat this operation until you have the minimum number of strings left. Unhook the strings you are holding above the line from the mesh. This was a bit tricky keeping them all untangled. You should now be left with a single line of safety pins linking each town. 

The downsides to this method: It takes quite a while to set up. You need to steal a map. It is very easy to end up with the mesh in a complete knot. I am not convinced it will always give you the correct answer. (But it seems close) 

On earth? In a river of water? Using a net made of some wire or rope mesh? No. On some other planet, in a river of for example liquid metal, using a "net" that can cause gold to come out of solution and deposit on the net, sure. Gold can dissolve in mercury for example, which process was/is used to create gold paint. Brush the gold/mercury mix on something, wait for the mercury to evaporate, and you have a gold painted surface. I'm sure there are other ways to get the gold out of the mercury too than just heat and time, electrical? But then you'd have a planet where humans are unlikely to be able to survive, certainly not without breathing equipment. 

The first thing governments would start doing will likely be to institute laws that make it illegal to have children without a government license, and make those licenses very hard to get. This in order to prevent population growth from going out of control. Of course in reality (see China's 1 child policy) it will not be perfect by far, and populations will still rise, both from people breaking the law and governments handing out more licenses than needed to balance out people getting killed anyway (say from serious accidents, it's unlikely people would become immortal to the extend that they'd survive beheading or getting burned in a lake of lava). Another measure governments might take is prescribing forced sterilisation of the entire fertile population, with those deemed "valuable to society" getting to donate sperm or ovas for in vitro fertilisation at the government's discretion. Combine this with mandatory euthenasia for people over a set age (which would likely be the age at which people stop being tax paying workers, so retirement age), and you have a system where now the government has perfect control over who lives and dies, who gets born and who doesn't. Government and religion both will have the same goal: getting people to willingly submit to this new and brutal regime. People being forced to let themselves be killed at an early age when they're still healthy need some other motivation than "if you don't let us kill you we're going to kill you anyway", so it will be presented as a religious duty to "make room for a new generation" or however it's worded. Welcome to a Brave New World, where The Fifty makes sure only young and healthy people exist who do not leech the precious resources of your labour... 

I was going to post this as a comment on @Zibbobz's answer, however it kind of grew to being its own answer. If there was some local fauna which was kind of like kelp. With pockets of hydrogen gas to help hold it's self up. The plant would have evolved this to help them scatter their seeds or pollen over a very large area. When the dragon wants to go hunting it grabs hold of lots of these. Cuts them free of the ground and floats up, up and away. These plants will have evolved to have very stretchy gas sacks so they can reach higher altitudes. (a normal weather balloon can stretch four times its size during flight1) During the early phase of the flight the dragon takes many deep breaths to oxygenate its blood and then holds its breath once it passes out of the range where it can breath. Whales can hold their breath for up to 90 minutes. Once the dragon is high enough or the balloon/kelp pops it drops down in a very stream lined shape with its wings folded back. It is still holding its breath. Here it will break the sound barrier. The pray it is falling on will not see or hear it coming. The pray is going to have to give it a huge amount of energy. This has to feed a dragon after all. As the dragon needs to slow down it first goes from noes down to nose level then slowly expands its wings. Hopefully managing to glide out of the fall before it splatters its self into the ground. The highly flammable plants may be a problem with this plan. Maybe need to explain that the plants seeds can be activated by fire and thus why they are around fire breathing dragons. We are trying to deal with big dragons, some amount of hand waving is required to deal with the square/cubed law. 

It's happened in the past, and can happen again. Years ago the Dutch government passed a new law literally overnight that was introduced around dinner time one day and came into effect around breakfast the next. Now, that was merely a budget bill allowing the purchase of some military equipment before treaty obligations would kick in and cause serious penalties. But if can indeed happen. And as most people don't read the official government channels for publication of new laws, and most newspapers and other news outlets will be hours behind in publishing things, most people won't know the law is passed until probably the evening news. Of course a major problem is organising your enforcement effort very rapidly in between passing the law and enforcement coming into effect a few hours later. 

On the lit side, an eternal ruddy dusky sky greets those who go outside. On the dark sire, except near the terminator, you're in eternal pitch darkness, the only warmth ever reaching there coming from thermal convection, driven by winds caused by the planet's rotation. As the planet it tidally locked, there are no tides, no wind patterns driven by tidal activity.