Quite literally, 0 is defined to be the first natural number. As mentioned elsewhere, there were earlier variants where Peano started with 1, and it did not change much. I guess it was changed to 0 later because of practical reasons, mostly. 

No. The Big Bang has not been "discovered", almost all of it is just one theory on top of another on top of another. The only thing that is certain is that we have not witnessed anything that disproves the Big Bang. That is the nature of science. Until we disprove the Big Bang, it is a possibility. We can get ever more sure about it, but we will never know with absolute certainty. Every scientist underwrites that contract. The scientific method is about "formulation, testing, and modification of hypotheses". We can, by principle, never "prove" the Big Bang, we can only disprove it by witnessing something that conflicts clearly with it. Science has rewritten itself over and over again. Being 100% irrevocably sure of something is a clear sign of pseudo-science or religion. Specifically, while we are pretty sure that "something happened" back then, we also know perfectly well that our current mathematical model of the Big Bang is wrong (or at least incomplete). Not wrong in the sense of "false", but wrong in the sense that we need a much more complicated theory. Similarly to how Newtons laws are not quite false in everyday cases, but are patently wrong in the big picture. We are still thinking about it... 

To say that would be extremely false. The opposite was true. From the Brief Answers to Cosmic Questions, by Harvard University: 

Simple - "X believes in god" is a statement/predicate about human X. For a non-believer, the state of believing in god is exactly as inconceivable as the state of not believing in god would be for a believer. Both need mind-shattering experiences to truly switch around, there is no way through simple logic to change that (proof: if there were a way - in either direction - the issue would be resolved by now, and we would not be having this discussion). Even indoctrinating gullible young humans for many years through childhood and adolescence does not with certainty work to instill either belief or disbelief in them, as demonstrated frequently by young adults switching to the "other camp" when out of the control of their parents or community. 

X and Y are hedonists. They are not altruists. Though X gave up the value of their life they gained the value of knowing that Y would live. Even if this value may only be experienced for a short period of time before their death, X traded a lesser value for a greater value. Only X may determine the values for X. Altruists, by definition, don't get anything from their actions. In fact, they must also lose something (give up a value) in order for an action to be altruistic. There is such a thing as not being a hedonist. I'd argue that hedonism, especially the notion of "rational hedonism" that you describe in your closing, are necessary biological traits of all organisms. However, there is a proposed personality disorder called "self-defeating personality disorder". I agree with your statements on rational hedonism. Altruism is not a form of hedonism. Acts commonly mislabeled as altruistic are, most often, examples of hedonism. By definition the altruist must give up value and receive none in return. Even feeling good about a sacrifice, as X experiences in your example, is a value that the proposed altruist would receive. This disqualifies X's actions from being classified as altruistic. The terms you've chosen carry strong connotations. Hedonism, and even "pleasure", are commonly associated with immediate gratification as opposed to the long-term best interests of the individual. Altruism is generally held as a positive and so often people will overlook the benefits they receive in order to consider themselves altruists. Ironically this self-satisfaction is the very value that disqualifies the act from being altruistic. Pleasure, removing the connotations, is defined as "the broad class of mental states that humans and other animals experience as positive, enjoyable, or worth seeking" Wikipedia. A gambler may derive pleasure from playing the game, enjoying the company at the table, possibly winning money, or many other things associated with the gambling experience. These are the values the gambler stands to gain from gambling. If the gambler determines that these are of greater value than simply possessing the money he is likely to lose (the value he must trade), he is a hedonist. A soldier may take pride in serving their country or "doing their duty". Surely feeling pride is "positive, enjoyable, [and] worth seeking". Experiencing the horror of war is not the value a soldier gains but the price the soldier pays. If the soldier deems the pride they feel in service is more pleasurable than the "horrors of war" they must experience to feel that pride, the soldier is a hedonist. 

Wikipedia to the rescue: Abstraction Abstraction is not a deep philosophical term, but simply and exactly what the definition of the word says. You go from concrete examples (a bag with 3 eggs, another bag with 5 eggs) and figure out a concept of natural numbers which tell you how you can systematically work with bags of any number of eggs, even 1000000 eggs, which you would never see in the real world. I won't tackle the question whether abstractions are real. ;) Philosophers of all ages (which I am not one of) seem to have fought long and hard about it. Commonality is not the same: that just means that you have a bunch of objects which have some identical features. The moon is yellow, cheese is yellow. Yellow is a commonality between the moon and cheese, but there probably is no rule, concept or theorem linking the two. 

That is a weird way to put it, maybe I am just not understanding it correctly. The AoI closely resembles the purely mechanical way in which numbers are constructed in the von Neumann system. It puts forth that there is an infinite set containing all sets which represent individual natural number; it is necessary because no natural number is itself infinitely large. Maybe you are thinking about the Axiom of Induction, which constructively gives you all naturals? 

This is an at least ~2400 years old argument going back to Plato, Aristotle et al: do mathematical objects (numbers etc.) exist physically, or are they just constructs in our mind? A similar argument goes for language: does a word like "chair" exist, or does it not exist? I.e., does it have any physical meaning except for firing certain synapses in our head? Another example: There are people who deny the existence of infinities like irrational numbers because they could not be constructed completely; they go to great lengths to build alternate mathematical buildings from scratch which do not need infinity. See $URL$ for a nice introduction and links to further reading. 

It seems to be much easier to unite people against a common enemy than in favor of a common good. That fact is not lost on those who seek power. "The enemy of my enemy is my friend" is an ancient proverb developed independently around the world. We see it used today by politicians of all affiliations. We see "us little guys vs. those big bad guys" as a prevalent theme in music and storytelling. We see it in marketing, on TV, and in movies. There are probably evolutionary (safety in numbers) and possibly cultural (weak overtake the strong as a common theme in storytelling) factors that would explain why it works. The first few posts in this discussion were very interesting and focused on the usage of victim mentality to compel and escalate aggression. The target action doesn't have to be aggression though. It could be a vote or a purchase or something else. The Source of the phenomenon is actually the sum of so many divisions. This will be easier to explain if I use the context of your example where nearly all students in the student body felt excluded from the student body. A particular student, any student, is subjected to a thousand different potential "leaders" cutting him off from "the enemy" into smaller and smaller groups of victims. Consider your average series of TV commercials: he is a student vs. an anti-education politician, he is a PC vs. a Mac, he is a Yankees fan vs. a Red Sox fan, a nerd vs. a jock, his race vs. other races, male vs. female...the list could continue forever. The sum of all of these divisions, for many, leads to a feeling of exclusion from any and all groups and adoption of a victim mentality in future scenarios; even in scenarios in which he has not been cast as the victim and isn't, actually, a victim. The Solution is simple, find a common enemy. Kidding aside, I would promote independence and self-reliance. These are not the traits of a victim. They provide a confidence that counters the fear employed by the various groups that want you to feel victimized in order to compel you to action. How you accomplish that, society-wide, when so many players and particularly those in power have a vested interest in undermining it, is a whole new discussion. Awareness is also a powerful tool in combating any manipulation. I did find a lot of discussions about "breaking out" of a victim mentality with regards to a single individual. Nothing with regards to a society. More reading: There is quite a bit of psychological study of victim mentality. Sociological studies would also be interesting but I had trouble finding any. Cultural anthropology may be another field with relevant information. Victim mentality is sometimes called martyr complex and has other names. 

I fully agree with Cort Ammon's answer but I'd like to add a few points on the topic of definitions. There are different things we can call definitions. A strict definition associate a term with an equivalent statement, in such a way that the term can be substituted with the other statement in any sentence without changing the meaning of the sentence. This can work for terms that are derived, but at some point you'll need primitive terms that cannot be defined this way but will be used to define other terms (you'll reach the bottom of your conceptual system). For primitive terms, there are implicit definitions, which are actually a set of axioms where the terms are used. It's a kind of definition through usage. Take for example Newtonian physics: "mass" and "force" are never defined, they are primitive terms. However the axioms of Newtonian physics relate masses and forces in such a way that we can grasp what they are, even if they were not strictly defined. The same goes for euclidean geometry: lines, points segments and angles are the primitive terms and they are not strictly defined, but implicitly through axioms which say how points and lines behave relatively to each other. An axiomatic system is a good description of an intended domain if all the consequences we can derive from it seem to be true of the objects of that domain that we are intuiting and of course intuition plays a role here. In the case of lines, the axioms are good because all consequences (theorems...) are true of our representations of lines in euclidean space. This leaves open the question of the origin of the intuitions (what are those lines we are trying to define?). In the case of geometry our intuitions certainly come from physical space. In order to know that the theorems of geometry are true of physical space we need what Poincare called coordination postulates: for example the assumption that light travels in straight lines in vacuum. They map primitive terms of an axiomatic system to our observations (Poincare saw them as kinds of conventions). Coordination postulates can be thought of as part of the implicit definition of physical lines but it's important to remember that an axiomatic mathematical system is independent of the way it is mapped to our observations and in a sense, being a line in a mathematical sense is nothing more than obeying the corresponding axioms of geometry. EDIT I think it is problematic to define lines as functions (y=ax+b) because a coordinate system is not a geometric space. It has an origin, a length unit and preferred directions, which geometric spaces lack. One should rather see a coordinate system as a way to assign sets of numbers to geometrical points and a function is a way to define a sets of numbers that can correspond to lines but all this already requires other concepts, so the right way to define a line is by using purely geometric axioms. 

Maybe there ought, maybe there ought'nt. We certainly do not know enough about the universe to know. Maybe the physical, real phenomenon that is represented by our mathematical singularity is precisely something that precludes any causality (insofar as causality is a "physical" thing in the first place, and not just a mental crutch we need in our limited understanding of reality, the answer to which I'm pretty sure nobody knows with certainty). But even if it is that way, then... 

That is true. Numbers in general are rule based, and well defined. There is very little "philosophical" in the number constuctions of Peano or the ZF/von Neumann variation. 

Simple - nobody has found a logical, irrefutable proof that works without the assumption of the existence of god, yet. Hence, some people, who require such, do express a lack of belief. 

... that last argument is again a fallacy. You start out by proposing that everything is caused by god, and therefore everything leads back to god. Logic does not work that way. In the best case (if there is a real god which functions the way you propose), you can just skip everything in your argument, and be done with your first assertion. And if there is not, then you are starting from a false statement, from which you can, by logic, prove anything. Hence, this argument proves nothing. Be sure to understand that I am not telling you that it needs logic for god to exist. But for some people, including scientists and philosophers, you do need logic to convince them of something... hence, to go full circle to your first question: 

0 is not more abstract than any other mathematical term. There is nothing special about it - it is as abstract as 1, -1, infinity or whatever else you could think of. That said, in both Peano as well as ZFC constructions, 0 or {} are actually less abstract than any other natural number in the sense that they are the only natural numbers that are defined explicitely as such (without resolving to a successor construction).