Yes, you can :-) Generally this behaviour is caused by the fact that you want to start to say something before your mind is prepared about what you want to say. This can be handled very simply by waiting a bit before actually starting to speak. So simple? Yes and no: Yes, just by waiting (just half a second) you will automatically reduce saying those things. No, because you're dealing with other persons too, and there's the catch: generally you start saying things like "eh", "heu", ... when you are in a hurry starting speaking, and this is regularly caused by the other people around you: the people around you are used that you start speaking quite quickly, so in order to say something they are doing this very quickly, and before you realise you end up in a speaking contest, and the one who is the first to start talking, wins the contest. In other words, when you wait, even for just half a second, you might end up loosing every speaking contest. I propose you to start experimenting with the waiting thing outside of the daily speaking contests, e.g. you are in a meeting, you mention that you want to say something (e.g. by raising your hand), and while everybody is expecting you to say something, you do the waiting trick and then you start speaking. Be aware, this is very difficult: everybody is expecting you to say something and instead of starting to speak, you remain silent for half a second. (I've been there, I know how hard it is) But you'll soon find out that that half a second is not that long, and once you speak more fluently you'll earn more respect from the people around the table, and that confidence will stimulate you to go on with the waiting trick. Good luck and keep us informed about your progress 

If you're moving because you're unhappy in your current position, exactly why you're unhappy should have been discussed between you and your manager before leaving and this is the last resort so there's little left to be said about it: 

There's absolutely nothing wrong with applying for both positions. Just make it clear when applying for the second you've applied for the first and let them know the status of your application. As it stands now it's probably in your best interest to make the manager of the second lab aware of your first interview with the company. As they've emailed you giving you an update on the status of the position (working with HR) I'd send a reply back just clearly stating the situation. That way you're covered by having informed them as much as you can. 

The first thing I can say to you is be open and honest with all parties, it will make the whole process that much easier for everyone involved. It doesn't mean you have to tell them absolutely everything, for example I wouldn't tell company A that you would prefer to work for company B, but I would tell company B you have an offer on the table from company A who are expecting an answer the following day. If company B can give you an answer by Friday then great, you have the ideal situation. As @GarrisonNeely commented use the offer from company A at your interview to try and get the process speeded up. Assuming they also give you an offer you can then pick and choose at your leisure. But they may not be able to give you an offer in such a short time frame. They may have other candidates to interview at a later time or meetings to be held to consider candidates. In that case at best you may get an indication of when to expect an answer. If that is the situation come Friday you're in a difficult situation. If you ask for more time from company A you're pretty much telling them you're holding out for another job. It's at that point you would need to make a decision and either hold out for company B, in which case you can ask for more time from company A (just don't expect a favourable response) and then if it goes south put your hopes in company B. Or you can accept the job with company A and not let the hope of company B lead you on. You have a firm offer and that's better than a possible offer from a company you'd prefer to work for. 

I'd say, you have two options: either you stay or either you go. When you want to go, I'm advising you to get a career coach because, honestly, saying you have picked up pieces of knowledge and being MCSA(ish), not one single employer will hire you when you say it like this. When you want to stay, there are several thing which need to change, because at first sight your MD has a point: I read from your question that you work as a support IT engineer. This means that, in case something goes wrong with the IT equipment, you're the one who needs to solve the issues. Regularly something goes wrong with that equipment, due to third-party errors, and you believe this gets you off the hook (I didn't cause the error, so I'm innocent). I'm really sorry but it does not work like that: as a support engineer it's not your job to explain why things are not working. It's your job to get them working, despite the errors! How can you achieve this? I propose you to do a monitoring of the equipment (diskspace, network connections, regular diagnostics, ...), so you can act pro-actively (I once contacted a user of a server about one of the file-systems being at more than 95%, he was astonished that I was monitoring his machine, and on another occasion I had a user who didn't want to do something about it, so I contacted my direct boss saying that if anything would go wrong with the server, the responsibility was up to that user, you can't believe the speed the user changed his attitude). Stop working too long without getting paid. Ok, you might need some time to set up the diagnostics I just mentioned, but as far as the updates and utilities are concerned: Ok you do that during the night and you come to work in the morning just in case there is an issue, but you must be able to take a leave for recuperating the hours you worked during the night. Good luck 

If you think you lack the experience for the position then you're not going to get it. That's not the mindset you want to be going into an interview with. Just because you're out of school and not going to College doesn't mean you lack the education to be a software developer. Have you got any experience in the languages you are applying for or are you applying for entry level positions that don't expect you to know the language? This question makes a difference. If they don't expect you to know the language, then education isn't a massive factor in terms of the language. Your school grades will count but what will count more is how you think, do you have a logical approach to solutions, do you know any similar language? That's more important in a prospective entry level position where they are going to teach you. You need to show that you are receptive, eager to learn and most importantly, capable of learning. If you're going for a position where you are expected to know the language, again you don't have to have a college degree, but you will have to demonstrate command of the language. Do you have code samples you can show them? Build a portfolio, even a small one, of sample programs and code you've written. Have you worked on open source initiatives? Great, show them you've contributed; this is all experience. Not everything has to be about your school work for a school leaver. 

What do you think appraisals are for? To praise a good job? Or to get you to look at yourself, identify areas that need working on, or that have improved over the project and set goals for your next appraisal? You say your manager is asking questions that seek confessions of mistakes. I say you're looking at appraisals in the wrong way. Your manager is in fact asking you to look at yourself honestly, to identify what you did well, but also identify any areas that you need to improve on. Nobody is perfect, everyone makes mistakes, that's part of life. Your manager isn't expecting you to get everything 100% right, but when you do make a mistake you're expected to analyse it and learn from it. If you can show that by explaining what you did wrong, why it was wrong, what you learnt from the mistake and what you are going to do in the future to stop yourself from making that mistake again then your manager should be happy with your progress. In answer to your question, you shouldn't try to avoid ratting yourself out as you put it. If your manager is paying enough attention it's likely they already know about your mistake. If a member of my staff skirted round an issue, or didn't admit to an error I knew about in an appraisal meeting with me then that would raise trust issues. I would start to doubt their word and their ability to be honest with me, and that's a much bigger issue than them making a mistake. 

Does anybody have an idea how to tackle this? Don't forget, there is also the personal aspect: when I leave from here, I'll probably never be using mathematics in my career anymore, while it's something I really love to do. About the "burnout" and "depression" tags: I'm not there yet, but if I don't get better work-related news within short notice, I might fall into the trap (I have a general bad personal feeling about myself and I need a good feeling about my job in order not to drop into a depression). 

My current direct manager. I don't care for him, but I'd like to avoid giving the opportunity to harm me. My second level manager (which is the same as the one from the previous department): when he proposed me to change department, he clearly confirmed that in case the new task would not suit me, I could go back to my previous task. The CTO (Chief Technical Officer): I've told him (about a month ago) that the new job is a challenge, now I will need to tell him it's not just a challenge, it's a disaster, but I don't like bringing bad news to one of the bosses of the company (the company is led by three brothers, the CTO being one of them). My previous direct manager. When he heard about my leaving for that other department, he tried to stop me (but I didn't understand his advise at that moment, now I do). I believe he would like to have me back (but how well can you know your direct manager after only six months, in a department of ±20 people?). 

The problem is elsewhere: as you say on your PC it is not compiling, but on his system everything is working fine. In all companies I've ever worked, there was a central build server: everybody has a programming environment on his/her own PC, but when modifying a piece of source code, this gets entered into a central versioning system, the central build server is then retrieving the last versions of all pieces of source code and tries to compile. If this works, then everything is OK. If not, then there is a problem. So that might be a valuable approach for your issue: "Sir, we have the situation here that something is working on one PC but not on the other one. Instead of arguing which PC is right, let's use this situation for setting up a central build server, and in future, if ever we encounter such a situation again, that system will be the judge of who's right." Good luck 

The answer depends on the situation and several factors, such as how important is the reply to you, is a delay in a reply beneficial to you etc. So in your instance where your expecting an important email you've been told to expect and haven't received, there could be a myriad of reasons as to why they haven't been able to send it to you on time. It's polite to give them an extra day and if you still haven't heard anything just send them a gentle reminder once it's 2 days late. They will then pick it up in the morning the following day and will hopefully be able to make it their priority. At the very least most people will go through their emails and send replies to those jobs they can't get round to that day. If the delay is advantageous for you then it's pretty straight forward, enjoy the delay. This could be if your waiting for a response to continue a piece of work and have more work than you can do that day, that's one less job off your list for today. The onus is on them to send a reply to you. It may get to the point where a late reply is becoming detrimental, in which case send a reminder requesting the email they are supposed to send you, or an explanation for the delay. 

Welcome to workplace. Wow, what a hard choice to make. All I can offer you is advice based on my experience. I switched career paths a couple of years ago from I.T. support to Programming. I trained in support and went down that path throughout my schooling, always thinking it was what I wanted until I got in the job and realised it was nothing like I thought it would be. But I taught myself how to program and used to do it as a hobby. I really enjoyed it. I have absolutely no qualifications in programming. What I do have is a job I really enjoy, 2 years commercial experience and more years when it was just a hobby. For me, the lesson I learnt from all of that was having an education is good; having real world working experience is so much more valuable. I see so many job adverts saying you must have x, y and z qualifications that I could happily apply for without them because I know my experience would back me up. I know I have the examples I can show them of what I have done and what I currently do that will blow anyone with just those qualifications away. So whilst this answer is entirely based around my own experience, when I see your choice I know exactly what I would do in your situation; in fact it's an easy choice for me. I'd take the job. Several years experience at a Silicon Valley company will do more for your career than any degree. And the fact that you walked into that job without a degree will speak volumes to potential future employers.