No, you're not going to be able to make things explode using their resonance frequency. The resonance frequency is not something magical - it is just something that allows you to add more energy into a system while minimizing losses. Consider a swing that a child is playing with. Did you know that the swing has a resonance frequency? It's the time it takes to go one way and then come back. If you know how to, you can add energy a little bit at a time and end up swinging pretty high. With a sufficiently large swing, you could easily get 3 meters off the ground, higher than the current world record high jump. Resonance frequency works the same way in other objects - if something has a resonance frequency, you can use that frequency to continue adding energy to the system. However, you'd never get an explosion because of this. Because you're gradually adding more and more energy to the system, eventually the system will reach a point at which the weakest part will no longer be able to withstand the forces on it. When that part breaks, the resonance frequency will almost certainly change, so the rest of the system will survive. The best case scenario for your sword of doom is that the entire target is of a uniform strength, and the entire thing would shatter. An interesting case of resonance frequency wreaking havoc is with the original Tacoma Narrows Bridge, "Galloping Gertie." Due to lack of proper damping systems, it had a resonance frequency that the winds would sometimes hit. So one day a storm with the right wind speed lasted long enough that the bridge eventually collapsed. If you watch a video of the collapse you'll notice a some interesting things. First, it was not quick - it took an hour of intense swinging for the bridge to collapse. Second, there was a lot of energy in the system - the bridge was moving a lot. Third, the bridge did not explode - it shook itself apart. There's a new bridge there, now, that doesn't gallop. The reason it doesn't gallop is another reason why your sword of doom isn't plausible - damping. Bridges that have built since then have parts in place that can absorb extra energy, effectively eliminating the object's resonance frequency. You've probably personally experienced this as well - if you're holding a piece of metal and hit it against something, it won't ring for very long. That's because your hand damps the energy in the metal. So unless Scaramouch's sword had a ridiculously powerful energy source, realistically Jack's dagger would have been protected from it just from Jack having it in his hand. 

While considering Ancient Light Trigger Mechanism, it occurred to me that any ancient trap mechanism is unlikely to work very long without regular maintenance. It seems far too easy for dust to clog the triggering mechanism, or for animals to burrow close enough to the hidden mechanisms to disrupt them, and for any organic materials to rot. How do I design a trap to last the ages? My (eventually) ancient ruin isn't going to protect itself without them! The traps need to: 

The simplest way to have magic conflict with technology is to have magic subtly alter the laws of physics, perhaps in somewhat unpredictable ways. For example, what if the presence of magic can affect how much friction there is between two objects? An increase in friction could make the grease used ineffective and cause machines to literally grind to a halt. A decrease could affect timings and throw them off, or break a part intended to pull something else along. For electronics, it gets even easier - it wouldn't take very many transistors behaving unexpectedly before chips could get shorted out and damaged. I don't believe we have any semiconductors in our bodies, so if that's what's breaking transistors it wouldn't affect people. If you want, you can say that people are immune to this effect. Otherwise you'll have to consider how people are affected by the presence of magic (is magic a carcinogen?). 

My first thought upon reading this question - dreaming. The easiest way to think of the world as you have described it is that daydreaming is very common. Despite dreams being very common, this hasn't prevented them from being viewed as messages from the gods, etc. Taking a look at the Wikipedia article for dreams shows that many ancient cultures believed in a religious origin of dreams. So in your world, I would expect something like this to occur: 

Let's look at Tungsten hexaflouride, "one of the heaviest known gases under standard conditions." This gas is rather toxic so it won't work, but as you'll see the toxicity isn't the only problem. Tungsten hexaflouride has a density of 13g/L. The density of the human body is around 1g/mL, about 100x more dense. Using the ideal gas law (), in order to increase the density by 100x, we need the amount to increase 100x relative to the volume . is a constant, so we need to decrease and/or increase . Decreasing the temperature isn't going to help us much. Going for 30 degrees Celsius (86 F) to 10 degrees (50 F) only increases the density by 7%. Too much colder and we it isn't really survivable long-term. So basically all of the increase needs to come from increasing the pressure . However, 100x pressure isn't going to work for you. The pressure itself might be survivable, but there's nothing you could breathe that wouldn't kill you: 

This is a picture of the Nile. I don't think it can be considered swampland, but it gives you a good starting point — a river running through an otherwise desert area. The source of the river will obviously need to be a less arid area, but farther down there can be an area where the river starts to run slowly. A small, shallow lake could form that would then be filled with plants. That seems like a good recipe for a swamp to me. 

After he takes a picture (it turns out nice, with the message clear and easy to read), the clouds quickly go back to the formations they were in before. The picture quickly goes viral and is seen by pretty much everyone who uses the internet or watches TV. The authenticity of the picture is easily verified - the live broadcast the astronaut was doing showed the message, and a few weather satellites managed to capture at least part of the message. People watch the clouds fervently, but no further messages appear. There are also no immediate changes to the climate. All attempts to determine the source of the message will fail - there's no way to tell if it was an entirely random event, an act of God, or a message from aliens. In the years after the message was seen, climate trends start reversing. After decades (maybe as long as a century), the climate looks much like what we know of the climate in the 1600s or so. Once again, there's no way to determine how this happened - there's no evidence that makes it possible to tell whether it is an entirely natural occurrence, divine intervention, or an act of benevolent aliens. How would skeptics respond to the implication that they had been wrong but are now correct, and how would believers respond to the implication that they were correct but now are not? 

I don't think this is possible without a biochemistry very different than what we've seen on Earth. However, we don't know what life would look like if it was not carbon-based or oxygen breathing, so let's stick with those. First of all, what does intelligence require? A lot of processing power. In humans, 15% of our blood flow goes to the brain. We need to be able to get this blood to the organism's CPU (the brain, in our case), and then back to the oxygen intake system (our lungs). Here's where we start running into problems - the gas exchange needs to happen in an area with low blood pressure. The gas exchange can't happen if the walls of the blood vessel are too thick, so there's only so much pressure they can handle before a pulmonary edema would start to form. FYI, this is the case in fish as well, so being aquatic doesn't eliminate this problem. What if the creature has a low blood pressure everywhere? It's not going to be able to pump blood everywhere in its system, especially not its energy-hungry CPU. Having arteries themselves pumping the blood isn't going to work - the blood looses oxygen along the way in order to power the artery-pumps. One way to get around this is having a small size - with less distance to travel, the blood pressure doesn't need to be as high for the blood to get to all of the body. Unfortunately a smaller size limits the maximum size of the creature's brain, meaning that there would be a limit to how intelligent it could be. A size small enough to not need a heart would not have enough processing power to truly be intelligent. So this naturally means that the creature needs to have areas of high blood pressure, and areas of low blood pressure. This requires some sort of pump to increase the blood pressure - a heart. Are there any other ways around this? I can think of at least one - multiple air intakes. However, this comes with its own problems. The biggest one is disease. If you have multiple air intakes, that means you have more avenues for disease to attack and that your body has to keep defended. It would also be a vulnerability that other types of parasites could exploit. So what about if disease and parasites didn't exist on a particular world? Evolutionary pressure must not be very high on a world like that, otherwise niches like that would be filled. Without evolutionary pressure, intelligent life wouldn't exist - intelligence is physiologically expensive, so it is only going to exist if there is some environmental pressure that it is able to relieve. What about different biochemistries? As I said, we've never seen anything that's not oxygen breathing and carbon-based, so we don't know what it would look like. If you're going into the realm of non-carbon-based lifeforms, it would be reasonable to handwave away the need for a centralized heart.