How to keep same full face while burning the extra fat and strengthening muscles? I think I have a rough idea as to what you mean by "full face", but to answer your question, no. If you are in a caloric deficit (aka eating less), then chances are you will lose some fat on your face whereas if you are in a caloric surplus (aka eating more), then chances are you will gain some fat on your face. The problem is that you cannot spot reduce fat, hence you cannot maintain that "full face". It is not possible to burn fat while gaining strength / muscle mass at your current height and weight. As for now, you should not worry too much about your face, and continue lean bulking(eating in a small caloric surplus aka just eat more than you usually do). 

If my heart keeps pounding graciously for one hour, will this help aid weight loss in any way? No. Weight loss occurs when you are in a caloric deficit (eat less than you usually do) 

Is it safe to do light Plyometrics even though lower calves are sore? Yes. Since you are having a slight soreness, it is still alright to do plyometrics so long you do not do any sort of heavy calf raises. 

My question is more looking for suggestions as far as how many exercises per muscle group per day? Probably about 2 - 3 exercises, but really, its not about the number of exercise. It should be the amount of volume done(sets and reps done) on that day. As for your last question, I don't have any experience in calisthenics. You may want to consider looking up on other calisthenics users, such as fortress, barstarzz. You may also want to define difficult movements. Do you mean something like planche push up, human flag? 

Will it harm my body proportions to lift 36kg on EVERY exercise in Stronglifts, or must they absolutely have a difference in ratio? No, not at all. The reason? You will not be linearly progressing at the same pace for each of your lifts. If you ask me, that recommended starting weight, is just a guideline, you do not need follow it. EDIT: After re-reading the OP, you may not be able to linearly progress in terms of weight but you can progress in terms of the amount of sets / reps you do. 

How can I avoid such feelings while still studying well and not gaining a lot weight? Well, studying also use calories. With that said, instead of consuming more food, try drinking more water to fill you up. Sometimes, its not hunger. Since you mention lack of energy and have some headache, try taking a break once in a awhile by taking a short nap, taking a slow walk and etc. Is it because of enjoyment (sad or at least normal non-excited people don't like too much eating) or it is because math is harder? Whenever I enjoy doing something, I tend to forget about eating. If I don't enjoy doing something such as preparing for examinations, I tend to eat more. 

Is this normal? Yes, it is normal. Should I be worried or are these common for anyone who does intense weight training? No, you do not need to worry about it. Good news is that these stretch mark will disappear after some time. Here are some article regarding the causes of stretch marks :- Mayoclinic 

I was wondering if it is actually necessary to squat in different stance. For example you have :- Platz Squat--> Where you squat with your feets close together Wide Stance Squat --> Where your feets are far apart So is there really a need to do any other variation of squat stance? Will it greatly affect my squat such as making me stronger? 

Is the Insanity workout a good approach? If you need to pay for your routine, no. If it is, should I be following the diet it recommends (including the protein powder)? Absolutely not. Since you mention that you are quite skinny, what I recommend is eating more than usual (caloric surplus). Protein shake should not be your main source of protein. If you really want to make a change to your body, consider calculating your TDEE. As far as protein intake goes, the usual 1g per pound of bodyweight. Fat intake probably around 0.5 ~ 0.6 g per pound of bodyweight. Fill up the rest with carbs, vitamins and minerals. Do note that stated protein intake, fat intake is not your final answer. You may need to modify it to ensure that you are able to ensure the best muscle to fat gain ratio. EDIT After having a long conversation with @Ryan, I would like to suggest that you opt for a free calisthenics workout program BEFORE buying Insanity. Once you feel happy doing calisthenics, then you can decide whether you want to buy Insanity or continue with your routine. Here is some of the free ones for you to try:- Nerd's Fitness Beginner Bodyweight Workout Fortress Bodyweight Workout Note that if you are unable to do pull-ups, consider doing incline pull ups and if you are unable to do pistol squat, try doing squats. Baristi Workout 

Is this satisfactory enough to build muscles up? Provided you are in a caloric surplus(eating more than your TDEE, by adding 100~500 cal to your TDEE), then yes. Also since you are running, make sure you are able to consume the calories you lose from running. Consider doing your workout with 3~4 sets(up to you to make the changes here) for every 3~15 reps. Since you have lifted weights before, it should not take too long to regain your muscle. Lastly:- Also, how many dips should I be able to do each day without causing a shoulder injury? It depends on the user. If you feel any sort of pain be it in the forearm, shoulders, chest, etc, stop working out and take a break. You could try doing some warm-ups such as pike push ups to warm up your shoulders before doing dips. The pike push ups can be down while your legs are elevated on a bench or on the ground. 

What are some of the best things to do whenever I'm on vacation? Usually, you should enjoy your vacation, and probably spend some time with your family. With that said, how about doing some sort of physical activity with your family, such as cycling or hiking. What's a good amount of time to allot for said workouts (or should I focus on keeping my heart rate elevated for a period of time)? 1 hour or less should be sufficient. The reason to that is simple, you don't lose fat or gain muscle through the hours spent on your workout, but rather your diet and your recovery is the one that make the change. Should I worry too much about skipping days, etc.? Not at all, you should spend some of the days doing what you like to do the most or any other activities you would like to try. Any other general tips you guys and girls have? The most important factor is to not stress yourself too much about working out. As for those applications like Freeletics, I have tried one before, it was Touchfit:Georges St-Pierre, but I end up not using it. Instead, ended up making my own routine and did that instead. EDIT :- Some calisthenics workout :- Baristi Beginners Workout ---> Can't do pull ups? Do a negative pull ups or incline pull ups. ---> Can't do dips? Do bench dips (either with foot on the floor or on another bench) or more close grip / normal push ups. Buff Dude's Punisher Prison BW Workout ---> Can't do one arm push ups? Just do close grip / normal push ups ---> Can't do handstand press? Do pike push ups ---> Can't do L-Sits? Do planks or hanging leg raises, follow the set and seconds provided Fortress Beginners Routine ---> Can't do pull ups? Do a negative pull ups or incline pull ups ---> Can't do a pistol squat? Do your normal squats ---> Can't do handstand hold? Do pike push ups P.S Inverted Rows = Incline Pull Ups 

Why can't I lose weight? Usually, I would advise people to eat less than they usually do (causing a caloric deficit) as I don't really advocate people tracking every single food they eat. However, if you really want to make a huge impact on your weight loss journey, start by calculating your TDEE. Protein intake 1g per pound of bodyweight, fat intake of 0.5g - 0.6g per pound of bodyweight and fill up the rest with your carbs, vitamins and mineral. Eating less than your TDEE will result in a weight loss whereas eating more than your TDEE will result in a weight gain. With that said, you may want to try TDEE - 500 cal for weight loss. Of course, you should play around with how much calories you should consume as the answer I provide is not surefire method of your weight loss progression but more of a rough guideline. 

Do I need to change the routine? No. So long you are able to progress in weights / reps / sets, you do not need to change your routine. With that said, this is called progressive overload. So long you are progressing, your workout is pretty much effective for you. You are doing pretty well except for your 3rd week. So what you could do is continue doing 70 kg and achieve your 5 sets of 12. However, I don't think you need that much set since your pretty much doing high amount of reps. Is it okay to not feel tired after the effective workout? Absolutely alright. If you feel fatigue, be it physical and/or nervous fatigue, its not a good thing. Depending on your genetics, it may take up to 24 - 48 hours to recover from physical fatigue(it may even take a longer time or even a shorter time). But its a different case for nervous fatigue (also known as central nervous system fatigue). Unlike physical fatigue, if you continue to lift heavy everyday, you may experience the following symptoms which are related to nervous fatigue :- • Depression • Decrease in training capacity / intensity • Washed-out feeling, tired, drained, lack of energy And more can be found here. To avoid facing neural fatigue, try alternating between a light training session and a heavy training session. For example, you go heavy on your chest, shoulders, biceps and go light for your back, triceps. Increasing your caloric intake and your rest will also help. With that said, since you are training 3 times a week, you should be fine. 

If this is not the case, then you may one to consider doing some :- -Wall Push Up -Bench Dips (either with foot on the floor or on another bench) If you still have some sort of difficulty, you may want to reduce some of your weight if you are fat. Else, it will take time to progress. If you want a strength routine as well, please do comment under my post and will provide you with some. 

Is this a good practice? No. This is unnecessary for people like us. The only reason that I can think off, is that they want get rid of sodium. What is the medical reason for this? I don't think there is a medical reason to this. I could be wrong for all I know. 

Consider :- 1.Lowering the weight. 2.Do more stretches/foam rolling. 3.Do more upper back exercises such as barbell row, bentover barbell row, pull ups and etc. 

How to maintain shredded abs while bulking up? By lean bulking aka small caloric surplus(TDEE + 100~500 calories). However, if you are afraid of not being able to see your abs, consider doing small cuts for 1-2 weeks(not recommended since you are lean bulking and you should not be gaining too much fat while doing so). 

Workout plan that is low cost and can be done at home? There are tons of free calisthenics routines that can be found over the internet. Here are a few of them :- Baristi Beginners Workout ---> Can't do pull ups? Do a negative pull ups or incline pull ups/inverted rows. ---> Can't do dips? Do bench dips (either with foot on the floor or on another bench) or more close grip / normal push ups. Buff Dude's Punisher Prison BW Workout ---> Can't do one arm push ups? Just do close grip / normal push ups ---> Can't do handstand press? Do pike push ups ---> Can't do L-Sits? Do planks or hanging leg raises, follow the set and seconds provided Fortress Beginners Routine ---> Can't do pull ups? Do a negative pull ups or incline pull ups ---> Can't do a pistol squat? Do your normal squats ---> Can't do handstand hold? Do pike push ups P.S Can't do regular push ups? Do knee push ups or wall push ups. Next, your diet:- First off, calculate your TDEE and increase your calorie intake by 200~500(this is known as caloric surplus). Next your protein intake should be 1g per lbs of bodyweight, where as your fat intake should be around 0.5 ~ 0.6g per lbs of bodyweight and the remaining can be used to fill up your carb intake, and your micronutrients(aka vitamins and minerals). However, this is also highly debatable since there is no right or wrong answers. By that, what I mean is that you need to adjust your calorie(if necessary) to ensure you are losing weight. Lastly, do note that it takes time to either build muscle. Do not get disheartened when don't see any result in the next few days, weeks, months.