I would say that without any proof, you are on pretty shaky ground and it would come down to his word versus yours and it's likely that the more senior employee would be believed either by the MD or your co-workers. Personally (and this is without experience of working for this type of firm/in the broker industry), if it is not noticeably affecting his ability to do his job, then it is of no business of anyones. Unless there are strict clauses in employment contracts about behaviour whilst on the company premises that he is contravening then he is not really doing anything wrong. I'm not sure what would be gained by mentioning this to your co-workers unless you already have an issue with the branch manager for some other reason. 

Personally, I would phone back and ask to speak to the person who interviewed you and make a casual "I just wanted to check that you had my email address correct" or perhaps "I've been having problems with emails not coming through and wanted to check I have not missed one from you" (less preferable) Make it not about chasing but just that you are confirming they have the correct information. If they have genuinely forgotten, it will hopefully prompt them to send the email through with the details. If there is another reason why the email has come through (as per your gut feeling), they will simply confirm the email address is correct. If you then do not receive anything, your gut was correct 

What you are asking them to do is not autonomous, is probably of trivial difficulty for some of them, and serves no purpose in their eyes. Fix the assignment, and the workers will follow. Some examples: 

You could be on time to meetings, which seems obvious but would eliminate this problem. If you feel that everyone truly needs a reminder then you could remind the people in your office to be on time. 

In your situation it might be wise to mention to Company A that you would rather work for them, but since your family lives cross country, and Company B is offering more PTO you are unsure of what to do. You can ask if there is any way that they could match that time. 

As far as whether you should expect your boss to lower his expectations on punctuality I would say absolutely not. You are all adults and should be doing your jobs, and in this case that means being on time to meetings. I apologize for the repetition, but as far as I can tell the way forward is clear. Be on time to meetings 

I think a better approach would be looking at what you can control to rectify the situation of your boss being upset when the employees are missing meetings. 

A lot of prospective employers now have a glance at a candidate's LinkedIn profile. I've written a couple of recommendations for ex-colleagues there in the hope that they will be seen by recruiting companies. It tends to hold more weight than the simple "number of connections" algorithm Most people put the link to their LinkedIn profile on their CV these days too (I do!) 

NO! Until you have an offer letter from a new employer in your hand, do not tell your boss/colleagues/company that you are looking for another job If you have a lot of tasks assigned to you when you hand your notice in, you will still have the same amount of notice period, regardless. Part of the responsibility for handing out all these tasks is with your manager to manage handover/cover/failover - what if you were hit by a bus tomorrow? Making you the single point of failure does not always mean it is up to YOU! to manage cover etc 

Start a toilet cleaning rota that has to be signed off when done (similar to pub toilets with the piece of paper on the wall!) and make it part of people's objectives/bring it up in performance reviews if not done. It is the only way to foster any sort of collective responsibility for the state of the toilets as it is obvious everyone appears to think it is someone else problem Failing that, employer a cleaner and inform everyone that there will be no bonuses this year due to the cost of having to employ a cleaner to clean up after everyone! 

Address this issue. If you don't clarify it, your boss will bit by bit develop a picture of you being lazy, not caring about the company, etc... Have a talk with him and tell him you have the feeling that there is a misunderstanding. Explain the reasons why you want to be home earlier - preferably kids and wife, and not to watch the new episode of xyz - and show him that you care about the company. Have some facts to back it up, quality of work, you always do your time despite going home earlier. But be cautious not to degrade your colleagues, when you talk about the working hours! 

Some persons need time to open up! If he is shy, I suggest you to use other communication channels to maintain some kind of work relationship with him, i. e. in this special case: email. It has some advantages: 

If the ethics of your company are more related to the former point. You should probably get out. Preferably in peace since your boss could be reference for future applications. You shouldn't mention that your boss is an addict, unless maybe he's is getting help and had some kind of 'outing', since it could be considered as deceitful. If the second point is the case, you should document the behaviour of your boss to be safe against future threats and then confront him with your concerns. E. g. you don't want to drive in the same car. Depending on his actions, you should maybe take lawyer.