To stabilise the nimitta when doing breath meditation requires one to ignore it and continue to keep ones focus on the object of meditation.Maintain the focus on the breath point and the nimitta will stabilise on its own. 

1.Suppose Dave is a Buddha Ok. 2.Does he want to be a Buddha? Well his already a Buddha isn't he.If he didn't want to be a Buddha he wouldn't have worked so hard for it. 3.Will he get what he wants - forever ? Like you said Dave is Already a Buddha.So there's no mystery,we know he got what he wanted.Forever? No. Only until his Parinibanna. 4.Does it matter ? I think so yes.Becoming a Buddha means a lot to the person aspiring for Buddhahood.And it means a lot to the rest of us.So I think of course it would matter. 

The Buddha who knew there were 31 realm but didn't mention anything about a round earth? Perhaps because it had nothing to do with being free from suffering.I think the only reason the Buddha mentioned the 31 planes of existence was to help us understand more about samsara and that there are mind states that correlates with these 31 planes of existence. How come? if he didn't know about the basic fact that all kids now know, instead he said it was flat. He may not have been referring to the physical earth but the metaphysical or spiritual universe.And i can't find any reference of him saying the earth is flat.can you? Doesn't it mean that what is said in the buddhist text is unreliable? That depends on each person.If the person has developed the jhanas and the ability to travel to other realms then the text is reliable to him.If the person has faith in the Buddha the text is reliable for him,for people who completely ignore any metaphysical aspect and practice insight meditation in the here and now,the text is reliable for them.For people who need to see scientific proof for everything then the text is unreliable for them.The Dhamma invites you to practice and see for yourself.No one is forcing you to believe.You decide what's best for yourself. On the other hand he did mention about 31 realm of existence which is more difficult to comprehend and cannot be proved. Yes he had to mention the 31 planes of existence because it was related to his teaching of suffering and the cessation of suffering.He didn't mention the earth is round,the chemical composition of the sun,how to build a space ship,how many rings there are in jupiter,what my cats name is because it was irrelevant. The 31 planes of existence is only difficult to comprehend if you do not see cause and effect.Everyday our mind states changes.One minute we are happy (in the deva realm) the next we are angry (hell realms).Really you don't even have to believe in a place this in itself is enough. That said some of the Buddhist Universe truth are proven false by the today scientific discovery already. Fortunately all Buddhists only have to worry about freeing themselves from suffering. 

Is there a connection between Sila and fear? I find fear to be the main reason I practice sila. I would like to practice Sila out of loving kindness and a compassionate heart but I'm more worried about the consequences of my actions then being compassionate.And i don't know if this is selfish reason to practice sila but I'm really not keeping the precepts because I care very deeply about others or want to be Mother Theresa but because for some reason I never seem to get away with anything.And I always seem to get the results of my actions right away that I feel like I don't have a choice but lead some kind of moral life.Basically i feel like someone on parole.My question is: 

My question: When sitting shall we use a short sentence? Like: Death is inevitable. I am a mortal being. Like me all beings in samsara will face death when the time comes. Hence, we must transform our minds in accordance with the Dhamma. Yes.Short sentences like this helps the mind to focus on a theme/truth.It helps the mind penetrate its meaning. Is there any short comprising of 2 words/phrase that can be recited while inhaling & exhaling like mantra chanting (Bud- dho) in order to strengthen our contemplation. Now unless your contemplating on the breath,this is where it gets complicated.You are trying to understand a certain truth.For example,"Death is inevitable".But a 2 syllable word.One for the inbreath and the other for the outbreath.May narrow your concentration to a point where it hinders your ability to investigate/contemplate (especially if your object of meditation is not the breath).Investigation is whats needed in Discursive Meditation. Mantra chanting is good to do before you start your discursive meditation or investigation as a means of stabilizing or anchoring the mind.But i don't see it as a way to strengthen contemplation.In fact i think it hinders it.By splitting the object of meditation in three.1.The Breath.2.The Mantra.3.The Meaning of the Mantra (Death is inevitable). 

There are many techniques to practice meditation but how exactly do you practice Sila? Are there any methods or techniques mentioned in the Suttas or by Buddhist Teachers to practice Sila. Exactly what are you doing when you say you are "practicing sila"? 

However, in Theravada Buddhism, there exists no such emotional support from any deity. Yes this is the same problem i experienced.Having come from a back ground of devout Christianity i was very used to being soothed by praying.Theravada Buddhism seemed to be almost indifferent about this subject.And i had to go through a period of a hybrid religion,where i still prayed to God and practiced meditation to maintain emotional support.Then i stopped doing that because God stopped becoming a Being to me and became more of an Embodiment of certain qualities i would like to emulate.Qualities such as love,kindness,generosity,patience,etc.Qualities that i can see in the Buddha and in different religions.Qualities that i see in human beings and even animals and nature and myself.I realised that these qualities were universal. So, what should the Theravada Buddhist do in these cases? My need for a God vanished without a trace when i saw the workings of Karma. This is what changed my life.I saw it clearly and in some ways it took the place of God.So if anybody asked me what i believe in,i would say Karma.Like God,knowledge of karma protects your morality,it develops your wholesome qualities,it is what you base your aspirations on. For emotional support,i recognized the same mental quality in praying to God,singing,reading scriptures as piti and sukhha.In fact i think some christians have an overwhelming amount of piti which puts them in a euphoric state.I can access these soothing states from samadhi meditation and it gives me a sense of contentment.Brahmaviharas gives the quality of spaciousness.I also develop faith either through reading the scriptures or through having faith in my meditation object.This is important in both vipassanna and samadhi for example when developing the jhanas or gaining insight one can then see for themselves that the Buddha really knew what he was talking about and this dispel doubt.If he was right about this he could be right about Nibbanna. Also another important quality that comes with seeing the workings of karma is Equanimity.One just has to develop this because ..what other choice does one have.Especially when dealing with the result of past karma that is bearing fruit.You just have to meet it with equanimity. Therefore for me this let go of my need for a God.As a God doesn't give us these qualities,they don't come from anything external. 

"something that takes control of the present to enable greater control of future possibilities". This is Mindfulness. By being Mindful of the present moment.One has greater control of the action that follows. How is this related to goal of Buddhism? The goal of Buddhism is Nibbanna.You realise it through practicing the Eight Noble Path in which Right Mindfulness is a component.Have you heard of the karma that ends all karma. Basically by following the Eight Noble Path we are creating the right conditions,the right karma,to stop suffering.By being mindful we can takes control of the present to enable greater control of future possibilities (Happiness,Nibbanna) Being mindful stops you from acting subconsciously (in ignorance) or out of deeply ingrained habits and tendencies that keep you in samsara. By this definition is Buddhist practice very intelligent? Yes. 

If I practice tranquility meditation how would I go about developing insight.How does a samathayanika realise Nibbanna. 

My mother is a christian woman but has strong traditional roots in voodooism and ancestral worship.My question is,Is it possible for human beings to invoke a deva/gods/territorial spirits(nagas etc) to do our bidding? In a Buddhist context Can a Deva help a human being? Is there such a story in the suttas.Why would a Deva help a human being? According to my mother a particular deva helps us because he was our family/relative/ancestor.Is this compatible with Buddhist Beliefs? 

Who would have the better handle on how the true nature of reality is organised? Buddhist monks.Because they follow the teachings of the Buddha.The Buddha taught Karma and Rebirth. Logic dictates that the more insightful answers come from those who can communicate directly with the spirit world as psychic mediums can Please elaborate.I got lost at Logic. The true role of the Buddhist Monk surely is to facilitate peace on Earth rather than to pontificate on the technicalities of the afterlife It's neither.The true role of the Buddhist Monk is to realize nibbanna. 

if one is in the moment one shouldn’t be thinking about the future With mindfulness,Thinking about the future happens in the present moment. is it actually possible to be present but to think about the future at the same time? Yes.Just be aware. Be aware when your thinking of the future.This means that you are aware of the present moment.If you have a hard time doing this think out loud.Saying the words will help your mind stay in the present moment.And stop it from wandering around and making connections with other thoughts.Being aware (no matter what the subject is) takes place in the present moment.Not the future. I know you might think it's impossible to think and be mindful at the same time.You think that your in the present moment, then you have to pause to take a break and think.And this is not true.You have to train your mind,Mindfulness is like a muscle.You can be in the present moment while your thoughts are arising and to stay in the present moment while you watch your thoughts,your will,your intentions etc.It's just hard if your mindfulness is not trained.So don't think the two are separate. How does one reconcile having goals or making plans for the future? When you are in the present moment you see things clearly.Your grounded.You can make better plans for the future.When your not mindful of the actual process of planning what happens is,things go under the radar (subconscious) its taken over by force of habit,impulses,etc IGNORANCE. If you don't bring your thinking or planning into the surface of consciousness this means you are letting your future go with the flow of subconscious which at times isn't very rational.In fact it is planning your future in ignorance.Mindfulness is your clarity. It seems difficult to not plan for having children, planning a career, etc. It is difficult.Do not stop.Your goal is to plan things skillfully and you need mindfulness to do that.There's almost nothing you can not be aware of except for maybe deep states of sleep. Be aware of planning and thinking.