The code bases of almost all software developed in corporations are a mess. This is because human thinking process is not crisp and clear as it is usually considered to be, but it is quite muddled most of the time. The clarity of the thought process is easily degraded by emotions and moods distinct from the thinking process itself. For example, the code developed by someone after an argument with the boss will invariably be worse than the code s/he develops when in a good mood. The attitude of management and therefore the environment in most corporations is such that it puts the people who have the actual skills to develop any product in a bad mood a lot of the time. Thus most code is developed when in a not so good mood and so it is messy. In fact, as a software developer you can expect yourself to be stuck neck deep in messy code most of your time. Being a software engineer is not very different from being a sanitation engineer. Do not start your day with the expectation of dealing with clean, sensible code. Repeat in your mind several times the following before you start your work day: 

Welcome to the world of software development in corporations. I have been working in that world for more than 25 years and I can assure you that the chances of improving any of the conditions you describe are almost zero. However, you can gradually change your attitude and expectations so that you experience less and less misery in it. I shall address your points in a different order from how you listed them to make the solutions easier to understand. 

Set your own pace. Do not worry about not meeting the expectations of your manager or colleagues. Work at a pace where you do not feel stressed out but at the same time you do not slack and waste time. This is something that comes with practice. Do not be afraid that sometime in the future you may get a feedback that your pace of work does not live up to their expectations, which they have not bothered to communicate to you. If and when that happens, tell your manager that no expectation was communicated to you before that time, you need more help with locating code and any other help you need. Always follow the middle way between slacking off and stressing out when determining your pace of work. Following this middle way is much more important in the long run than any rewards you expect from working, such as praise, status, promotion, power or higher salary. Doing otherwise is like putting the cart in front of the horse; such a contraption will just become a problem for others on the road with their horses and carts in the right order. 

Learn the code base in small chunks, that is, do not expect to be able to understand the entire code base in a short time. Try to understand small parts of it, such as all the code for a few relatively simple features of the application. This can be made easier by working on bug investigation and fixing for the first few weeks in a large project rather than jumping into developing new code right away. You may want to talk to your team lead or manager about this. 

As you change your approach in the way described for the previous point and your stress levels become lower, it will become easier to learn new technologies. Look for online resources about ReactJS or purchase some good books. Spend some time every day just on learning ReactJS rather than working on the project. You can also try working through some free tutorials. However, do not overwork or stay too late in the office for this. Again, do not expect to become an expert in a short time. Learning is a gradual process. 

This is a bad habit that is spread by management. Keep in mind that most managers do not have any skills needed to actually contribute to product development. However, they have the desire to maintain as much power and control over as many things as possible and also show to their own managers how crucial their contribution is. The brilliant solution that managers and executives have come up with is meetings. It is not really a solution, but in their minds it is and in corporations what a manager assumes, feels or thinks always overrides reality. After a few years, the meeting habit also spreads to developers. You can expect to waste a lot of time in meetings, especially when working in large corporations. You must regard meetings the same way as you would regard commute problems in the city you live in. It is just something you have to live with. Keep in mind that you get paid to waste time in meetings unlike in commute. 

It simply says that you check your mailbox on Sunday. Executives in most of the companies are not bound to Monday-Friday 9-17 work schedule, so I think it is normal for them to send mail whenever they feel like doing it. It's up to you to set the boundaries on how you deal with those mails. You don't mention the executive ever pointed out a delayed answer to weekend mail, so it's not a big deal. 

Stop covering the sh*t he makes. Let managers step on it and let him bear the consequences of his work. If you remove his accountability by filling the (alleged) gaps he creates, there is no way that the organization will feel the need to fix the issue. 

If your mind is really made up for leaving, there is no reason in playing with the fire and risking your perspective employer to doubt your commitment. If, as you say, it's the company tune that motivates you to leave, it is not an higher salary that will accommodate that. You are wasting time (yours, your current manager's, your future manager's) just to fiddle. If this comes to surface it won't praise your attitude. 

I have had colleagues in the Netherlands who changed job while being in therapy for burn out or other serious health conditions. As far as I know, it's not something that will prevent you from getting a job, as long as you are open about it with your employer. You may ask your doctor advices on how to handle it with your employer (he/she will surely have other patients in the same condition). Maybe you can settle to start working part time (0.6 or 0.8 FTE) and then gradually increasing your work load as your health situation improves. 

I also work in an activity based workplace, and I have noticed that early birds tend to occupy the same spot every day, while late comers have to deal with the leftovers. In your case, check first your office layout: you will surely find a few spots that are suitable to your needs. Then strive to be in the office as one of the first: you will be able to pick your spot when still plenty of them are empty. 

It sounds at best a borderline comment, as it implies that as a woman you should be more "decorative", which per se is not appropriate, as I assume the job you are hired for is not purely based on appearance. You should probably check what is the company policy on sexual harassment, gender equality and if there is any speak up policy about such episodes. Then, if you feel molested by such comments, take action. I would suggest such order of escalation (but this is based on the policy and culture of the company where I work): 

Normally not. Whenever I have searched for a high-tech job in the Netherlands I was almost never asked for reference letters. Normally you are required a CV/resume and a cover letter, sometimes a list of exam with grades, but reference letters is not really requested as common practice. 

Well, if they keep asking and they keep getting the info they want (with the added value of not having to pay a dime), why should they stop bothering you? Politely answer that 

Made up example: "In my present project I am working of the validation of an algorithm for biomedical usage. Without going into confidential details, it analyzes data gathered via an echo scan and assesses the health of the patient's liver. What I do is testing the algorithm by feeding it data and checking the outcome versus the analysis executed with the present golden standard. By doing this and providing feedback to the developers team, I have been able to increase the analysis rate from 8 patients/day to 40 patients/day". You don't explain how the algorithm work, but you explain your work. 

First of all, check what is the company policy for applicants. Some companies do not allow multiple applications, for the sake of reducing load on HR (in big companies each HR can receive hundreds of CV in a day, do not expect them to do your job of matching CV and positions for you). If the company has no policy forbidding multiple applications, I would still advice you to narrow down your selection in any case. Multiple applications can convey the message your simply firing in the group or that you are indecisive, and you don't want to be labeled as the serial applicant. Set some criteria to evaluate the position, rank them and go for the top one.