Too long to be a comment - this is really just a set of references. In Aristotle considers happiness in book X of Nichomachean Ethics. I recommend it because it would provide you with a good background in which to phrase your questions. But it certainly has its critics. A more 'modern' viewpoint comes from John Stuart Mill, and in his work Utilitarianism in particular. Although Mill is a utilitarian (not a surprise, given his book title), many consider him to be a certain type of hedonist. A running theme in his writing is that the general actions of people should best increase general happiness. 

That theorem (overview) is often taken out of context. His suggestive naming of the behavior or elementary particles as "free will" irked a lot of people, especially as the connection to what we consider free will is phenomenally vague. It's almost akin to noting that Heisenberg Uncertainty suggests a lack of determinism (for the more quantum-mechanically literate, look into Bell's Theorem). So the theorem is taken very seriously, but not necessarily having anything to do with what we consider free will. 

I think that one of the biggest changes in war came with the apparent end of conventional warfare after the Gulf War. It is simply unreasonable for almost any state (a few exceptions, perhaps, but not so many) to expect to confront NATO in so-called 'conventional' ways and be successful. The Art of War speaks at great length of how generals should command, Sun Tzu even mentions that "All war is based on deception." But he took this only insofar as to attack when your enemy thinks you are weak, and to appear strong even when you are weak so as to discourage attack (Baden Powell truly embodied this in the Battle of Mafeking, which also led to the development of the Boy Scout Movement). Yet modern forms of deception are far more complicated, and warfare conducted in ways that appear far less ordered, than ever before. I think that some of the seminal works now would include On Guerilla Warfare, by Mao Tse-Tung, and Urban Warfare. These include some philosophy, some straight-up strategy and tactics, and some ideology. With the current trends in combat ranging from conventional to highly asymmetric, I think that these texts should also be included. 

I think that you should take an objective scientific view. 1 The world is what it is, and is therefore in some sense 'good': it cannot help being straightforwardly 'honest'. Avalanches, mushrooms, carnivores, forest fires, ice ages, savannahs... all of these things participate in an ongoing, self-regulating balance (which also encompasses evolution, continental drift, etc.). The above seems very scientific to me. The notion of how the world 'as is' is in some sense good is promoted by evolution. Since we evolved in this word we have developed survival skills in it. It is where we can survive (most of the time). It's good to survive, survival instinct is required by evolution. 2 This does not require nature-worship. The core would be something much more like a realistic sensitivity to and appreciation of natural systems. Nature does not care about us, any more than it 'cares' about bees or pebbles. In effect, worshipping nature would be more a self-aggrandising declaration of our own supposed importance than anything else. Worshiping nature in the religious metaphysical sense is clearly not scientific. Being fascinated by nature and studying it is due to the kind of appreciation you describe. The scientific descriptions of chemistry and biology/evolution attribute no intentions to it's workings. Humans are neither elevated or debased scientifically. 3 Humans compulsively impose complex ideological structures upon this network of natural entities and events, to justify activity that typically limits its views and objectives in practice to social concerns (often preoccupied with the locus of social power). We spend a lot of time and effort on initiatives to resist and/or control natural systems, not always sensibly (e.g. building skyscrapers on fault lines). Yes, we do many foolish things. Such would be expected in an objective understanding of a species that is slowly learning about how the world works, how it has developed into an extremely social species, so highly dependent on on another as we emerged so recently from really brute creatures into amazingly sophisticated ANIMALS with massive killing and creative powers. We compete as individuals and cooperate as nations. We don't know our own genetic differences, tendencies toward violence and compassion. If we don't kill ourselves off we'll sort out why we have such bad actors and miracle workers all called the same species. This variety within the species is exactly what one would expect from a species whose only real competition for survival is itself. While evolving we needed those ready to kill quickly when threatened,-- to protect the tribe, we needed the kind ones to tame the viscous ones and keep the tribe together. 4) Individual humans expend a surprising amount of energy upon self-satisfaction and self-flattery. It is much easier to justify a varied accumulation of artistic items, than an extensive wardrobe or a prestigious but stressful and destructive job. Many social mechanisms are geared merely towards persuading individuals that in some cloudy way they are valued and respected. Individual survival to produce offspring has honed our intra-species interactions/competition to a fevered pitch. The power that these animals possess, have developed by way of cooperation has amplified the societies abilities to provide rewards for the winners and the power to control others way beyond the types of controls present in the hunter gatherer groups from which we came. Our social instincts , so necessary for our species, drives a major sense of morality and responsibility to the group ( tribe if you will). Yet we have the hunters still among us, so good at stealth, sneaking up on the nights dinner, so essential for survival. Those skills make good criminals and politicians. Absurd? Yes and for and an absurd reason, we needed it for survival- contradictions liars, sneaks, geniuses and followers. This is the scientific viewpoint on humans. We are animals of wild design. Really really smart compared to any other ANIMALS. It's amazing that we turned out so well, it's amazing that we haven't already killed each other off. 

There is only one empty set. Two sets are different if one contains an element not within the other. This comes from the extensionality axiom of ZF. 

Too long for a comment: I think at the heart of this question is the common belief that religion and science are diametrically opposed. But I would also say this is a misnomer - the real key is that they do not cover the same material. It is possible for the concept usually described by the vastly unspecific and overgeneralized word "science" to address religious issues - though it's unlikely. In particular, if a god or gods were to appear, demonstrate their powers, and the like, then it is not the case that the scientific community would still refute this. In some freshman physics class I took in college, I remember there being a student who had a really hard time separating the concept of theory and fact. Really, he had a hard time acknowledging that 'science' was not based on facts, but on approximated theories founded upon approximate observations - they can compete, multiple theories can both be brought forward, etc. What I'm getting at is that the idea of a 'scientific perspective' seems poorly defined. If you mean from the perspective of coming up with ideas and subjecting them to the test of being compared with observation and logic, then that's one thing. If you mean describe the sort of deity-like perhaps-sentient Designer(s) with a set of rules governing behavior, or to mathematically demonstrate sort of property, or to see what would happen if we shot two of such creators at each other (as I continue to poke at my physics buddies) - that's another thing. Further, it's not so clear what you mean by intelligent design, or even intelligence? Could you clarify, especially on what sort of characterization of this 'intelligence' that you mean? 

It all depends on what you mean by 'meaningless'. Start with what you mean by 'meaning'. We say words have meanings because of their associations in conventional usage. I doubt that you mean this kind of meaning. Other things have meaning to those who know about causal relationships between the stimulus (the thing said to have meaning, say a certain pattern of a footprint)and some other points of interest (It's from a deer, made only in the last hour, and the deer went 'that a way'). The same pattern might have no such meaning to a city dweller who has no experience in such a thing. Both instances of meaning are related whereby some information/experience is said to have meaning because it can tell us more than just a random pattern. I rather doubt that this is the notion of meaning that you are concerned with as well. I think that you mean 'emotional meaning'. This refers to aspects of situations that you personally care about. It is not entirely unrelated to the earlier examples but seems much closer to your concern. People will say that their lives are meaningless when they are emotionally disconnected from their activities. They are doing things that they don't care much about. Emotional meaning is all about YOU. Figure out what you want to do/ what you think that you should do, at least try to start sorting it out. Given some time, if you think it through, try different things you'll find your own direction, a direction (or directions) that you sincerely care about pursuing. Then as you make progress and suffer failures your life will be full of meaning. I didn't intend the above as a self help talk although if it sounds like one that's incidental but fine by me."Life" is a word, if you want it to have more meaning than that you are just alienated from your own activities and confusing meaning of a word with personal purpose. I make this as a philosophical point. I believe it's called a category mistake. 

I'll answer from the completely math-style logic POV. We know this person has a brother. What is the probability that s/he's male? Let us assume that half of the population is male and the other half female, that this is very uniformly distributed, that the gender of previous children doesn't affect gender of any future child of a couple, etc. Let us also assume for a moment that the figure has exactly 1 sibling. Then a priori, there were four equally likely possibilities in his family were BB, BG, GB, and GG. Now we know one is a boy. So we are left with 3 equally likely possibilities: BB, BG, and GB. In two of the three, the shrouded figure is a female. Correspondingly, 1/3 that he's a guy. Now suppose the shrouded figure has 2 siblings. Each of the previous possibilities can be modified 'in pairs,' so that we get BBB/BBG, BGB/BGG, GBB/GBG, GGG/GGB. Knowing one is a boy leaves BBB/BBG, BGB/BGG, GBB/GBG, GGB. Thus we have 1 situation in which he's a guy, 3 in which s/he's 50/50, and 3 in which she's a girl. So now the chances are smaller - 5/14 that he's a guy (approximately 1/3). And so on. In general, it's more likely given these assumptions and that we don't know the relative ages that the figure is a girl. It is Monty Hall style. 

In his lectures entitled "The Meaning of it All," Richard Feynman talked about UFOs and psychics a lot. It seems that this is something that has pestered him a lot, as almost every collection of his stories includes something on UFOs and psychics. He talked about what it would take for him to believe in psychics (bear with me, I think it's relevant). Supposing there were a 'psychic' who claimed to be able to predict the outcome of things at a casino. So he went to a roulette table, and began to predict them, one by one. Suppose he got it 30 times in a row. Even then, Feynman said he would be completely skeptical. He would suspect collusion or some other trick first. But if he brought that 'psychic' to a variety of casinos, and he predicted it another 30 times at many different places, then he would believe. And he would be excited, because he hadn't expected it. The idea is that everyone starts with an initial bias. And there are always lots of alternatives. Is it possible to show that something is a 'miracle' (whatever that means - in this context, I'm taking it to mean something whose explanation does not lie within our current body of knowledge) to a scientist (inasfar as he represents a rational thinker), but one would need to exhaust all other possibilities that seem more likely to him. 

Science does not need to postulate existence of anything. Science is the job of making predictions, going from one set of observations to another. Anything in between is just math or conceptual relationships. "Existence" has been going out of style since at least quantum mechanics, in particular Einstein's "elements of reality" in the EPR paper , Bells inequalities and it's offspring. Controversial perhaps, but in terms of your question science can't make claims that aren't empirical since predicting some set of observations is by definition empirical. 

Most fundamentally and in specific response to your request.. But alas, special relativity does away with the concept of absolute simultaneity, and as a result it renders physically meaningless the idea of a metaphysical or "real" Now-somewhere-else. That's the trouble with metaphysical notions, by definition they aren't supportable by empirical results. 1) In what sense can we ask if the moon exists, if it is 1 light second away? In the same sense we always have, that we have empirical experiences such as we describe. There is no scientific or empirical problem here only worrying about something that was outside of experience to begin with which is why you referred to metaphysics. There is no philosophical problem either if you don't posit such metaphysical constructs with "metaphysical existence." 2) Is there a notable discussion of this problem in philosophy? Probably but it is unfortunate. The lesson from Special Relativity here is that such speculative notions just don't hold up and can be abandoned. 

the objective counterparts would form a world having the same structure as the phenomenal world This is just saying that if you make a true statement "about the world" it is necessarily given more or less directly in terms of our perceptions.Since the statement is true there must be something "out there" (responsible for our perceptions) that has the kind of structure given in the statement. So we have the structure indicated by our statement and some external arrangement of 'stuff' acting in the manner described by the statement. In short, every proposition having a communicable significance must be true of both worlds or of neither. So whatever we say in a statement must apply to the world of experience and the objective world and if true in the world of experience is also true for whatever 'stuff' it is describing. 

There is a mathematical idea of handedness. Phenomena that are not identical to their mirror images are called chiral, and chirality has interesting roles in physics, chemistry, and biology. It's not quite what you were looking for, but it's still pretty interesting. 

There are many things that are unclear or uncertain in this question. What does it mean to be "scientific?" Since you use the phrase falsifiable, I will assume you refer to the idea of science as put forward by Karl Popper. In particular, the scientific method is about testing ideas through empirical falsifiability. A theory cannot be proven right, but it can be falsified. In this context, the act of declaring any one thing or another is not the pertinent question. You ask if "saying something has existed" is falsifiable. This is broad and depends on many things. Let's say I claim that I have existed for 200 years. To better ignore metaphysical questions about what it means to exist, let's rephrase this as I have been alive for 200 years. Sure, this is a lousy theory. My parents and governmental records could easily say that I wasn't. In that sense, it is falsifiable - but it's mostly an uninteresting theory. Whether or not one calls it scientific, it is utterly irrelevant. But it may be that you are asking about whether the actual techniques that scientists use to date events in the past are scientific. And here, the answer is yes. There are very many interrelated theories about dating. Some can be found on the Wikipedia page Absolute Dating. The important aspect is that we have theories involving dating from carbon-14, or potassium-argon, or argon-argon, or thermoluminescence, or relatively simpler tasks like counting tree rings or cross-examining found fossils or the like. The Earth's magnetic field changes from time to time, and we believe we understand how this affects rocks. So some rocks can be roughly dated through paleomagnetism. Or we can use volcanic ash. We build up larger cohesive theories about dating from these smaller, individual theories. Counting tree rings is a particularly easy to imagine theory with clear testing mechanisms. Grow some trees, take core samples, and count the rings. We can get a little more involved by noting that particularly large rings occur during seasons of particularly favorable weather. Matching these up across many trees (and fossilized or otherwise preserved trees from the past) might allow one to get even deeper. Now someone might come along and start to compare carbon-14 dating to tree ring dating. If there was disagreement, then something is wrong. Ideas must be adjusted or thrown away. And so it goes, each part tested and honed against each other. I haven't even mentioned that each technique is interrelated with areas of science. Nuclear physicists and geologists have a lot to say about the science going into their respective techniques. The fact that we now have a rather large and interconnected set of resources for dating suggests that dating is highly scientific. As a final reference, you might consider reading about the Problem of induction, which is a related concern.