All philosophy uses logic, but what you've asked suggests that what you really want to know is who uses symbolic logic in drawing out their arguments. For the obvious reasons, the branch of philosophy that you'll see applying symbolic logic with the highest frequency is the philosophy of logic itself: Russell's Principia Mathematica has enough to make your eyes bleed. You might also enjoy philosophical treatments of probability, if that's what you're after. 

"Are we really in control of what we want?" is a question directly addressed by Harry Frankfurt (of "On Bullshit" fame), who identifies freedom with what he calls second-order desires in his essay Free Will and the Concept of a Person (1971). In this essay, Frankfurt claims that our freedom is contingent on our exercise of desires whose objects are other desires that we have, such as wanting to be free of addiction, or wanting to be motivated to exercise regularly. In this sense, "wanting heroin" can be seen as a first-order desire; "wanting to no longer want heroin" would be the second-order desire. He distinguishes people who entertain these second-order desires from those that don't, to pick out a compatibilistic definition of "freedom" applied to the former. I can't answer to this being the most significant philosophical contribution, but it's the best fit to your question that I can think of, and still a lively topic. It may help you find the correct stream of argument you're after: just pore through the abstracts of the "works citing this item" list that JSTOR includes. (if you can't access the paper immediately, JSTOR offers a free 3-paper a month download now, for the price of a couple minute's free registration) 

I think I take your point, Alex— what's the justification for maintaining a cultural identity at the expense of a cosmopolitan sense of inclusion in a "global" community? Will Kymlicka's book Multiculturalism offers a lot in the way of prescribing when tolerance is appropriate, but although I may simply have missed it, he didn't give a rousing defense of the importance of personal identity when it comes to the sense of belonging with some particular group. Roger Scruton is much harsher on the notion that people's "personal" (qua "cultural/ethnic") identity should be preserved when seeking inclusion in some larger political group, but his justification for maintaining some national identity, and allowing that to supersede individual cultural commitment to, is the welfare of society as a whole, not some principle that a national culture has some intrinsic value of being a culture in its own right. The problem is multifaceted. Culture is individual, historical, communal, ethnic, religious, racial, traditional, moral, social, and occasionally legal. Sometimes one of these, sometimes all, usually a smattering of the set. It's illiberal to impose culture on people, but simultaneously illiberal to exercise volksliebe when it comes at the expense of the polity. The most accurate definition of a culture I can come up with, is only that it is a collection of social practices in a moral context. That makes it central to the political liberal's project of allowing everyone equal room to develop and pursue what they view as the best life (Rawls). But it suffers from empathy— when I deem such-and-such a life is the best way to go about living, why isn't it morally incumbent to cajole, persuade, or legally require others to follow suit? In this way, pursuing a way of life which seeks to preserve a culture for the sake of its preservation is inherently illiberal, whether you mean to hold up that way-of-life's myriad virtues or merely want to provide an object lesson to others. Imposing that culture through instruction or obligation on anyone, your own children or otherwise, demands a degree of justification that a politically liberal polity cannot, by definition, provide. But political liberalism is not the end-all and be-all of living a moral life, or instructing one's children on how to do so. I'm not a parent, and I have yet to argue this successfully in peer review, but it does seem to me that in teaching anyone —our children, wards, whatever— we carry a distinct kind of collective responsibility with respect to the child or student we're training. We have an obligation to help make them a person, capable of weighing outcomes and other perspectives, and with the full weight of social acceptance and eventual personal responsibility that personhood entails. Insofar as that person-in-training needs it, we have a requisite obligation to help them engage with the society they expect to be a part of in an acceptable manner. However, if— and this is an important conditional —if your culture meshes well with the ideals of a liberal polity, and can help expand or at least maintain it, then by all means you should be passing that culture along. If by preserving your culture, you fulfill your obligation to give your children or wards better tools for engaging in the larger society they will be a part of, then it behooves you to do so. But that's a big "if". It may not pass for everyone, or everyone's particular cultural idiosyncrasies. It also doesn't really provide much in the way of an intrinsic value to individual culture— but then, what would be? Sorry for the long answer. Identity politics are tricky, and I'd treat anyone as suspect who claims certainty, one way or the other. 

First, the semantic axis: Is the statement analytic or synthetic? A priori, or a posteriori? Known via deduction from axioms (such as Euclidean geometry), or via an inductive method of empirical verification? Second, the syntactic axis: can the statement be expressed in simple propositional logic? Does it require predicates? Modal operators? Does the statement have a corresponding symbolic expression? Thirdly, do we consider this to be an objective statement which is true irrespective of the particular relations it holds, or is it a subjective claim- can it only be assessed as true or false with relation to a particular individual? Fourth, and last- is the statement rendered true or false by the way the world is, or is it a claim about how the world ought to be? 

Now I've no reservations that it's unethical to use pejoratives and expletives to denounce an opponent to her or his face, for no reason than to demean or silence them. Yet some people, from personal experience, appear to regard the use of expletives as an act akin to violence. This make the question ethically relevant: if it can be argued that pejorative expletives are useful in cases like (1) or (2) above, then is it more important to respect the potential sensibilities of your opponent (assuming they're unknown) and how they might take a statement, or is it more important to regard conversations as holding in good faith only if they allow any free communication which may be useful to an argument? ** If I haven't been clear, here's a short and excellent summation of all the valid uses I have in mind (nsfw). 

Research and discovery of counterarguments has quite a lot to do with philosophy as a practice, and I'm hoping to improve on my technique and see what others can do. In line with this, I have a particular project I'm dealing with and want to know more about a concept that Isaiah Berlin touches on in his famous (and awesome) paper, Two Concepts of Liberty. For many people, the take-away from this paper is Berlin's division between positive and negative liberty, and a general thesis promoting political pluralism. Yet within this discussion, Berlin notes and argues that a desire for recognition provides a greater impetus for political action than the more commonly and publicly cited desire for freedom. Can anyone help me locate published works that deal with this concept of recognition in politics, specifically in relation to Berlin? Results are appreciated, but the method is more important. 

Now many philosophers (as the REP later points out) would reject that (3) is a reasonable component for this argument, but whether consciousness is a necessary or sufficient component of intelligence goes far afield of the intent of your question. Instead, I think we can take Ryle's aspect of responsiveness here to be what we're after, if we want to continue the project of ranking one intelligence as "better" or "worse" than the next. This may not be wholly satisfactory- it does seem to move the question a little bit away towards what responsiveness means, but given the above look at artificial intelligence, the contrast suggests that not just any stimulus-response will do. Given the context of your question, the combined ability to recognize and identify complex stimuli and provide the most efficient response in pursuit of some goal is the first signal of intelligence; if we want to know whether this is a case of general intelligence, I can only imagine we'd want to see novelty in the efficiency of the response as well. 

Certain words in natural language are more amenable to logical formalization. The conjunction "and" or weak conditional "unless" are easily applied to break statements into their constituent atomic parts. Other parts of language are less clear. For instance, it's hard to say what the logical status of the adjective "rambunctious" is. It clearly has internal, logical limits to its application. (a "rambunctious apple" is logically incoherent), but what those limits are may be subsceptible to too many vague edge cases to be assessed or applied the same way in which logical connectives are (a "rambunctious house"). Claim P 

Note that u1* only guarantees that if you graduate, you studied, allowing you to fail even if you study. However, u2* to use the correct form illustrates why you may feel the example you were reading "feels" wrong. If you're using the stronger sense of unless, then if you don't graduate, you must not have studied— which fits your intuitions. Incidentally, P <—> ~Q will result in the same truth table as the exclusive disjunction, "xor": 

I like the question, but the answer is pretty simply "no" unless you take a very weak view of your "unconscious philosophizing" - so weak, in fact that you may want to consign it to the heap. It could also stand a little editing for clarity. Let's start with "a theory of mind" here. Do you want it to be an explanation of why minds exist, how they come to exist, etc., or do you mean it in the sense that a theory provides us with a mental framework for understanding what a mind is? If the former, the answer is trivially no- it's easy to hypothesize that we could have a complete explanation for how minds arise and function based entirely on neuroscientific facts. Let's say (for argument's sake) that someone discovers Descartes was right, and I can affect what a person thinks about with complete control just by squeezing the pineal gland like a stress toy. Thus ends the explanatory Theory of Mind, and there's not really anything to philosophize about. You could be philosophical about the situation, in the more colloquial sense, but that's not part of the theory given a squishy, gland-based mind. So on to the latter view: that "a theory of mind" is how we understand what a mind is, and philosophy is a crucial (i.e., logically necessary) component to understanding. Here, the problem is that you want to draw a line from philosophizing to this understanding, but we need to unpack this notion of "unwilled philosophy" first. If you mean to say that the philosophizing is wholly unconscious, how do you get the "thinking about" which is endemic to philosophy in any sense, out of an unconscious process? That resembles cold information processing, and even if you want to say all "thinking about" is just information processing (à la Dennett et al.), you'd still have to account for what makes it 'willed' or 'unwilled', which is incoherent. I'm pretty sure that's not what you want to say. You could potentially take something closer to a panpsychist view, and say that "unconscious" thinking is only unavailable to consciousness, in much the same manner as other people's minds are. If this is the case, then fine. However, it would turn out that this brand of unconscious philosophizing would be crucial to having a theory of almost anything, let alone a theory of mind, because we're still using "thinking about" as the only qualifying term for philosophy here. This is a horribly weak sense of philosophizing - you'd need to narrow down what you mean by "unconscious philosophizing" to make it sensible. Still, this seems to fit the bill of your belief that "all men and women are philosophers" in some respect. Let's toss all that to the side though and just look at the question from this angle: that philosophizing is a normative conscious process that most people engage in at some point of their lives. The question we can ask now is, do people need to engage in this process before they can have a theory of mind? It's not trivially false, but it's easy enough to come up with a counterexample. Just ask any six-year old "what is it like to imagine a pink pony?" We all have an understanding of what a mind is, because we can't very well not have one and then philosophize about it. So additional philosophizing may refine that understanding, that theory, and may very well be crucial to having a good theory, but it's clearly not necessary to having a theory of mind. 

Most of these distinctions can be found in a variety of philosophy's introductory books and teaching materials. I've often cited Julian Baggini's The Philosopher's Toolkit and that will serve well enough, or otherwise try Papineau's Philosophical Devices, or John Shand's Arguing Well. 

The problem of Nothingness, and as part of that the question of how "something arises from nothing" is a perfectly philosophical question by any measure. It's even generated a recent amount of controversy on the nature of nothingness itself, and the origins of both physical matter and the laws governing it. In part, it's a question without an answer, and some might say it's impossible to answer the question to begin with. Others might use it to argue for the existence of a Creator, but at least one religion reverses the distinctive question to argue that the actual mystery is how "nothing could possibly arise from something".