I think that this is true for any meeting. You have to be able to identify what is going well as well as what isn't going well. For example, you could say, "it's good to work for a manager who knows the code as well as my manager does", or "I think we've done a good job of getting the first version of the framework done, and I hope that we'll have the time to go back and ensure that the code's architecture will stand up to [something important: scalability, increased performance requirements, etc -- pick an area of concern from your code smells]". Sinofsky also makes the point that you should never make news in this type of meeting. This meeting is never the first place where you should raise a concern. He closes off with this: 

So long as your blog is relevant to the jobs that you are looking for, and is well-written and well-considered: yes, you should list it. Personally, my blog is in the header of my resume, along with my name, email address, and phone number. It's also linked on my LinkedIn profile. As someone who is part of the hiring process for a technical team, I'm not a big fan of an "other" section on a resume. Everything that's in that section should either be discussed elsewhere (such as management experience), or if it is relevant to the position at hand, that information should be included in the cover letter. Being an author of a blog isn't really a skill that I'm looking for in a candidate, so just telling me that you write a blog (as opposed to actually giving me its URL) isn't likely to make me very interested. If a blog is listed (or I find one myself), I'll read through it to get an idea about the candidate. I've had blogs that made me much more interested in the candidate, and I've had blogs that made me strike the candidate from consideration. Before you include your blog on your resume, you might want to consider asking a friend or colleague to consider whether your blog is one that will help you shine as a candidate. 

From what you say you realy want to keep this job , but I'm pretty sure it's too late for you. You won't keep it , unless you find a way to become exactly what your boss epxected you to be a month ago or so. The point here is the following : Even if it's a hard one , software developper is becoming a quite common job , and there's plenty of offers coming out each passing day. What you need to focus on is improving your programming skills. You need to learn some more , find some personnal or public open source projects to work on , to get used to develop , to think , etc.... It requires time , more for some of us than others , but in the end you can improve. And with hard work you will. This probably won't help you keep this job as it takes time to improve and you're running out of time in this company , but you may surprise yourself and find an even better job once you'll be a better developper. And maybe , working hard won't help you improving as a developper , but you may find hints , meet people , and find something you will like even more ! 

I think the best thing to do here is to be honest with your team , just tell them the way you told us. You want to eat healthy and have some personnal tasks to take care of. There's nothing wrong about it , just try to go once a week or once every 2-3 weeks to the restaurant with them , it'll make them feel you're part of the team , and or not just trying to avoid them when you go eat at home. 

Your resume or CV probably indicates your current location. Usually, this is either by listing your current position or your current university. If the job ad doesn't specify that they require local candidates (or candidates who are already currently legally employable in that country), then I think that the location listed in your resume is sufficient when you are applying for a position. If your location is a concern for the company, the recruiter (or hiring manager, if there isn't a recruiter involved) will ask you about it. For me as someone who conducts interviews, anything that is related to immigration is handled through Human Resources. If you ask me about it during a telephone interview or an in-person interview, I won't be able to answer any questions about it, and I'll refer you to the recruiter who set up the interview. This isn't because I don't want to answer the question, but because I have no insight into the process. Note: my answer is based on my experience in being involved with hiring for a couple of large US employers in the software industry, although I do have some experience of being a candidate and getting hired in the UK and Australia as well. My conversations with my Australian employer gave me the impression that the process was similar enough. They've each said that it was quite clear from my resume that I'm an American citizen and they assumed when they got my resume that I would require a visa. 

When should I CC my manager on what I felt like were routine conversations? What should I do when someone else on my team CCs my manager on what I felt like were routine conversations that didn't need my manager's attention? What should I do when someone else who isn't on my team CCs my manager on what I felt like were routine conversations that didn't need my manager's attention? 

I went for an interview and the employer asked for my current salary to which I replied X amount. However, I included in the amount the yearly bonus that we receive which essentially bumps up my monthly salary by a little bit (whether this is ethical or not is another discussion). However, to continue with the process of hiring, they asked for my payslip which doesn't reflect the bonus that I've received. This is also the first time I've been asked of my payslip during the hiring process. How do I answer to them if they ask me why my payslip amount is a little less than what I've mentioned? 

Is it alright to take 1-2 days leave if you are still on probation? I would almost be 3 months in the company during this period but this trip I'm planning is 2 weeks earlier than the end of my probation period. And I cannot move the date. How do I negotiate with our HR about this? I'm willing to be unpaid during this 1-2 days leave. 

Currently, we have built products that are not yet out in the public. However, they make up quite a huge and important chunk of my portfolio.. to demonstrate what I've done for the project. I am a UX specialist and I need a lot of visuals to showcase what I've done. And I am not even sure if I can even mention about these unreleased products. How do I handle this? 

I want to record our meetings, especially discussions about projects, because I often miss some important details they tell me and my writing cannot catch-up. However, I don't feel like I need to tell them as they may feel it's an invasion of privacy. I have no malicious intent whatsoever, just really so that I can review the project details / comments and not miss out any. 

In my experience, this is how most corporations (not just health care) run things. For the current employer, as you've already identified, allowing longer-tenured employees the best choices for vacation is one of the things that they try to do to retain employees. For the new employer, if they want to hire someone who is experienced, they have to determine how they can make their position attractive to that person. They might be able to provide a better position, higher salary, better benefits, or any number of other things that matter to the candidate at least as much as vacation time. Or the candidate might be someone who has relocated to a new area, and thus they know that they're going to start from scratch with regards to vacation time anyway. 

You can email Manager2 and ask for an informal "informational interview" so that you can learn more about the position. This is usually on the order of a half-hour or hour, and gives Manager2 an idea of whether you're a good fit for the open position, and gives you the chance to see whether Team2 is actually one that you do want to join. If the informational interview goes well and you and Manager2 both want to move forward with an interview, then take a look over your company's HR guidelines about transferring to another department. Your company might have a simple set of guidelines, or might spell out the complete process. Knowing what HR expects out of such a move makes your life easier. As part of this, learn what your manager can and cannot do if you want to move. For example, in large companies, your current manager might have the power to say that you can't move out of your current position for X weeks/months because you have a major deadline coming up, but can't block a move indefinitely. Next, have the conversation with your current manager about wanting to grow in other ways, that you have identified that there is an opening on another team that you want to pursue, and that you'd like your current manager's guidance in the right way to move forward. This is where your knowledge of what the official policies are can be very helpful. If you're lucky, that research will prove to be unnecessary, because your manager will recognize that it's better for you to be a happy employee on another team at your company than an unhappy employee on your existing team. If you're unhappy in your current role, it's much better for the company as a whole to let you move to another role within the company where you will be happier, as opposed to losing you to another role at another company. In the best case, your manager will explain to you what the process is for interviewing for another position within your company and will discuss timelines with you. In the worst case, you'll have to fall back on what you learned about your company's rules about such moves. If it is the worst case, then you've also learned a lot about your manager, which you'll have to consider for what it means in your career going forward. 

As long as it's kept clear and polite I think that only easily offended people would find it rude. You can be sure the supplier won't like it , it's never pleasent to loose (or don't get) a client , but there's a low chance they find it rude. I don't know if it's good behaviour or just something you do to feel better about it but to me it's neither rude or obnoxious. 

There is a lot of ways to rephrase it , but the solution remains the same. Go , and ask. Just turn your question the best possible way regarding who you'll be asking , and the relation you have with this person. 

A lot of things in that list are quite basics things when you're a developper but need practice to realy master. If you don't master OOP yet , and have never done some serious web developpement you will not be able to learn enough from this list until your interview. As suggested , work on what can be seen on your resume , and if you don't get the job keep that list and include what's on it to your tolearn list. 

You seem to have to deal with a real brat , and there's not a lot of things to do in this situation. You're not his manager , you can't chose to fire him because of his behaviour but you're actually too nice when you answer him , which lets him think he can keep doin doing it. (Which he does) You have to remind him who you are , prove him you are his superior due to your experience. Play his game , better than he does. Stop giving him the choice. He complains about your tasks being easier ? Give them to him , and take his tasks , without giving him choice. He shouts to the office earlier due to personal reasons ? Ask him about his overtime , and how you're doing much more than him. He speaks about statistics ? Nice , this one is an easy to deal with one. Asks for the statistics , and if he can't show them ask him to shut up until he has any proofs about what he's talking about. I cold give you many other ways to deal with him , but you have to understand that you don't have to be polite to him. Always be ready to challenge him , about everything. He'll soon prove to everybody how much of an arrogant jackass he is. There's a reason for ppl to respect seniors (even if that's just a work title). They have more experience and knowledge than we do. Make a use of this to remind him why he should respect you. 

As a background, I am currently working as a foreigner where in 90% of my colleagues speak the local language and while the other 10% speak another language. Cut the story short, I'm the only one in the office that is of my nationality. We recently shifted office and my seating arrangement changed. I am currently sitting in the middle of a group of all-locals and they'd often speak their language unless they're specifically speaking to me (where in they'd switch to English). For one, I am not complaining that they should speak in English. It's their country and they can speak their local language. However, I feel very distracted and feel unintentionally left out when they banter which I didn't feel when I was seated further. It makes me very unhappy in an otherwise friendly and nice environment. Is it reasonable for me to ask one of my colleagues, who was actually was previously in the same seating position I currently am to swap seats? I say same position because the arrangement of the group didn't change even if we shifted office. Only the two of us swapped. His seat is on the edge and I'd feel more comfortable to be a little bit further from the rest (which was where my old seat was). I don't know how to say it to him without offending anyone. Like, what if my current seat mate thinks I don't like him (which isn't true) because I wanted to change seat. And without coming off as fussy. But it really affects my concentration.