It's not your account, it's the company's. You should not have personal files on the company's equipment. For the future, don't do that. If they are on company equipment then almost certainly a group of people (ranging from a few IT and HR people to the entire company) who would be authorized to access your account and data on company equipment. So once it's on your company account, it's not really private and not really personal. 

This is a very bad notion that I need to address. You cannot do work, paid or free, for another person without your existing employer's permission (unless you have a very unusual contract). And supplying internal documents from your current employers to anyone for money would be grounds for instant dismissal and possibly even accusations of industrial espionage. Giving it for free would almost certainly get you fired as well, for a breach of NDA. Under no circumstances let the idea that being paid creep into your mind as making this reasonable. If there was any discussion of your former manager paying you for this information it is extremely serious and you must tell this to your current employers. Once again, you do not know the full story on why this guy left but you know it was on bad terms. Protect yourself. 

What have you said to the person that actually oversees the team/you? What have you said to your companies human resources? As an Intern your entire job is to learn and get coffee and do menial tasks that help you learn that more experienced people don't want to do. If anything is getting in the way of your education, including your teammates, you need to speak up to someone. If that doesn't work you need to go to your academic adviser at your school and discuss this with them (or whoever your internship is managed by at the school). "They don't care" really isn't an excuse not to do anything. It's your education, and only you are responsible for it. That includes making sure you are in a positive environment to learn. Your school should at the very least consider not sending new interns to this company as well if they're not willing to handle the problem. If the Front End Dev is supposed to teach you, that's what he's supposed to do. And you should also be willing to stand up for yourself (a little don't go overboard). Tell the team members how you feel tell them to stop treating you badly and remind them you're there to learn from them. I know a lot of people are anti-confrontation but bullies need to be met head on. You may be able to cut everything out without having to go to your boss. I'd speak up, give them an opportunity to change, then go to your manager personally. 

(1) you can also mention that you forgot to tell them earlier, and apologize for it. It depends on the company culture and/or boss attitude, but you should have small clues by now, after 2 weeks, on how you can handle/approach them. 

It can be legal to requiere that employees regularly maintained hair colour (if an individual colours her hair), with no visible roots. (NOTE: to keep this as small as I can, I won't quote all the interesting parts, but you may either read it, or CTRL + F "hair" will do the job...). 

This way, you deflect: no one is accused of anything, and you show your concern about the customers, the company, and your colleagues. You don't complain, you offer a solution. From there, it will depend on your manager's answer, and we can't tell you right now... 

1 : I've been that guy... fed up with coworkers' attitude. Still bad way to deal with the problem, I later changed my way of behaving, and have been feeling soooo good since... 

Is this a real problem ? Does it cause real problems or are you simply irritated by the apparent lack of response ? I suspect it causes you very few real problems. 

To prove it's yours would require evidence you wrote it before you were employed and/or exclusively using your own equipment. Even then the company could argue they need the files as part of their audit trail for your activities. And the simple fact is this is probably not worth the trouble to fight over. Note also that if your IT people have an automated backup process then removing the data would entail considerable expense and time and a risk of data loss for the company. They'd be very reluctant to do all that. So this is something you're going to have to let go, IMO. 

Just to point out to you that many people confuse not being sentenced to a punishment (after e.g. an apology to the alleged victim) with the charges being dropped. You need to be clear with yourself whether you were actually found guilty or not guilty or whether the charges were dismissed. These are different things and may affect whether you could get an injunction as I suggest. In apologizing you may in fact have been admitting guilt, which is why I mention this. 

If there is a widespread fraud (which is exactly what is happening here from how you describe it) then eventually one of your clients will figure it out, and the will subpoena anyone that works on these projects. I would personally seek legal counsel at this point. You sound like you're in a bit of a legal situation that needs the guidance of a professional that you can talk freely to and that can help guide you through this. 

Proper leadership requires regular feedback to employees. Whether that's weekly, bi weekly, or monthly. This doesn't include yearly evaluations. During this time managers should be setting SMART goals (Specific, Measurable, Attainable, Realistic, Timely). When I was a manager this was handled with a notebook containing all my direct reports' biweekly forms we filled out for them, which I then used for their yearly evaluations. It doesn't have to be anything specific. But at the very least managers should be meeting with employees on a monthly basis to go over this type of stuff. The weekly/biweekly/monthly reviews are for short term things. Discuss just the previous x time. The yearly evaluation is more serious, longer, more detailed, and is used for things like promotions and transfers. IMO any company of any size should be doing this, whether you have 5 employees all together or 500,000 A lot of the stuff discussed in these meetings can be also handled in standups and retrospectives but the individual meetings shouldn't be skipped as that's the time managers should be using to mentor their direct reports and helping them achieve both their goals and the company's goals. There's tons of software out there. You could write your own. OR you can use paper. How you do it doesn't matter so much as doing it. Our bi weekly forms had specific KPI's that showed the previous period's numbers, the goal, the current periods numbers, and next periods goal. There was a section for managers to put their feedback down. And for employees to put their response and feedback down as well. As well as a section for the action plan. Our yearly evaluation was 2 parts. A self evaluation. And one done by your manager that included their responses to your self evaluation. You always give the employee an opportunity to say in their own words how they feel they did for the period especially for yearly evaluations. This way they can highlight some things to you and you as a manager don't forget the biggest thing they did that year (the employee will bring it up in their portion). It's always a good idea to include both what was done well and what needs improvement, both in the managers and the employees words. Edit: Larger companies do them more to be able to trim the fat when they need to lower numbers. There's some companies that straight up fire the bottom X percent of the company. I don't really like that second approach as I feel that someone that needs to be fired should be fired long before a yearly review. That's one of the big reasons for regular shorter periods of reviews. Yearly reviews should also generally be reviewed by the managers manager as a sort of checks and balances role. 

IMO, it's like asking someone, out of the blue, if they can join your party without being invited... Put aside what you think about her, and step in her shoes. What would you think and feel ? From there, it seems like you're left with two options, depending on what you want to achieve: 

I think that this is nice, but a little overthinking. A 0.5€ coffee isn't that much, even for a small bunch of coworkers. As you seem concerned by this, why wouldn't you, once in a while, bring some nice pastries for the team, and say: Hi guys, you always pay for the coffee, very nice of you, it's my time to take care of you. Here's some sweets for all of us, let's enjoy our break! This would cost you very little money, not more that a round of drinks. It's nice, and shows that you're willing to thank them, and be as nice to them as they've been nice to you. Or just buy a key, put some small amount on it, use it, and give anything left when you move. And you're done. Nothing more, nothing less, no big deal... 

Recruiters are a dime a dozen. Even within recruitment firms. Just hitup LinkedIn and connect with recruiters in your discipline. Recruiters have no business knowing what you do outside of interviews they get for you. You're nothing more than a product they're trying to sell to a company. Don't forget that. They ask these questions because they want to both see what companies may be interested in hiring a recruiter to fill some posts as they have a demonstrated rejection which means they've already wasted time interviewing people and they also want to know why people are rejected for specific jobs so they can better qualify their leads for not only a future contract with them but hiring managers in general. Some things become a trend and a recruiter is usually the first to notice it. They will ignore you if they don't have anything you're a good fit for. Just like any other salesman. They give attention to the most likely client to land them a big check, and work their way down. If they don't have anything for you or there are higher commission jobs they'll just keep you on the backburner. Edit: For this reason you need to keep the same type of attitude you would have about a salesperson or business. If they're hassling you pressuring you coercing things from you you want to sever that relationship and not shop from there. Make them work for you to earn their paycheck. Don't fall into the product mentality. Edit2: You also don't want to work with someone that tells you confidentiality expires. Their ethics are obviously pretty warped. 

TL;DR : Legally: NO - professionally: Be careful, and ask your manager before. Does your employer have the right to tell you what you can or can't wear to work? The answer depends on whether your company's policy/dress-code violates laws prohibiting discrimination. In the UK, parliament stated that a company dress codes must be reasonable and must make equivalent requirements for men and women. This is the law and employers must abide by it. From this case study *.PDF - House of Parliament, related to the Equality Act of 2010. From the same document : 49. In her supplementary evidence, the Minister for Women and Equalities provided the example of a dress code which requires female workers to wear make-up. The Minister viewed this as a “clear cut” case of illegality unless a “corresponding” requirement applied to men, for example, a smart haircut or rules about facial hair. 

If you have a negative answer, because your solution doesn't fit their needs, ask them how you could achieve the same goal with benefit for both sides. I would not tell them anything personal (court or wathever else it could be). It's private, so keep it private. If you know you'll have to go once or twice more, tell them you have some other scheduled appointments ASAP, with days and hours. Just be professional, ask them in a nice, neutral and professional way. They'll handle it with the team. It seems to be a one-shot, so no need to worry that much, and make a big deal out of nothing. Of course, keep track and a paper/mail of the agreement ;)