The properties or characteristics of sense-data. As a philosophic term, "qualia" was first used by C. I. Lewis to refer to properties of sense-data (via IEP), so this is the original definition. Amy Kind defines qualia as "subjective or qualitative properties of experiences," what gives an experience its characteristic "feel" and what distinguishes them from each other. Examples include the sensations of pain, hunger, and itching, as well as what it feels like to be angry or anxious (IEP). Daniel Dennett (a famous philosopher who writes about qualia) once defined qualia as "the ways things seem to us" (via Wikipedia) but has used other definitions at other times (SEP). Ned Block gives the following basic/initial definition: "Qualia include the ways things look, sound and smell, the way it feels to have a pain, and more generally, what it's like to have experiential mental states" Michael Tye defines "qualia" as "the introspectively accessible, phenomenal aspects of our mental lives" (SEP). Tye gives a useful breakdown of 4 more specific uses of "qualia" in his SEP article, including a helpful explanation of the different definitions that Lewis, Dennett, and Block use (SEP). 

Nobody knows what Plato wrote on because no originals survive. However, papyrus was the standard at the time of Plato. You can check out some examples here. Leather was also used for writing in his time, but parchment probably wasn't popular until at least couple hundred years later. It's worth noting that parchment wasn't simply invented on a particular date. It was gradually developed in stages over a long period of time. Different treatments of animal skin were used for writing and had been for thousands of years before Plato. There's a good chance ancient Greeks, Plato included, had access to something like parchment. 

The reasoning breaks the definition. I made the blunder of assuming that doubt could be meaningfully defined in such a situation. 

Everything in thought is a comparison. So, when you say "lying to yourself". There are two possibilities. 1) There is an objective truth of the matter. You tell yourself anything but the objective truth. In that case yes, you would be lying to yourself. Within this possibility again, you might or might not be aware of the objective truth. If you are aware of the objective truth, then there is no way you can lie to yourself and not know that you are lying. If you are not aware of the objective truth, and tell yourself otherwise, then you are lying to yourself without knowing that you are lying to yourself. (Like the example of the woman you gave above). 2) There is no objective truth of the matter. In this scenario, it is really hard to deduce if you are indeed lying to yourself. In fact, it might be impossible to do so. If the only truth is subjective, then from your point of view, the best subject is you, yourself. So whatever you tell yourself will happen to be true. 

This(C) is false, since we have already established in (A) that we are doubting, so it’s complement in a sense, that “I doubt, that I am doubting”, has to be True. Or, am I wrong somewhere in logic? ( I get my obvious current mistake, but trying to reword it meaningfully) 

Here's one answer from a relatively authoritative source. Antonis Coumoundouros, a specialist in ancient philosophy, says the Republic has been Plato’s most famous and widely read dialogue since the mid-nineteenth century (see $URL$ However, lamentably, he doesn't provide any evidence in that article. EDIT: I emailed him for more information. He filled in a few details about why it re-emerged at that time: "As far as I can tell, the dialogue became quite popular in England in the 19th century. My guess is that its subject matter (discussion of justice, virtue, and proper education) was concordant with the type of education provided to young elites at the time. This carried over into the 20th century and we had Cornford and others who produced commentaries on it. Other English-speaking countries, like the US, maintained the dialogue's popularity in universities as well. It is worth noting that the dialogue was lost to the West until the Renaissance. Arab scholars had access to it and were influenced by it in the Middle Ages but western scholars did not have access to it. " 

In answer to your first question, "Are these principles still generally accepted?", the empirical evidence suggests that opinion is divided. The same evidence suggests that the answer to your second question, "Is there serious and recent criticism of their value?" is yes. In a relatively recent survey of philosophers, only about half said they accept or lean toward classical logic (see: $URL$ The rest either said they accept or lean toward non-classical logic, which include logics that violate those "laws of thought" you mentioned, or responded "Other". Non-classical logics generally reject (or give new meaning to) at least one of these traditional "laws of thought." Examples: 

We know that a long time ago life emerged from a bunch of amino acids. When I look at the world around me, I notice that it is made up mostly of inanimate matter. Yet this same inanimate matter must have come together in various permutation and combinations to provide a subjective experience - me. How is it possible? What are the various theories for the same? My own thoughts: Matter might not be entirely inanimate. The world is an illusion and everything is made on patterns involving the consciousness which was ever present. 

The result of Godel's theorems was that we knew for sure that a formal axiomatic system wasn't capable to derive all of mathematics. The math derived under the system cannot be consistent and complete. Why isn't the onus of failure put on mathematics as well? Seems to me like if mathematics cannot be derived under any formal axiomatic system, then the problem is with mathematics as well, because you'd certainly need a formal axiomatic system to derive any complete sentence. How do we even know then for sure that mathematics is complete and consistent?(If these words still apply) 

Are there any current modern mathematical or scientific arguments in favor of eternal return? I have read several against it here on this site. One which I could think of is that the Universe might not be entirely governed by mathematical rules. There could be a different kind of logic at the base of it all, making time circular. Causality might not be an entirely correct assumption. But these are too presumptive and bold. Does QM suggest finite number of states for matter under causal laws? And if so, does it follow that these finite states can only have a finite configuration under infinite space and time? 

(x ∈ y) is a wff by Rule 1 (y ∈ x ) is a wff by Rule 1 (x ∈ y) ∨ (y ∈ x ) is a wff by Rule 4 (∀y) ((x ∈ y) ∨ (y ∈ x )) is a wff by Rule 7 (∀x) ((∀y) ((x ∈ y) ∨ (y ∈ x ))) is a wff by Rule 7 

In general, the subformulas of Φ are those formulas used in the construction of Φ. You can see the construction of Φ as a tree, and every formula in that tree is a subformula of the resulting tree trunk (maybe this is more intuitive than the recursive formal definition you see in the book). An informal way to construct your formula and to show is well formed, using the collection of formulas of set theory defined in Weiss's Book: 

In addition to the other excellent answers, remember the scene in The Matrix (1999) when Neo hide his money inside an hollowed book entitled Simulacra and Simulation. That book was written by french post-modern philosopher Jean Baudrillard and published in 1981 (who was inspired and deeply influenced by Marx). Here, Baudrillard argues that twentieth-century society has replaced all reality and meaning with symbols and signs, and that human experience is a simulation of reality. You can interpret The Matrix as a criticism of the consumer culture, a culture saturated with commercial advertising that may be distracting us from the reality. And consequently, the simulacra of the real become more real than reality (or "hyper-real"). In the mean time humans are are being exploited by someone, just as the machines exploit the humans in the Matrix. So, this is related with Marxism where the working class is exploited by the ruling classes because it does not perceive itself as being exploited. 

We don't really know. However since we can observe that there is something, rather than nothing, we can guess that it must have been harder for nothing to exist rather than something. It's a guess and it need not be perfect, but I am afraid this might be as close we get to the answer of this question. There is something rather than nothing, because it was easier for something to be. 

I know that the naturals are assumed by the axiom of infinity, but the relationship between them (eg 1+0=1), must be rule based or defined at the very least. Basically I want to know what makes 0 or 1 abstract. For me to figure that out, I must also have their precise definitions? I know that 0 is an abstract concept, but I want to know what or what not in its definition makes it so. Is abstraction another name for commonality? 

I understand the value of falsifiable beliefs. Often they make predictions, and are classified as scientific ideas, useful in churning out predictions. But do unfalsifiable beliefs have any value? Philosophically or mathematically or otherwise? I know value is a little vague, but consider for example the concept of eternal return. If true it would have a large impact. But, then it's unfalsifiable. Can't be verified at all. So a sentence A, if true would have a large impact, but it's unfalsifiable at the same moment, would you assume any importance to such sentences? 

Other related well known expression: "a neat job". I agree Occam's Razor can be related to this, but we must be careful, because too much simplification could lead to a loss of completeness. So at the end, it depends on the context where the explanation is necessary. 

Different authors used the same term in different sense of words, so it can be confusing. To avoid confusion, we can use the term statement (or just sentence) to refer (1), as it is done in mathematical logic, and the term proposition to refer (2). See Strawson's article: On referring (1950, this is a critique of Russell's Theory of descriptions) 

In the common use, something is neat when is clean and is in good order. Then, i think is safe to say that a neat explanation satisfies at least the following properties (no priority order): 

So, if ((x ∈ y) ∨ (y ∈ x )) is a formula, and x is a variable then (∀x) ((x ∈ y) ∨ (y ∈ x )) is also a formula. However, (∀x) ((x ∈ y) ∨ (y ∈ x )) is not a subformula of your original formula, because is not used in the construction of it. The same goes for the other case you mentioned. 

$URL$ Both these arguments look sound to me. You only have to argue that "nothingness", can exist. From there it's a short step to saying that it always exists. In the second case particularly, linking nothingness to the empty set, say that the empty set exists, then it is always a member of all sets that exist, due to it's simplicity. Of course, one would never be able to detect nothing, since one can only detect physical objects which exists, so actually proving the argument is impossible. 

Let's define logic as: A statement and it's opposite, obtained by applying the "not" operator, both cannot be true. The not operator is applied to the part of the sentence describing action or attribute. Example: a) The apple is red. The apple is not red. b) Swamy crossed over the fence. Swamy did not cross over the fence. If in a set of statements, there exist two statements which are both true, and are opposites, then the set is inconsistent. Do all paradoxes fall under the set of inconsistent statements or set of statements? (Assuming of course that I have reasonably and objectively defined "logic", and other terms). 

Assume that doubt is meaningfully defined. Or let's say we define doubt as , both the statement under doubt, and it's complement can be true or false, we do not know, the uncertainty exists. Imagine an ultimate doubter. In this scenario, the doubter can doubt everything, including him being in doubt. The doubter can make the sentence “I doubt that I am doubting”. This sentence does not break reasoning. Let me explain how. I doubt (A), that I am doubting(B). These are two different levels of doubt. This is a self referential doubt. Doubting that “I am doubting”, does not mean that the doubter is not doubting. Doubting entails both the possibilities, “I am doubting”, can be true, or “I am doubting” can be false. So the chain of recursion goes something like this: