Finally, On the cyclical allocation of risk P.117 shows that Labor’s share of income (in Australia, Austria, Britain, Canada, France, Germany, Japan, and the USA) is negatively contemporaneously correlated with the seasonal component of aggregate income, suggesting that when aggregate income is high profit margins are high. 

We can see that these transformed functions now actually prefer very low values of x to very high ones. 

Big Macs might not suffer from all these problems but, as mentioned above, suffer from lots of other problems that make it problematic to use them as or a backing for money. And how would you handle counterfeiting? One reason all major counties have moved to fiat money is that it doesn't suffer from any of the problems of gold listed above. It also doesn't suffer from the additional weaknesses of Big Mac being both perishable and a low value item. One negative of fiat money is that the monetary authority (e. g. the central bank) can't abuse their discretion to create high inflation. But Big Macs suffer from this problem too. Because Big Macs are easy to create in large quantities and short run demand is relatively inelastic, the government could create lots of inflation by just grilling up their own, just as they could run their printing presses. Yes, it is true that consumers of Big Macs are probably poorer on average, and so they would benefit relatively more from cheaper burgers if the government tried to inflate away the debt by printing money (grilling up burgers) but even if they were free how many would people eat? That's why their demand is inelastic, people don't want that fourth burger in one day nor do they want to eat them everyday forever. As for the other costs of higher inflation, that's a more complex issue and probably best posed as another question about what are the benefits and costs of higher inflation and who gets what. But original question asks would it be workable. The costs of conversion to a commodity backed money based on Big Macs seem to have little to recommend it and enormous costs both in transition off fiat money, governance (counterfeiting and monetary policy), and ongoing implementation owing to low value per item and perishability. 

Nominal rigidities, the idea that prices are easier to adjust up than down, are thought to be a major channel for the harm of deflation. In principal, the growing supply of bitcoins helps offset the general economic growth leading to less deflation. The following is the rule for determining how difficult it is to mine bitcoins: 

The book Information Rules by Google Chief Economist Hal Varian (with Carl Shapiro) deals with many issues raised by the particular features of the digital economy. In general, he finds you don't need new models, and that things are well approximated by high fixed and low or zero marginal cost of production. 

The second way of estimating GDP is to use "the sum of primary incomes distributed by resident producer units". Gross domestic product on Wikipedia (emphasis mine) If GDP is calculated this way it is sometimes called gross domestic income (GDI), or GDP (I). GDI should provide the same amount as the expenditure method described later. (By definition, GDI = GDP. In practice, however, measurement errors will make the two figures slightly off when reported by national statistical agencies.) This method measures GDP by adding incomes that firms pay households for factors of production they hire - wages for labour, interest for capital, rent for land and profits for entrepreneurship. So no, it is missing (at the very least) the wages and interest paid on the debt of the financial industry. 

A welfare or efficiency enhancing minimum wage can be justified in several theoretical settings. For example, if there is monopsony (a single employer), the employer can internalize the effect of his labor demand on the labor market price (the wage) and therefore holds down both labor demand and wages. A minimum wage can therefore increase both employment and wages. In a developing country with a dominant industry like resource extraction or tourism controlled by a small number of connected families, this might be a decent model and therefore an industry specific minimum wage perhaps could work. Another theoretical motivation, if an industry has inelastic labor demand, due to pricing power in the good markets and low substitutability of other inputs for labor (maybe French wine would be an example of this), then the minimum wage could raise wages without great inefficiencies or reduced employment. Of course economists dispute if those settings hold in practice. Emigration, competition in factor or product markets, and labor market competition across industries can lead to competitive wage setting even in monopsonistic industries. And minimum wages may work, and yet we might not have a good model for why. Or they might be helpful in the short-run but harmful in the long run. The empirical evidence of the short-run costs and benefits of small minimum wages changes does not show they are particularly harmful, even if we have good reason to think that the long run costs and the costs of large minimum wage increases would be significantly larger. 

Gali's Monetary Policy, Inflation, and the Business Cycle: An Introduction to the New Keynesian Framework, provides an advanced undergraduate / first-year graduate student introduction to these models, and I'd recommend it for self studies. According to chapter 1, available online, which offers an overview of the New Keynesian Model, the key elements are: 

Friedman's assessment that "inflation is always and everywhere a monetary phenomenon" seems to have substantial concensus around it empirically: ($URL$ I think this essentially gave us the cure for both hyperinflation (don't monetize government spending or the debt more generally) and deflation (print money or do QE until the price level goes up). That isn't to say we've eradicated these "diseases" because we don't always follow the cure. Or even countries should take the cure. Following the cure can be politically untenable and hyperinflation could well be better than revolution. 

Statistical Analysis with Missing Data by Little and Rubin is the go-to reference for working with missing data, at least if nothing state of the art is required. In general, this is a complex problem that remains an area of active research. The relatively easy cases are when the data is missing-completely-at-random or missing-at-random. Even among the most basic single imputation methods you have a lot of choices (list from Little and Rubin):