Star drives will be very expensive. Taking resources over interstellar distances is almost certainly not worth it unless you have some mighty cheap stardrive. The only real reason for interstellar war is fear--either a xenophobic race who doesn't want anyone around, or a race that realizes that one of the others around is like that. 

Going to space is a matter of engineering, not one of fundamental limitations. We aren't stuck here. The solar system is another matter, with current technology we are stuck in our star system. I have a hard time believing this is a permanent barrier, though--either life extension or uploading/downloading our minds would let us go to the stars. While we only have a few glimpses of the first and no answers on the second both are things that should be developed in time. (Although I'm not sure life extension would be developed if easy upload/download was developed. Bodies might become throwaway items rather than repair items.) While we are facing issues that will be a problem we aren't looking at any natural limits that will stop us. If we fail it will be due to human factors (and unfortunately, the Fermi Paradox says it's likely we will be done in by human factors), not the planet we were dealt. 

After your decade the radioactivity of a spent fuel assembly is 20,000 rem/hr @ 1 meter. You might have 200 of these in a big reactor--4 million rem/hr @ 1 meter if you could manage to get that close. We have an incident from Taiwan where people were living in buildings that emitted about .1 rem/day (although it decayed over time)--with the observed health effects over a decade being beneficial, not harmful. Thus I will call this a safe level. (Yes, I realize this sounds insane--all our data on the risks of radiation are based on acute exposure and this is just one of the pieces of data that suggests acute and chronic exposure have different effects.) 4 million rem/hr * 24 hr/day = ~100 million rem/day. Spread evenly over an area to produce this safe dose we have ~1 billion m^2 = a square 31 km on a side. On timescale of months we have someone exposed to 10 rem/day with only minor health effects (he absorbed a dose that would be almost certainly lethal as a single exposure.) Spread evenly this is a square only 3.1 km on a side. I'm not aware of any data that lets us set a low bound on a lethal zone. I would call 100 rem/hr certainly lethal--that's a mere 200m square. In the real world you aren't going to get an even distribution within the death zone and nothing outside it--the actual death zone will be considerably smaller. I doubt it's going to extend much beyond the reactor complex itself. As for the issue of the local water feature being contaminated--that's going to be dilute. The radioactivity might pose a cancer risk but it won't be a death zone and most of the radioactivity will be washed out to sea and diluted beyond detectability. This will make the death zone even smaller. 

We have examples of this from our own history. Faced with an unknown language we can decode the parts of speech but not the meaning of words. A dictionary will be of no help in this--it will give them more information about the relationship of words but not what any of them mean. You say they are intelligent, though--that means they have another language to use. Math is universal. Ever see those puzzles where you are presented an equation with things in place of numbers and need to figure out the numbers? Note that that's easy enough to be used a puzzle, not something you need scientists for. Your Zoblings simply need to write out a 20x20 times table and present it to someone of a scientific bent. (20 isn't an absolute, it just must be larger than their number base. The bigger the chart the easier it will be to recognize what's going on.) 

There's a short story whose name I can't remember that I read many years ago that took a very different approach to space racing. It was basically the Tour de France in Earth orbit. Crazy as this might seem it would be possible if there were enough satellites so the delta-v requirements per leg were low enough. They used pedal-powered spacecraft--the pedals provided the power that ran an ion engine that actually moved the contestant. I rather suspect the available delta-v is a lot less than the author was picturing, though. 

The rocket equation is brutal, it doesn't take a world too much bigger than Earth before chemical rockets simply aren't going to do it. However, that doesn't mean they will be forever planetbound. Nuclear thermal rockets can approach doubling the ISP of chemical rockets, thus permitting launch with twice the gravity well. There's also the gas-core version of nuclear thermal--your reactor is gaseous uranium rather than solid. This more than doubles what you can get from nuclear thermal, again this doubles the velocity you can attain. The fairly narrow operating limits of a nuclear reactor make this design seem awfully scary, though! Now we are into the dirty engines: The open cycle nuclear thermal rocket--you maintain a chain reaction in uranium gas (probably UF6 to make it easier to handle), this is 2x to 6x the ISP over the closed cycle engine as you don't have to contain it. However, your used fuel becomes your exhaust--nasty for the environment and the crew picks up a substantial dose also. Orion starts out at in the middle of this range. Again, your exhaust is hot. Bigger rockets have better performance, if they're big enough you can use boosted bombs and up your ISP still further. I can't find any estimates of the radiation exposure to the crew but given the numbers for the open cycle nuclear gas rocket I find this worrisome. Finally, there are the non-rocket approaches: First, the launch loop. You build two stations thousands of miles apart but at the same latitude. They throw iron bars back and forth. The bars never stop, when a station catches them they're whipped around with a huge magnet and tossed back, retaining their velocity. Note that the bars chase each other as close as possible, each will be drafting behind the one in front, the air drag isn't anything like what you would expect. Once you have these bars flying back and forth you build a track on top of them--think of a maglev train but upside-down, the track is levitated on the bars, not the other way around. Of course this exerts a downward force on the bars but this is countered by speeding them up. The objective here is to get a good chunk of track basically out of the atmosphere. You can then mount a linear motor on it, your spacecraft goes up the track at sane atmospheric speeds, once it's clear of the atmosphere it hits the high power track and is boosted to orbit. The track must be massive enough to absorb the recoil without being knocked out of operation. Huge, expensive and since it falls apart if any of the active systems fail it would be dangerous. However, the ISP is infinite as no craft resources are being used for the boost. Finally, a solution that makes the launch loop look like a kids toy: Build a maglev track around the world at the equator. Build a train on the track that has a maglev setup on top as well as the bottom. Make the track into an evacuated tunnel and boost the train to above orbital velocity. It's now exerting an upward force on the track which can counter the mass of the system. Build higher, build another train. Each train supports the mass of the section below it so the normal limits of how tall you can build do not apply--you can build out of the atmosphere and then resort to linear motors to push your spacecraft. While again this is a dynamic system that collapses if it stops moving I don't think it's as dangerous as so long as you are using superconductors it's self-contained in the short run. If the power goes out it will continue to operate until the magnets quench. Neither system could reasonably be built in a society with terrorists or madmen prone to spectacular suicides.