What your doggie needs is a Swamp Cooler Vest. It's basically a wet vest that acts as a refrigerator and cools your dog by reflecting the suns rays off it's back while also stripping away the heat through a natural evaporative process. 

This option would take hours, but if you're stuck with nothing to do, it could help you pass the time. Personally, I wouldn't want to sleep on my rope for fear of doing some unseen damage to it, even though it's unlikely you'd do any damage to it on a clean floor. Maybe include in your rope log that the rope was used to catch some Zzz's. 

I've been out in the woods with companions who have suffered severe burns. You first priority is to relieve the pain, you accomplish this by removing the heat from the burn. Cool clean water is your best friend for the first few hours at least, have the victim stick his hand in a cool clean lake or stream. I say cool water, not cold water. If the water is too cold then your companion will not benefit from it as much, because the cold will also cause pain, and they will not be able keep the burn under water. Depending on where the burn is, and what time of year it is, hypothermia may be a concern while trying to cool a burn if you have to remove clothing, in which case you may need to consider using a cool wet cloth and apply it to the wound,continuously re-soaking it as frequently as necessary. Keep the burn cool, but keep the victim warm. Your primary concern with burns is infection, if you are only a few hours or a single days journey away from help, then this is less of a worry, but if you are deep in the back country, then you need to be careful to keep the burn area clean. Hopefully you have some sterile bandages in your first-aid kit, and shame on you for going on an expedition unprepared if you don't. There are some natural remedies for treating burns, you want to find plants that have antibiotic properties such as: 

When it comes to down sleeping bags, it's important to never let them get wet, your bag should have been protected on your damp night out by your tent or overbag. When it does get wet, you should never pack away a damp bag, always let it dry fully before packing it up. If you have no choice, then never compress it while it's wet, and do your best to get somewhere where you can dry it out it if the rain isn't letting up or spending a day in your tent with your bag open to the air isn't an option. 

Although always recommended, crampons and axes are only necessary for hiking on steep or slippery ice where there is fall potential or danger of sliding to the bottom of a slope and seriously injuring or killing yourself. If you're traveling along an easy, flat, or concave slope of a glacier, and you can manage in only your boots, then they aren't necessarily required. Judging when a glacier can be safely crossed without the appropriate gear should only be done by guides or experienced glacier walkers. If you are unsure of whether a glacier can be crossed without the appropriate gear, then you'd be wise not to take any risks without it. Mountaineering always carries with it a certain amount of risk. Responsible mountaineers always educate themselves for the terrain they plan to travel on, and take the proper precautions in order to avoid incidents or be prepared in the event of an emergency. 

If you're consistently cold in your sleeping system, then you need to change your system. An adequate sleep system for cold weather constitutes two sleeping pads: a solid foam sleeping pad underneath of an insulated air mattress. Your sleeping bag should be rated to well below the temperature you're sleeping in. I don't know who comes up with these comfort ratings, but they always seem very subjective to me. I've got a -10°C sleeping bag that seems barely comfortable enough sleeping in the summer months sometimes (granted even in summer the temperature will drop to freezing overnight in the rockies), but in winter at -15°C I'll find myself sweating in it. What you wear in you bag will affect how warm it is, the best thing to do is wear a single warm base layer inside it. Your bag will feel cold when you get into it, but your body will warm the whole bag if you wear fewer layers in it. If you're getting cold spots, it's because you're insulating parts of your body better than others. Sounds to me like you're wearing more layers on your top than you are on your bottom in your bag. Before going to bed, you should relieve yourself of all fluids and eat something hot. Drinking a hot drink before bed will warm you up, but it won't keep you warm overnight, in fact a full bladder will make it more difficult to keep warm. Eating a hot meal will warm you up, and put fuel on the fire to keep you warm as you sleep. Some other items that you can add to your sleeping system may include a bag liner, a vapour barrier, an outer bag, and a warm touque and neck warmer to wear while you sleep and keep the drafts at the neck of your bag at bay. 

Either will work, but Dyneema and Nylon have different properties that can make them more or less advantageous in certain situations. Dyneema is obviously a lot lighter than nylon, which gives it a lot of it's appeal for alpine climbers, it is also more abrasion resistant, in fact the material is also used to make cut-resistant gloves. The disadvantage to dyneema is it's low melting point (which is partly why it fails so easily when knotted), and that it's too slick to hold knots very well, which means dyneema typically always has to be stitched. Nylon is preferable to dyneema in many situations because it does have some stretch, as well as a higher melting point, but it is a lot heavier, and less abrasion resistant. Another advantage that nylon has over dyneema is that it can be easily tied, very useful for anchoring around trees, in natural threads on rock, and vthreads on ice. If you only had stitched dyneema slings, you'd have to cut one to thread it, and you'd have a very tough time tying a knot in it that would hold. In your situation (placing slings over flakes) I would suggest using dyneema slings, as they would be more resistant to being cut by a sharp flake in the event of a fall, just don't tie any knots in them. 

Suppose you're leading a short pitch (20-30m) and you have two followers, or you want to double rope the route, and want to simply half your rope and tie into the centre, pulling the two halves up behind you. What's the best way to tie the centre of the rope into your harness? EDIT: For clarification, I'd prefer a method that does not incorporate having to use a carabiner to attach to the rope. 

You make a smoker, all you need to carry with you is some tinfoil. Best tasting fish I ever had was cooked in a tinfoil smoker out in the woods on a winter camp, we lashed together a simple rack like shown below: 

What you're asking to do is impossible to accomplish. The signs will never, . Trees don't grow like that. The reason trees have rings is because they grow layer-by-layer each season. If you tie a thread around a tree, the tree will not grow and break the thread, it will grow around it. Similarly, you're not going to get a sign to move outward as a tree grows because the layers (rings) that you've pounded your nail into never move. The tree will engulf your sign as new layers grow each year. It's for this reason that you'll notice that most signs in parks are nailed to posts that were planted into the ground, or are nailed to dead trees that do not grow. If live trees are the only option you have for sign posts, then I would recommend doing what the logging companies do for their signs: Nail a stake to the tree, and attach your signs to the stake: 

Fishermen use felt soled wading boots for wading through creeks and rivers on the slippery rocks, they give you the friction you need without damaging the surface you're walking on. They would work just as well on a slippery dock. You can buy them at any fishing store. 

Looks kind of like a walleye to me. I didn't think there was anything else worth catching in Ontario, in NW Ontario at least this is what everyone goes fishing for, they're one of the tastier fishes. 

Tent pole "fitting" You can buy tent pole replacement fittings from sites like this one, but it's best to buy it from your tent manufacturer. Sometimes your only option is to buy a new complete pole set. The fitting pictured would be a four-way crown fitting. 

Source: [PDF] SMC Descending Rings #81600, Seattle Manufacturing Corporation The history of any SMC descending rings that you may find attached to an anchor is unknown and therefore it is strongly suggested by the manufacturer that you retire those rings. Do your fellow abseilers a favour and remove those rings from any anchors you may find them attached to. Either destroy them, or mark them as retired and use them to hang your hammock. Lightweight aluminium descender rings are designed for quick descents of alpine routes, they are not intended to be used for heavy duty applications. The improper use of any piece of equipment is unsafe: 

Potentially, very dangerous. Kangaroos can be big (largest confirmed stood 2.1 m (6'10") tall and weighed 91 kg (201 lb)!), they're strong, they have killer claws that they will use to try and gouge the eyes out of opponents, and an even larger claw on the end of their powerful feet that can easily disembowel someone with a kick. When kangaroos fight, they will support themselves on their tails and kick with both feet. You do not want to be on the receiving end of a kick from an animal that can run up to 70km/h. Especially if that animals foot looks more like spear than a foot. Roger the Kangaroo For the most part they are a pretty docile creature, and will typically leave you alone, and won't attack unless they feel threatened. In the wild, kangaroos are hunted by dingos, witch don't look much different than a typical pet dog. The kangaroo in the video obviously felt threatened, and thought the dog was on the hunt (which it was, but for something else) so the Kangaroo was acting defensively. The man in the video risked his own life to try and save his dog, the punch probably wasn't planned, but the kangaroo was lining up for a fight with another biped, one kick and that guy could have been dead, fortunately for him, the punch confused the kangaroo long enough for him and his dog to get away. The kangaroo got the memo that neither animal wanted a fight, so he took off in the other direction. Kangaroo attacks are rare, only a small handful result in injury each year, compared to the thousands of other annual animal attacks in Australia. The best thing you can do around a kangaroo is treat it like any other wild animal, never approach them, keep you distance, and let them know you're there long before you get too close. Also bear in mind that Kangaroos are one of the fasted land animals on the planet, they can easily cover 25ft (8m) in a single leap. So perhaps stand a bit further back than what you might initially think is a safe distance. 

Yakima Rack You could easily do 2 kayaks and 2 bikes at the same time on your car, like so: ...with room to spare. I can fit a 17.5 ft canoe, two mountain bikes, and a tandem mountain bike on the top of my car with 66" crossbars, I'm confident you could tighten the setup shown above and fit two kayaks and two bikes on 66" bars. I'm extremely satisfied with my Yakima racks. I may be slightly bias because I'm an independent dealer of Yakima racks, but truth be told I don't sell any Yakima products, I just became a dealer so I could get all my stuff at wholesale cost. Find a supplier that sells Yakima racks then open up a cash sales account with them. You'll instantly save 50% on everything you buy. Here's the minimalist budget rack I'd recommend for you: Round Bar (66" min) 

A better anchor would be to use your couch as a deadman anchor. Your couch is not going to go through your patio door if you turn it sideways and tie your rope around the middle. Don't put the rope over the hand rail, run it under the bottom of the railing over the edge of the floor of your patio, the floor is stronger, and it removes any possible extension from your system. It does make getting over the rail and onto your rope a little trickier; you have to reach over the rail and grab the rope from the other side, tie into it, climb over the rail, squat down, take the slack through your descender, and then lower yourself over the edge, but it's more secure. Be cautious on your first few goes. Don't dive over the rail, don't go fast, and don't try to stop fast. Slowing yourself down puts more force on the rope than just body weight. When you get close enough to the ground that a fall won't hurt, then you can fart around and swing and bounce on the rope to see how strong it is. 

Coming from bear country, if shouting at it doesn't scare it away and you have a gun, ten out of ten people where I'm from would say shoot it. Right through the tent. Don't even feel guilty about it, because if you don't shoot it, then a ranger probably will as soon as you report the encounter (assuming you managed to scare it off some other way). They don't tolerate bears that behave that way because they're a risk to people's safety. You've probably heard the saying, "A fed bear is a dead bear." They say that because 99% of the time, bears that get hand outs or find human food end up getting put down because they always come back for more. If you have a bear trying to get in your tent, and you don't have a gun: FIGHT IT. You are literally fighting for your life, so kick, scream, hit it in the face with anything you've got. Bear spray will only work if there's nothing in between you and the bear, so try to get out of your tent before trying to spray it, or like I said already, you can actually make things worse for yourself if you spray it inside of your tent. 

A water knot is the best knot for joining two ends of webbing, I wouldn't recommend any other knot except for maybe the beer knot, but that's certainly not going to save you any time. You don't need to tie back up knots either, webbing doesn't slip like rope does, in fact I've never known webbing to slip at all, and I've set up a lot of slacklines using 1" tubular webbing. A figure 8 follow through is more likely to slip than a water knot, because the webbing can't lay flat, so there's less friction in the knot. If you're concerned about slippage in your water knots, leave longer tails. The best thing to do to aid in the quick untying of a water knot, is to tie either a piece of cord, or a rappel ring, or a carabiner into the knot that you can use to leverage on when untying. That's what I do when I'm setting up anchors for a slackline, as a slackline will tighten a water knot a lot more than any top anchor ever will. There are other options for using webbing as an anchor that don't involve tying and untying a knot: You can simply throw your pre-tied 1" webbing sling around the tree and join it with a carabiner: