It depends very much on the specific geography. But the idea of "whirlpools" that suck down people or entire ships, never to be seen again (which I suspect is what fascinates you) is largely a myth. The dangers aren't any different (and typically much smaller) than those posed by whitewater rapids in rivers. Specific dangers are: 

In my experience, as long as the young are small, the families are extremely shy and stay away from humans. Later on, if they are used to encountering humans, they'll just ignore you. The only aggression I've ever experienced was from juvenile males doing a "mock charge" of about half a meter, signalling "don't get any closer to me!". I don't think I've encountered adult males, though. 

You can also train endurance at the bouldering gym (at least when it's not too crowded) by doing "4x4" exercises: 

Well, you need to choose food which will keep that long without refrigeration (and, indeed, at the temperatures you expect, probably higher than normal room temperature), and you need watertight containers or packaging, either for individual portions or resealable (the jungle tends to be wet). 

In addition to what the other answer says, a fire burning near a crag could weaken bolts; so if there is fire damage anywhere nearby, the bolts should be considered suspect and replaced (at least the anchors). As for the rock itself, I'd approach it like a new crag that has not been climbed before, i.e. expect holds to come loose and be prepared for rockfall in general - helmets are a must. Obviously, fire-damaged trees should never be used as anchors. 

I wouldn't count on this working dependably, especially with shoes. The problem is that a microwave works by directly heating up certain molecules, most importantly water. And the energy from the microwave is spread over all such molecules in it. If your clothes are sweaty, there could easily be enough water in them so that it absorbs most of the energy and the ticks aren't heated up enough to die, especially if it's only for ten seconds. And leather shoes will always have quite a bit of moisture in them. Basically, you'd need to adjust the time and intensity of the microwaving to the total amount of water in there, which you cannot really know. If you misjudge and microwave too little, the ticks survive. If you microwave too much, you could damage the clothes, or the microwave. Again, shoes are especially problematic because they contain glue, which could be damaged by the microwave. 

One thing is that I doubt it's possible to train the toes to have significant strength; unlike the fingers, they are simply not built for that job. And most of the time, you have a lot more weight on your feet than on your hands. Injury and strain would be a big problem. Then there's the sweating: there's actually more sweat glands in your soles than anywhere else on your body! And you can't use them to get chalk directly; I don't even want to think about going one-armed and one-footed to reapply chalk while hanging in a tricky spot... Finally, the most important factor is probably that the rubber soles of climbing shoes are a much bigger aid to your climbing than you seem to realize; it's very specialized rubber specifically designed to give you maximum grip on tiny footholds. Not the latter two points might not apply if you had toe-shoes specifically designed for climbing, but the first one still holds. 

The precautions are exaggerated. These animals are extremely reclusive. Adult humans are outside their prey schema and will be avoided except in extremely unusual circumstances. From Wikipedia: 

This sounds like complete nonsense - boars do not have a "formation". They are not predators and will not pursue you (the case where "pretending to be agressive" makes sense is when faced with predators who tend to instinctively pursue anything that runs away). They might form groups for defense, but never for attack. There is really only three cases where boars might attack humans: 

The lower part of the pack contains a small removable camera bag, while on top of it there's some space (not too much, though) for gear, food, clothes, etc. Alternatively, you can reconfigure it without the camera bag to use the entire space like a regular backpack. I'm pretty happy with it, it's comfortable to carry and not too large. 

Bacteria and fungi can only grow in water, not in the fuel itself. If a fuel tank is unused and resting for a longer time, the small water content in the fuel can separate at the bottom and provide a viable environment. Usually, the fuel will be extracted at the lowest point of the tank, so that accumulated water will be removed whenever the engine runs and separated in the fuel filter. So if you have a well-constructed tank, and run the engine and clean and drain the fuel filter regularly, you should be fine. It also helps to keep the tank full to prevent condensation from the air inside it. If you cannot run the engine regularly, I think there are additives to prevent microbial growth. Once you have significant contamination, you probably have to drain and clean the tank as well as the filter and fuel pipes. 

There are some things that can prevent the skin from tearing off and getting the so-called "flappers": First, learn to control your center of gravity and your contact points with the wall so that you can make as many moves as possible statically: $URL$ Because dynamic moves tend to result in stronger peak forces you need to absorb with your hands and your skin. Second, avoid over-gripping large holds: 

There are many aspects to a climbing route's difficulty, so it is fundamentally questionable to lump it all into one number, and is really only accepted because most climbers don't have a huge imbalance in the different aspects of climbing proficiency, i.e. a climber who has very good technique probably climbs often enough that their power and endurance are also good. So yes, the lenght of a route influences its grade and you could definitely have cases where "9a is just an 8c that is really long", i.e. it has no single move that is harder what you'd typically find on an 8c, but the length makes it hard because you have to do 8c moves while already pumped. However, there is no formula, becuase there are still many aspects. Where in the route are the hard moves? One hard move after many easy ones is harder than when it comes right at the start. And, very important for endurance considerations: are there rest positions? A good rest position removes much of the endurance-related difficulty at that point. 

A 2/3 weight ratio is definitely at the absolut top of what is routinely manageable for lead climbing, and I would not recommend that for novices. Additional weights are an option, but 10 pounds will probably not be enough. The center of gravity for the belayer is not really an issue, but a lot of weight in a vest is going to be uncomfortable for them. A more common option is to use a weight bag that is clipped into the belay loop of the belayer's harness. If you're willing to spend a bit of extra money, there is a the Edelrid Ohm, a device made specifically for this scenario. 

Overgripping results in more lateral forces on the skin of your fingers, which increases the chance of flappers. 

I'd like to address the safety angle specifically: the main things you need to concerned about being alone in the mountains in winter are: 

Climbing shoes need to be extremely tight* because they frequently have to support a lot of weight on extremely tiny footholds, often on the tip of the toes: 

What you can do before a given climb is to warm up, which may involve climbing something easier. I've definitely noticed that I pump out more quickly if I hop directly on a route at my limit, compared to climbing one or two easier ones to warm up. For getting rid of pumped forearms, I've had good success with a technique that a physiotherapist friend showed me: 

Personally, I'd still avoid solo backpacking not because of wild animals but because there won't be anyone to help (or get help) in case of any accident. 

Mostly yes. Right- or lefthandedness is generally about very fine coordination and timing, which are necessary for accurate throwing and hitting. Strenght and endurance may be affected because one arm is then favored. But the precision and timing of movements in climbing is much less critical. Using the hand that is better able to reach a hold given your current position in the route is far more valuable than doing the move perfectly on a hundreths-of-a-second and millimeter scale. And then, since both arms/hands are used equally, they both get trained equally when it comes to strength and endurance. Of course that also means climbing will not make you ambidextrous in other things, since you'll not be training precision and timing. 

Any free space inside the shoe could cause the shoe to deform (more) and slip off. *: putting on the shoes should not be painful right away, but you can't get optimal performance with shoes that are comfortable to wear for hours and walk around in. It may of course be sensible to sacrifice some performance when you need to wear the shoes longer, e.g. on multipitch climbs. 

The main functions of the plastic clip are to ensure that the carabiner gate is screwed shut before it can be closed, and to prevent cross-loading of the carabiner. 

Photochromic lenses are a lot less useful than most people think when they hear about the concept. The main problem is that the change takes time - about a minute to darken and nearly five minutes to un-darken. That makes them basically useless for things like tunnels. Another problem is that they don't darken as much in higher temperatures, and the range between the darkest and lightest state is limited anyway. There are some high-tech variants that solve these problems by using LCD technology, but I don't think they're available with prescription lenses, except as clip-on. Simply get regular prescription sunglasses. If they're from a reputable manufacturer they'll have UV protection. You'll also want antireflection coating. 

The main problems caused by onesided training are reduced movement range, bad posture and lack of stability (which increases the risk of acute injuries).