Motorists (I'm both a cyclist and motorist) use to salute with each other making a "V" sign with the index and middle fingers of the hand with the palm forward. At least it's that way in southern Europe, don't know in other parts of the world. They would understand that with as a symbol of empathy to them. 

Tired of patching/replacing tubes I finally decided to convert my wheels to tubeless using this kit: $URL$ I know there are several other on the market (e.g.: DT-Swiss has a tubeless kit as well) but my local bike shop recommended me this one. I decided to install it because in my area, this winter, a lot of vegetation has been cut around the trails and everyone is having lots of flats due to the spikes on the ground. I haven't had a flat since I installed the tubeless kit. I had almost one (sometimes 2) per ride before! Another advantage of removing the tubes is making the wheels lighter. 

It depends. Rear derailleur lever geometry, shifter cable pull and clicks amount control rear derailleur lateral movement amount. Let's assume that there are 11 cogs with distance of 10mm between each other and derailler moves 10mm every click. 11 speed cassette might have the same width, which means 10% lesser distance between cogs, so it's 9mm. When otherwise 10 speed configuration would shift over such an 11 speed cassette, some gears are going to shift kinda successfully because 10% over one step might not introduce much of positioning error. But over ten shifts the error would be equals to one whole speed, so issues are bound to happen somewhere. I've used non-real-life values for example purpose. These differ between manufacturers and individual part models. The said above also means that it might be possible to find components combination that allow you to use rear derailleur and cassette designed for different amount of speeds. Some real life examples: 

I am a newbie at biking, and I've been wanting to get into BMX for a few years, and I can now since I actually have some money. Primarily I've been wanting a 20" BMX bike with front and rear brakes and a detangler, but looking around on danscomp and a few other places there aren't too many in my price range. Anyways, that's not really what my question was. Since I'm new to this, I've been reading a bit about frames, sprockets, brakes, etc., and found out there is a frame that is specifically for flatland riding, here: 

I don't know about other bikes, but in BMX there is a type of hub called a freecoaster - you can coast backwards and forwards without pedaling, and it is silent. Apparently they have them for mountain bikes as well. 

SRAM mtb 9 speed shifter makes Shimano 10 speed mtb rear derailleurs compatible with 9 speed cassettes. There's no shadow+ for 9 speed, so some people choose this option because of price or weight. Shimano 10 and 11 speed rear mtb derailleurs are compatible. It's possible to modify existing derailleur so it moves less or more. Some people has modified 10 speed Shimano mtb derailleurs to work with otherwise 9 speed Shimano 9 speed drivetrain. Basically, they've routed the cable through hole drilled slightly closer to the cage, which changed lever geometry. I think the same can be done to increase the lever length with some spacers. The shifter indexing cog can be replaced. There are some companies that shift such cogs that transform 10 speed shifter into 11 speed. DIYing cog should be possible too. 

Not at all. Sometimes I use CO2 to inflate my tires quickly and place the tire correctly on the rim without it leaking. 

Besides what is discussed here it could also be that the back derailleur dropout or the derailleur itself has been bent. If that's the case you won't be able to set up gears properly until it has been aligned. Even it's a new bike it only takes once hitting the wrong place to bend it :(. You can find a number of videos on the net on how to align the derailleur hanger aka dropout. 

Most likely not, you'll notice most flats when you replace your tire because it's worn out. You'll just see your tire loosing pressure from ride to ride, this will indicate you need to add some more sealant. In some occasions you may hear air and see sealant leaking giving you the option to remove the cause of the flat, if visible. Seriously, you'll just forget about flat tires. If what puncture your tire can damage it, probably sealant will just fail but, in my experience, that happens very little. 

I started a while back (maybe 2 years ago =p) restoring a custom-built tandem bicycle, and I sanded it down to bare metal and just used spray paint (Rustoleum I think, took the bike completely apart to just paint the frame) to give it 5 or so coats, then a clear coat... but the paint still comes off pretty easy. To paint it up I just hung it up by the back forks and did light coats. Anyways, it looked good in the end, but the paint still comes off pretty easily. What are the steps that someone should take to fully paint a bicycle that already has a coat of paint on it, that is tough and good looking? 

If you want to put 2.2" tires in place of current 2.25" tires, then yes, you can do that. That's less than a 2mm difference, given that tires conform to marketed width at all (which they tend not to). Generally, any smaller tire size (of compatible beat seat diameter) won't cause any issues, unless there's a huge mismatch between rim and tire width (i.e. 40mm internal width rims and 25mm wide tires aren't a good idea, same goes for 10cm fat tires and 18mm rims, but that's not your case). I advise to consult this page on a topic of tires sizing. 

Ultegra switched to 10 speed with 6600 model. Judging by Google, Shimano unveiled the groupset in 2004 and it became available in October 2004.