I think you will have to give them exactly what they want i.e. Let them be in 'boss mode independently'. You can think about ways to split the tasks at top level and make them each in charge of one tasks and announce it to rest if the team. Something like 'content development' and 'design' but of course you would know better on how to split the tasks. You may not be able to formal new roles but sometimes creating these informal roles publicly helps to serve egos of your top performers. Creating Tasks such that they truly have their independence as much as possible would be the key part which you would have to take care. I had a similar situation in a research project and I could sense the tension between two of my team members..I had two divide the project two different ways in two parts and then give them lead on each part in one division. Like one way of dividing was patents and publications and I made one in charge of all the patents we need to file and another one all the journal papers we need to write. Another way of diving the project at the same time was production of the idea and new ideas implementation and again I made them lead of each task. It worked out well for everyone including the project ! Make sure you actually follow through these informal lead roles and recognise their authority an responsibilities regularly in meetings. 

I do not think it is a red flag. Only thing you can research from your end is if the company is doing well or not. If they are doing well that means their interview strategy, however bad you think it is, is working out for them. Also, you do not know if they will solely decide based on MCQ. May be they will have a personal interview as well later and the first round is only for screening candidates. There are just too many possibilities why they are doing what they are doing. I do not think you should assess the company based on the assessment technique they are using to assess you. (Within reasonable limits!) 

Here's my situation : I currently am in a contractual job and my contract will end on September. From the time of this posting, I would only be available 2.5 months from now. I am already seeing good job postings that I want to apply to, but I'm worrying that it might be too early that when I do get to the offer stage, it might be awkward to tell the employer that I'll only be available by the 1st week of October. Questions : 

I was fiddling with my Facebook security and privacy settings when I stumbled to this option (which I wasn't aware was controllable!). 

These outbursts are damaging the work environment and may emotionally affect the other employees. The work productivity is most probably affected, and as HR, it is your job to take action to keep your employees at their best possible shape to work productively for the company. You said you talked with him and I think that's great, but if it's still continuing, you have to devise other methods. Maybe he needs a short break from work to calm himself, or some other thing you can think of to improve his situation. But I believe action must be done, and it must be done fast. P.S. Take my advice with a grain of salt as I am no expert in these types of things. :) 

Number 4 is the safest, however, I think I'd be spending more time as an unemployed man, and I want to minimize that as much as possible. What option would be best in terms of employer convenience and minimal unemployment time? 

Additional info : They know I already have signed a contract as I've told them, but they said they still want to go for an interview. 

Several resources indicate and suggest that you should not disclose your previous salaries in your past employments for the reason that there's a chance that the potential employer could "lowball" you and offer you a slightly higher salary compared to your previous, but a largely lower salary compared to their expected range. However, in the case of a history of a higher-than-average salary, should disclosing my previous salary be OK in terms of getting a higher salary? 

If you have proof (like research notes, emails, etc) that you worked on the paper, you need to collect that and raise it to either HR or one over your manager. Someone higher up in your company should listen to you. If you do not get enough support from the company, you can write directly to the publisher and explain your situation. They should ideally either investigate it more or reject the entire paper. Whatever approach you take, understand that you are accusing your manager of lying. If you go through this till the end, you better win. Otherwise, it can end very ugly for you and you may have to look for alternate employment. 

Send him an email first that you have decided to move out. Email will give him sometime to digest and process rather than the shock in 1-to-1 meeting. Also, being assertive that you have already made that decision (if you really have), will help in not giving any hope that you will change your mind. Always mention that it is because of current opportunity and his mentoring you were able to find another great opportunity. It is not that something was missing in the current role, but you just wanted a change for personal reasons and also you think change in company/work environment would add more insights to your experience. Emphasize that you will stay committed till your last day here to finish whatever is required for smooth transition and follow up on that commitment. That gesture goes long way! 

I think it is counter productive not to tell in advance because others will plan something assuming your presence. So while disruption of work could be one reason as other have pointed, I think it will serve the purpose in exactly opposite way. I think this largely is coming from insecurity of the company. They may be afraid that during your notice period, you will get a chance to talk about reasons for your leaving and others will identify themselves with those reasons and get ideas!! Or you will 'expose' a big flaw in the company which made you unhappy and then (mis)lead others on the same path. I do not think a healthy and professional working atmosphere will allow this. 

Send applications on late April to early May, and be able to do interviews before vacation starts. If the question "When will you be able to start?" comes up, I'll mention my schedule. Send applications during vacation stating that I'll only be able to attend interviews starting on June 26. Both of the above Only start applying when I get back home 

The situation : I'm the contracted web developer for my company (which isn't an IT company). They are using a legacy framework that almost nobody knows, has a very small community, and the general reviews on it are just plain bad. (makes me actually wonder why they picked it in the first place) In short, people with this skill are very few, and I'm the only one in this company with this job description. My contract ends soon and the company has offered me an extension. I was hoping to ask for a raise, stating several reasons, but on the back of my head, the main reason is because I know my company needs me and if they don't get me hired, their website won't be maintained. The question : Is the situation where one specific person knows that the company needs this specific person a reason worthy enough of a raise? 

I was wondering if some recruiters would see it as negative, thinking I might not be focused or committed to my permanent job if I had a freelance project on the side. Obviously, more showable work experience is an advantage, but I'm wondering if I'm overlooking some disadvantages in listing concurrent freelance projects. 

How early could you apply generally for jobs? How much waiting time can you give employers before you are able to work? Is it a deal breaker for employers if the applicants aren't available in 1-4 weeks' time? 

I'm in quite of a bind here. Although this is unintentional, I've found myself in an awkward situation where I've been offered a job that I'm interested in while being on annual leave, and I'm not coming back for 1 more week. I'm currently overseas where coming back isn't an option unless I wait for my return flight which comes in a week. I don't exactly have the luxury of time to wait until next week to personally hand in my resignation letter, so I'm looking to do it by email. Is there anything I should be aware of? Anything ethics related, or when the notice period starts, and things I could do to smoothen the process? Thanks! 

Serve your appropriate notice period at B and join A. Keep your "unemployed" time in between as minimum as you can afford. There is nothing more to it. You may or may not burn bridges with B but that is something you will have to take chances with. There are several related questions like this on how to accept/decline responsibilities when you know you are leaving soon. You can get more insights from there on professionally maintaining your stay while you are at B. 

Unless you have a very good reason not to do so, you should accept 5 AM. It is early in the morning but lot of people do start work (or getting ready to start) at that time. So it is not completely unreasonable to expect to attend a phone call. You can sure request for a later time but rather save this opportunity to request for something more important later on this process. (Like your joining date, relocation, etc. if you get hired). 

Publish a lot both in journals and conference. Even companies with R & D groups, prefer to screen PhD resumes based on number of publications. Conferences will help you to grow your personal network and also to understand what industry is doing and which company is working on which technology. Definitely take an internship and there are lot of opportunities. You can even consider international internship opportunity (and I can tell you there will be many) 

I do not think so. I have worked in US as well as Indian companies and never heard of manager making that request. Every place I worked (and resigned), I was free to let people know about my plans whenever I am comfortable. My last manager asked me to wait until an official announcement is made to my team which was within short period of resignation. (He was also hoping that he could change my mind in the meantime!) 

Understand if their discussions are just talk or do they actually practice business with these values. a. If it is just talk, may be you can ignore it because everyone has their opinion. They should not be loud about it but may be you can just ignore if possible (if you really enjoy the work). b. If they are really doing business with those values, that is if they are not hiring or giving business to people who belong to their "hate-list", then you can look into the legal aspect of it and your local law and try to persuade them against that behavior citing the law. It is lot easier said than done but if you are going to quit anyway, may be it worth it to try and fix the place. See if you can at least talk to others one at a time and understand if they really believe all this or just trying to suck up to CEO or fit in the "culture". May be you can have a reasonable discussion with some of the saner team members and talk them out of it or at least point out that this behavior is wrong and making you uncomfortable. It is unlikely but you can still hope to change the culture there since it is still a small team.