If you still encounter connection problems, check port forwarding in your internet router and in the firewall on your local machine. 

In your example you have set a rate of 10 requests per second (10r/s), a burst size of 3000 a zone 'bursted' with a size of 10 megabyte. And this rate limit applies as separate count for each defined server. In other words, your server accepts and processes one request every 0.1 second and can queue up to 3000 exceeding requests, that are then being processed at the defined rate: one every 0.1 second. And your burst zone can store about 160.000 IP adresses. That means if 3011 reques arrive within one second, nginx processes the first 10 requests immediately, puts another 3000 requests in the queue and the 3011th request will be rejected with a 503 status code. The queue will then be processed at the defined rate of one request every 0.1 second. As long as no new requests arrive the queue will get shorter and new requests can be added to the queue again. But while the queue already holds 3000 requests every additional request will be rejected with a 503 status code. This behaviour linear processing of the burst queue might make your site appear slow. To prevent that you can add the parameter to . This will make all requests from your burst queue being processed immediately while marking the slots in the queue as 'taken' and then 'freeing' slot by slot at the defined rate again, so the defined rate limit is met over time. btw: You can change the status code for rejected requests from 503 to 444 by adding to your config block. For more details see: 

I am trying to create a script in powershell that request and install an available application for a user or computer in the sccm application catalog. I know that there is a way to force sccm client actions using wmi methods. Example 

There is a way that by executing a wmi method or command line, in the users computer, to force the installation of and application. 

My question is; how can I create a scheduled task via command line, with the trigger “At task creation/modification". 

I am trying to publish the RDS server through azure application proxy, by following the steps in this guide. $URL$ In my environment I am using split DNS and I have successfully achieved to publish the RDweb application using a custom domain. But when I try to connect using internet explorer I am getting the following error. 

From reading your question I guess you are asking for an nginx vhost configuration example for an https upstream proxy. Here's such a configuration example: 

Seems there is a bit of confusion how nginx rate limiting and timeouts work. There is no timeout for rate limiting. You just set a rate and a queue size. Any requests exceeding the rate are being added to the queue to be processed later. Once the queue is completely filled any additional request will be rejected with a 503 status code. 

I guess it does have nothing to do with the settings you mentioned. Also having two locations does not make sense. I read from your comments that you've alradey removed the first one: 

I am creating a schedules task to run just before it's created and deleted after it runs. I am using the tool, schtasks to create the scheduled task, but i havent found the parameter to run the task "At task creation/modification" 

I am in a command prompt of winPE and would like to start from there, the installation of windows 8. I have the files of the installation media on the local drive but I dont know what is the file that I need to execute in order to start the windows installation wizard. Whats the file that start all the installation of windows in winPE. 

This is just a rough guide. There are more details for sure, you need to take care of. Provide more information to get better answers. 

Yes, take a look at your Apache config. Here is a config example for that. And if serving WordPress through a reverse proxy with https you might need to additonally take care of this. 

The two timeouts from your config: The will make your server wait up to 10 seconds for a client body to be sent after a request. If no body is sent from the client within this time, the server will close the connection with a 408 status code. The will make your server close any connection to a client that is still open after 30 seconds. But according to my tests, the time a request is waiting in the burst queue does not count for the keepalive_timeout. 

I am requesting a certificate that must be approved by the CA administrator. When I make the request, it appears in the CA pending request folder and I right click to issue the certificate. but the approved certificates don’t appear in the personal folder of the requesting computer. I have tried refreshing the certificates mmc and updating the machine group policies but the certificate does not appear in the client computer. My question what I need to do after issuing a certificate in order make it appear in the certificate vault of the computer. 

Yes, it is possible to use nginx and FastCGI to run your C binary. Here's a rough overview of the necessary steps: 

I also use this to check if my PHP-fpm pool socket file settings work well under load. Is the slowness file size dependent? Look for packet sizes, buffering and keepalive values. Other issues? Failing hard drive, switching issue, other processes on server eat up CPU/RAM? 

The passive mode connection can't be established. There is most likely an issue with the tcp traffic not getting sent/received over passive mode ports between your ftp client and the ftp server. 

I am creating a VPN in a virtual server in azure using the RRAS role, I have found that I can have internet access while i am connected to the vpn by disabling in the network adapter advanced option "use default gateway on remote network". By disabling this, the traffic and the resolution begins to flow through my local router and I need that all the resolution and routing to be performed by rras how can y create a vpn full tunnel vpn in RRAS with internet access? 

You can use a Microsoft tool called Process Explorer to find the active processes. You can find the process by dragging the target symbol over the windows you want the get the PID.