I read here and here that, strictly speaking, there are no counterexamples to Occam's rozar, because the latter implies no need for pluralism when unecessary, which is to be understood as "for the theory to be correct". For example, if a simple theory like "all material entities are composed of fire, water, air, and earth" is false (as it is), the fact that the composition of matter is more complex it cannot be considered a valid counterexample. But then, under this interpretation of necessity, Occam's razor become a bit of a tautology: "more realism/complexity is not needed unless it conforms with reality", or equivalently, "simple theories that do not conform with reality are false". Thus, how precisely one is to interpret Occam's razor in order to enable counterexamples, and so that it does not become a useless tautology? 

I have a very rudimentary understanding of Locke's labor theory of property. The key argument is expressed in Chapter 5 of Book II of the Two Treatises of Government: 

Say doctrine A claims premise X to be true, and Y to be false. Say doctrine B claims premises X and Y to be true. There is some sense (I believe; you might want to confirm), in which the "burden of proof" is tilted to the side of B. This is, there is no "responsibility" for individuals in A to justify "why Y is not true" (or at least lower than that of individuals in B in justifying Y). Now, let us add a temporal dimension. Let us say that first, it was doctrine B. Then, a rupture appeared, whereas a group of individuals denied Y. Thus appeared doctrine A. Given this temporal structure, is it now the "burden of proof" tilted towards the side of A? In a sense, they rejected Y, thereby giving origin to the second doctrine. Is this the case if we focus only on the individuals belonging to A and B (i.e. those who believe in X), without requiring them to prove to the rest of the world that actually, X is true? Is this analysis of a philosophical school? Does this analysis has a name? How can I approach this question from a philosophical point of view? Any reference is more than welcomed. PS: Behind this abstract question, lays an analysis of the history of Christianty, whereby Reformation emerged primarily as a negation of many Catholic doctrines. I think the question itself is independent of this background, but it might be informative to give it anyway. PS2: I hope tags are well selected. Please change if not the case. 

By itself an utterance such as "Ouch!" does not carry a truth-value. Contrast "If I am experiencing discomfort, I will eat painkillers." with "If Ouch!, I will eat painkillers." That does not mean that a proposition cannot be derived from such utterances, the absence of any utterance, or utterances that convey the opposite of what is being stated (as is the case with sarcasm). But such things come under the purview of pragmatics, not semantics. This is why the following is plausible: 

The idea of like-minded people trying to start afresh is not really original either. But then, I don't see what this has to do with Italian Futurism. 

The meaning is perfectly clear to the person who understood each of my words. It is true that I want espresso, in that context. It is false that I want sugar, in that context. 

Epigenetics did not mean back then what it means now. Briefly, Waddington's "epigenetics" is roughly equivalent to the current word "phenotype". Far from ignoring it, Dawkins has written extensively on the topic. What is now called "epigenetic inheritance" is a very new field of study. I could expect a sequel to The Selfish Gene and The Extended Phenotype (by someone else) after the field of epigenetic inheritance and evolution is better established. 

Electronics: We use boolean logic at the level of predicates. I've not come across propositional logic here. Some of the advances in the field are from finding optimal circuits for complex tasks. Linguistics: A few different kinds of logic are at the heart of many grammar formalisms such as CCG and Logical Grammar 

This is, appropriating something (e.g. land) is valid as long as it comes from its own work and there is sufficient left for others. The issue for which I have found no clarification in the text is the following. Say that a boat with 100 people crashes into a deserted, isolated island. Each one appropriates a 100th of the land. A few years later, another boat with 100 people crashes into the island. Since these people have no land, they must rent a place from the landowners. Yet, if the original 100 individuals would have appropriated half of the land, they would have left space for the rest to also own some land. Thus, is the original appropriation of land not in line with Locke's conditions? It might seem evident that Locke's condition about being enough for others refers to contemporary fellow men, and not a future with larger population. But can we simply dismiss the problem I am raising as such? This is, can we just say that, because a resource was divided in a time when population was small, there is no injustice in any sense by any subsequent situation where just a small proportion of the larger population owns the resource? Had Locke something to say on this respect? Maybe in another text of him? 

Marx's argument in the theory of exploitation is that capitalists do not need to sell their labour power in the market in order to live, whereas workers need to do so. As such, workers are not really "freely and voluntarily" participating in the labour market. This power differentiation enables the capitalists to exploit the worker, extracting surplus value from the latter. Yet, if a (sufficiently generous) universal basic income (UBI) were to be implemented in a given country, workers would not need to offer their labour in the market. Anyone who does so, would do it freely and voluntarily. This not only eliminates the "slavery" side of the argument but it might also reduce (albeit not eliminate) the level of surplus value extracted to the worker (because, essentially, is giving more power to the latter). Therefore, any "exploitation" in such context is entirely agreed by the worker when entering a work contract. Is this correct? Is exploitation no longer exploitation when no coercion is involved in the transaction? Would then UBI be such a "solution" to exploitation? 

Suppose you're God (just for the sake of the argument,you can in fact throw God out of the argument at any time ... ) and so you can see the universe from a special frame of reference X which contains the truth about everything in the universe (its origin ,why it is so etc... ), how can you answer then this question ? Where does X take its explanation ? In other words can a God answer the question why X is true ? Surely he must have the answer if he's God but that would imply an answer which is to find outside X ,so X must have an answer in another frame Y through which consider X ,but what proves Y then ? You see that I could keep along for ever so I am led to the conclusion that there isn't a frame in which there are all the answer about the universe and there's no way we can attempt to explain everything about the universe . In fact if I go even deeper I can state that there are some questions which can't possibly have an answer . 

This week I've been given to study from my highschool teacher Descartes' Demon argument but I have several doubts I fully understand it ,but let me put this in clear order : 1) I understand that this argument is about whether we can have any knowledge at all about external world which includes existence itself . 2) The argument says that there exists an evil demon who is capable of deceiving us in the same way we suppose God to be able. 3) The argument is solved by the fact that if I am deceived it follows that I exist otherwise I can't be deceived. Now my question concerns the third point: How do I know that this evil demon is not feeding me the thought that "if I am deceived it follows that I exist " ? My evil demon is so smart that he knows that giving me this thought I would think that I exist because I would have been able to think that. But again how do I know that the demon is not again fooling me by feeding me the above thought ? I would think that I outsmarted him but he would be the smarter because he knows this and that's why he does this. This can keep going for ever so it seems to me that I can never be sure of what I am thinking . So the question breaks down to this :how do I know I am not still playing devil's game when I say that I must exist in order for this demon to deceive me ? 

Most Indic scripts are not as linear as Latin scripts. Devanagari features compounds and conjuncts where some letters modify other letters from left, right, above, below, or within. But why is that relevant? Indian languages can be written in a linear form as well, commonly with IAST or ITRANS. The same goes for mathematical expressions. Your two-dimensional example is often written in a linear way in LaTeX or Mathematica. 

While one could say anything at all; neither was she, herself raised on any such tradition, nor did she try to mentor others into following such a tradition herself. Based on what I know of Rand, I'd say any such resemblance is only coincidental. From what I know about Rand, she does not seem to be a discursive philosopher. Her methods seem more like the methods of Marx or Nietzsche. 

Academic philosophy is open to discussing all sorts of questions. Your own question is of the form . However, this seems relevant only for theologians, generally not for philosophers. I'll cite just two of the many cases that discuss the . Should the baby live?: the problem of handicapped infants 

I concur with Eliran H, so I'll answer mostly the second part of the question. First, I don't understand the pairing of Dawkins' "selfish gene" and Dennett's "consciousness explained". I am not aware of any collaboration between the two on either of these works. I know they did not coauthor the books, but I'm talking about collaboration for the concepts dealt with by them. I have read The Selfish Gene, but not Consciousness Explained. Because of this, if I am missing some connection between the two, please add an elaboration in the question for the benefit of all who have missed the connection, including myself.