Chord tunnel Don't attempt to lay the tunnel on the sea bottom. Go under the sea bottom. Exploit the curvature of the earth to make a chord tunnel - laser straight. Normal tunnels are not laser straight, they have a vertical curve to match the earth's curvature. Take the famous picture of power lines curving over Lake Pontchartrain. If you started a tunnel a mile or two landside of shore on each end, and built it as a chord tunnel, it probably would be entirely beneath the bottom of the lake. 

There's a very reasonable reason: To give the inventor time to recoup his investment. That is the entire point of patents and IP law, after all. It's not literally recoup; it only provides the chance to recoup. The chance must be high enough to motivate the inventor, investors etc. to sink the up-front to take the chance. So, if you have an exceptionally long patent, you may have an invention which, by nature, has an exceptionally long recoup time. Perhaps 

Quite awhile. There will a Mechanic's Guild. Your world will have an economy of people good at keeping cars running. They will have many eager apprentices. Many others will scoff and prefer their horses, which are easier to refuel. The craftsmen will have ways to address the various problems. They will know which cars to preserve (figure cars made by the millions, toyotas, F150 and 1500/2500 trucks). They will know to gather and store fuel, cleanse contaminated or old fuel, or make new fuel. They will jealously guard a trove of collected tires in cool dry places. Keeping batteries topped up is easy with solar panels, but that only works until the batteries get too old. Lead-acid batteries are ancient technology, and the materials are very recyclable, so it's likely they'll find a way to make them. So the answer is "indefinitely, but only for a few people." The issue will be a lot more about who has the influence/wealth/control to be one of the ones with cars. Roads will be a bigger problem, because with so few users, no one will want to maintain them. Your heroes will have little chance of randomly scavenging working vehicles, because the guild will have been there first, picking anything usable. Don't forget the Robber Barons Almost half of America's rail miles were removed in the 20th century, mostly in the northeast. What remains is maintained in absolutely pristine condition, with technologies that didn't exist in the "golden age." It will last for many years with minimal maintenance (assuming train weight and speed fall significantly, as they would without big industry and electric signaling). Rail equipment is made of tougher stuff. So passenger rail would be the dominant mode of inter-town transport. There are plenty of passenger trains available when you figure the urban commuter trains. Of course, this monopoly will make them formidably powerful, especially since they have their own genuine police departments, who will step up to quell lawlessness where it affects railroad interests. They will collect Hummers and MRAPs from municipal police departments who "aren't using them anymore". And they will mobilize scary-fast because they will travel the long distances by rail. This will make them a force only fools will challenge. Effectively the railroads will either make the government they need, or prop up a national government as needed. They won't be against private vehicle usage. If anything they will help support it, because their own needs for small vehicles and engines will help sustain the mechanic's guild. On the other hand they will compete in the market for working vehicles and for mechanic's time, i.e. Good luck getting a car fixed in Omaha if it doesn't say Union Pacific on the door. 

One possible solution to data decay would be a mirrored array of data storage devices (possibly hard drives or flash memory). You would probably need an array of four or eight drives (possibly with some mirrored parity drives) to maintain data for centuries if not millennia. Flash memory would probably be best, since it's non-magnetic and the main limitation on its lifespan is read / write cycles. Even if there is significant data corruption on all the drives, you should be able to restore most if not all the data. At that point, you're dealing with physical breakdown of the device, not decay of the data itself. An optimal climate controlled environment would probably protect the data storage devices themselves for 400 years. If you're looking for longer-term storage and not concerned about cost or capacity, you can use gold leaf punchcards - which will last pretty much indefinitely. The computer itself probably wouldn't be in great shape after 400 years. Modern electronics simply aren't designed to last that long - a few decades at most. With careful consideration and design - as well as an ideal environment - would probably let you work around those problems. A sealed inert gas environment might do the trick there. 

There is almost no question that the future commander would win. Quite simply, the scale and speed of modern warfare would elude a commander from 500 (or even 50) years ago. The capabilities of modern weaponry - precision bombing, drones, night fighting, computerized targeting systems, C&C have advanced so far, so fast that even a legendary commander* would have difficulty even comprehending the capabilities of modern weapons. A future commander may be hamstrung and frustrated by the lack of capabilities they are used to, but they would have a general grasp of the what they can - and can't do or how to use those weapons. In a technical sense, they aren't going to be operating the weapons themselves - they aren't going to be befuddled trying to use alien and archaic tools. Sure, they might not know the first thing about operating a mechanical fire-control system, but the people who are operating it know what they are doing. The challenges will be abstracted away by things being slower / less accurate than they are used to, but still fit in the framework of their knowledge. Add to that the fact that modern warfare and tactics developed from the warfare and tactics of the past. Virtually every general is a student of history, and would have at least a general understanding of the tactics the general from the past would know and understand. They would also, since tactics of thousands of years ago are still widely studied, know how to effectively counter them. They would know not to charge pikemen with cavalry, but they might use their knowledge of how pikemen counter cavalry to force them into an infantry square...then drop a load of napalm on it. Now, it's possible that warfare / humanity will have changed so much in 500 years that a future commander simply couldn't adapt. It's quite possible that all the future commander knows is to press the 'nanobot kill' button on an iPad and the war is over in seconds. Still, just a general understanding of history will be a huge leg up. *A famous / legendary leader might be at even more of a disadvantage. A commander like Napoleon or Rommel has / is / will be studied at a level of detail that far surpasses a commander forgotten to history. In most cases, those massive historical victories are as much a product of circumstance as they are genius (and those brilliant and disruptive strategies won't come as a shock to someone who studied them). Bold, risky behavior only works when someone isn't prepared for it, and taking those risks is generally what made the legendary commanders legendary. 

Use the paper tape reader to input your program, or hey - here's an idea, how about an operating system. You know, like Apple Monitor (2048 bytes) which included a lot of code to emulate a TTY on Apple's internal display and keyboard, not necessary, just use a physical TTY or VT100. And now we break for lunch. A few hundred bytes in the OS teaches it to read/write a cassette tape. Another couple thousand teach it to read/write disk drives. I'm not speculating, this is how they worked. Meanwhile, parallel efforts are running on 

If the planet goes away, the gravity well goes away, and the well is no longer "turning" their orbits. Wherever they are in their orbits, they now go in a straight line. That's not the problem. The planet comes back. Uh-oh. The problem is when the spaceships come back and loiter in open space to await the return of the planet. (their science teams figure out pretty quick that's a highly improbable way to destroy a planet.) The ships have nothing to orbit, so they must "sit there" in the general vicinity of where the planet is expected to return. When the planet returns, they will suddenly find themselves in a gravity well, with no sideward velocity for an orbit. They will Fall Straight Down while the planet turns under them. Their engines will need to generate somewhat more than one local "gee" of thrust to escape - even more if they're late - and that may not be practicable for a slow, large interstellar capital ship. Could they merely bend their fall sideways into an orbital velocity? Maybe, I haven't run the numbers. They might have a better shot if their ship is designed for reentry. The critical delay Keep in mind what Sully Sullenberger talked about at the NTSB hearing. He pointed out that all the simulations had the pilots knowing exactly what to do, zero seconds into the event. He said what actually happens in real life is some time figuring what's going on and what to do about it - when they added 30 seconds of "figuring out options" time, every simulation crashed. Even if they expect it, the vigilance could be hard if there's a long wait for the planet's return. Guard duty is boring. It might be the third-watch crew who's least competent, and things might not get sorted until the captain comes out in his pajamas. So you have to figure 30-90 seconds minimum for crews to discover the planet has returned, realize their peril, make a plan to thrust away from it, and get the engines spun up / ship physically oriented engines-down. They may not know exactly where the planet will reappear. That's going to depend a lot on the distance from the planet. Hopefully their captains have thought this through (probably not, it doesn't ever happen so how would they be prepared for it?) What if it's a "race" by competing factions, where you need to be closer than the other guy? Assuming Earth pops up 300km away, in Sully's 30 seconds, things have gotten rather worse - you have fallen 4.5km and gain 300m/s velocity straight down - that's a kilometer in 3 seconds, a mile in 5. At 90 seconds you've fallen 40km with 900m/s velocity, a kilometer per second! Since you hit atmo' in 150 seconds (2:30), the point of non-recoverability may be sooner than you think. Damn, that'll be an exciting chapter. Several chapters if you spend time on several ship bridges watching different captains deal with it in a different way. Maybe there's even a spot for unexpected heroism, where the Vollchon ship throws a tractor beam or grapple to help a Hegemon ship get enough escape velocity. Why so close? What? And risk my ship? So much easier to sit 100 million km away with a bag of popcorn. But consider the drama. Whatever made the planet disappear, something else is going on. It's not that simple. The situation may justify putting ships at risk. 

Egypt would be another good example, the cities are based mostly around the Nile river and the river is responsible for the agriculture that takes place there. The Nile river would flood annually bringing large amounts of water for a few months but also silt with nutrients for crops down from mountains further south. This was an important event in ancient Egypt; it was a holiday/festival and the astronomical signs were the basis for their calendar system (Details on these events) 

The sad thing is I'm not sure it would even take much deception on the part of AI to draw in followers. At the point of proper AI our computational tech will likely be fairly advanced, to the point that AI would have rather impressive analytical powers. Combine powerful analytics with logical thought processes and you have leaders who are truly capable of acting in the greatest possible way the greatest number of people. Even knowing the leader is a bot/AI wouldn't deter people from developing a fanatical following (sure beats regular politics eh? =D). We can always look to Arthur C. Clarke on this; most people that are currently experiencing technology today are blown away by what it's capable of doing. An AI that leads people or a medical AI that accurately detects and treats disease (healing the sick) with an advanced array of sensors and tools would still seem like magic to most. 

I think there could be some feasibility in how you structure your worlds history. However if your world does have rail cannon artillery then they certainly understand that the magnetic energy can launch projectiles. You do touch on the idea that this requires immense energy, however the military machine will always try to adapt weapons and systems for other uses. As such if you want swords to be a common feature on your battle fields I do have a suggestion: "Rail Flintlocks" A better understanding of electricity should lead to improvements in things like circuits and capacitors. While you can't carry the equipment to generate the electricity a dense capacitor hooked up to a small handheld gun is sufficient to fire a single rail. Once fired the pistol can be reloaded (arduously of course) by swapping out the capacitor breaching the barrel and reloading a large iron spike. So military charges can have a volley of fire and then resort to sword play. 

The base of the Burj Khalifa covers an area of roughly 3.5 acres. There are roughly 7 billion acres of usable land on earth by the given requirements, which means you could cover the earth with approximately 2 billion Burj Khalifas. The Burj Khalifa has 300,000 square meters of space, so if each person has 10,000 square meters of space you could fit 30 people in the space of a single Burj Khalifa. That establishes a maximum population of roughly 60 billion people in an earth whose surface is entirely covered in Burj Khalifas. I will note that 10,000 square meters of space is a lot of space, and the infrastructure of the Burj Khalifa that doesn't figure into the 300,000 square meter calculation could easily (with the benefits of economies of scale) house the infrastructure to support this population. Especially when you consider how advanced a civilization that could build this megastructure would be. I was going with arable land...the total land area of earth is roughly 40 billion acres, so (40 / 7) * 60 billion = ~340 billion people. A trillion if you assume the structure is uniform with no gaps or taper. 

With only a single day's knowledge, and a single chance to exploit this day's knowledge, the correct answer would almost certainly be lottery tickets. There are few - if any - ways to make a short term 'profit' on a par with gambling, and knowing the day's lottery numbers is the only way that would really be possible for an individual to accomplish in the repeat of a single day. Many iterations may allow more theoretically profitable opportunities (such as repeated wins at casino games), but Joe would only need to memorize a single sequence of numbers to win the lottery - something completely doable in a single day. Ideally, Joe would play and win the lottery multiple times in a day (Pick-4 in the afternoon, reinvest in bigger payouts later) but the fixed maximum payouts on a single lottery would probably limit the value of that strategy unless Joe could play multiple different lotteries all at once. Of course, if Joe's trying to accomplish this without attracting any attention (once the day ends and he's back on regular time), simply playing the single largest lottery once would be the way to go.