As jilles says. A few CM one way or the other will not be critical as appropriate changes can be made in the adjustable parts. Stem, saddle, etc. My current roadster (which I've been riding for about 10 years) is technically a tad too large for me, but it's completely comfortable with the adjustments I've made. 

I'm pretty much in the camp with Dan Hicks. First, I only put water in 'em. Second, when I'm done riding, I pop the top and let 'em air dry. I can't recall ever having "cleaned" a water bottle, other than during my mountain-biking days when sand, mud, crud, and assorted dead spiders would encrust same. I solved that by going to a hydration pack. 

I refurbish a lot of old bikes and I use a wrench like you show... There appears to be little uniformity. However, If you're just dealing with YOUR bike you should be able to pick the right one at the shop... 

Cotton....Gets wet, stays wet... There's a wide variety of cycling gear for a variety of situations. Depends primarily on the weather. In warm, weather, a simple jersey and cycling shorts pretty well does it. Good lycra shorts breathe, provide protection, and improve upper-leg circulation as well. Jerseys have evolved over 100 years. They are utterly functional and well-suited to the task. You don't have to buy expensive "team" gear; I have 20 dollar Nashbar jerseys I bought 30 years ago. As it gets colder and/or more inclement, you need more gear. Cycling gear should breathe, it should "wick" perspiration away from the skin, and outer garments should provide some wind protection. Depends on how cold you want to go. 

Before undertaking such a program, the thing to consider is this... Is the frame worth it? Sometimes, manufacturers will produce a line of bikes that use an identical frame, and bolt on progressively-better components for each upgraded model. In such cases, with a good frame to begin with, replacing cheaper components as they wear or fail might be a decent way to go, especially if you do your own work. However, if the frame is just a generic item of no special quality.... You'd do better to save your money and buy an upgraded bike to begin with. 

Steel has been the standard for cheap bikes for a very long time. Weight is a prime factor, as noted above. In addition, steel rusts.... If you go to someplace where lots of bikes are parked outside for any length of time, like the university where I work, you can pick out the cheap bikes instantly by the nasty rust that starts forming with great speed. Really cheap bikes have as much steel as possible; even the wheel hubs and such will be made of that material. 

Good advice. The entire field of "supplements" is a can of worms that might better be asked in the "skeptic" area... Although it's a multi-billion dollar insdustry with loads of people having almost-religious fervor....Scientific studies keep showing little or no benefit from most all of the various nostrums. 

Presta valves can be a little tricky as well. An old practice is to unscrew the lock-ring all the way and then push it in to break the seal before applying the pump. Sometimes the valve will stick and you'll get false readings. 

Mountain bikes are much more prone to this, as they are commonly ridden in dirt, sand, mud, and other crud that acts like a grinding compound on the rims. Bikes ridden in more forgiving environments will likely not exhibit any appreciable wear for a very long time. My particular patrol bike is about 15 years old, with the original rims.... 

I'm 65, with the problems one might expect; had surgery on a knee last year, aches and pains in shoulder joints, had a little bout of angina a couple of years ago and got a stent... Still riding though. By all accounts, given that cycling is a superb aerobic (or "cardio" as they say now) exercise, it might behoove the older rider to toss in some resistance training as well to compensate for muscle-mass loss. I've been doing non-impactive upper-body work recently (using a device called a "Bulgarian training bag") and it seems to be helping my wonky shoulders and general upper-body strength. 

I refurbish a lot of older bikes to re-sell, and if the DR is really nasty I remove it first. Then, I soak it down with WD-40 to loosen anything that's stuck and start working it by hand; making sure all the joints move freely. Then... It's the Dremel (wire wheel) and the toothbrush till I get all the crud off and the stains, surface rust, and other crud off. Finally, squirt down with regular old detergent and give it a thorough wash. Use very hot water to rinse so it'll dry rapidly. Finally, lube all the pivots. If the idlers are sticky or unduly nasty, I'll disassemble the cage and idlers and clean them up separately, greasing the axles before assembling. Lot of work, messy. But the result is a like-new DR. 

All correct. The DRs don't care if the shifters are indexed or not. As long as the travel can be accommodated, no problem. 

There's an outfit that makes a device allowing you to mount conventional friction-shifters up on the handlebars... I'll see if I can find the link. I have been using downtube-mounted friction shifters for many years, second nature to me. They are very forgiving as to what gears your running... I took my 5-speed freewheel up to an 8-speed freehub without changing any of the shifter parts. Drop bars (standard roadster bars) are available in many different widths, depths, and so forth. 

There have been a few "serious" bikes made with this design; Trek produced a few years ago. However, it proved to be a poor design as it puts the pivots in the wrong places. I took one of those cheesy Y-frames and used it as the basis for my home-built recumbent...It actually worked pretty well for that. 

The type of spanner (wrench) to use is what's called a "cone wrench". It's a very thin open-end wrench that's normally used for holding the movable "cone" in wheel-bearing sets while the lock-nut is tightened. They come in various sizes, you'll have to check to get (0r borrow) the right one. 

I refurbish a lot of older bikes for re-sale. The first thing I do is to pop off the wheels and manually turn the axles to see if the bearings are suspect. If the axle turns roughly, has side-to-side play, or is hard to turn...They probably do. There should be "no more friction than supplied by the grease" when turned by hand. You cannot do this with the wheel on the bike. If you have the tools; cone wrenches and such, then a wheel rebuild is both easy and cheap. The best-grade #25 bearings are inexpensive. If the cones are shot it's a different story. Time? My police patrol bike, with well over 3000 miles, still feels perfect. If you ride in the rain a lot, or ride off-road through mud and sand and through water crossings, naturally you're going to need more frequent maintenance. Bearings are something to check say...Yearly for most riders. 

To my knowledge, chains are not shipped with wax-based lubes. Sheldon Brown always recommended using the chain "as shipped" until the factory stuff wore off... Choice of lubes tends to be highly contentious and engineering types go to great lengths to get every possible extra mile of chain life... Generally, waxes work well but need constant re-application. They do not tend to attract dirt much. Petro-based lubes offer excellent protection but also tend to attract dirt.... Frequent cleaning seems in order. Systems like wax/grease that require you to heat the substance up and then dismount the chain and immerse... Effective but messy. Personally I find normal, petro-based commercial chain lubes seem to work pretty well regardless of brand. I use the "Finish Line" products on the department bikes and a six or seven dollar bottle will last the season. 

If you go to the mechanic's section of Bikeforums, you'll find that chain-lube discussions tend to go on and on and on.... Everyone has their own opinion, and many seem to have an almost-manic tendency to concoct the ultimate chain lube... I just buy whatever commercial product is handy. A bottle of high-quality chain lube will generally last the average cyclist for a year or more, unless you race cyclocross or something. So even at 9 bucks a bottle it's pretty cheap. I use the Finish Line products for our patrol bikes; I maintain about 30 of them. Unfortunately, the ultimate lube likely doesn't exist. If it did, it would penetrate deeply into the chain's rollers, where it would then set up into a grease-like substance that would also magically repel dust, dirt, and road grime. Petro-based lubes penetrate well, but tend to fly off and attract dirt. Wax-based lubes shed dirt, but they do that by solidifying and falling off... You have to constantly re-apply. Most good commercial lubes are a complex blend of petro products, teflon, and other ingredients. they have a "carrier" vehicle that helps them penetrate, and when the carrier evaporates it leaves the lube behind, hopefully in the right places. Maybe more important than what lube you use is how often and how thoroughly you clean the chain. 

As Jacek says...My main ride is a 1972 Cilo/Swiss roadster with a Columbus frame. Nice frame, nice Shimano 600 components.... But sub-par with other bits. Nasty steel crank, nasty Malliard wheels, Sort-of-OK Weinemann brakes. I have... Spread the frame to accept a contemporary Shimano 7-speed wheel. (looking for a nice 8-speed) Replaced the front wheel similarly. Replaced the crank with a contemporary 39-52 aluminum item. Replaced the rather beat-up brake levers with Shimano items. So now, I have a nice, smooth-riding vintage steel-framed bike. Use it almost daily. 

When I was mountain biking here in Missouri, mud and other gruck were pretty much standard. I must say I never really obsessed about cleaning the bike... When I got home I'd simply leave it on the car rack and hose it down with a standard garden hose to get the big stuff off. It was an aluminum-framed model with stainless cables and such.. Not much to worry about. Take it off the rack when done, bounce it on the pavement a couple of times and leave it sitting in the Sun to dry. Re-lube the chain and DRs.... Funny story.... I came out of one of the local trailheads one spring afternoon literally covered with mud. Bike, me, everything. A young couple were just getting their bikes ready to go. The girl looks at me and says.."Is it muddy?" 

Back in the thirties, Tullio Campagnolo invented the modern derailleur for very good reason. A single-speed is a very sensible machine if the terrain and/or rider strength allow. Simple, reliable, lightweight. But for many, not a practical solution. If widely varying terrain must be tackled, the single speed is going to be problematic. The objections given to multiply-geared bikes are valid, but a well-maintained gear train is essentially silent, reliable, and easy to use. I'm a mechanic, and my bikes shift effortlessly and positively. I "stir" my gears constantly to keep my pedal pressure and cadence at an optimum. I enjoy doing this, much as sports-car drivers enjoy a manual transmission. As for fixies... Used to be a standard training item for pro road racers. The idea being to build up both leg strength, spin, and smoothness. However, I think a fixie, especially one without modern brakes is as dangerous to ride now as it was at the dawn of cycling back in the 1800s. I see it as a fad item. 

Yes. "Women's" bikes were intended primarily for one purpose; so that women could wear skirts while riding. They are inherently weaker than a "diamond" frame and as a result must be made heavier. Other solutions are the "mixte" frame, with dual top tubes running directly from headstock to rear dropout. Modern "compact" frames are a sort of modified diamond, likely taken from mountain-bike design. For extremely short riders, there's always the possibility of using smaller wheels.. 650mm rims. The problem is ground clearance for the cranks. 

If you have a six-speed rear cogset the bike is either inexpensive or seriously old; such things have long since been replaced by 7-8-9 or 10-speed gearsets. At any rate, the important thing with a rear DR is "capacity". It must have sufficient arm length to handle the range of gears on the cassette or freewheel. Most all DRs have sufficient side-to-side movement, so the factor you're looking for is the length of the "arm" with the two rollers on it. Longer arm, more capacity. If you look at high-end road bikes with very "close" gearsets, you'll see the arm is very short. Look at mountain bikes which have great big low gears, and you'll see longer ones. Also... Cheaper DRs such as found on many "box-store" import bikes often mount on a steel piece that is bolted into the dropout. (where the axle goes) Better DRs mount on a "hanger" which is often replaceable; these may have a different mounting screw. Just take the old one with you to the bike shop and they should be able to find a good replacement. 

Sounds like you have the basics covered pretty well.... If you're turning in some serious mileage, you want to be able to handle flats and minor repairs on the road. Minimum is a good frame pump ( a lot of the mini pumps have trouble getting past 50 pounds or so...) spare tube, tire tools, etc. Some of the handy little hand-cleaning wipes are a good idea as well. A multi-tool that will take care of most emergencies is a good investment; it should include a chain breaker, allen wrenches to fit the fasteners on your bike, etc. Some money is never a bad idea. You may just HAVE to have a donut.... 

You should be able to get a solid entry-level mountain bike or hybrid (or "comfort" or "fitness" bike for your 500 bucks. Likely not a decent roadster. As well, there are a number of "city" bikes on the market now which are basically mountain bikes with smaller, street-tread tires. Very practical for many riders. What do you want to do? Bash the trails? Commute? Cruise the bike trails in the local park? Rails-to-trails riding? For many riders, the hybrid type is quite practical. They are not efficient for fast-long-distance road riding, but for casual riding they are simple to operate and reasonably comfortable. If you plan to go off-road a mountain bike is more appropriate. There is frankly little difference between major brands at this price-point. You're going to be looking at a Chinese-made frame with various name-brand components bolted on. Important thing...Make sure it fits. You will never be happy on an ill-fitting bike. 

Trek makes good, reliable bikes across their price range. I have 25 of 'em in our patrol-bike "fleet" at present. The 6000 is well-reviewed, but it is designed and delivered as an off-road machine. It will be less than optimum when ridden on pavement. If you were going to spend most of your time riding on pavement, then a simple change of tires would be of considerable benefit. Not that you can't ride a mountain bike on the road, thousands do so all the time. It's just that those knobby tires will squirm and wear rapidly, and the riding position is not the best for long stretches on the road. 

In recent years, we've seen a lot of bikes which are set up to cater to the increasingly-older market. Where you once had "hybrid" bikes (a road frame with MTB components) you now have "fitness" and "comfort" bikes which tend to have an upright riding position, cushy saddles, and some sort of minimal suspension. There have always been subdivisions in roadsters... I currently ride a vintage 1972 "Cilo/Swiss" roadster which was obviously not intended for fast or sporty riding, yet it has a Columbus double-butted frame and Shimano 600 components... Pretty high-end for what you'd think was intended as a commuter. 

Speculation... Fear of breaking down. For most male cyclists, a flat or whatever is no tragedy; you just fix it. For women, who may not be as mechanically "ept", there is also the worry of being alone and isolated while doing the fix... I commute from our cheap-parking garage to the station. It's only about a mile or so... I'm a police officer in full "bike" uniform, so I'm not worried about being harassed or even attacked during my 6 am ride. Not so with a lot of women, I would imagine. We see a lot of women riding alone during the day; fitness riders... No great fear on well-traveled roadways.