The doomsday argument as explained in your post is defeated by using assumptions that make no sense. For example, if you have complete ignorance of something you can't make probability estimates about it. Probabilities are specific numbers you can't get specific numbers from ignorance. Probability estimates come from knowledge of explanations. For example, the probability of getting spin up or spin down when measuring an electron is a result of knowing its state, not of ignorance: $URL$ There are several ways in which the doomsday argument could be wrong. For example, the number of people could be bounded above at some number close to the present number of humans because we will soon have cheap technology that will keep us all alive indefinitely, e.g. - medical technology advocated by Aubrey de Grey. See also "The Beginning of Infinity" by David Deutsch: look up probability in the index. 

The numbered objections given on your question don't take account of the actual literature on quantum mechanics without collapse. In the MWI systems exist in different versions that can interact without one another in interference and entanglement effects. Those effects are the evidence that refutes single universe explanations, see "The Fabric of Reality" and The Beginning of Infinity" by David Deutsch. Interference can no longer take place between different versions of a system when information has been copied out of those different versions. This does not require measurement, just an interaction that copies information. For example, if a photon is reflected from an object that may be sufficient to prevent interference even if nobody sees that photon and no instrument records it. See $URL$ Branches in the multiverse are defined in terms of the flow of information: $URL$ Information can flow between a version of system 1 in branch A and a version of system 2 in branch A, or between a version of system 1 in branch B and a version of system 2 in branch B. But information can't flow between a version of system 1 in branch A and a version of system 2 in branch B. Nor can it flow between system 1 in branch B and a version of system 2 in branch A. Thoughts and sensations are patterns of information processing taking place in your brain. Information can't flow between different versions of you, so you have no way to experience the thoughts or sensations of a version of you in another branch. So the MWI refutes objection 2 and the objection at the end of the question. On point 3, the interpretations fall into two categories. (1) Alternatives to quantum mechanics that produce different predictions. (2) Taking quantum mechanics seriously as a description of how the world works: the MWI. (3) Attempts to evade the implications of quantum mechanics through vagueness and handwaving about what the theory sez about reality, or even the denial that any such description is possible. The pilot wave and GRW theories are in category 1 and so are distinguishable from the MWI. The Copenhagen interpretation, the statistical interpretation and a few related theories are in category 3. Objecting to the MWI on the grounds that it can't be emprically distinguished from the MWI is like objecting to evolution on the grounds that god could have made the world the way it is 6000 years ago, or five minutes or five seconds ago. The theories in category 3 are not candidates for experimental testing because they don't rise to the bar of making specific claims about reality. There are also specific explanations of how the MWI could be tested: $URL$ 

You say that reality could be incomprehensible. This is a bad explanation in at least three ways. First, suppose it was true. You say that we were deluded by the rotation of the Earth into thinking that the geocentric model was true. So this means we have understood something about the world and so that it is partly comprehensible. But if some other part of the world is incomprehensible then your claim is false. Where the incomprehensible part interacts with the comprehensible part we won't understand what's going on, so that means we can't really understand the supposedly comprehensible part of the world. Second, it contradicts a lot of our knowledge about physics. The laws of physics seem to imply that it is possible to build a universal computer that can simulate any finite physical system: $URL$ So if we can simulate any physical system why would we be unable to understand the world? Third, we can only create knowledge by finding mistakes in our current ideas and correcting them piecemeal. You notice a problem with your current ideas, propose solutions, criticise the solutions until only one is left and then find a new problem. Experiments are useful only as criticism. Ideas can't be derived from experiment any more than from any other set of premises. Rather, the idea is that you work out how the consequences of one theory differ from those of another. Then you conjecture ideas about experimental setups that would enable you to see the relevant consequences and criticise them. Once you have a setup that works about as well as you can make it work you use it to do the test. If the results are compatible with one theory and not the others then you may have successfully refuted some false ideas. Sometimes a purported successful experimental test will be successfully criticised because a test is a conjecture about something that happened and that conjecture may be wrong, so experiments don't prove anything. Since our knowledge is bound to be riddled with flaws it is not surprising that our knowledge had flaws in the past and that is not something to be alarmed about. Since our knowledge is riddled with problems stopping the growth of knowledge would leave us saddled with problems that would kill us. It would also involve destroying a lot of knowledge about how to live with other people since doing so involves solving problems. We would get worse off, not live in contentment or anything like that. See "The Beginning of Infinity" by David Deutsch for more arguments relevant to these issues. 

Living things evolve in such a way as to pass on their genes. They only have to survive for long enough to do that. For example, many Pacific salmon die after their first spawning. Genes are molecules that can be copied but are not always copied perfectly. As a result of mistakes in copying there are variants on a particular gene at any given time. Some of those variants make more copies in a particular environment than others. The genes that survive do so by incorporating some information about their environment. Sometimes the relevant environment is the chemicals surrounding the organism. Sometimes the environment is other genes, such as genes for a female to mate for a male with a large tail in peacocks. The vast bulk of organisms have no understanding of what they are doing or why. Rather, they just have certain biological structures that result in them carrying out certain tasks. They are like a guided missile. The missile doesn't know or care about why it was launched, it just has certain mechanisms that have the effect of aiming it toward targets with certain features. See "The Selfish Gene" and "The Extended Phenotype" by Richard Dawkins and "The Fabric of Reality" (especially chapter 8) and "The Beginning of Infinity" (especially chapter 4) by David Deutsch. 

There are many accounts of the credit crisis from a free market perspective. See, for example, "The financial crisis and the free market cure" by John Allison. The US government is trying to run the banking system to serve government priorities. To do this, the US government issued fiat money and credit like it was going out of fashion. The government also made rules they thought would make financial institutions do what the government wanted. In so doing, they created perverse incentives that led to problems. The government exacerbated these problem by trying to make up those losses for some favoured financial institutions. 

To understand Popper better you should read what he writes and take it literally. Don't assume that he can't really mean what he's writing. He does mean what he writes. The Stanford Encyclopedia entry isn't worth much since it doesn't explain Popper's anti-justificationism (see Chapter I of "Realism and the Aim of Science"): justification (showing an idea is true or probably true) is impossible, undesirable and unnecessary. Debating about whether Popper justified this or that is irrelevant without a reply to his criticism of justificationism. 

I have a few answers to your question that address different issues. (1) A non-universal theory is a problematic explanation. If a theory doesn't apply universally then either there is an explanation of why it doesn't reply or there is no such explanation. If there is an explanation then that explanation is universal. If there isn't then your theory has a serious problem that should be fixed: it has an unexplained qualification. (2) The laws of physics allow the existence of universal computers. Any finite physical system can be simulated by a universal quantum computer operating on a finite number of qubits. There are also subsets of the repertoire of the universal quantum computer that can simulate some systems, such as the classical Turing machine and classical computational networks. These require only the ability to compose a small number of primitive operations. As a result the laws of physics do not forbid you from understanding how anything works. (3) This is connected with a problematic assumption in your question. Scientific knowledge is not created by induction. Induction is a variety of justificationism: the idea that it is possible or desirable to show that your ideas are true or probably true. If you assess ideas using argument then the arguments have premises and rules of inference and the result of the argument may not be true (or probably true) if the premises and rules of inference are false. You might try to solve this by coming up with a new argument that proves the premises and rules of inference but then you have the same problem with those premises and rules of inference. You might say that some stuff is indubitably true (or probably true), and you can use that as a foundation. But that just means you have cut off a possible avenue of intellectual progress since the foundation can't be explained in terms of anything deeper. And in any case there is nothing that can fill that role. Sense experience won't work since you can misinterpret information from your sense organs, e.g. - optical illusions. Sense organs also fail to record lots of stuff that does exist, e.g. - neutrinos. Scientific instruments aren't infallible either since you can make mistakes in setting them up, in interpreting information from them and so on. We don't create knowledge (useful or explanatory information) by showing stuff is true or probably true for reasons so how do we create knowledge? We can only create knowledge by finding mistakes in our current ideas and correcting them piecemeal. You notice a problem with your current ideas, propose solutions, criticise the solutions until only one is left and then find a new problem. Experiments are useful only as criticism. Ideas can't be derived from experiment any more than from any other set of premises. Rather, the idea is that you work out how the consequences of one theory differ from those of another. Then you conjecture ideas about experimental setups that would enable you to see the relevant consequences and criticise them. Once you have a setup that works about as well as you can make it work you use it to do the test. If the results are compatible with one theory and not the others then you may have successfully refuted some false ideas. Sometimes a purported successful experimental test will be successfully criticised because a test is a conjecture about something that happened and that conjecture may be wrong, so experiments don't prove anything, nor do they support ideas. If your propose a universal theory then it is easier to criticise than a theory that you have hedged because if you find any exception to the theory you have to discard it. As a result you can make faster progress. For more on non-justificationist epistemology see "Realism and the Aim of Science" by Karl Popper, especially chapter I, "Objective Knowledge" by Karl Popper, chapter 1, $URL$ $URL$ For some stuff on epistemology and universal computation, see "The Fabric of Reality" and "The Beginning of Infinity" by David Deutsch and a couple of papers: $URL$ $URL$ 

Philosophy is separate from psychology because it's about explanations, not about what people happen to think at the moment. Epistemology is about the growth of knowledge and so it is, in part, about how people ought to think if they want to create knowledge, it is not primarily about how they do think (psychology). In addition, knowledge often is not instantiated in the mind of any human being, e.g. - a computer program, a scientific paper. So then epistemology must be, in part about pieces of information that are not instantiated in the brain of any person. Philosophy of physics also has nothing to do with psychology, it is about the implications of physical theories for what exists in reality. Likewise for philosophy of biology and so on. 

The first question to address in this answer is "what is the appropriate standard of rationality?" The agnostic's argument implicitly assumes that justification (proving an idea true or probably true) is the standard of rationality. If the agnostic was right about that, then it would be irrational to be an atheist since you can't show that the non-existence of God is true or probably true. But justification is not the standard of rationality. As Popper pointed out in Chapter I of "Realism and the Aim of Science" justification is impossible, unnecessary and undesirable. If you assess ideas using argument then the arguments have premises and rules of inference and the result of the argument may not be true (or probably true) if the premises and rules of inference are false. You might try to solve this by coming up with a new argument that proves the premises and rules of inference but then you have the same problem with those premises and rules of inference. You might say that some stuff is indubitably true (or probably true), and you can use that as a foundation. But that just means you have cut off a possible avenue of intellectual progress since the foundation can't be explained in terms of anything deeper. And in any case there is nothing that can fill that role. Sense experience won't work since you can misinterpret information from your sense organs, e.g. - optical illusions. Sense organs also fail to record lots of stuff that does exist, e.g. - neutrinos. Scientific instruments aren't infallible either since you can make mistakes in setting them up, in interpreting information from them and so on. We don't create knowledge (useful or explanatory information) by showing stuff is true or probably true for reasons so how do we create knowledge? We can only create knowledge by finding mistakes in our current ideas and correcting them piecemeal. You notice a problem with your current ideas, propose solutions, criticise the solutions until only one is left and then find a new problem. We shouldn't say that a theory is false because it hasn't been proven because this applies to all theories. Rather, we should look at what problems it aims to solve and ask whether it solves them. We should look at whether it is compatible with other current knowledge and if not try to figure out the best solution. Should the new idea be discarded or the old idea or can some variant of both solve the problem? So the question we ought to ask is whether the existence of god solves any problems. A criticism of the idea of God would point out that it doesn't solve any problems. If God made the laws of morality or science or whatever a particular way for some reason, then any physical mechanism that respects that principle would explain the same phenomenon. For example, if God made organisms to keep their genes in existence, then evolution explains their behaviour better than God. And if God had no reason for making the world behave a particular way then we might as well say "shit happens" rather than go to the trouble of postulating God. So God's existence solves no problems. And since God introduces lots of problems, like the problem of evil, the idea should be ditched. In addition, the atheist is taking a clear position that lays his views open to criticism. The agnostic does not admit that theism is refuted by the criticisms of the idea of God, and he is fudging. The agnostic ignores criticisms and does not state a clear position, both of which are irrational.