I don't think it's actually possible to create a religion that ends in 500 years without involving something other than the religion and a randomized followers... Sorry, but here's some possible loopholes? 

Go on the sea floor, perhaps the Mariana Trench, the deepest part of the world's oceans. It's super difficult to get to, even with magic? Unless it isn't? 

Perhaps magic doesn't pollute the environment or something, and works just as well, so they abandon technology to save the environment. 

Is there any generally useful magic that can be done if all it could do was violate the Third Law of Thermodynamics? The Third Law of Thermodynamics just seems to relate to absolute zero? And it says that: 

Maybe Neutronium? It's 4 * 10^17 kg/m^3... 13 magnitudes denser than anything else. Only problem is keeping it that dense. 

How do I create a societal collapse with ruins, survivors, and the weaponry is back to pre-gunpowder technology (swords, shields, bows, etc.), while the Pre-Collapse tech can make Ridiculously Human Military Androids? A few Androids survived the Collapse and can maintain buildings and stuff, but their number very small... 10 across the whole of the world? And the Pre-Collapse civilization technology could have a 1st World Standard of Living for everyone on Earth, if their cities replaced our cities of Real World 2015. I'm going to say that we're on Earth... The Androids' are human-sized, with electronic brains that can do everything a human brain can do. The point of that being emotions. They can wirelessly connect to some info-server. They are outfitted with nanites that can transform their hands into weaponry, and also be Uterine Replicators. Their eyes can serve as Everything Sensors, or at least for everything medical, with human biology, within... 1 minute of observation and analysis combined. Android skin is made of ferro-ceramic plates. Their medical technology is what is expected if they used all of their listed technology to the fullest. There's space travel... Let's say that their space travel technology is like Earth's circa 2015. No magic. 

Not only would the material the aliens are made of have to be transparent (neither absorbing nor reflecting), it would have to have the same index of refraction as the medium they inhabit, with no internal variation. For a liquid medium, this seems implausible but not completely impossible. There are some transparent aquatic organisms on Earth which are fairly hard to see, but not outright invisible. They aren't perfectly match to the refractive index of water and the material that makes them "work" isn't quite perfectly clear. The size of the organism is also going to be a factor. The bigger something is, the more of it there is to bend, absorb, or scatter light and the more angular area it occupies at a given distance. For something like ordinary air, it's much harder. Density is a big factor in refraction, and liquids and solids are just much denser than air. The only way around this is with porous structures like aerogel, which has many internal surfaces to refract light (the solid parts of it are still much more dense than air and refract light each time it passes between that solid and the bubbles of gas or vacuum trapped within it) A different index of refraction while otherwise being transparent will result in a creature that looks like it's make of glass or pure water. 

And its controlled by a brain-computer interface, that's intended to take care of steering... If your design can do these other things, it'd be better, but its not required...: 

The Oksapmin people of New Guinea have a base-27 counting system. The words for numbers are the words for the 27 body parts they use for counting, starting at the thumb of one hand, going up to the nose, then down the other side of the body to the pinky of the other hand, as shown in the drawing. 'One' is tip^na (thumb), 6 is dopa (wrist), 12 is nata (ear), 16 is tan-nata (ear on the other side), all the way to 27, or tan-h^th^ta (pinky on the other side). Sources: $URL$ & $URL$ 

I think the main difficulty with actual physics would be the compact, high-energy power source that the bike would need, but it could be finding a material strong enough to handle the forces involved... 

Perhaps pushing the factual data might be enough to give a basic level of socialization and language, depending on how deep the factual data goes... With chemical injection, there might be a chemical + physical stimulus + information method to 'hack' knowledge into his subconscious... Which is Very Sci-Fi... However, I'm assuming that current medical knowledge has no idea about the limitations of chemical alterations of the brain, and the ability to stick chemicals anywhere into a person's brain could work similarly enough to electro-stimulation to do... whatever you want? 

I'm gonna say it wouldn't happen, at least on the computational level. While a doctor, jeweler (for making the scalpel, needle, etc), geochemist (for mining and refining the materials needed by the jeweler), microbiologist (for penicillin to fight infections) and textile factory worker (Where do you think you get the threads for stitches?) may be able to get together to make a Kidney transplant happen, computers would be way more complicated. Every CS college grad at least in some way understand Turing machines and bit-wise operations, but the entire computer science industry is standing on the shoulders of giants. If you got the right group of highly advanced specialists (Manufacturing, hyper-mathematics, programmers, system designers), it could be done, but if you just took an average sampling of people, I'd be highly incredulous if you said you got the right people to build a computer. 

I'm going to go a different direction and say don't let the people know that the 1% are going to be escaping this hell-hole of a planet. Lets start with how do we keep the thing a secret while designing it? Don't let anyone know what's it's true intention is. No one below UltraProject Director needs to be aware that the people on this vessel will not be returning to new Venus. If anyone starts to question what the thing is for, you can offer them a place on your ship; after all if they know about it, they're probably a good person to have on board. If they want to "spread the truth", then kill them. They were already doomed anyway, you're just advancing the time table. Kill their family too for good measure. Reducing living family members to zero also reduces the chances of media inquiry, and again, these people were already dead anyway... Now, about who we populate this station with. Surely the great thinkers (or at least the highest elected politicians) are reasonably assured a place, as well as few "minor" dignitaries from the third world who we don't vehemently disagree with, all for the sake of appearing diverse. Our families need to have boarding rights too. The surviving laborers who created the ark should come along to, because routine maintenance and custodial work will need to be done. The Engineers and Scientists need to come, probably several astronomers, physicians, doctors, and computer scientists. Celebrities and media personalities (including celebrity scientists, sorry but Tyson and Nye aren't coming) won't be invited, because we don't want word to spread. Finally, the venture capitalists who invested in this business will come, because they invested in it to finance the building of the thing. They may find their new positions as fry cooks and grill line workers a little bit less glamorous, but that's just how things are on the ARK, we all have a part to play, my part is deciding what functions are useful and who boards, your position is fulfilling the utility you are assigned as payment for boarding. 

How to figure out how many joules is needed to raise that mass of sand/??? to ??? Fahrenheit...: $URL$ Sand's is 0.290 Joules per Gram for 1 Celsius at 25 Celsius... I'm gonna assume that's true at all Celsiuses... Source:$URL$ 

How would paleolithic combat work in a world where you have instant, and permanent mastery when you hold any tool? Weapons are limited to stones, slings, clubs, and stone-point spears, but any tool or implement is available for mastery. The "Instant Mastery" operates when a user thinks of performing an action, like "I want to throw this stone to over there.". If it's possible, they immediately know how to throw it, and if it's impossible, they also know that too. However, it's total mastery for every use. If they want to use a spear as a hammer. They'll get precognition on that too, for example. 

Well, the chemical? energy of 1 human is... 110,000 kcal Or (4.2 * 110,000) KJ = 502,000 KJ = 502 MJ (502 * 30,000) MJ = 15,060,000 MJ = 15,060 GJ = 15.06 TJ 15.06 Terajoules... Hmm... Is that sufficient? 

Whatever magic was used to slow it down without rendering it completely uninhabitable in the first place is the most likely means of speeding it up, without rendering it uninhabitable. The rotational energy of the Earth is on the order of $10^{29}~\mathrm{J}$. Applying that amount of energy in a controlled enough way that all of it goes into speeding up or slowing down the rotation without even a tiny fraction getting turned into something like heat (and melting the entire surface in the process) or being unevenly distributed (potentially tearing the planet apart, although most of it would stay gravitationaly bound together and would reform) is pretty much pure magic. 

A hierarchical triangulated irregular network (HTIN) is probably what you are after. A TIN consists of a delauny triangulation over a set of point samples which are distributed based on the frequency of the surface being modelled. Where the surface varies rapidly, the points are dense, and where the surface does not vary, the points are sparse. In a hierarchical TIN, the points and their triangulation incorporate an order of precedence and a spatial index so that sections of the triangulation can be extracted at specific levels of detail. 

Nanite-book. It can self-repair and any other functions needed to allow self-repair in as many environments as needed. Like the Diamond Age's Young Lady's Illustrated Primer. Spinal battery, nano-tech pages that have page-like feel and any other functions you want. 

And both of those methods are out of reach of current science, while possibly being the only things that could withstand the impact you're subjecting the spaceship to. 

What effects of a magical strength increase that occurs during, and only during, the teenage years, have on human society and infrastructure? Like perhaps all strength is multiplied by 2, but all muscles and stuff act as if the teenager was only at normal, for us, strength. But that's only to allow the strength increase to be used. Any secondary effects, like being hit by another teenager, would have results like the actual doubled strength. Also, strength regulation is properly adjusted, again, via magic. The teenage-years are defined as every year of age that, in English, has the suffix '-teen' in it, and strength arrives and leaves at midnight of the start, and end of the birthdays that mark the beginning and end of such years. ... That might be slightly, slightly useful for age identification? 

Lets assume you are travelling at an appreciable fraction of C. Chances are you have some sort of shielding so the front of your ship (and then the front of you) doesn't get abraded away by the interstellar medium. Could you figure out some sort of measurement device that uses the activity of that shield? Could you then combine that with a known density of the interstellar medium? 

Nails -- These were hard to make -- A box of 5000 would be a good bribe for certain groups, especially smiths for shoeing horses (although this may require specialty nails) Nail usage in the middle ages 

So there is a conspiracy going on, attempting to prove this "Threat" is real, and that we should start paying these science types more mind. 

North Korea has been a problem child in the world-at-large for longer than most of the world has been alive. The DMZ is one of the largest permanent military operations in the world, and every act made by the nation is scrutinized thoroughly and treated with the utmost suspicion. A sort of prejudice against any action taken by N. Korea has formed in the world consciousness. Tomorrow, Kim-Jong Al* usurps Kim-Jong Un in a violent takeover because he's sick of seeing his people in a famine state, he's sick of his people being denigrated, and he's sick of constantly wondering if eagleland will get sick of his nations antics and use nuclear weapons to make South Korea an island; but most of all, he's sick of the embargo that keeps him from upgrading from iPhone 6 to the iPhone 6s. Given the current hostility towards anything North Korean, what would he have to do, and what would the world have to do, in order to bring North Korea gracefully into the world economy? At this point it seems like the mistrust would run too deep to gracefully let the nation become a world player. *A fictional "Second Prince" to Kim-Jong Un if you will 

Barring some form of setting specific contrivance, none. The goal in building an armoured fighting vehicle like a tank is to give it the best armour for its mass, to spread the weight out over the largest area you can so it has grip and won't sink into the ground, to give it the lowest profile you can so it is a difficult target and can hide behind terrain features, and in the particular case of tanks, to pack in the biggest gun you can manage so that you can beat the armour of enemy AFVs, and to provide stability for that weapon so you can fire it accurately, even when moving. A flat, low to the ground box with enormous treads and a single big gun mounted in a rotating turret in the middle does this very well. A giant humanoid is very hard to armour, It has a large surface area for its size and complex, multi-axis joints that are near impossible to armour effectively. This is also the major difficulty with human body armour. A tank is a compact box with a turret that has two single axis rotating joints making it fairly easy to armour. The treads are more difficult, but still easier than limbs, especially at the front. Bipeds also have very high ground pressure compared to a tank. Even if given snow-shoe-like feet, a biped is going to find a much larger range of terrain to be "soft" than a similarly massive tank is. Because of its low slung design and top mounted turret, a tank is able support a gun that is a significant proportion of its own mass. A mech the size of a tank would not be able to use a gun anywhere near the size of the tank's gun. A tank is always laying prone compared to a mech and still able to move at full speed. A giant humanoid is an easy target. It can drop prone, but only if it knows in advance that it is about to be attacked, and it will take much longer to do so that a human would (it takes time to fall a greater distance) and will take more damage from doing so (Square cube law plus longer fall.) Afterwards it will be unable to move effectively until it stands back up. The agility and familiarity of movement often suggested as benefits of mecha is also going to be hampered by the square-cube scaling issues. They just wouldn't be able to move like we can, any more than an elephant could move like a cheetah. Even with a full on neural interface that makes it feel as if the vehicle is your body, the limitations and change in scale would feel extraordinarily alien. It would be something like adapting to having osteoporosis, with ordinary ground feeling soft and slippery like mud, in low gravity. With fewer degrees of freedom to worry about, it would probably be much easier to adapt existing training with other ground vehicles to tanks than body sense to mecha. Without neural interfaces or something similar, there's absolutely no benefit to a humanoid shape, and a massive increase in complexity in terms of controls. Besides overestimating the agility a giant robot would have, many people underestimate the agility of tanks. Considering they weigh 40-50 tonnes or so, modern tanks are phenomenally manoeuvrable. They are also extremely stable while maneuvering, allowing them to attack effectively while on the move, and they are extremely resistant to being flipped. Some have suggested that height gives an advantage in seeing the enemy, but there are tanklike vehicles already have telescoping periscopes that they can deployed without having to expose the rest of the vehicle. This gives the benefits of height without the drawbacks of raising the entire vehicle. A tank is also just a lot simpler to build as it has fewer things that need to be moved around. It doesn't need a complex dynamic stability system just to keep it from falling over, and it doesn't need a neural interface or motion capture system. So you can build more tanks with the same resources. So that leaves contrived reasons: We have giant humanoid chassis from some outside source that are just better than any tank we can build for whatever reason: Robots built by aliens for some inscrutable reason, or maybe giant alien carcasses. We don't have the capability to make the same materials from scratch or to re-shape them into more practical forms. Magic in some form is used to operate them and for whatever reason, magic vehicles work better if human shaped. The same goes if magic is called something else like 'psionics'. They aren't meant to be practical. Like much of the Goa'uld technology in Stargate, there are psychological/social reasons to have a design that's much less effective than could be produced otherwise. The imperial walkers in Star Wars are probably best explained as terror weapons. They are just better by authorial fiat because the author wants giant war robots. This explains them in most settings that have them including Gundam, Macross, and Battletech. 

Reread your story, and it sounds a lot like the climate debate, which is obstructed by approximately 1/2 of the United States. With such a "far off" and possibly "based in science fiction" problem, you're not gonna get any action. 

People have an interest in keeping their interests at the forefront of society's priorities, and these people aren't going to be alive in 500 years, so what do they care? 

Something that might be considered -- Slightly improper reassembly -- On the order of a few cells per transport would die because something wasn't put back where it was supposed to be. I might not notice it on my test subjects, say, an apple or a squirrel. I might not even notice it past human trials. This wouldn't really affect regular cells, most of them get replaced fairly quickly; however brain cells don't. If I transported to work every day for forty years though, my brain might be ever so slightly less robust than it would have been otherwise. You can scale the inaccuracy if you so desire. 

It's conceivable that a plant that is able to acquire nutrients and moisture as it grows (rather than from a central root) would be able to just keep growing horizontally until it runs out of space or dies. Vertically it would be constrained by its ability to support itself and to draw water. A daisy in particular doesn't grow to the size of a dinner plate because the complex set of biochemical processes that cause a daisy to grow the way it does and to become a daisy rather than say a water buffalo result in it growing to be daisy sized and then stopping. A simple scaling of a daisy would cause the same square-cube problems as scaling pretty much anything. Doubling the linear dimensions of a daisy would make it 4 times stronger, but 8 times heavier. A dinner plate sized daisy would collapse under its own weight. We could selectively breed daisies to get bigger, but as they did, we'd need to breed them to support their new size. A daisy bred to be dinner plate sized would need to have a radically different structure from a a scaled up daisy (Stem would need to get thicker faster than the other scaling, a tougher woodier composition, restructuring the head to be lighter for its size, etc.)