In a word, anabolic steroids. Sprinters engage in anaerobic work to increase raw leg strength because this is what sprinting partly is- a measure of anaerobic leg strength- raw power. That leads to them to the weightlifting gym. For serious professional athletes (and others), that leads to steroids and steroids don't differentiate between your arm muscles and your thigh muscles. Just giving someone steroids increases muscle mass irrespective of whether they work out or not. This is a large part of the reason why boys are boys and girls are girls in terms of strength (the rest is strictly genetic). Steroids were introduced to the public immediately after WWII as a way for concentration camp survivors to regain loss body mass. If you look at athletes from BEFORE that era, the 1900's or 1920's say you'll notice their upper bodies while defined and muscular look nothing like today's sprinter's upper bodies. That's not because they didn't train hard; that is an across the board gross morphological change in the musculature and size of the athletes. That's steroids. Anyone telling you anything different is either naive, lying or in denial. 

I've heard of people who train their bodies to work better burning fat on long runs by running without a sports drink. However, the fat burning metabolic system produces energy at a much slower rate than the sugar burning one. This is where 'the wall' cones from. The suggestion above to use electrolyte drink is a good one. You could also consider supplementing with salt capsules. Thermolyte and S-Caps are two brands I know. For sufficiently long runs in sufficiently warm weather you definitely want to do this. As you sweat and as your muscles burn you will lose sodium, potassium, magnesium and calcium. You need sodium and potassium to be balanced as you sweat them out. The concentration in your blood needs to be within a narrow range else you run the risk of such deadly conditions as hyponatremia. Calcium and magnesium are used by your muscles to signal contractions. If you run out then you will cramp. This is why electrolyte drinks and salt tabs have this 4 minerals. The magnesium and calcium will be a much smaller amount than the other two. When you use a salt tab be very sure to take it with lots of water. They are concentrated enough that if they dissolve by themselves in your stomach then your stomach will detect this and you will throw up. I've done this twice! Karl King's water/electrolyte balance table is a very valuable resource to have on hand because it helps tell the difference between a number of conditions and what action to take. Statement of the Second International Exercise-Associated Hyponatremia Consensus Development Conference, New Zealand, 2007. is a great source for the raw science. 

There isnothing about your age weight or ex-smoking status that is related to how much you should be benching. The only thing that matters is how strong are you, that is, what is the most weight you can bench for 1 rep. You don't know the answer to that question. But you have to know it before you can choose a weight to work out with. Everything is based off your approxiamte 1 rep max. The thing is, finding that out on your own is dangerous. What if you try too heavy a weight, what are you going to do once you realize you can't get it off your chest? For this reason you really should go to a real gym and have a either yoru friends or an employee stand over you ready to lift the weight off you while you try successively heavier weights. Once you know what your 1 rep max is, then the susual advice is to take 75-80% of that and try to do 6-8 reps with it. That is your workout weight. If you can't manage that many reps, then lower the weight until you can. When you can do more than 12 reps, up the weight by a very small amount such that the resultant weight is one you can barely get 6-8 reps with again. This is called "progressive resistance" execise. Each time you work out you should be a tiny bit stronger and should should try to do more reps, or more weight or both. You don't need to do a lot of sets; there's even an entire weighlifting philosophy which says you should only do one set, if that set is hard enough, you will grow from it -after you've rested for 3-5 days. Workout philosophies are like religions and I don't want to sparka religious war in a beginner's question, so the advice I gave you 75-80% of your max for 6-12 reps with days off in between is very mainstream advice. Good for you for changing uyour life in this huge way! 

I'm personally not convinced that stopping DOMS is a good idea. The processes behind super-compensation (which is what makes your muscles stronger) are not completely understood and there is some initial evidence that DOMS is part of this process. This implies that reducing DOMS will reduce the weight-building effect. I will say that, from my personal experience, more training reduces DOMS. Specifically, as an ultra runner, as I start doing back-to-back long distance (two days of long runs) then my DOMS starts reducing - to the point where I've done 80km in a weekend and had no DOMS. Secondly, if you're going to use a NSAID (like aspirin or ibuprofen) then make sure you are normally hydrated. There is increasing evidence that they can harm your liver or kidneys when associated with dehydration or alcohol. 

The problem is that, on waking, there is very little blood in your stomach or digestive system until the body realizes that it needs to get some blood there ready to do some digestion. It's the same effect as running on a hot day and getting a bit dehydrated. In that case, much of your blood is in your muscles and skin (to keep your muscles moving and lose heat) and not much in your digestive system. The result is that trying to eat is difficult and your body reacts by discouraging you from eating with nausea or vomiting. My fix is, much as suggested by @Moses and @TheChaz, to use liquid nutrition. I use an off the shelf meal replacement product. One bottle is 350 calories which is enough for about 2 hours for me. If I'm doing longer then I'll take two. Water can also work because it gets the body to realize there might be more food coming into the stomach so it had better get ready. It can take 15+ minutes for this though. The liquid works because it takes less effort for the body to process and your stomach doesn't have time to balk at it. Based on your description of being light-headed and quesy I would agree that you need to get something down. 

OK I am going to get basted for this perhaps because weightlifting beliefs are form of religion , but since I am also a sw dev. I feel for some reason you need to be told what you're doing wrong. You are training way way way too often. I am going to guess you are doing multiple sets and multiple sets of different exercises for your arms back chest legs etc. Here's what's going on with your body. Either you are training hard enough during the course of at least one of your multiple sets to induce growth, or your not. If you are training hard enough for one of your sets then all the other ones are a waste of energy and just causing you to release yet more stress hormones and depleting you of energy you need to recover from your growth-inducing set. You only need one set for each muscle group to trigger off the maximum hypertrophy (muscle growth) you're going to get. Your muscles are looking for a "signal" that they need to grow. Once they get that from you, they will grow as much as they can in response to that signal. This is also known as 'training to failure". Doing set number 2 is just sending the same signal again. But your muscles understood you the first time. Yet you do it again. And again. And again. Then you go to another exercise for the same muscle group. You are beating your body down operating under the false premise that more is better . More is not better in weight lifting. Specifically, doing a second and third and fourth set is NOT going to get you more results. The other mistake you're making is related to the first. Since you're doing multiple sets, and it takes time to do those sets, you can't work your entire body in one session. So you go back the next day (and abuse those other muscles). The problem is, all of your body's subsystems which deal with stress are getting worked out again, along with the "new" muscles. You are releasing the same stress hormones, the same exercise-related waste products into the same bloodstream yet again. Those systems are being stressed every single day according to your schedule. But the way hypertrophy works is, your body has to RECOVER from exercise or it won't grow as much as it could have, or at all. If you never let it recover, you're interfering with its growth. You never let it recover. You just keep re-stressing it. By continually doing this, you're driving yourself into a state of over-training. Soon, all progress just stops and you're tired all the time. Do this. Pick one exercise for each muscle for at most a total of 8 or 10 (or even less, 5 or 6). So that's like leg presses, leg curls, pullover machine, bench or flies, bicep curls, tricep pushdowns, and lateral raises for your shoulders. Do ONE set of each of those choosing a weight you can only do for 8-12 reps despite your greatest effort. When you can't do another rep during a set, try like your life depended on it to do another one anyway, and keep trying like that for 30 seconds. This should be a real tribulation for you. It's no fun to work until you truly and really can't do another rep then continue to try to do one as hard as you possibly can, with no movement of the bar, every second for 30 full seconds. That's why you never see anyone do it. That is called "high intensity exercise". That is the unique and specific signal your muscles evolved to understand. That and nothing else will kick off maximum hypertrophy. Then, after you're done with all your sets, get out of the weightlifting gym for FIVE full days. FIVE. If you want to swim after TWO full days of doing absolutely nothing except using your thumb to push the buttons on your remote, then go ahead but don't exhaust yourself. On the SIXTH day go do it again, with a very slightly heavier weight, or strive for more reps, or both. Keep accurate records to insure yourself that you are in fact getting stronger each time. You'll see. Every time you go back to the gym, you'll be significantly stronger. You won't be tired. If you want to also get a cardio workout, then move from one exercise to the other as fast as you can bear. Notice how hard your heart and lungs are working. Much harder than they do when you're swimming. Moving fast between sets and going again to failure is murder. You're probably find you're disinclined to keep doing it. If you do, however, you are getting 3 days of cardio every six days and you're getting really fit without grinding yourself into nothing by overtraining. The reason it's so hard is because your heart and lungs cannot supply you with enough O2 during anaerobic exercise, by definition. Weightlifting in a high intensity fashion is anaerobic. Moving from one anaerobic exercise to the next is going to drive your heart and lungs into despair. Moving quickly from one to the next to the next for 6 or 10 sets is going be so stressful it will be the thing that stops you from completing your set and not the weight. So in this way, it can actually interfere with maximizing the muscle-building potential of your workout- you quit not because the individual muscle was exhausted, like you wanted, but because your heart and lungs were! It will never get any better, because you can't keep that level of heart and lung stress up for 10 minutes. This is the same as saying no one will ever sprint a mile, no matter how fit they become. Your body is not made to work that hard for that long and it will force you desist. So what I am saying is- you can get a good heart/lung workout in lifting weights, but gate the rapidity with which you move from set to set, if you want to maximize muscular hypertrophy in the gym and not heart lung fitness. You should always fail at an exercise because the muscle you were working failed, not because you were about to collapse from heart / lung exhaustion. You're there to lift weights and increase strength after all. HTH. Give this a try and see if you don't have more energy and better results and more time in your life for non-gym things too ! 

There is some good evidence that the body wants to get some carbs and protein in in the first hour after the completion of exercise. Many people recommend chocolate milk for this; it's a good combination of protein and carbs - and is very tasty! For me, I try to do a nutritious shake and something solid. The shake contains a lot of good nutrition (protein, vitamins, minerals, healthy oils) and I find I need something solid to give me a feeling of fullness. I used to go to the local shake shop and get a protein/berry shake and a chicken wrap. That got me in very good shape for a 100km race. Sadly, that franchise has closed down. 

I've run shoes for 1000km before replacement and I'm an ultrarunner. There are ultra runners I know that don't start to like a pair of shoes until they've done 100km in them. The normal advice is by distance. I've never seen any actual evidence to back it up - except that the shoe manufacturers would rather you replace your shoes often. I would suggest that you listen to your body and figure it out from there. You will notice when your lower legs start to complain - you'll get shin pain, calf pain or similar. That's a good guide for when your shoes need replacements. 

The implied mental model you have of T in your body is in error and leading you to incorrect conclusions and suppositions. It is not a substance that gets used up, like gasoline in a car's engine. It is a hormone that circulates in your bloodstream and when it is taken up by a receptor, kicks off other processes in organs and your brain. You always have plenty of this stuff circulating. There are feedback mechanisms for this and all hormones in your body which causes the hormone quantity to increase when it is low and decrease when there is enough. You cannot meaningfully effect that feedback mechanism through diet or exercise, at least, not enough to make a difference to you in anything you'd notice. Specifically, you cannot do anything to "use it up" so that you're somehow short of it. Some weightlifters take anabolic steroids which are a synthetic, exogenic ( that is, external to your body, specifically, your testes which make testosterone) source of testosterone. When they do this their testes STOP making testosterone because of that feedback mechanism I mentioned. Essentially, by injecting themselves with an external source of testosterone, they are telling their body's feedback sensors that the body has enough and doesn't need to make any more. So it doesn't. The quantity they inject is actually greater than their bodies would naturally make. The problem is, the testes shrink (since they are not making testosterone anymore) and as soon as they stop injecting themselves, they have very very low testosterone for a long while because they aren't getting any from their bodies and they aren't injecting it either. Then their strength goes down and they lose muscle mass. I should also say that as your muscles get bigger, the muscles cells and receptors do NOT multiply. A bigger muscle just has bigger and thicker muscle cells, but not more. Hyperplasia is the term used to describe a muscle cell which HAS split. This is a disease or injured state of muscle, not something you're after. You do not "injure" your muscles when you lift weights , or at least you don't want to! Inducing hyperplasia in a muscle cell more or less ruins it because individual muscle cells are multi-nucleated (they have multiple nuclei) and they can't function any longer if they are torn in half such that each "half" only has one nucleus. "Hypertrophy" is the name of the natural, non-disease process by which you get bigger and stronger as a result of lifting weights. It's not a result of injury and healing, as people often think. It's a thing unto itself- a natural process specific to your muscles which your muscle undergoes in response to the signal it gets from you that it's not strong enough to manage in your environment. The way you send that signal is by lifting weights. Your muscles understand your strenuous activity as a specific signal that they need to grow stronger. It's like tanning. Tanning is a natural built-in response on the part of your skin in response to the signal it gets that it needs to make more melanin to protect you from UV rays. Sunburn is the injured state of your skin from too much UV. Tanning is the non-injured response by your skin to a little UV radiation. You want to tan. You don't ever want to burn. Burning interferes with tanning. Burning gives you diseases later on in life. Burning is bad. The exact same thing holds for lifting weights. You don't want to induce hyperlasia, you want to invoke the hypertrophy response. Too much exercise will induce hyperplasia. The right amount of high intensity will invoke hypertrophy. Here's the thing with testosterone. You naturally ALWAYS have MORE than enough to get bigger and stronger from each bout of exercise. If you are not getting bigger and stronger, then you are probably either training too much, or not hard enough, or both. Don't fret about your hormones; if there was anything wrong in that department, you'd already know about it for other reasons. Your body knows how much you need and supplies the right amount. You cannot interfere with this process (thankfully) unless you engage in some very extreme behaviors for a long long time (starvation, chronic exhaustion) , but then you've got bigger issues than being low on T. Hope this helped. Best of luck to you! 

Two main tips (note that I used to run in Wellington, NZ which is famed for both its hills and its wind). Firstly, a headwind is basically a hill you can't see - treat it that way. Techniques like small, quick steps to preserve momentum are most useful. Secondly, for a sufficiently strong wind you can draft off people. Tuck in behind someone in front and let them tack the brunt of it. No, I don't think a pack would have helped. Packs are about water. Aside, I once did the headwind trick in a race. It was the 10km of a tri and I'm very much a back-of-the-packer. I was tussling with one guy with the lead changing a lot. This was in Wellington and very windy that day so I gave up and just huddled behind him until we rounded the last headland. Then I just pulled past him and cross the line in front. 

Well that depends on what your goal is. Your intervals should be less than whatever your goal distance is - perhaps 50-75% of whatever the goal is. You want the pace of the intervals to be consistent throughout the workout. The first ones will be easy but the last ones will be hard. As you get better, you want to reduce the rest time between intervals - or increase the number of intervals you do (not both at the same time). Your goal is to run your goal distance at the pace of your intervals - so you want to start joining your intervals together to get there. Alternatively, you can increase the pace of your interval.