Your question leads directly to 2 important considerations. First, whether the physical laws we discover through science are merely 'resemblances' - that they reflect but are not actual natural realities; and Second, that the laws of physics do reflect physical content or constituents themselves as it is like in nature. This in turn depends on your own metaphysical view of what is possible to be known by the human senses. The problem with the term 'Laws of Nature' that is often used in science today (or in textbooks) is that it is a misleading way of putting what in actuality are our best theories. These theories are what, after multiple tests and confirmations, verified as they are separately in experiments, are considered to be true because they give us the best results. They are not considered final. In this sense, 'Laws' as they are used, are actually tentative theories, they are not the final say in any descriptions of reality. This is because even the most well tested and described laws, such as Newton's Laws of Motion and gravitation, have limits. For instance, after Einstein, the laws do not give predictable results at high speeds or small quantities. Thus, Laws can never be Laws in our modern sense of certainty because they are incomplete. They raise further questions about physical phenomena that require further experimentation and testing. These questions are raised when we synthesize it with other laws that we know from other experiments, or from before. For example the recent discovery of the Hiigs Boson can be considered a result that has been built upon not just our knowledge of quantum mechanics, but also our understanding of electromagnetism and classical mechanics. The lack of a unifying theory does not mean that we do not understand nature. Often, we are dependent on these theories to built upon our understanding of reality and nature. It is fundamentally important then to distinguish between the metaphysical question of whether nature can really be discovered as it is by our senses, and whether there are laws of nature that are scientific theories to be discovered through experimentation, that are dependent on our senses. 

The question of "Could a machine/AI ever feel genuine human-like emotions"? arises in movies such as Bladerunner, IRobot, Star Trek and A.I among others. What is the philosophical arguement behind why the humans generally assume that a machine/AI cant feel genuine human-like emotions and act like it's a big deal when they learn that the machine/AI do feel genuine human-like emotions? Also, why do humans assume that Machines/AI are untrustworthy because of their percieved lack of emotions? Doesnt Ethical philosophy generally teach that ethical decisions come from reason and principles, not passions? It just seems as though a machine/AI that follows the golden rule could possibly be more ethical than some humans. 

I would recommend b.f skinners behaviorism and Freud's psychoanalysis theories because they are pioneering and comprehensive attempts at psychological theories of everything. 

In the Republic Plato claimed that the idea of marriage was a "natural enemy" of the "commonwealth," aiming for its own higher unity. He thinks that a king should not marry nor should he engage in sexual conduct while he is king, as it is a distraction from the 24/7 job of ruling, and to lack the wisdom and self-control necessary to avoid sexual temptation is unbecoming of a man who holds the highest of stations. I dont believe he mentions queens and in his view they would be unnecessary, yet he doesnt explicitly discount the possibility of the rule of a sole unmarried philosopher queen. He does speak of a kind of eugenics where temporary marriages are arranged by the rulers, and an allowance of promiscuity at retirement as a reward for a lifetime of service to the republic. 

Empirically, no. In our imaginations, yes. That is essentially what you have referred to in the conception by children from images and symbols which seem to refer to their existence. You cannot prove an ideal conception conceived purely from objects situated in reality. For one could almost conceive of any imaginary object if we put them together. Consider what David Hume says, that there is a difference between 'matters of fact' and 'relations of ideas', in Chapter 4 in his Enquiry Concerning Human Understanding. To simplify, matters of fact are things that, no matter what word we assign to it, are true in this world because they exist. They are established by evidence, which in turn are presaged upon 'cause and effect'. Relations of ideas are when, based on certain ideas we hold in our mind, establish them to be true by the mere thought of it. This includes mathematical and geometrical ideas, but also ideas we put together from different 'matters of fact'. That is, things that we hold true from evidence. So Santa Claus is a combination of many ideas from evidence put together as an imaginary whole. The idea of a man in a red costume, with his moose and a some 'human' looking elves, are taken from real life. We distort this picture by making this man and his moose fly, jumping into the chimneys of houses, carrying a host of goods into them (even apartments without chimneys), and give him a sense of humor. This is the imaginary picture we transmit to children, through word-of-mouth and images we draw and enact, therefore to them, there is a possibility that this imaginary figure is real, given that the empirical evidence was not told to them truthfully, but turned into a festive season made real. 

Would human behavior be more or less ethical if decision making was devoid of emotional attachment? There are many different philosophical systems that argue either for or against emotional attachment like Buddhism, stoicism, Christianity, and the emotional attachment to the right to pursue happiness is at the center of much of the attitude of modern life as the most desirable goal. What would the implications be on ethical behavior without the desire to attain a feeling? Imagine a thought experiment of a simulated reality similar to the matrix except at any point you could hit the reset button and restart the simulation and every time you died it automatically restarted. It could be argued that living in such a simulated reality you would never develop an emotional attachment to anything (not even your own life as there would be no reason to fear death) or fear losing it because you could just hit the reset button every time an experience that you wanted to be extended or repeated ended. Inversely you would never fear any consequence to any act. In such a reality what would be considered ethical behavior. The idea of reincarnation would imply reality itself resembles this kind of simulation. 

In order to answer the question and find a satisfactory solution, it is not possible to consider only disparate problematic scenarios. You have to get down to comparing and ask linearly for instance, why a group's impression of a scenario should triumph over the individual's. Or why the greatest happiness principle should take precedence over other principles. It will lead you to other moral questions, and you have to argue for why they are so, positively, not why they should not be, negatively. 

Update: Regarding the first scenario, there is a school of thought, 'Intuitionists', who will say that instantaneous states do not lead to worser outcomes because one can consider past experiences as helpful to making decisions. 

I'm just getting seriously into Nietzsche. What I can answer in response to your question is that you might want to look to the Presocratics for answers. Nietzsche was a philologist, and his specialty was in linguistics. He admired the Presocratics (and the Sophists) and despised Plato. If he might refer to in any ancient society, it will most likely be Greek society. However, I think it is more important not to conflate Nietzsche's ideas with historical facts. In many cases he uses words interchangably to denote the same thing. For instance, he often uses the word 'Jew' or 'Jewish ideas' to denote what is essentially Judeo-Christain ideas and moral philosophy. They have nothing to do with the people per se. Thus, if you try to find a resemblance to facts in reality to what he writes, you run the risk of mis-interpreting him. One important thing in that passage you referred to is that he is simply relating ideas of 'purity' to certain physical activities in primitive man (or humans). It need not refer to any group or society. What he is saying is that notions or concepts of purity stem from a certain physical fear of unhygienic-ness or dirt. It has nothing to do with a priori concepts of 'pure' or perfection, which is what Christain moral philosophy posits. In other words, Nietzsche is saying that there is a biological/social origin to these concepts which, after many generations, got lost and became thought of as pure by later society, which have forgotten or misconstrued where it originated from. That is the purpose of the genealogy, to link concepts of pure, perfect, the moral uprighteousness that is an intrinsic part of christian moral philosophy, and to undermine it by linking it to an intrinsically biological/social process, that over time, was inverted from what it initially was: a fear of the dirty, unclean etc. - a very primitive, raw human basis from where it came from. 

The advantages of describing something as physical is in falsifiability pertaining to the scientific method. that means in describing something as physical implies that it is testable through observation and experiment, and if the tool for describing it is correct you can observe results of experiments which conform to a descriptive theory which can predict the outcome of an experiment to a certainty every time it is performed. consciousness understood as non-physical is unfalsifiable, that is it can not be observed and experimented on as there is nothing physical to observe and experiment on. What it means to deny consciousness is physical is to say that, when looking for a cause of consciousness, that an answer will not be found by trying to reduce the causal steps back to a material cause, which is what materialism and science has tried to do by claiming that consciousness has its origins in a material brain, which is considered by some to be a flaw in the scientific method, that the scientific method assumes without proof that everything in reality has its origin in matter. 

In order for it to be a critique, it must address a very foundational part of of the theory. However, you have posited a hypothetical which in itself questionable. In fact, a pure concept. Ask yourself, where do the parts of the mechanized factory come from? Who extracted the resources that built those parts? Marx will say that the question of labor is not diminished. This is not a critique. 

Consider your first scenario. You question if an instantaneous state can lead to good outcomes. The answer a Consequentialist will tell you is no. There are no good outcomes where time for reasoning is not allowed. Consider your second and third scenario (which are inverse propositions). A consequentialist will tell you it depends. The length of time do not affect the amount of possible outcomes, because the possible inputs are infinite at any point of time. Thus, at any point of time, use the greatest possible information that are relevant to the consideration in mind. Keep in mind the difference between 2 things. There is the point of time in which you choose as your 'function'. And there is the amount of inputs, which ranges. However, at any one point of time, you are given only one set of inputs and a specific evaluative criteria, taken from the point of view of an actor. If in that shorter period of time leads to worser outcomes than the longer period of time, both using the same set of criteria to evaluate the value of outcomes, then a Consequentialst will not go ahead with that action. Again, it depends on what criteria you use to evaluate the outcomes. Some consequentialists will say it is greater happiness, some will say it is greater security. Your outcome will depend on this evaluative criteria. If the consequences in the longer period of time justifies and overrides the negative consequences in the shorter period of time, then the consequentialist will go ahead with it. Consider your fourth scenario. You consider groups. You cannot simply add the inputs together because the evaluative criteria (the equation) changes. How would a consequentialist deal with this? Ignore the individual actors totally and consider the group. Determine the evaluative criteria and inputs possible for this group that you choose, and draw the function. You will get the answer. The questions you raise are not new to Consequentialism as a moral theory. There are mainly two types: 'Act' and 'Rule'. Act consequentialism says that the rightness of the act depends on what the individual knows at that point of time, and choose optimally upon. Rule consequentialism says that it is the group's, or more complete information, that should determine the rightness of acts. This is the subjectivist vs. objectivist concern. 

Socrates' personality was in some ways closely connected to his philosophical outlook. He was remarkable for the absolute command he maintained over his emotions and his apparent indifference to physical hardships. Corresponding to these personal qualities was his commitment to the doctrine that reason, properly cultivated, can and ought to be the all-controlling factor in human life. Thus he has no fear of death, he says in Plato's Apology, because he has no knowledge of what comes after it, and he holds that, if anyone does fear death, his fear can be based only on a pretense of knowledge. The assumption underlying this claim is that, once one has given sufficient thought to some matter, one's emotions will follow suit. Fear will be dispelled by intellectual clarity. Similarly, according to Socrates, if one believes, upon reflection, that one should act in a particular way, then, necessarily, one's feelings about the act in question will accommodate themselves to one's belief—one will desire to act in that way. (Thus, Socrates denies the possibility of what has been called “weakness of will”—knowingly acting in a way one believes to be wrong.) It follows that, once one knows what virtue is, it is impossible not to act virtuously. Anyone who fails to act virtuously does so because he incorrectly identifies virtue with something it is not. This is what is meant by the thesis, attributed to Socrates by Aristotle, that virtue is a form of knowledge. Socrates' conception of virtue as a form of knowledge explains why he takes it to be of the greatest importance to seek answers to questions such as “What is courage?” and “What is piety?” If we could just discover the answers to these questions, we would have all we need to live our lives well. The fact that Socrates achieved a complete rational control of his emotions no doubt encouraged him to suppose that his own case was indicative of what human beings at their best can achieve. So Socrates' view on free will, believing that the unexamined life is not worth living, was the wisdom and will for self-control, which for him required reflection or a conscience, in other words, for socrates free will is impossible without self-control, for people without self control arent capable of free will because being slaves to their passions they lack the free-will required for self-control. His view in the republic, (in the dialogue with Thrasymachus) is in conflict with the libertarian view, where people who are "slaves" to their passions have the right to self-determination, regardless of what their idea of the best life is, and the reason for his disagreement with libertarian free will in the republic is that justice requires reflection, and that the tyrant is a slave to his passions, does not reflect on his actions and believes he has the right to self-determination. i also find the stoic view (which they borrowed from socrates') on emotional self-control interesting, namely, that all emotion emerges from incorrect judgement and that the person with reason properly cultivated is able to control their emotions because they posses the wisdom to properly put the source of emotional conflict into the correct perspective or context, and therefore able to make the correct decision.