It probably does something, but this is not how your abs are designed to work. Your abs primary job is to produce intra-abdominal pressure when you are lifting. This just means they literally press your guts against your spine to support your spine when you lift. That is your abs primary job. They also assist in any movement of the torso. It's almost impossible not use your abs to some extent when you move your body. So is it working your abs? Eh maybe a bit. Is it the best thing to spend your time doing if your looking to increase your abdominal strength and size? Not at all. 

Your best approach is to ease into the cardio. You will have to figure out where to put in, either on another day, or right after your weight lifting. But you have to start out slowly, much more slowly than if you were just intending to build cardio by itself. How slowly? Well start out with a cardio session that doesn't tire you at all and slowly build up from there. If you notice your strength starts to weaken, your doing too much cardio. I have to say though, it's not easy, don't think it will be. And there are limits, depending on how much strength vs cardio you want. Something to consider though, you can use weightlifting as cardio. After your main session, lower the weight, do several sets of high reps, essentially like doing weight lifting sprints. I cant' promise it will be as effective as swimming or running, but it does work and it won't reduce your strength, actually it might improve it. 

If your looking to increase your glute size focus on deep squats. That is squat low, below parallel, the lower the better without compromising your back arch. You also must squat heavy. You are 165lb, and I don't know what your lifting, but a good goal is to shoot for ~305lb for a couple sets of 12. If getting bigger glutes is your primary goal right now, you should be squatting 3 times a week. Do a heavy-light-medium rotation of the weights and reps. When the weight is lighter do more reps, shoot for 15. When it's heavier do less reps, shoot for 8 minimum. Every week try to increase your weight across the rep range. You should be able to push yourself like this for 6-8 weeks before needing a break, and that should be enough time to tell if it's working. Don't get yourself tied up in doing endless sets. 2 sets is fine, just push hard, and get the reps with the heaviest weight you can safely lift. As for diet, if you are training as hard as I list above, then you should be eating a MINIMUM of a gram of protein per pound of body weight every single day. Doesn't matter how many meals it takes to get that into you. You also need to increase your caloric intake if you are pushing this hard on squats. Simple rule of thumb, if your really sore, your not eating enough. But you have to eat good food. Filling up on junk food just to get calories in will just make you fat. You will have to drop all other exercises for the lower body. This is ok, as the squat provides excellent overall development for the legs. Be warned, you will have to buy new pants. Just getting into high volume heavy squats will start your legs growing like weeds IF YOU EAT. I did about half this much squatting when I was prepping for a powerlifting meet, and I was NOT trying to increase leg size as I needed to stay in my weight class, and I still ended up breaking 2 pairs of pants in a 6 month period. I had to to stop drinking water for 12 hours to make weight. Heavy squats make you grow. Plain and simple. 

Take off all your clothing at your locker, putting all dirty/sweaty clothing in a plastic bag (keeps other things from getting soiled/smelly), lock it, then head for the showers with perhaps only a washcloth (or scrub puff or similar) and possibly a towel... I say possibly, as towels get picked-up & moved, and often used or stolen by others. DO NOT "wear" a towel! You'll be getting your towel nearly as soiled (sweaty at least) by your un-clean body, plus it really sends the wrong message that nudity is somehow wrong, immoral, improper, or whatever. (Did you know "gym" comes from the Greek word "gymnos", which means "place of nudity"?) If you take a towel or other stuff, see if you cannot keep it on a hook, or as needed, over the pipe behind the showerhead and/or shower handle(s). -If your shower is in a partitioned stall of some kind, you may (if not too high) be able to keep items on top of a panel, but DO NOT flop/fling them over, as you'll be spraying the guy next to you if you do! (That's rude, and might get in the guy's eyes or give him a rash or something depending on the presence of soap/shampoo.) Wearing a swimsuit is not really proper... It really just tells guys you're ashamed of your penis/genitals, and will cause some to pay you even more attention, wondering if what you have is really worth looking at. -Not to mention you cannot wash covered parts and rinse them adequately, AND the fact that soap that's good for you is bad for your clothing - it will cause fabrics to fade and fall apart more quickly. (This is no joke!) As for valuables, don't bring things you do not need... If you're out only for the gym and returning home immediately, leave the phone, music player, etc at home if at all possible. -Some gyms may have more secure coin-op lockers up front, near the desk or near the workout area, where break-ins are less likely to happen. Some gyms will also allow you to have the desk employees hold things in a drawer there, but this is not really secure at all and it's dependent on you remembering things and keeping the employees honest. -If you "have" to have the items in the gym, then keep them in your locker and use a more secure lock that can't be picked (no keys), is tempered/hardened, and preferably uses combination wheels (4 or more is best) or a magnetic key. Taking a shorter shower so you can check back on your locker quicker may be best, as well as drying lightly in the shower area and more thoroughly at your locker so you can keep an eye on it. (BTW, DO NOT take electronics into the sauna or steam room, as you will slowly damage them... It's too hot and/or humid and they are not normally made for such!) Wearing plastic slide sandals is best in a locker room environment, not just in the shower or wet areas, but in the locker room itself. -Floors there are usually not cleaned well, and certainly not enough to keep much dirt off it, not to mention keep mold/fungus and bacteria from growing! DO NOT step on the floor anywhere there if you have the slightest issue with "athlete's fungus". Also on the same note, ALWAYS put CLEAN socks on before your underwear and/or pants/shorts. If you don't, you can transfer athlete's fungus from your ft. to your crotch area, which then gives you "jock itch". -This is the best idea, no matter where you are dressing! Many shave before or during a shower, no mater where they shower, to give anyone they may meet (to them) a better appearance of them, or to rid themselves of that "5 o'clock shadow". However, IMHO, brushing your teeth is a bit much... After all, if you didn't recently have a meal (elsewhere, presumable) and not brush afterwards, why wait until showering to correct the oversight? Perhaps if you're leaving there for a date, you might want to, but otherwise is there a need to do it there??? I feel likewise on body shaving. -Take the time to do this in a more private space (at home) if you must do it. I run a forum for guys on Yahoo Groups for guys that have trouble with body-shyness issues and help for same, so if you're in that kind of position at all or looking to help those with same, check it out: $URL$ 

In a few months I'll have to do the standard lifting assessment for patient transport work in the UK. I'm only very slight myself so I'm looking to improve my lifting capabilities in the intervening months, unfortunately I don't have access to a gym so am very limited in the equipment I have access to. The assessment is in two parts and I'd like advice as to whether I'm working the right muscle groups: 

lifting an object from the floor with a straight back holding an object at chest height for an extended period of time whilst climbing stairs 

Stair Carry - The same dummy is placed into a carry chair (essentially a chair with rear wheels and grips), we lift it up (again two person lift) then go up and down 3 flights of stairs without lowering the chair I've been working on the basis that the lift for this is similar to the floor lift above (if you're at the feet end) so any advice you could give for the previous lift would probably suffice for that. However when lifting from the head end or when in the carrying position at the feet we are advised to tuck our elbows into our sides and keep your arms in a bicep curl position. Hopefully I can find a picture to illustrate all this more clearly. Therefore in addition to the squats to train my thighs and my above question about the lower legs, I think I have to put some effort into my arms too in order to keep the chair up (once it's off the floor and you're climbing, all the effort is in your arms rather than your legs). For general upper body strength I've been planning to do pushups and reading back it sounds like bicep curls could be a good idea too. Is there anything else that you think would help, or any assumptions that I've made and you can point out are completely wrong? I'd be very grateful for any help you can give me! 

Floor Lift - Lifting a 12.5 stone (80kg) dummy on a scoop stretcher up to say waist height and walking with it. This is done with a crew member at each end. I'm a bit concerned with this one as 80kg is 160% of my own weight, however with the equipment I'm sure it'll be manageable as even if I have the head end I should only be taking over a little over half the weight, correct? 

*with better manual handling technique than that! Anyway for this I've been assuming that as I'm starting in a squatted position then lifting up with bent knees I'll need to work on my thigh muscles. To this end I've been doing squats, is there anything else I could be doing? Would I need to work on my lower legs too? 

I just bought some push-up bars to give my wrists a break and was interested to see that the leaflet in it was keen to advise me that "it is very important to breathe normally whilst exercising - do not hold your breath". Apart from the obvious, why is this good advice? Does it affect the gain in muscle you get or is it just so you don't pass out?