It seems as if there was no time when all your work is done. This means the perfect moment to quit will never be, from the view of the company. What about your view? You already have left this place in your dreams, right? 

What is the impact on your job if you do so? Think of your reputation at colleagues, think what happens if your boss can stay - then you are no longer the faithful employee but the next one to leave. The first step is to talk to this boss, ask him why you got the raise, explain you don't feel good about it if it's to keep you silent. Obviously you have a good relation to him to talk about those things, as he told you about his addiction. Then suggest him to find some help with his addiction. Tell him you don't want him to get into trouble because of this game if somebody else finds out (if you really don't want that) and you don't want another boss. Make clear it's not YOU who tells someone but you caught him playing and this could and will happen again with anybody else at any time including boss's boss. Depending on his level of addiction it could help to simply remove the game from his computer. Another thing to make clear is, could it be suspicious to get a raise in this amount at this time? If bosses notice it, what would they do? Use this as a second argument. Maybe you can agree to some lower raise at appropriate time? 

This is a major issue in IT; we face it all the time. I would personally recommend several things. 1. Don't take your boss by surprise. In other words, don't just mention out of the blue, "Say, we need to upgrade our servers," or pop it on him while he happens to be walking through your section. Either write him a detailed e-mail (concise, mind you!), request a short meeting, or even write or print it up on paper. Your boss will take something more seriously if (s)he can see that you take it seriously. 2. Make comparison This is a key point that I have found quite effective. It works best in a real interview, which I try to steer something along these lines. 

...might do the trick. If, on the other hand, it's something that you deem important, or they feel they are rendering you a service by meeting with you, a similar, but slightly different tack might help: 

I would say, Say what you were going to say! (Though perhaps not the same way!) Honest and above board is almost always the best way to go. Honestly say that you would prefer to live closer to your job and that you believe their company may be a better fit for you personally. Something along the lines of, 

Suggest he take off his shoes. @DavidSchwartz's answer is excellent. If, however, he does not want to invest in anything, and your workplace is comfortable with this, he could simply take off his shoes. Very likely, he's building up static because either his chair or his shoes are not grounding as necessary to keep from building up static. I know it can sound very unprofessional in some domains - and it is - so I don't suggest it unless your workplace is very relaxed and is absolutely fine with him doing just that. For instance, if there are high profile clients going in and out of your office all the time, don't do it. But if you're a kind of back-end tech company who basically sits in a back room all day, this could be an option. 

Well ... probably not usefully. As example I guess the portion of work that someone does in half of the time, say 4 hours instead of 8, is more than half the work he/she does in full time. But you can't split work so that everyone only works a little time on it. You should not ignore that lots of breaks mean a lot of time to get into work again. You don't just go on where you left, you have to think about what you did, how to continue, what you had in mind before and so on. So I think you shouldn't break work scheduled by the time but by the topics you are working on. 

Ask who has a shop or bakery on his route or who can do that with the least detour. Rotating through everybody is an obvious idea but depending on how you all get to work there is a good chance to find one or more people who CAN do that with minimal effort and - very important - who WANT to do that. So asking is better than selecting. For example you can hardly bring a cake by bike, it's possible by public transport and really easy by car. Perhaps somebody goes to the bakery in the morning anyway and doesn't feel having a problem to pick up a cake by the way. Or he/she only needs to stop or drive a short way extra, whild the other one who would be "next" has much more trouble with a shop in the morning. Then another possibility is to take the cake home from the usual shopping and bring it to the office on the next day. 

...since even when you have done the research, there may be too many options to choose from, I would recommend keeping three things in mind: 1. Be open and honest You don't have to shy away from the facts. Honestly tell the potential interviewer that you are swamped with interviews and really can't handle them all. Explain that you have already committed to other interviews, and that you simply can't handle all the possibilities. Though I don't recommend this approach, I know someone in IT who actually used the fact that he had multiple interviews offered to bargain his salary up before the actual interview. 2. Be appreciative Emphasize the fact that while you cannot take the interview, it really is a good fit for you, and you appreciate the prospective employer taking the time to make the offer. Express gratitude for his taking the time to make the offer. 3. Leave the door open as much as possible Offer to call him / her back if ever the other interviews fall through. It might not work with all employers, but some would be just as glad to have the possibility of having you call back later, and it leaves the door open if ever the other companies don't end up being a good fit. 

Honesty is the first chapter in the book of wisdom.* Let's think through this question logically from start to finish. Basically, you have three options: 

I'm reading several different possibilities in your post. 1. Part-time education There are several types: 1. Continued education which is directly related to your job and could help you get a more highly paid position. 2. Continued education which is incidentally related to your job, and will only help you personally to do a better job, thus enabling you to become more useful to your employer and potentially gaining a raise. 3. Continued education which is unrelated to your job, and will only help you on a personal basis. I've kind of ruled this one out because you said "one can always learn more about their field." Whatever the case, I would encourage you to be open and honest about your education. Don't hide the fact that you're going for further education. On the other hand, don't go out of your way to tell your boss, your co-workers, etc. Tell them, but don't make a big point of making sure everyone knows. (Boss included) 2. Full-time education If you are quitting your job, regardless what you are planning on studying, definitely talk to your boss about it. Work out with him/her when you will be able to leave so that you have sufficient time to prepare for the entry to the scholastic year, but so that you can get done any projects that (s)he has for you to get done. 

introduce indicators that give employees no other chance but to survive on their own, regardless of the rest whine when they do exactly this. 

My first thought was what's wrong in a company that needs to promote itself among people who work there. For the next project you might want to see if this is just a gift or there is something burried inside that could be solved better. Your CEO's argument could be wasn't it predictable that if everyone brings this lunchbox then all the same lunchboxes are all over? Don't tell them you had no idea this happens. They will doubt if you were the right one for this job. Say yes you had a clue that more than one identical lunchbox could be found in the fridge. But (shape this phrase to make it fit) in case your company is not the local kindergarten I assume you have to deal with adult people. Shouldn't the 2nd or 3rd person who puts a lunchbox in the fridge see there already are others looking the same and put her/his name on his/her box without getting this advice from the management? Let's think further, shouldn't people put their name on by default, even if they all look different? Shouldn't someone who finds multiple boxes or unknown food in his box try to examine which is his and which is not instead of just eat the first thing they grabbed? Don't let them make you responsible for their lack of social skills. You tried to do good and it's not your fault if (again, rephrase this) they are too stupid. For the next project try to ask around who might see any problems like that. Involve CEO, at least send them your suggestion and ask about their opinion. 

Alerts people of the need for quiet. Frequently, when people are jabbering away, it's not because they want to disturb, it's just carelessness. They hadn't thought of the fact that silence is appreciated. My guess is that a sign will take care of 80-90% of the problems. If the noise continues, they know already that quietness is appreciated; hence, you don't have to alert them of new information; you simply have to remind them of what the sign has already said. This gives you more authority, and therefore less of a confrontation is necessary to bring things into order. 

Great question! Here are a few things I have learned both from personal experience and from talking with others. 1. Keep up with technology Don't get comfortable. Don't get complacent. Technology is always advancing. Don't wait for HTML6 to be the standard: jump on board ahead of time. Don't wait to catch up with technology, keep ahead of it and wait for it to catch up with you. If you don't have the freedom to do that at your job, do it at home. This will give you at least two advantages: 

I had a similar problem as well. In my case, the other employee's reason for opening the blinds was to get a bit more light in their corner, where light was somewhat insufficient. The solution for me was simple: I would close the blind as far as necessary to make me able to see the screen, but it was still open enough let some light through. The next step was obvious: go to management and ask for better lighting. The main point in this issue is understanding. They need to understand why you close the blind, but ideally, you should know why they open it, too. Presumably, they don't simply open it to spite you, though I suppose that's possible. Once you understand each others' motivations, you can work out a solution, and if necessary, request better lighting from management or even (very much dependent on work situation) switch work stations. 

People should not compete? Then (wow I really have to say that?) don't force them to compete! Rishi Goel says it, hire the right at the top. Someone who doesn't 

Since WANTING to do that is important to keep everybody happy, you shouldn't select those people by rank. 

See the first comment to your question, the answer may depend on the region you are. Apart from that, what should be not acceptable? The situation you describe is underpaid and overworked. If it really is, can you state a reason why you would like to stay there? Except your attitide towards work which is laudable! But there is not only the company, you are there too! If the question is only about how to quit, then quit in a way that noone can tell you had left a mess behind you. Don't quit right now, leave a little time so you can clean up your stuff. You can mention that at your next employer. 

First of all I am not sure if I got the question right. Correct me if not. This kind of working can be ok at home, if you are the person who really can do that and wants to do that. You really don't know how office working looks like? If I calculate that, 6 times 1.5 hours of coding and 5 times 1.5 hours break in between, this is 16.5 hours a day. How could a person be this time at the office each day? What recreation effect is in leisure time that you spend at the office, if it's only small portions and you absolutely don't know what to do there and always have the rest of your work in mind? This is pure stress, not recreation. So the answer is 

Not some deep profound answer, but since this appears to be a recurring issue in your case, I'll just add an idea that worked in a university I'm affiliated with where they had a recurring issue with noise during examinations. One thing that can work, if there is a hallway outside the offices, is simply to put up a brightly coloured "Shhh... Please be quiet!" sign outside the office. Make sure it's very visible: one university I was at complained that even a sign in the middle of the corridor wasn't working, so they put up a red flashing bicycle light on top of the sign. They've rarely had problems since. Evidently, you should check for departmental permission before just putting up such a sign. However, if you can, it will have two major positive effects: 

Communicate with your superior. From what you're saying, it sounds like your responsibility is essentially to get the job done at the price and in the time that your superior expects. From what I'm reading, at any rate, it sounds like you're basically a facilitator between the superior and the subordinates to, as you said, keep them "on track." When something like this comes up, your superior has to know about it. He is the one whose pocket is going to be hit: essentially, it sounds like you are there to keep this kind of thing from happening. When you talk to him, you should clarify at least two things: 1. Is this person your subordinate? You mentioned that it wasn't official that you are really responsible for this person. If you aren't, this issue isn't in your department, and you can just alert your superior of it and pass on to other things. Whatever the case, there should be an official position on it. Request that it be made official if at all possible. 2. What should be done in this situation? Mention that this is an issue, and ask him / her what (s)he recommends you do in this situation. Should you work out a different way to work hours? Should you send an official warning that this behaviour is not acceptable? Should you leave it totally in the hands of your superior?