If I let relationships and other things go as a way of embracing detachment then will there be karmic "retribution" or will it leave some hole that will force me into rebirth? 

Please let me offer one other alternative: karma is not good or bad - it just is. We have watched centuries unfold where we are told that this action is bad or that action is bad from pretty much a moral perspective. I would contend that morality has nothing to do with karma. Morality is a cultural concept whereas karma is a part of science and nature. The only "morality" rule in nature and science is the golden rule and this happens as empathy resulting from the byproduct of a communication tool developed in our frontal cortex. All other morality rules come from this or are merely attempts to control. Now, that said, it is true that bad acts - those frowned upon by society - do create more "bad karma" the same way that acts we perform that the public likes create more "good karma". Crying creates sadness which creates depression while smiling creates happiness which leads to good feelings. But an act we could consider bad at one time would be good at another. Karma is little more than the cosmic momentum created when we say or think or perceive or do something. It alters matter and perceptions and body reactions and the like and this results in a mountain of consequential effects. It's delineation as good or bad depends on the context and "experiencer". 

External stimuli activate nerve sensors which transmit a signal to the brain - in the case of the 5 senses (taste, touch, smell, sight, and hearing). The other sensations you speak of are the result of bodily reactions to internal stimuli (called psychosomatic). These are reactions generally recognized by increased respiration or blood flow as the case my be. They are only semi-voluntary responses. 

If you gave someone good or bad advice or wrote a book that was stored in the Library of Congress and read for centuries then wouldnt you have a karmic remnant to bear? 

Did you see the first Jurassic Park movie? Remember how the T-Rex couldn't see them if they didn't move? Because while his senses could detect the persons (sight, smell, sound), he didnt recognize that as being his target unless it moved. He didnt actually recognize them (it) as his target or prey until they moved or made a difference from frame to frame so to speak. Same type of conception here. It isn't the quality or whatever itself but the difference from one moment to the next that consciousness recognizes. It is actually a rather mind-boggling concept when combined with big bang theory. It means that consciousness only existed once time existed so it really does, literally, make us the fabric of the universe. 

Let's assume modern scientific discoveries contradict or alter the Buddha's explanations. How are we supposed to approach this new information as it relates to the Buddha's teachings? 

How to become independent of any external moral authority? The Southern Baptists ask me this one a lot. What makes people think they will turn to a life of crime and debauchery absent the moral compass provided by religion? You know ... we DID have villages and even some social order prior to "established" religion. So how did that happen without us killing one another? Human beings have an internal sense of morality. In its absolute BAREST form it is revealed in toddlers as they comprehend the golden rule and, thus, develop empathy. You'll see them behead toys and kill a bug - that's how they learn it. It's actually hard wired into our brains in the frontal cortex for communication purposes. That formulation they make (or more precisely don't) is actually a leading psychological suspect for sociopathic behavior. So you start off with a hard wired golden rule ... then you begin adding in the "social" moral codes. Ones made so that we respect boundaries. These change with culture so the line between them and the biological one is blurry and shaded. This is followed by changes as a matter of belief. This changes not only by culture, but then by specific beliefs within that culture. So of those 3 stages of moral construction one is completely independent of religion . . and it takes a biological defect to stop it. Thus there's no total breakdown of morals in society as so many theists seem to fear. Like some proof? Turn to youtube and research actual mourning done by the animals on this planet who have a frontal cortex brain structure such as our own. Elephants, orcas, primates, corvids, dolphins - all of the animals on this planet with a highly develop communication structure such as ours exhibit empathy in this fashion. It's biology and it's a fact. As for further examining how morality is advanced within Buddhism - not necessary to answer your question. Plus the guys above me are much more familiar with that side of it. This, however, is my specialty. Comparative animal behavior. And it says you have innate morals. 

I want to say "no", but it's not for me to dictate or question anothers' path. I couldnt. There is no way I could have all of that property and material responsibility and yet have no ego. 

I found the Upanishads to be an amazing resource within the dharma. A wonderful collection of philosophical debate and discourse over the nature of the Universe. Couldn't recommend them (a reasonable collection of like the first 10 and some selected others) more highly. The Vedas are another flavor. The hymns, rituals, routines of the Arya/Indus valley "clan". From an academic standpoint I find them fascinating as they give us an insight into the minds of the day. You even get a Tao Te Ching feel from them on a physical side. But their applications to Buddhism are topical at best. Upanishads good immediately, Vedas good for deep deep backstory as your interest guides you there. I preferred Easwaran Eknath's translations as they were free on .pdf and the narrative was interesting. The Brihadaranyaka is my favorite. 

Let me attempt to tackle this one with one train of thought ... Let's say for a moment that multiple universe theory is correct ([Multiple Universe theory])1. Every potential choice or alternative that could possibly happen exists if we initiate it to exist. That is to say the little world we create by our interactions and relationships and conduct determines which of the universes we will encounter. It's karma. This is actually how "karma" works. It is the resultant chain of events we set in place. It actually affects things on a quantum probability level. We have proven with the double slit experiment that our perceptions actually determine the makeup of matter. ([Double slit experiment])2 This seems just a curious point with physicists, but for those of us trying to find the link between consciousness and the real world it is a lifeline of understanding. That is precisely how we navigate ourselves thru the multiple universes of potential around us. But it has repercussions. Once we have perceived something and "selected a path" there is resultant karma. Continuing effects. We have actually determined something and caused something. So what happens to all of those things you caused, all those probabilities that we determined, if you pass away? Now we come to rebirth. Ideally our consciousness would simply pass back to the ether it came from. The all of the universe. Pure awareness. But that's assuming it meets the "neutrality" of the rest of all so it can merge. Those choices and resultant probabilities color the consciousness. It's not neutral. Maybe it's vibration. Maybe it's a flavor. I dont know. But it's different from the rest and cannot just merge. It needs another vessel to dissipate. At this point I believe whatever the quality is (vibration, temperature, flavor whatever) flees to a like-quality in another vessel. But thats beyond the scope here. There is current research showing that these qualities are actually stored in the micro-tubules of brain cells. ([Micro-tubule research])3 Of course if karma is inevitable by any thought or action then there is always rebirth under this thought - until we bring in meditation. I believe meditation is what can clear these things. Through meditation and simplifying ones' life and being happy and walking the median path we keep our karmic disturbance or just karmic activity closer to neutral and hopefully we can be clear enough to stop rebirth. Now I will stand by and let everyone tear me apart.