Outwardly Foundation for Practice - Admirable Friends: A person who wishes to prosper to and on the path should avoid to associate with greedy and stingy people, avoid places where demanting, claims and rights are praised and assossiate with people having joy in giving. Not doing so, less joy and learning can be expected. Inviting people to take part on ones deeds, direct or indirect is very conductive and additional merit. Helping in doing Dana might gain even more merits (because of ones joy and mind state) than the actual giver might gain. The best wish you may give as crown on your alms, as far as merits can benefit in the world and beyoun (from my persons view, Note it's not supra mundane yet) 

Practice Dhamma, for the most is like that of a Sea Squirt and easily we forget that Mara is still after us and still capable to get us. We still don't see the backwards and forget the Noble Truth. (Note: This is a gift of Dhamma and not meant for commercial purpose or other wordily gain.) 

May what ever being able to take this gift of Dhamma, have a satisfying and shareful share. May the Devas tell those not knowing, about the merits done here. 

A good new Essay on this topic, by Bhante Thanissaro: Wisdom over Justice An essay on the Buddha’s approach to the pursuit of justice. And a talk on it: [En/De] Justice vs. Skillfulness - Gerechtigkeit vs. Geschick, Bhante Thanissaro How to learn judging that is nessesary: The Power of Judgment And feel, act, judged by the wise: [En/De] In den Augen der Weisen - In the eyes of the Wise, Bhante Thanissaro To judge best and right mindfulness on your, body, your feelings, your mind and your ideas and mental phenomenas, is what is meant to be mindful, in short. 

It's about 150-200 years, that Wester lay people and scholars invented and defined "Buddhism" and the word appears, if remembering right, first in the Encyclopedia Britannica. If asking about Buddhas teaching, called Buddha- Sāsana, in the origin/traditional countries, it started with the setting in motion the Wheel of Dhamma, short after Buddhas awakining, at least on request of the King od Devas. The first follower have been some lay people on his way to search for some who are capable to understand the Dhamma, it was before the setting in motion. On the occation of setting in motion the Dhamma, he accepted (ordained) his first disciples and this was the beginning of his religion he called him self "This Dhamma, this Vinaya", usually called Dhamma-Vinaya (Teaching/Doctrine-Conduct/Discipline). References to Suttas Names detail: A Sketch of the Buddha's Life gives a good and most relayable short overview of what is general known and approved since this time. (Note: This is a gift of Dhamma, not meant for commercial use or other wordily gains.) 

"It is not possible, Cunda, that one who is himself not restrained, not disciplined and not quenched [as to his passions],[24] should make others restrained and disciplined, should make them attain to the full quenching [of passions].[25] But it is possible, Cunda, that one who is himself restrained, disciplined and fully quenched [as to his passions] should make others restrained and disciplined, should make them attain to the full quenching [of passions]. Even so, Cunda... > 

As someone said before, meaning of life is life, meaning of death is death. But, contrary to what everyone else said, I am going to challenge the bit about the absolute purpose of life; the general purpose of all life is to procreate, therefore preserving life, and ultimately die. In its essence, described as such, life is just fleeting revolt against impermanence comparable to passing storm clouds in the sky. And life's sole purpose is this constant cycle of fruitless denial of impermanence. All organic life stems from this struggle by its nature. Note how even evolution makes us more adaptable to new conditions so we can preserve life continuity better. It is very similar to the deluded nature of our mind, and the desire of both self-improvement and attachment. But even in the scenario of humanity achieving a completely non-organic immortal form of life such as synthetic human being with transferable consciousness; it will too, eventually die out along with the death of the universe as it is due to all matter decay and laws of thermodynamics. Life is just "Rage, rage against the dying of the light". Note that this is not nihilism, because absolute purpose of life isn't the same as relative purpose of life of individuals, and suffering, that definitely exists here and now. As what Andrei Volkov said "(...) for a sentient being, there is no meaning or purpose higher than being happy", and this matters, because suffering matters. 

I recently started attending Karma Kagyu meditations and did the guided Guru Yoga meditation. Is it suitable to be done (with youtube for example) at home or just at Sangha? I feel like I'd like to be doing that more than twice a week. Is doing it elsewhere technically considered a breach of tradition? 

Given that the mind is filled with conceptual illusions that are often out of touch with the reality, your perception of self is the same. You visualise it as a box of candy, for example; it has higher logical skills, good driving skills, it is socially anxious, doesn't like spiders, thinks of itself as a calm person. See, the problem with that image is that with any discrepancy that will occur to any of these, we will have a negative feeling towards ourselves because it doesn't match the blueprint. And then, out of self hatred that we fail to adhere to this imaginary vision of ourselves, we will attempt to self improve. It is a never ending chase that only brings grief. We become obsessive thoughts, we become emotions, and then we stop being them as they dissolve. I was a different person yesterday as weather affected my mood. It is best to avoid such vision and believe in interconnectivity of all things that constitute the wholeness of reality. Creating these isolated islands of "Selves" make us think in a very inward, depressive fashion. We become self centric and don't open to the world. But space is an illusion! Our mind just fails to see that everything is filled with particles and therefore connected into one reality. Whatever I do, I don't do in the sandbox, I interfere with the whole universe at once. Hence cause and effect brings pain and suffering, but it might also bring joy if utilised in a selfless fashion. We should flow like water - form, shape and a label shouldn't matter at all, they are just concepts of the mind. It is a liberating experience. 

There is no reason for not and all reason for doing merits, but how far behind knowing that and teach that are you? Doing generous deeds, giving food, clothers, shelter, medicin at proper time? No. Keeping Silas serious? No. Make your duties? No. When teaching or learning, you do it for liberation? No, for gain. But all that knowlegde, you might be able to cite all texts, what value does it have? Non, because it just like matterial wealth and you can lose it even in an hour, lates with death. You waste another live an at the end your merits, you goodeness are gone and nothing archived and no merits made. All this learning has only one purpose, to gain enought faith to actually do the talk. The is a reflection which is usally one of the first when becomming a monk, but good if one is able to reflect it, even if still a housholder, in Sri Lanka it is inkl. in the "House-bible" keep by lay followers usually, not called out of reason "The Book of Protection: 

May it lead to conscience and having a sense of urgency! How to keep urgency upright, practice that it stays on top? The Buddha gave all followers, monastics and lay people one reflection the should do: on death: Here the teachings of a merely unknown serious warrior: Maraṇasati – recollection of death Urging to conscience is the most compassionate act, at least because the urged often is not happy with it and some would agrue why one uges others. Because he/she knows that forgetting cause end effect or to do not know the effects of deeds lead to much suffering. Many also believe that the Buddha didn't urge unrequested, but he did, and also his monks had often compassion and went to householders and urged them. Here torward the Brahman Tigerprank: 

So what one does to possible give other the chance to give causes for future good fruits, to gain also merits, is to let others be part on it. This is made by either: 

As seeing that there seems to be no good and right answer in regard of what "sharing merits" actually mean, my person thought of "sharing his merits" and let those possible to take, let be part. Not sure if the original questioner here has Nissaya (condition), to have even physical part on it. Sharing merits does not mean, even if believed, that one can make a share of ones good deeds done, so that the fruit of it falls to the person he likes to give. 

The secound category that Upasaka Sawath created, e.g. the Dhamma beyound world, and at its cream real emptiness requires the right time, done practice and nessesary achivements. When we look for example on the vows of Boddhisattva in later traditions, they have been so wise to see the danger and it is a strong misdeed to teach somebody emptiness if not ready for it. So it's good to listen or readfrom those who actually know the path and to think wisely about it, and