This article from the Telegraph makes the claim that Adolf Hitler's infamous manifesto, Mein Kampf is a bestseller in the Palestinian territories: 

Turkish fans were said to have whistled and shouted "Allahu akbar" (God is great) during a moment of silence for the Paris attacks during a Turkey-Greece friendly football match. The Daily Mail reports on the issue: 

This Youtube video of the History Channel documentary Ancient Aliens, Season 3 Episode 9 makes the claim that the ancient Indian city of Mohenjo-Daro was destroyed by a nuclear weapon, and that the ancient Indians recorded this in the Mahabharata as the Brahmastra. There also exist many "ancient alien conspiracy" websites on the Internet making similar claims. They base this claim on two unsourced reasons (video starting with the claim): 1: That there was increased levels of radioactivity above the background level found at Mohenjo-Daro. 2: That there was vitrification of the soil found at the same place. Are there any sources to prove any of the previous claims, especially that the increased radioactivity matched the isotopic signatures of atomic weapons? Is this fringe historical claim believable? 

The Center for Immigration Studies released a study in 2009 which makes the claim given in the question. Its claim was misquoted (as 57/76 instead of 57% of 76): 

Did George Bush in fact take over a year of presidential leave, and are the number of leave days for the other presidents accurate? 

This means that homeopathy has been shown to be no different from a placebo (i.e. a negative control treatment). This implies that the only effects generated by the homeopathic "treatment" are due to the placebo, and not the "treatment" itself. As mentioned in the comments, from a chemical viewpoint, any dilution above 12C contains such a low dilution that no molecules of the original chemical remain in the supposed "medicine", and therefore there is no scientific basis for homeopathy being a plausible remedy. IMO, the best counter to any homeopath is that tap water is an unimaginably strong homeopathic remedy of literally everything possible, including dinosaurs. 

Copper in the water is not a problem. In fact, in moderation it is necessary for your health. In the United States, a lot of homes use copper plumbing. However, the concentration of copper can be an issue, and letting water sit in copper containers is, in fact, a risk. The average concentration of copper in tap water in the US is between 20 to 75 parts per billion. It can even range up to over 1000 parts per billion. To avoid copper toxicity, the concentration of copper in drinking water should be kept below 1300 parts per billion. Tap water can get a high concentration of copper from the water sitting in the pipes overnight. This is what leads me to believe that storing water in copper vessels could be a bad idea. Children under one year old and people with Wilson's disease are even more sensitive to the effects of copper, and keeping the copper concentration below 1300 parts per billion is not enough. Water stored in a copper container reaches 180 parts per billion in about 16 hours. This amount will vary depending on conditions and the amount of copper already present in the water. Corrosive water and hot water can also lead to higher concentrations of the copper being absorbed. Over time copper does form a natural coating that prevents as much leaching into the water, but this does not prevent it completely. 

emphasis added I recommend checking the link because there is an illustration of the artifact and the inscribed swastika. This discovery was originally noted by Joseph Campbell: 

OPINION: Based on this information, I would advise against storing water in copper containers at all. If an older container that has had time to develop a coating is used, and the water is not left to sit in it overnight, there may be less risk for the average person--but I would definitely not use this with children under one year of age or those who have Wilson's disease. 

This is pretty much true, and has happened multiple times in the past. In fact, they were introduced in the German intraday market in 2007. For example, the same situation occurred in May 2014, when prices for energy became negative. 

The article hypothesises that the reason for the rice turning out the way it did was due to improperly controlled experiments carried out by Emoto. 

The LA Weekly's piece on Ray Bradbury (which includes an interview) corroborates the claim that Ray Bradbury walked out on a college lecture where he was misinterpreted: 

This WND news piece goes even further and claims that Mein Kampf is a standard Arab textbook. Are there any bestseller lists in Muslim countries that show that the book has become a bestseller in Muslim countries in the past 20 years? 

Additionally, she claims that the language does contain a (vulgar) word for the vagina, and that technical words for the vagina exist. 

A number of recent articles (Daily Mail, Fox News, Hindustan Times) describe ice cream cones being sold in India which are labelled as "Hitler" distinctly on their boxes. 

Since they have not successfully printed a horn containing recombinant rhino keratin, the third point is no longer relevant. Additionally, the image presented has nothing to do with Pembient. The photograph was of a press event in January 2014 showcasing non-3D printed rhino horns seized by the Thai customs department. The original photo was taken by Apichart Weerawong from AP, and there are photographs from Xinhua and Royal Thai Customs which covered the same press release event, which all show the same customs officer carrying the same rhino horn. 

A quick Google search shows that this claim is widely parroted but never sourced. Is there any evidence for or against this claim? 

However, the article linked to did not make any claims about dying, and instead discusses the drawbacks of sleep deprivation. A similar Quora question also discusses the topic, but the answers are either poorly sourced or contradictory. Is it true that sleep deprivation will kill you faster than starvation? 

5,700 feet is slightly more than a mile (5280 feet). Simple geometry suggests then that your thumb will completely cover this from a distance of around 30 miles. Taking the damage effects in turn: Blast Effects 

There is obviously little benefit in using that as the comparison to your thumb. A more plausible suggestion might be the initial fireball: 

(taken from $URL$ As you can see, 20 miles upwind you'd be completely safe, while the Rongerik Atoll 150 miles downwind was evacuated, and after the islanders returned, there were long term health consequences from the fallout Description of the test and some subsequent events from $URL$ to illustrate the levels of health problems at locations up to 150 miles away) 

Long term health effects were studied in Project 4.1 - the various reports of the project can be found online, such as Study of Response of Human Beings Accidentally Exposed to Significant Fallout Radiation (pdf download) So the 'safe distance' varies by a factor of 10-20 (or more) depending on wind strength and direction, and I hope it doesn't count as original research to state the obvious fact that the rule of thumb suggests a single safe distance in all directions, and therefore is not a useful guideline. Size of explosion The last factor to bear in mind is that the lethal and safe distances for all these effects vary in different ways with the size of the explosion. For most of the data above, a 1 megaton device is used. The bombs dropped on Hiroshima and Nagasaki were around 15 and 20 kilotons respectively (50 times smaller than a 1 megaton bomb). The largest US test was the castle test above, at 15 megatons. The largest Soviet test was the Tsar Bomba at around 50 megatons. As you move to larger explosions, thermal effects become more important than blast damage, while (as mentioned in a quote above) for small nuclear explosions, direct radiation effects become more important. 

Ref: Sex differences in the structural connectome of the human brain - Ingalhalikar, et al. A 2012 Journal of Neuroscience paper concluded that there are significant differences between males and females in brain structure and: 

This says nothing specifically regarding hemispheres, but does show that there are notable differences yet the field is still evolving. Getting even more specific, a 2014 meta-analysis on sex differences in brain volumes and densities notes: 

While both sites mention "science", "experts", or "studies", there are no direct references or links provided. The first site has references, but they are to secondary works and not the studies themselves--with the exception of a 1931 study for which that site is the only reference in Google search results. Conversely, I have seen some claims that other colors such as red, orange, or pink are more conspicuous than yellow. One argument is that during the daytime yellow is more likely to blend into background colors. So be careful to take into account not only colors' "raw" visibility but also the ability to discern them from background. 

The ideal solution would be to test your water for the level of copper and ensure that it is safe. Sources: 

Essentially yes: The earliest figure recognized as a swastika was found on a bird figurine in Mezin, Ukraine and was dated to about 12,000 years ago: 

The beneficial strain of E. coli K-12 has a negative ORP. Therefore, the original claim cannot be universally true. Furthermore, E. coli is a facultative anaerobe, which means it can survive in both oxygenated and oxygen-free environments. Since some strains of E. coli are pathogens, this means that the claims elsewhere in that document that oxygen kills pathogens but preserves beneficial organisms are also false. Source: 

It is often claimed that yellow (or a particular hue of yellow or yellow-green) is the most conspicuous color. This supposed fact is used in many industries from safety to advertising. This reasoning is used as justification for the yellow coloration of everything from safety vests to school buses to hard hats. 

Travelling at the speed of light, if this is going to be a problem for you then it has affected you before you could possibly react. Nothing the thumb can do to help you here. Fallout effects Fallout is radioactive dust released in the explosion. This travels with the wind. As an example, here is the pattern of radioactive fallout after the Bravo test in the Bikini Atoll in 1954: 

So for blast effects you have time to take some kind of cover to mitigate the effects of collapsing buildings and debris, but the thumb rule doesn't really help because danger distance is about three times smaller than the 'thumb distance', and so you can see the fireball much larger than your thumb and still be at a safe distance. Thermal Effects 

(Source: Federation of American Scientists) It is also not obvious how the 'thumb distance' varies with size of explosion (i.e. I've not yet found any data on how the size of the fireball varies with the size of the explosion). 

You potentially have a 20 second window of taking damage here, so possibly there is time to react and get in to some kind of cover to shield against the thermal radiation. But waiting to measure your thumb against the maximum size of the fireball that takes 10 seconds to develop would seem to be exposing yourself to the worst of the effects, and also directing your eyes at the fireball, exposing you to flash blindness. 

The original Washington Post article can be found on the Washington Post website The most immediately relevant excerpt is probably this: 

So the better survival strategy would seem to be to get something solid between you and the explosion as soon as possible rather than waiting to measure the fireball against your thumb. Direct Radiation Effects 

(Source Atomic Archive: Basic Effects of Nuclear Weapons) All quotes below are taken from other pages of the above article unless stated otherwise What is the 'size' of the nuclear explosion that we are comparing to the size of a thumb? Well, the mushroom cloud can become very large, and continues spreading for an extended period of time, typically tens of minutes: