As the study points out in other places, if you are eating a "very-low-carbohydrate diet" then you are necessarily eating a high fat diet. As for the original question, in a meta-analysis of 16 studies involving high-fat dairy foods (which is what the question was about) called "The relationship between high-fat dairy consumption and obesity, cardiovascular, and metabolic disease" published in the European Journal of Nutrition (2013) [ref] it was found that 

Thus I don't plan to convince anyone that the consensus is wrong, because this would take thousands of pages of going through every single study on this issue. Instead, I'll give you a starting point to see that eating (saturated) fat does not seem to add (negatively) to the amount of cholesterol in the blood. There seems to be three main sources one could be getting this information from: large scale observational epidemiological studies claiming a correlation, basic theory of biochemistry, and controlled studies attempting to identify a causal relation. The book Good Calories, Bad Calories by Gary Taubes spends hundreds of pages examining what all the main large scale observational studies claim. These include studies (but are not limited to) such as the Framingham Nurses Study or MRFIT. There are problems with whether or not correlations are significant, meaningful, causal. There are more confounding variables than imaginable. In general, you just can't use the weak correlations found in these studies to draw any conclusions. You need something better. The most persuasive argument should come from biochemistry itself. If we know some biological pathway, then we are essentially done. Peter Attia has done a huge series on what cholesterol is, whether or not it is bad, and how it gets in our bodies. Here we run into a subtlety. In the original assumption it is unclear whether the poster thinks that eating fat causes an increase in blood cholesterol because you are eating saturated fat or because you are eating cholesterol. Most cholesterol we eat can't be absorbed to the blood stream because it is in esterified form (it is too large to be absorbed). Most cholesterol in our body is made inside the body (Attia cites "New insights into the genetic regulation of intestinal cholesterol absorption" published in Gastroenterology (2005) [ref]). Attia makes his point as follows: 

This claim comes from a work of fiction but it is often repeated as true by fiscally conservative individuals who respect the author. In Ayn Rand's Atlas Shrugged, a character named Francisco gives a speech on the nature of money. Francisco says (emphasis mine), 

Accumulating a quantity of wealth (from a static or dynamic pool of wealth). Printing or coining it. Increasing the amount of wealth in the world through productive work. 

Evidence and theory both suggest that the answer is no, magnets do not have any health effect whatsoever. A nice article that surveys the topic notes problems with studies showing positive effects not being blind. 

Additonally, when two different tests were properly blinded, both the placebo and magnet groups saw equal improvement. 

Another reason the affect of magnets has been studied is the safety of MRIs. A paper studying this found, 

I know that these claims are slightly different from the one you've heard. But at this point, all evidence suggests that magnets do virtually nothing to people. Someone can always invent a more specific or slightly different claim (maybe it only works on Tuesdays, or a particular brand, etc.) but at this point the science suggests rejecting all claims of bio-active magnets unless they are presented with very compelling evidence. 

Now, a strict reading of this is demonstrably false, as this page has several instances of a verb similar to 'to make' being used in relation to money. One is cited by the OED and reads as follows, 

The website you quote makes it sound like the subconsciousness is a little man in your brain, with a book of knowledge, reviewing all the material during the night and "strengthening knowledge without your influence". Although the website doesn't properly support the idea about how post-training sleep might benefit memory consolidation, it does convey some "truth". Gais et al. 1 studied the timing of learning, sleep and subsequent recall, and indeed found that when learning is immediately followed by sleep, this improves subsequent recall as compared to conditions in which learning was followed by wakefulness. The task involved learning German words. In the picture below you can see the different conditions that were tested. In the first experiment (A) Gais tested whether sleep following learning or wakefulness following learning enhanced the consolidation of declarative memory (morning vs. evening). When comparing the different conditions, the evening-learning condition revealed a better performance than the morning condition. To control for time-of-day effects a second experiment (B) was conducted, consisting of 2 evening conditions. One evening condition where learning was immediately followed by sleep and another evening condition where sleep was postponed until the morning hours. Again results favoured learning when it was immediately followed by sleep. Different learning-sleep-recall conditions $URL$ Some mechanisms by which the role of sleep following learning (and the role of sleep in learning in general) might be explained are "memory replay" during sleep (neuronal activity reflecting the learning of a certain task during the day, re-occuring during the night), and/or synaptic downscaling (the synaptic homeostasis hypothesis).