While trying to install rmagick and failing, I thought I would uninstall libfreetype6 and then reinstall it. When I entered sudo apt-get remove libfreetype6 It asked that the following packages will be removed, the list was long and included nearly everything from gnome to java to firefox to chrome and all. the link of output which is badly formatted is here: $URL$ I pressed y for yes, and it uninstalled everything. I shutdown the pc and when i opened it again, there was only command line interface, no desktop! I need to repair it. How can i repair my ubuntu 8.04 install? i dont want to lose any data so i dont want to reinstall ubuntu 8 from cd. Please help! 

I want to log in on a remote pc, example 10.10.10.5, from my local machine, called umar. the user on the remote machine is 'coolapp', so i want to pretty much do: ssh coolapp@10.10.10.5 and not enter a password but log in with public key. the problem is that on my local machine, i dont have a user 'coolapp'. how can i log in on the remote machine without having to first create a user 'coolapp' on my local machine and generating the ssh keys for it? 

I can update code correctly, but cannot commit code. I get the following error when i try to commit code: 

You can't do it the way you want. As long as Windows DNS server sees itself auhoritative for the zone, it won't ask anywhere else. And, your clients will not look for the missing records in Tux, even if you tell them to use it as secondary. If Tux support dynamic updates, you can use it as your primary DNS server for Active Directory as well. Like this You should've used a subdomain for your AD domain name. Consider it, if it's not too late. 

If you're just trying to redirect example.net web site visitors to example.com , that's what you should do. Point example.net A DNS record to example.com's IP address. After that, you have a couple of options; -Create a new website on your host that accepts example.net visitors and redirect them using HTML/Javascript in your index page , or using your server's redirection capabilities. -On your single website, check to see if visitors' URL matches example.net and redirect them to example.com using Javascript in your index page. Pick one. 

Google for "mmc snap-in registry location" Open regedit and go to HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\Software\Microsoft\MMC\Snapins Install Hyper-V Management Tool and check the new snap-in's ID in this location If snap-in is already installed, just browse the keys and find related snap-in and its ID 

I have ubuntu8 and ubuntu10 on my system, and want to also install windows 7. i have read that i need to first install windows and then ubuntu etc, but i currently have ubuntu first. once i install windows, i think it will mess up with grub. How will i access ubuntu after i install windows and fix everything that might be broken? and exactly what will be broken? 

I have two pcs on a LAN. I can connect from one to the other using ssh, but not the other way. I get 

i just have a laptop with an internet connection, but i keep changing the internet provider. i want to be able to send mails from my laptop to real addresses. i dont want to use smtp. can i configure sendmail, or any other program to send mails from my laptop? i tried installing sendmail with "sudo apt-get install sendmail" but when i try sending mail, example through actionmailer in rails, of mail() call in php through a web program, the mail does not get delivered. what am i doing wrong, and how can i fix this? 

I am trying to install the rmagick gem in ubuntu, but is is failing. the output of gem_make.out is at: $URL$ the output of mkmf.log is at $URL$ . please help in installing rmagick! i need to learn which library to install so that the function InitializeMagick() is found. Thanks. 

You're using SQL login, right? Not Windows authentication. SPN is used for Windows authentication (Kerberos) when both the client and server are members of the domain. I think there's another problem that prevents you from connecting to your SQL server. Might be routing issue,firewall, port configuration for SQL service or antivirus. Try disabling the Windows Firewall on SQL server and connecting again to see if it's related to firewall. Same goes for antivirus. For port configuration, you can verify it using SQL Server Configuration Manager and running command to see if port is . 

Did you try downloading and using SSMS 2014 to see if you can connect? This problem used to come up when using different versions of SSIS and SSMS. 

There's no PDC or BDC after Windows NT4 . Every DC can make changes in AD data. Latest change wins. So, yes, you can make the update on any DC and it will be replicated to all of them in the same domain. If you change the same attribute on 2 different DCs at the same time, latest change will overwrite. 

Now you know your snap-in's ID, you need to use it in GPO. There are couple of ways to do that. You can edit the administrative template file () you used before and add a new policy section with Hyper-V snap-in's ID, or, you can use admx file to see what is modified in registry when you change that Group Policy setting and deploy correct settings with GP preferences. Instead, I just changed one of the settings using gpedit.msc , opened in notepad to see what it changed, opened regedit and added the new key with snap-in's ID and value. After testing to see if it worked, you can export it and deploy it using GP preferences. 

Turns out the DNS Server wasn't one that could resolve the domain controler name. I managed to change DNS settings thanks to psexec and netsh, and now I can login successfully again. I don't really understand why it has to resolve domain controler name even when one tries a local account. Also, about using psexec to change DNS settings, I was stuck because my inteface name contains accents, so I had to use the interface position in the interface list, which I had to specify in a binary way: 

I have 2 PC with the same configuration. I open an Excel File (~5M) on the network from both PC. The opening is not the fastest but that's ok. The problem is that on one PC, Excel is really slow. I mean if I hit the left arrow 10 times, I will have finished hitting like 3 seconds before the active cell is the next 10th one. The file contains graphics that takes time to initialize on the slowed computer. Both PC have the same graphic cards, same driver version; both remote access to the file on a local network. Both configured to perform calculations automatically. Both Excel 2007. Both Windows 32bit. On the other PC it runs really fast. I really don't know what to check next. Any suggestions ? 

You can edit administrative template file and see what is changed if you enable any of the settings in that GPO section. It'll show you that it's using the ID of the snap-in and the value with a value of . 

It basically resets your DNS setting to get the DNS server that your DHCP provides, and converts it to a static setting adding 8.8.8.8 in the end. "Wi-Fi" is my network connection's name. Yours might be "Local Area Connection", "Ethernet" or something like that. This might also work. 

You can use Activity Log from the new portal. It's under Management Services - Operation Logs in the old portal. 

If you read "The [homes] section" on this page, it says that //server/myusername is cloned on the fly from //server/homes . So, you need to make homes not browseable, aka 

These are the privileges. You already know what permissions are. If you think about it , there isn't a distinct line between them tho. "Allow log on locally" is a privilege , but, when you add a user there, you're just giving them permission to log on to that computer. Again, you can say that permissions are given on resources, but, "computer" is also a resource in my example above. Instead of trying to understand what they are called, you should learn the list of privileges from the web page I linked above. That is the whole list and that will help you solve your problems. 

I try to connect to a Windows Server 2008; I can get to the login screen but any login attempt fails. I tried local and domain users, admin/not admin... Using 'PsExec', I am able to open a remote command line. I created a new user (in case I was wrong about every single credential I tried ), and added it to local administrators. Still can't connect. (wrong username or password) It has been rebooted. I even disabled the firewall. What could prevent me from login successfully ? 

We used to work with a local Apache instance (WAMP) as a development environment, but we installed recently a PRTG server on the same machine, so it listens to the same port, as it is a web-based tool. We are not able to reach our Apache server anymore as web requests on the server IP keep going to PRTG. I changed the PRTG listening port to 8080 so that we would have 2 web servers listening to 2 dfferent ports. It doesn't seems to work well: when I try to reach xxx.xxx.xxx.xxx:80 with a browser (Firefox, Chrome) it instantly changes to xxx.xxx.xxx.xxx:8080, and I get to PRTG home page. Why does it changes from what I requested ? Should I use a totally different non-standard port ? What solutions do I have ?