Being an atheist does not imply a materialistic worldview, it simply means one does not believe in (a) God. Having said that, I think an atheist would likely have a materialist worldview simply because the same thing that caused an atheist to deny the existence of God (lack of evidence for this thing existing in another realm) would lead to a denial of dualism. However, this is not required by the definition. Free will -- as traditionally defined -- is the claim that we are not bound by causal factors when choosing -- we freely choose. So for instance, while as stone rolls because physical laws compel it, believers in free will think we are not so compelled by anything. The problem here is that our bodies (this of course includes our brains) are physical and are thus bound by physical laws. This means the belief in free will requires some part of us to somehow be immune to the laws of physics, and this is not compatible with the materialist worldview. Unfortunately, free will is an emotional issue; many people don't like the idea of being automatons. As a result, this area is rife with semantic games, contradictory positions and incoherent claims. This also means that people who hold worldviews that should render free will incoherent will still try to hold on to free will -- more out of emotional attachment than due to any coherence. This is common enough that it doesn't surprise me in the least when atheists, people with materialist worldviews, etc... still maintain that they have free will. 

Again, having shown that this cannot be done in any universal sense, it may be time to look at this from an individual's perspective. Well, some things pop out... 

Before giving my two cents, I'll echo the original response: you may want to seek some kind of help if you are suffering deep emotional pain. With that said, here is a take I agree with. I think it's the Existentialist view, a view that comes off as depressing, but in reality can be deeply liberating if we let it... What is the purpose of a hammer? To drive nails. What is the purpose of a car? To go places. In each case the purpose of X is the greater role it serves. This means asking about the purpose of life is asking what greater thing it serves. Therefore, unless you believe there is something beyond life to which it can stand in such a relation (e.g.: God), then the question of purpose is incoherent. I'm not saying life has no purpose. I'm saying the question of purpose doesn't apply. So life neither has nor has no purpose. Now, this can be deeply liberating or deeply depressing, depending on your view. The liberating part is that purpose is a double edged sword. The moment we abandon the notion of purpose, life becomes more open. Now, instead of certain narrow tracks we can tread depending on how "important" they are, we realize life simply is, and are more free to wander the field at will. 

I'm of course assuming that no deception was involved, as otherwise this would be a question about deception and 1-3 would be irrelevant. Here are your answers: 

Existence precedes essence means human beings are not defined by an a priori nature. Rather, what's fundamental about us is that we exist. This stands in contrast to traditional philosophies and theologies which claimed people had an essence (e.g. man is a reasoning animal, man has a divine spark, etc...). Bare existence lacks meaning, as such we are faced with dread, awe, and to believe in something greater requires a leap of faith (Kierkegaard), for we don't have the comfort of "knowing" what to do. Additionally, the lack of meaning invites nihilism, atheism, iconoclasm and of course freedom and its implications on morality, and this is where Nietzsche comes in. Furthermore, bare existence is about consciousness, and as such about being in the world, phenomenology, how we relate to time. Heidegger figures prominently here. 

Your question is about war and the other questions are irrelevant and just distract from the real question. To show you why, let's make these other questions abstract: 

First, is deriving new facts from existing ones just restating the premises? Second, why shouldn't knowledge be surprising or useful just because it starts with known givens? For instance, a sculptor uses tools to carve a statue from a block of marble following a specific process. Well, everything was "known" at the outset and the statue was certainly implicit in the marble, yet it's still an achievement. Math and logic follow the same analogy... 

(1) is subject to processing power and storage, which is limited, but maybe the limits are enough -- especially if we consider things like parallel processing, quantum and grid computing. (2) depends on the Hard Problem of consciousness, which is still controversial. Those who see consciousness as informational should have no problem with this. But there's a deeper problem. How do we evaluate (1) and (2)? By looking at the state of our technology/knowledge. But we're not talking about OUR technology/knowledge, we're talking about those of whatever may be simulating us, which could be utterly different. In fact, limits on computing, consciousness and even physical laws could be arbitrary parameters of the simulation, as can be our cognitive limitations which can prevent us from seeing otherwise! So what justifies these assumptions? Absolutely nothing. And that's the problem. Without any kind of grounding, what can we say? We reason based on tautologies and/or observations, but once we postulate a super-sensible realm, there's nothing we can say about it, and no way to ground our reasoning. At that point, we can postulate anything, and there's no way to prove or disprove it and our assumptions are basically pulled out of thin air. So yes, it's plausible, but this isn't saying much. This is a fascinating question, and it can lead to interesting discussions and really broaden our perspective. However, that doesn't mean that it is a real question (one that can be answered now or in the future). Metaphysical questions like these are a trap, and it's important to recognize them for the traps they are. In fact, Analytical Philosophy specializes in recognizing these kinds of traps and dispelling those kinds of questions, as it argues they can't be answered. Such philosophical "pseudo-problems" can't be resolved; they can only be dissolved. Or as Wittgenstein said: 

(2.1) is useful for improving your thought process. Systematic reasoning can serve you well in many areas of life, and can be an entry point into mathematics or computer science. (2.2) is useful because we want to live well. In fact, many philosophies were tied in to life or were even a way of life. Some examples are: Stoicism, Epicureanism, Pyrrhonism, Cynicism, Plotinus, Buddhism, Taoism, and Spinoza's Ethics. If you are interested, Pierre Hadot's Philosophy as a Way of Life covers some of this. (2.3) Understanding the range of philosophical thought can expand your mind and thus put many of your concerns into perspective, leading to greater equanimity. Bertrand Russel's The Value of Philosophy covers this. 

The mind can only be part of the body if it can control the body During sleep paralysis the mind cannot control the body Therefore, the mind is not part of the body 

The issues you list -- altruism, reciprocation, etc... -- are not specifically sexual, but are general ethical issues and therefore would be discussed outside of sex. Philosophers prefer general principles to specifics, so instead of studying sexual selfishness, they would study selfishness in general. Which probably makes philosophers lousy lovers :) This is one possible reason for the scarcity of sex in philosophy (heh) -- the lack of compelling, uniquely sexual philosophical subjects. So while philosophers find things like existence fascinating, fundamental and elusive, they find sex has none of these properties. Or perhaps they're just not getting it (smirk). In addition, in ancient philosophy, sex gets the short end of the stick (I know, I know) because of its perceived opposition to reason. Reason was so greatly valued by those philosophers that one's humanity was defined in terms of it. Naturally, anything that would conflict with reason was seen as less worthy at best or distrusted or even dismissed at worst. This is why we see reason/passion dichotomies and given sex's intense passions (sigh), it's clear why sex would be especially devalued. With all that said, sex does come up (damn it!) now and then, but no major philosophy that I know of has given it a sustained treatment. 

Short Answer: It's plausible, but we'll never know. Longer Answer: What follows is an analytical approach to this question. Different philosophies have different things to say about this sort of problem, so treat this as just one perspective. This is a metaphysical question, and as such it's similar to many other unanswerable questions like the following: 

Short Answer: No. Long Answer: Let's imagine for the sake of argument that you do encounter an infinite rope, but you do not know it's infinite. How would you know? Well, any act of measurement takes time. Even the fastest measuring device (e.g.: a laser beam traveling along the length at the speed of light) still travels at finite speed, which means it will never reach the end, not that there's an end to reach. Ok, so you have an infinite amount of time. But what does that mean? To finish measuring some object, the measurement must complete. That is, you must reach the end of the object. However, if you have an infinite amount of time to measure an infinite object, you will still never reach the end of it; you simply will always be in the act of measuring. That's the thing with infinity; it's never-ending. So to ask about physically measuring an infinite object is to ask when you'll measure the last bit which is to ask when you would reach the end of a never-ending object, which is a contradiction. 

(1) A philosophy degree is useful if you want to teach philosophy, otherwise I can see little use for it. (2) Philosophy's use depends on how broadly you define the subject. For instance, do you consider Philosophy to be... 

It depends on your challenges. For instance, if you find it really tough to put up with other people, then your set of useful aphorisms would differ than if you were really attached to the opinions of others. Have you read Aurelius' Meditations or Epictetus' Enchridion? Both are very aphoristic-friendly, so you can extract passages that "speak to you" as your Stoic aphorisms. With that said, the most useful aphorism (IMO) is... 

Short Answer: No. Long Answer: Think of a convincing argument. It would start from unobjectionable premises and then through unobjectionable chains of inferences proceed inexorably to an unobjectionable conclusion. Such a systematic treatment is so formalized, it could be checked (or even generated) by a machine. In short, a rigorous argument that convinces all would be tantamount to a mathematical proof. Now examine the structures of proofs. You either proceed from premises that all accept, or you make your proof hypothetical (i.e.: if these conditions hold, then such a conclusion must necessarily follow as shown by these steps). Such proofs work because they demonstrate what "is". Yet morality is about what "ought" to be. Can you even agree on an "ought"? What would your (unobjectionable) premises be? This isn't to say there aren't arguments for morality or that these arguments may not convince some people. This is to say that such arguments would not have the force of a mathematical proof. Now if you're willing to accept a weaker argument that proceeds on the hypothetical (assuming X holds, then Y must follow) then you could provide an argument that all would agree would hold in a world in which the premises are true, but this doesn't mean they'd agree they hold in our world. 

I don't know of any such proof, nor should we look for one. The history of philosophy is full of bad "theories" that arose because philosophers tried to reason their way to reality rather than making observations. We should let science answer this question. However, we can look to mathematics for at least some insight. When we do, we see support for both views. On the one hand, the opposite seems true. Infinite divisibility is the property of something, not nothing. For instance, 1 is not 0, yet 1 is infinitely divisible. Further, nothing is not divisible at all. One of 0's key properties is ∀x <> 0 : 0/x = 0. On the other hand, one foundation for numbers has them built on nothing -- the empty set. For instance, 0 is the empty set, 1 is the set whose only member is the empty set, and so on. So here, at the most basic level, something is made out of nothing. 

This is from here. If the relations are all that matter, and the objects are simply useful as place-holders for the relationships, then can the objects be dispensed with entirely? YES! And this is where you get Combinatory Logic. 

Are you talking about unity or non-duality? It's possible to be a non-dualist without asserting unity. It isn't that you're rejecting unity, it's just that you reject duality and make no (positive) assertions in its place. Likewise, it's possible to assert unity while implicitly asserting duality. The problem here is that to even assert something is to imply the existence of its opposite, otherwise why assert? Why do we need to speak (or think) X if there is no not-X? Can you see the problem? This is fitting, as the non-dualist points to conceptualization as the problem. Not a specific concept, but conceptualization. Well, if you try to fix conceptualization with conceptualization, are you really fixing anything? In fact, I read this as the fundamental difference between Buddhism and Hinduism. Hinduism asserts unity. Buddhism asserts non-duality without asserting anything else. Yet this is a hard position to maintain, so a variety of positive assertions were made, yet these were a mistake, so a variety of attempts to counter those assertions were made, and the result is much of the (apparent) nonsense, contradictions, logical flouting and... well Nagarjuna :) Yet if we look at Buddhism and Hinduism as being non-dual, we can see them as choosing two paths to solving the same problem. The key here is realization; one is supposed to realize non-dualism, to feel or perceive this, perhaps even as a realization of how baseless duality is. One should not reason about this, or if one does so, to do so only insofar as is needed to get one on the right track (or just off the wrong one). If you haven't done so, I recommend you read David Loy's Nonduality. It's a solid treatment of this subject.