I'd like to add one phrase from Larry Rosenberg in his book Breath by Breath. The Liberating Practice of Insight Meditation (2012), p.45: 

Is it correct that only the 4 lower jhanas (rupa jhanas) are useful for cultivating insight (panna) because the meditator's mind is too absorbed when he enters successively the immaterial jhanas (arupa jhanas)? 

Are there (small) differences between the vipassana meditation technique of U Ba Khin and S.N. Goenka? 

How we can strengthen dis-identification in normal life? How can we free our attention from self-reference? 

Which are the vipassana jhanas? What are the differences with the jhanas? Where can I find more information about them? 

satipatthana = vipassana. Vipassana is the meditation practice that follows the teachings of the Satipatthana Sutta (MN 22). 

This question is mere practical: how a practitioner avoids that his mind wanders away into stories and dramas. There are moments that "noting" does not help. 

A teacher who follows and explains rigorously and profoundly the Anapana Sutta and the Mahasatipatthana Sutta is worth to be appreciated, enlightened or not. Anyway, nobody can explain Buddha's teachings in a such a way without 'seeing and knowing'. S.N. Goenka: 

Buddhist Impermanence is best understood in the context of the Three Marks of Existence: Annica (impermanence), Dukkha (unsatisfactoriness), Anatta (non-self). Trying to understand it on its own will lead to more suffering like you are going through. Anatta is close to Śūnyatā (emptiness) - though context can give it slightly different meanings if we are pedantic. By empty or non-self we mean anything you can name (have a sign for) is made up of things that are not it. A flower is made up entirely of non-flower elements such as sun and soil and seed. When the elements of the universe are arranged in a certain way we say a flower has manifested but if we look deeply it is difficult to say when it truly started and when it stopped. The conditions were always present. The flower continues as our joy at having held it and as the compost nourishing other flowers. There is no little flower soul that is snuffed out. Looking at impermanence from the perspective of non-self the flower is impermanent in that it never had a separate self and never really ceased to exist. We just had a sign for it for a while. So when you say things are "undergoing the process of destruction" that may be a wrong view. Things are in constant transformation. No separate thing is ever created or can be destroyed. A little girl said to my teacher (Thich Nhat Hanh) that she liked impermanence because without it she could never grow up. But impermanence means she will grow old and die. Looking deeply we can have joy for her whole life even when we know it will end in death. It is the same for your relationship. You are part of its continuation. You are walking, sitting and breathing as its continuation. By taking care of your current suffering you can transform it into something beautiful. You do this by seeing that your suffering is impermanent and empty (entirely made up of non-suffering elements i.e. made of the joy of your relationship). It may take time. The way I look at the three marks is that embracing non-self & impermanence leads to nirvana whilst any desire to deny them leads to suffering. It is not impermanence that causes suffering but our denial of it. (see The Heart of the Buddha's Teachings by Thich Nhat Hanh) If we can really see impermanence and non-self then every moment is not only precious but includes the entire cosmos - which is pretty special. 

Can kamma and sankharas be considered as synonyms? And if not, which are the differences between both? Which is the relationship between them? 

Is there a correlation between sukha (the 4th component of the jhanangas) and passadha (the 5th component of the sambojjhanga)? 

Is there a difference between abhava and vibhava? Or are those words synonyms? When they are not synonyms, what is their exact meaning. 

The meditator uses the meditation object to center his attention (concentration—samadhi). When his attention is 'wandering' away, the meditator uses the object (i.c. the breath) as his 'base camp' to bring gently his awareness back. Mindfulness—awareness (sati) and equanimity (upekkha) are the two wings which lead to wisdom, to insight (panna): they show the meditator the phenomena as they really are (yathabhuta). Rosenberg, Larry, (2012), Breath by Breath. The Liberating Practice of Insight Meditation p. 91: 

Is the experience of bhanga (5th insight - knowledge of dissolution) the equivalent of the destruction of the khandhas? 

That is two questions. I'll answer the second. Things are not unsatisfactory in themselves because they don't have selves. Anicca is the flip side of Anatta (non-self). Because things are made entirely of other things and aren't independent self-entities if any one 'thing' in the universe changes then everything changes because it all interpenetrates. This is the middle way between existence and non-existence - a big debate in Buddha's time and ever since! Dukkha (third of the three marks of existence) is what arises when we deny Anicca-Anatta. If we truly see/embrace/understand/know Anicca-Anatta then we are in Nirvana - which is nice not nasty. So in practice we look deeply and see Anicca-Anatta which feels good. Nothing changes. Ice-cream still tastes yummy but we can see that it, along with our tongue, is impermanent and is also a product of the whole universe. Without impermanence the ice-cream would never have frozen and wouldn't melt. Without non-self the ice-cream couldn't become part of us. i.e. Wholesome pleasures increase in breadth and depth as we see them deeply. 

What is the exact meaning of 'acala sukha'? Is it mentioned in the Pali-canon? If so, where ? In what context ? 

What you experience during your practice is absolutely not harmful. It is a stage in the meditation process. More: it is a sign that you proceed in the right direction. The vibrating 'light' that arises and passes away is the so-called nimitta. Catherine, Shaila, (2008) Focused and Fearless. A Meditator’s Guide to States of Deep Joy, Calm, and Clarity p. 116: 

What is anuloma-nana and how does this adaptation-knowledge makes the switch from the mundane to the supramundane world? 

The question is not how to become a buddhist; the aim is to get freed from our misery (dukkha). This is possible through realizing wisdom (panna). Everyone can become enlightened. The Buddha has given us the tools; showed us the path, but everyone has to cultivate it himself or herself. Ajahn Jayasaro (* Mindfulness, Precepts and Crashing in the Same Car p. 33-35 emphasized text*):