This thing is that nobody argues that colour is a strictly material property. Like many things in nature colour perception is an evolutionary bodge to allow organic brains to make sense of a continuous spectrum of visible electromagnetic radiation. There is no real concept of colour in physics as in deed there is no real concept of colours outside of visible light, we don't ascribe different colours to x-rays or radio waves simply because humans don't have the biological mechanisms to detect them directly. Equally humans perceive three primary colours because (most) humans have three different types of wavelength sensitive cells in their eyes and even then they are not really red/yellow/blue as such but more blue/green/orange and the brain does a lot of post-processing as it does with all aspects of vision and even in a specific brain colour values are relative compare to the colour values in an overall scene. So any though experiment revolving around vision is already on shaky ground because the neural processing mechanisms are complex and still relatively poorly understood and certainly counter-intuitive. Equally if human vision were just monochrome, which is pretty easy to imagine and indeed a reality for some people I'm not sure that make any major difference to the philosophical basis for materialism. The fundamental question is whether consciousness is a material process, determined by the same physical laws as all matter or something different. the other side of the coin is that recognising colours is now fairly trivial for AI 

Leaving aside the issue of the definition of 'philosophical logic', I think that the most famous book about it is the Tractatus Logico-Philosophicus of Wittgenstein. A touch-stone for Analytic philosophers and other kinds of pony-tailed pedants. 

The act of 'measuring', limiting or slowing down is something that the philosopher Gilles Deleuze has written about quite extensively. He seems to have inherited this particular concept from Leibniz, who is in some ways the inventor of the limit (which, as you correctly note, is the ground for the possiblity of measurement), and who also wrote quite a bit on the subject. It also takes on a Kantian aspect in Deleuze (like most of his concepts), whose Critique of Pure Reason (in particular the chapter 'Transcendental Aesthetic') can also be seen as a meditation on the idea of measurement (for Kant, space [and therefore measurement] is no longer a relation [e.g. between bodies] as it is in Leibniz, but the form of appearances itself). According to Deleuze, measuring (although its not a term he uses himself, nor does it appear to have any significance in English translations of his work) is the defining gesture of science and scientific thought, and is related to the primary functives of science (functives are the things which a scientific function is made of, and functions are the objects of science): 

This video gives a good overview of many kinds of implications. The source material for his lecture was mostly Jonathan Bennett's A Philosophical Guide to Conditionals. 

Academic philosophy is open to discussing all sorts of questions. Your own question is of the form . However, this seems relevant only for theologians, generally not for philosophers. I'll cite just two of the many cases that discuss the . Should the baby live?: the problem of handicapped infants 

I concur with Eliran H, so I'll answer mostly the second part of the question. First, I don't understand the pairing of Dawkins' "selfish gene" and Dennett's "consciousness explained". I am not aware of any collaboration between the two on either of these works. I know they did not coauthor the books, but I'm talking about collaboration for the concepts dealt with by them. I have read The Selfish Gene, but not Consciousness Explained. Because of this, if I am missing some connection between the two, please add an elaboration in the question for the benefit of all who have missed the connection, including myself. 

So to answer your question, Deleuze might say that the requirement for measuring (and he would be pleased that this question is indeed a Kantian question) is precisely the limit: 

You describe with dazzling precision the exact difference between the two positions. And so you ask a further question (I take it to be the real question): Isn't this a word game?. I suppose that it is, in the same way that the statements "the Earth is round" and "the Earth is flat" differ only as part of a mere 'word-game', if that refers simply to the fact that 'round' and 'flat' are words. 

I think that the many 'Introduction to philosophy' texts suggested by other answers may not be the best place for you start. I think that an understanding of the context in which philosophy first came about (the Greek milieu) is indispensable in understanding what philosophy is and what it has meant throughout history. So, I would recommend: Plato's Symposium This is a very short and breezy read. I think its also one of the most well written works of philosophy that we have. 

Electronics: We use boolean logic at the level of predicates. I've not come across propositional logic here. Some of the advances in the field are from finding optimal circuits for complex tasks. Linguistics: A few different kinds of logic are at the heart of many grammar formalisms such as CCG and Logical Grammar 

To the extent that a philosophy of organism is required for a biology book, Dawkins already does that, with his (or Niko Tinbergen's) concept of "survival machines". 

The idea of like-minded people trying to start afresh is not really original either. But then, I don't see what this has to do with Italian Futurism. 

Robert Nozick, I believe, was the first to propose an argument for something like this, in his book Anarchy, State, and Utopia, pg. 169-172. I quote from pg. 169: 

Most Indic scripts are not as linear as Latin scripts. Devanagari features compounds and conjuncts where some letters modify other letters from left, right, above, below, or within. But why is that relevant? Indian languages can be written in a linear form as well, commonly with IAST or ITRANS. The same goes for mathematical expressions. Your two-dimensional example is often written in a linear way in LaTeX or Mathematica. 

This is actually a paper and not a book, but one of the most influential in this area. Empiricism and the Philosophy of Mind (1956) by Wilfrid Sellars 

Your point about the usefulness of 'higher level' descriptions is one addresed by Paul Churchland very early on in the history of Eliminative Materialism, and constitutes a position known as functionalism, the origins of which probably lie with Wilfrid Sellars: 

In other words, Churchland would say you are wrong in claiming that mental states are 'useful'. He points out that there are many limitations and flaws to the theory, that from a scientific perspective render it not very useful. Churchland calls this approach 'functionalism', and compares it to those who argued that Alchemy was a useful abstraction and not an ontological theory, and so it shouldn't be replaced by chemistry. He summarizes: 

Eliminativism (in particular, Eliminative materialsm) proposes that the theory of 'mental states' ('folk psychology', hereafter FP) is a theory. This is part of a wider position known as Theory-theory, as @Era points out. Moreover, it states that this theory is false and should be completely replaced (by neuroscience or something similar). Churchland describes the belief in mental states as follows: 

Epigenetics did not mean back then what it means now. Briefly, Waddington's "epigenetics" is roughly equivalent to the current word "phenotype". Far from ignoring it, Dawkins has written extensively on the topic. What is now called "epigenetic inheritance" is a very new field of study. I could expect a sequel to The Selfish Gene and The Extended Phenotype (by someone else) after the field of epigenetic inheritance and evolution is better established. 

The meaning is perfectly clear to the person who understood each of my words. It is true that I want espresso, in that context. It is false that I want sugar, in that context. 

Youth and technology have been celebrated by an innumerably large number of people, especially the former. Rand abhorred violence, except in self-defense. 

I am not an expert, but if you ask "how can you understand why they acted the way they did?", that's beyond the scope of praxeology. I quote from Mises' Human Action: