BEFORE (in the limited sense of a temporal comparison) is one of the Semantic Primes of the Natural Semantic Metalanguage. Though NSM researchers have not considered every language in existence, they have studied languages from every large family, so I'd consider this decent evidence that this is something every language will have. Note that the primes may be represent by affixes or phrases rather than just single words. 

All of these are ungrammatical which is strong evidence that these that phrases are not noun phrases. 

MIT's OpenCourseWare has a large number of linguistics courses. The are many on language theory and analysis (phonology, morphology, syntax, semantics) and some on NLP. 

While the others are correct that the normal description is that participles are "verbal adjectives" (an unhelpful and almost meaningless explanation in my opinion), it is worth noting that participles can also be used substantivally, i.e., as a nominal in its own right. So in Greek ὁ λεγων means 'the one who is speaking' or 'the speaking one', and the same happens in English with gerunds like the happening. We should expect this across languages all around the world. There are two primary word classes: nouns and verbs; generally the more time-stable and the more time-variable. Some languages have distinct modifier classes like adjectives and adverbs, but many do not, with those modifiers being formally in the noun or verb class. Word derivation can change the class of words. Participles and infinitives are two ways in which the variability of a verb is decreased or removed, so that a verb which meant an action gets turned into a word which conveys the idea of the action. The idea of an action is then used as a modifier for either a noun or a verb, but just as with other modifiers, it can then also be used by itself as a nominal in its own right. 

Each of these categories will have dozens of options when you look at all the world's languages, though an individual language will usually only have a few, if it marks the category at all. The things you list in your question are just some of the inflections you'll see, and some of them wouldn't even normally be considered to be inflections, as they are derivational! 

I've recently noticed something that I can't explain, a link between German and Sardinian. Two languages that, at least apparently for me, are not supposed to be that linked. Also English is included in this, which is more related to German than it is to Sardinian. Yet there's something I cannot understand. Let's take the word "short". In German it's kurz. I might be way off, but it seems that they do have some connection, k- with sh-, -o- with -u- and -rt with -rz, although my knowledge is not that deep so, like I said, I might be wrong on it. But the relation seems much closer between German-Sardinian than German-English. In Sardinian, note that I'm speaking about the variant present in the middle of the island which is included in the macro-variant Logudorese1, the word for "short" is "curzu" or "curza" according to the genre of the noun it refers to (e.g. un'istrada curza = a short street). So, how could it be explained that we have "short/kurz" and "kurz/curzu"? Is there something I'm missing? For what it's worth, in Italian we do have "corto", but I'm not sure what role it might have in this. 

But like I said others say the list is much longer. Not only the number is under a dispute, however, since also the classification of the sound itself is "under fire". From the Wikipedia article about the Sj-sound, represented with the IPA /ɧ/, has many classifications. From the same article: 

Is there a reason for this and is this reason known? I doubt it's a matter of coincidence, but I can't exclude it completely. Note: The above are not all of the Slavic languages. They include the ones I could find the expressions for, and some extra ones that I failed to do that. They have not been translated with Google translate, but they have been taken from resources to learn those languages. 

Then we had the homiletic production by Wulfstan, who composed Sermo Lupi ad Anglos in 1014, and Ælfric, who composed the 120 sermons divided in three series, where the first two formed the Homiliae catholicae and the third Passiones sanctorum. By the X century, most of the anglo-saxon poetic patrimony is represented by four manuscripts: 

If it is a language (and it could be, lots of games have conlangs) step one is get lots more data, preferably some with known translations or at least known topics. 

Many linguistic theories see syntax and morphology as basically being a single thing: morphosyntax. The same principles and processes occur in both, with the difference between morphemes, clitics and words being hard to define. Their syntax trees therefore include the internal structure of words. 

Most recently developed orthographies are phonemically straight forward - they become less ideal as time goes on and the spoken language goes under sound shifts, but the written language doesn't. Most of the languages SIL has worked with did not have an orthography before, so you'll be able to find many in their archive. 

"Individual, separate entity": this sounds like the semantic category of "specificify". By contrast, the semantic category of "definiteness" concerns identifiability. You use definite markers when you think your listeners can identify the referents of your noun phrases, and you use indefinite markers when you think your listeners would not be able to identify the referents. When you say "I made a mistake", you know what the mistake is, but your listeners do not because this is the first time that they've heard about it. If you go on to explain what the mistake is, then it becomes appropriate to say "the mistake" because your listeners can now identify what you're talking about. Wikipedia gives a few helpful examples which show that the English articles, when they are present, do indeed mark definiteness (identifiability), not specificity. 

Yes there are many languages. For example the Oceanic languages are often very regular in their inflections. A single example is the language Kakabai, from Milne Bay, PNG. Kakabai has a set of suffixes which are used to construct all the pronouns, while also marking inalienable possession on nouns. Here are the pronominal markers (exc=exclusive, inc=inclusive, Food=possessive pronoun for food noun class): 

My interpretation would be that the -miş suffix marks both inferential evidentiality and perfective aspect. It primarily contrasts with the perfective suffix -di. If you don't want the perfective aspect or its implied past tense, then you can use one of the compound sufixes to override the perfective part of -miş. 

Or just an itemized list? Then you can use conventional abbreviations or create new ones for rare languages, like: 

I recently noticed that most languages have an irregular conjugation for the verb To be. I say almost because I don't know all languages, but the ones I've seen all have some irregularity sooner or later. Here is a simple table providing some languages from Europe: 

This is true for many languages, but it's not for the Yucatec Maya, and the paper states that «plural marking in the noun phrase is not necessary for a noun to be interpreted as referring to a plurality». Going forward3, we see that «plural marking and classfiers co-occur even within the same phrase, in Yucatec Maya»: 

This is what a morpheme is. There is still a lot to say about it, but I think this is enough to give you a basic understanding. In English a morpheme is the -s for the third singular person of each verb. It tells you it's the "third person singular"; same goes with -ed which forms the past forms for the regular verbs in English. But what is a phoneme instead? To better explain what is a phoneme, let's compare it to a phone. A phone is a sound in a given language, it carries no meaning. A phoneme instead, carries meaning, and it's useful to find minimal pairs as in your question. Cot and cat differ for one phoneme, not one phone, because that different sound, brings different meaning. As in "lip" and "rip". You just changed one sound, from /l/ to /r/, but this was enough to change the meaning. Take the standard pronunciation of a word and its slang pronunciation. They differ, but the word won't change its meaning. I kept it fairly simple and standard without going into details, but I hope it helps you give a better grasp. Just remember that it doesn't end here, if you want to go further, check the links for phonemes and morphemes. 

Recently also other non-manual components have been highlighted (even if they are considered suprasegmental features): 

Add-on: By the way, seeing that others include the explanation of deictics, I thought I'd include it too. I didn't mention it because it didn't seem fundamental to answer your question, but it can add value to the discussion. Like others said, we have deictics in languages. They are highly dependent to the context, and if you listen to an audio conversation, they might represent a problem if you want to fully understand that dialogue. I had some notes about this matter: "Deictic" comes from the Greek word for "pointing" or "indicating". It is reference by means of an expression whose interpretation is relative to the context of the utterance, such as: a) who is speaking b) the time or place of speaking c) the gestures of the speaker d) the current location in the discourse e) the topic of the discourse If near speaker, proximal terms are used (this, here, now); if away from speaker, distal terms are adopted (that, there, then). Speakers and hearers constantly adjust their internal registry of deictics to keep up with the conversation. Traditionally, by deixis is meant the location and identification of person, objects, events, processes and activities being talked about, or referred to, in relation to the spatiotemporal context created and sustained by the act of utterance and the participation in it, typically, of a single speaker and at least one addressee; we can analyze them this way: 

The Wikipedia page is just out of date. If you check the edit history you'll see the latest edit is from 2013, but the ovd code was only created in 2015. SIL have an index which looks like it could be up to date. It has ovd, but not olv. But Google has no results for "olv Uvåsiljan" or "olv Ulum Dalska" so my guess is that it's either a typo or someone made it up. 

No, your example sentence is ungrammatical in English because the rules of English require that all singular countable nouns have some sort of determiner. 

The Natural Semantic Metalanguage is a framework which attempts to identify the basic semantic building blocks of human language, which they call "semantic primes." These words (sometimes affixes or phrases) are the base level semantic concepts on which everything else is built, and are argued to be present in every natural language. NSM researches have identified several distinct predicators. Although they all use is/be in English, in other languages they are conveyed with different words. 

helps is definitely a verb - the /-s/ suffix is the third person present tense agreement marker. I drew the tree with an internal sentence, but it might also be called an Inflection Phrase or a Tense Phrase. There's little consensus on the syntactic categories. (You can make trees like this easily at $URL$ 

No, there are a small class of morphemes called interfixes which are needed for phonological reasons, but are not considered to carry any semantic content. One example is the i in humaniform. 

This will depend on both the language you are analysing and your analytical framework, but in most cases both nouns and pronouns could be categorised as a subcategory of the nominals. Other subcategories of the nominals include (in some languages) proper names, participles, adjectives, and co-referencing affixes/clitics. The nominals could also be called substantives. Nouns and verbs are the two arch-categories of the open word classes. If a word can take morphology such as case, gender or number, then it will usually be analysed as a nominal. The different nominal subcategories will have different restrictions on which morphology they can take. Or if there is no difference, then it can be argued that what would be two word classes in one language are actually one word class in another. The adjectives are the classic example of a word class that can be either a pure nominal, a pure verb, a pure independent category, or something in between.