hydrogen is the most common element in the universe, Oxygen is the third most common element in the universe, hydrogen + oxygen + heat/energy = water. Water is literally the most common compound in the universe. 

Scale and hardness will make it easier and more detailed, but it looks like scoria, with a rather nice crusting effect. You might also consider industrial sources, some smelting slag can look like scoria because it is produced in the same way molten minerals mixed with gas. 

The sand IS the original dirt, or at least what's left of it. Sand is one of the major constituents of soil. Soils are roughly half minerals by volume and those minerals are silt, sand, and clay. In fact sand is often the largest single constituent of most common soils. Silt and clay are smaller and lighter, and can be moved by wind much easier when dry, this leads to the removal of everything but the heavier sand particles in very dry conditions. What has happened is that without water and life to bind the material together, wind has removed all the lighter particles leaving nothing but sand and pebbles. Wind is good at sorting grains by size so each area tends to only have one grains size. Where it came from originally . Sand is just weathered rock, if you look at a map of the sahara there are quite a few scattered mountains and highlands in the desert. That is where the sand (and the original silt and clay) came from originally, weathering of rock, and the sahara is mostly exposed rock, with sand only making up a minority of its surface. I suggest the wiki for getting started on soil science, if you are interested, $URL$ More on what sand is, $URL$ More on wind driven sorting, $URL$ 

The second was produced by the same effect (eroding slower than the rock around it) but this time it was just a hard massive sandstone formation surrounded by more easily eroded rock. It is part of the bedrock. 

Not all lava is black, the mineral content and cooling speed of the lava has an effect. Cooled lava can have a variety of colors including stark white pumice. $URL$ 

They look like stone fish traps or weirs. They are used by native poeple to catch fish on a large scale. They can actually vary quite a bit by culture and can be quite large. Here is a stone and wood one with the same shape 

Because you find fossils by looking at exposed bedrock, deserts by their nature often have huge expanses of exposed bedrock. The lack of plants is also a big benefit, plant roots tend to destroy fossils Fossils are everywhere you have sedimentary rock* deserts are actually rather poor at forming fossils compared to many other environments. They are FOUND more often in deserts because there are no plants or soil covering them up and no plant roots to rip them apart for minerals. You do not need deserts just exposed bedrock. Keep in mind what are deserts now, were rarely deserts when the fossils were buried, your own examples of localities were estuaries, floodplains, and shallow seas respectively and are places far more likely to form fossils. Fossils in other climates are commonly found during road cuts, mining, or large building projects, situations where all the soil is removed exposing bedrock, which of course makes searching the bedrock possible. In many deserts the bedrock is already exposed meaning all you have to do is wander around until you find a fossil poking out. It is far easier to just wander around a patch of desert and search with your eyes then dig up random portions of a forest hoping to find fossils. searching for fossils is almost always visual, which means you need to be able to see the ground and not plants covering the ground. Although in deserts you can use plants, if you see a wide expanse of open desert soil and a single plant, unless there is a water source that plants roots are often wrapped around a fossil, the added minerals from the fossil helping the plant grow better than those around it, plant roots are very destructive and tend to seek out fossils. The best environments for forming fossils are often wet, floodplains, estuaries, and lakes are great for forming fossils because they have a lot of deposition and the first step in fossilization is burial. Deserts which often have little sedimentation are pretty bad at forming fossils, but they make searching for them so much easier. Quite frankly there are not many paleontologists and they are human, so they tend to hit areas with high chances of finding things. there is one other factor, people often don't like paleontologists digging up their property or slowing down construction, but people or governments that own stretches of desert often don't care if you dig up portions of it. So in the desert lucky finds will get expanded exposing more and more of the right layer, while in other environments this would not be economically or legally feasible. examples of famous non-deserts, Solnhofen Germany a giant limestone mine, La Brea tar pits, heck the first complete fossils skeleton ever found was found in New Jersey in a coal mine. **Not every sedimentary layer has fossils, there is a geochemical and physical factor, but a surprisingly large number do.* 

You can picture the appalachians as a flat section of rock that has been compressed like an accordion east to west, that's why they are more or less parallel, but not perfectly parallel becasue the rock is not completely uniform in strength or hardness. Plus the compression has a bit of a curve to it making it even less uniform. 

Slag is a byproduct of smelting and contain a myriad of materials but is most commonly high in silicates hence the porcelain feel. Different textures are produced depending on the composition, initial temprature, and even how fast it is poured out or how fast it cools. The same process that go into different laval textures go into making slag hence the similarity in appearance. Your piece looks like it cooled slowly making pit slag likely, where large quantities are dumped all at once. 

sources for other maps $URL$ $URL$ Or you can even use this interactive map, which already does what you want to do, and compare it to past sea level. As for why projecting backwards is easy, you may want to look up the term "continental shelf". 

Now most models include changes in evapotranspiration, it is usually grouped together with a few other factors (like draining wetlands) under the heading "Land Usage" Now the question does "Could additional crops being planted within the last 100 to 50 years account for additional moisture in the air now" the answer is no, not by itself. To get more moisture into the air long term you need the air to be warmer, otherwise it just rains it out. Another issue is different crops affect evapotranspiration in different ways. For instance irrigation induced evapotranspiration, likely the largest evapotranspiration effect, may actually have a cooling effect, by increasing cloud cover and precipitation. Lastly land usage is only a small impact not counting the increased greenhouse gas emission it can cause. 

First don't rotate the whole thing, you are just confusing yourself by rotating the bedding plane. You can't rotate the bedding planes and expect faults to match up like that. Your eye is treating the bedding plane as horizontal which makes it a completely different from of fault. A thrust fault is just a reverse fault with a shallow fault angle. 

It is called frost smoke or steam fog (or a half dozen other names), sea smoke is the same effect just over the ocean. It is caused by high moisture saturation and strong temperature differences between the water and the air. $URL$ 

Basically a formation is just a layer or group of layers of rock that is both distinct enough to be identifiable in the field and large enough to show up on a geological map. Usually it is many nearly identical layers grouped together or just one large layer. Its not a hugely precise definition but it is a lot like the term "species" in biology, it's a working definition, created more for usability than precision. 

It depends on what type of test. If you just want simple identification this site offers a tentative one and any museum with a mineralogy section will have someone on staff who can do identification and they are usually happy to do it. Ditto for an college with a geology class/program. you might want to call/email the professor in question first to make sure they are willing. All these are usually free, although for the museum you should at least pay the admittance fee out of courtesy. You can also look for a local rockhound club. 

There is two parts to this answer, first continental crust tends to persist and oceanic tends to be recycled. This is largely due to density, continental crust is less dense and tends to "float" compared to the mantle and is very difficult to push back into the mantle for remelting. Only a tiny fraction of continental crust ever gets subducted mostly as sediment on oceanic crust, so basically by piggybacking on subducting oceanic crust. This is why continent to continent convergent boundaries form mountains with no subduction, they can only push down by pushing even more material up, in effect packing together like wads of compressing clay. Second continental crust is reworked by other processes, erosion, faulting, rifting, mountain building, metamorphic processes, etc. These are regional effects and thus more random, so how much they alter can vary quite a bit from continent to continent. Exposed un-reworked continental crust is rare but this is due to the accumulation of events reworking smaller regions and the tendency of sediment covering it up. There is much more unexposed old continental crust buried under the sediment, often referred to as the shield portion of the craton, Shield is the portion of the continental crust that is not sediment and is not tectonically active (even some shield is partially metaphorically altered, but this is where you find unaltered material) There is quite of bit of ancient shield (brown in this picture) although it still makes up a small percentage of the overall continental crust. Even then only a fraction of it has survived all the continental cycles and is completely unaltered since the first continents formed. This image illustrates how much of the oldest continental crust is still around(purple). 

Yes We have them all the time they are called sun showers Wind can push rain miles from the clouds that it falls from. 

Plants do cool the area around them but it is not due to gas exchange, (not directly) plants provide shade and loss water during gas exchange this loss creates evaporative cooling. oxygen and carbon dioxide diffuse too quickly to much effect on the local environment where they are produced by themselves. 

It is massive white quartz also referred to as milky quartz, the streaks are trace impurities and can occasionally include valuable metals like gold but just as often included fools gold (pyrite). This chat can help with more detailed identification of trace metals $URL$ 

The term you are looking for is Dendritic, it literally means "having a branched form resembling a tree" and is used to describe the shape of rivers but can also apply to anything with that pattern. 

looks like a broken block of glass from a glass factory, called glass slag or chunk glass, you can get a whole range of hardness and color depending on what type of glass they were making. People often use it to make art. 

a warming planet makes storms worse in two ways. The most straightforward comes when you realize storms are driven by differences in temprature and pressure between different parts of the atmosphere, climate change does not worm all parts of the atmosphere equally leading to greater variability in temprature, by warming the ocean this difference becomes even more extreme making the storm itself more powerful. Now to be fair there may be counter forces in wind shear but this is even harder to predict and would still not stop the worst storms, so we may end up with fewer storms overall but with the ones we do have being far worse. $URL$ Warmer air and water also increase evaporation giving the storms more precipitation to throw around, this is also how it makes snow storms worse, there is more moisture available. Another big effect is rising sea level It is easy to see how this makes storm flooding worse, if the water level is higher it takes less of a rise to get flooding and the same amount of rise results in worse flooding. $URL$ 

It is indeed possible, there is nothing that rules it out right of the bat but from visuals alone it is basically impossible to say for sure. geology.com has a decent guide to getting a better estimation, The new mexico university website has an even better one even though it is a bit harder to read. If it is an iron meteorite it will likely attract iron as a magnet not just have magnets stick to it. in the end you may want to take it to museum of university that offers identification services, final identification usually requires cutting off a sample, either to look at the crystal structure or do a composition analysis. On the plus side for iron meteorites doing a simple test for nickel( a good quick and dirty check) is very cheap and offered by most assay labs. 

we can even see that in how earth quakes behave around subduction zones getting deeper and deeper in the direction of movement until the stop indicating where there are no solids left to break. here is an earthquake depth map for japan. notice how they get deeper in the direction of the movement of the pacific plate (west by NW) as it dives under japan. If you look at a global map of plate movement you will notice that at then end of a moving plate (in the direction of movement) is either a mountain range or a subduction zone, or often both. 

It is and is not an an error depending on how it is used. They are Eons but in older literature they were also, sort of, eras as the Eons were not subdivided as they are now. Especially in literature dealing with the transitions they might refer to them indirectly as eras, such as "In the previous Proterozoic era", proterozoic being possessive. At the time this was technically sloppy but not a big issue, but now that they are subdivided this would be incorrect to do now. You also have the issue of plurality in older literature. Spelling can vary from country to country and Paleontology is very much a international discipline. Occasionally in older literature Era can sometimes be used as the plural for Era (like sheep and sheep), so a reference to the Proterozoic era may be referring to the multiple eras in the Proterozoic. Again technically sloppy but in the time before electronic word processing a spelling error that might be ignored. in a time scale they be grouped with era, as eons were often not included, and again they had no named eras in them. If the diagram included eons however this would be incorrect, but was sometimes done to conserve space since otherwise you would have a large blank section in all the smaller subdivisions to make room for fitting them in the eons, technically wromg but often ignored. Without knowing the context of usage it is hard to say whether it is an error.