I'm not sure what the source of your errors are but here's a place to start looking: 10036 Error: $URL$ 7888 Error: $URL$ NOTE*-If this first link is right, check service enabled in your MOSS setup and make sure you don't have something enabled that you don't need for your particular license type $URL$ 7 Error (need more specifics as this is a generic error): $URL$ NOTE*-From first glance looks like error 7 might point to a bad drive. Is this vm local (workstation) or on ESX? Is it on a SAN or local disk space? Can you do storage migration and try this VM on another disk? 63 Error: $URL$ NOTE- Again, hard to diagnose with no source information but looks like another possible issue with disk. 

VMDK's can be easily grown but not shrunk. Its best to start off smaller and grow as needed for storage management reasons. With VSphere 4 they have thin provisioning now so you can tell the server its 100 GB but on the backend it only provisions how much its really using. $URL$ 

Best way to protect machines against staff is stringent permission lockdowns and making sure you're not dolling out administrative rights like candy. If they need to do something with NEAR admin rights assign them to power users group. Make sure your antivirus solution is up to date and running as well. 

The SSL Certificate option which your looking for is called SAN (Subject Alternative Names) It will allow you to add the local hostname alongside the external url. You can pick them up from Globalsign and is asked as part of the certificate request. I hope this helps you. 

You would be able to perform the above using a router and NAT. If you require more information let me know. We would need to know what router you have and what services on the network you need to access. 

I have a Microsoft Windows Server 2003 SP2 print server. This is serving about 15 print queues the problem is just one of these queues is randomly losing its printer ports. What do i mean by losing the ports? A printer is setup with custom ports, printing works perfect until randomly printing stops and errors. Then under the printer properties on the ports tab, the custom created ports are no longer showing. If i jump into the registry and look under the key: 

You need to contact your hosting provider, and ask the question to them. You would be unaware of wether you have shared or dedicated hosting. What your paying is a very good indication though. 

Another answer (if you're SQL inclined and bored) is that you can open Excel, connect to a SQL datasource, connect to the SQL instance hosting your Virtual Center and query the views that Virtual Center uses 'under the covers' to roll your own reporting solution. Beauty to this is that it will always be up to date since its data coming live from your SQL and its completely customizable provided you're comfortable enough to do it in Excel (or even Reporting Services if you're that advanced/bored). 

If its a SQL Express engine you need make sure the SQL Browser service is running otherwise the client won't be able to see named instances on the server side. 

Its tough becoming the unwilling DBA. You can set autogrow its just you should try to size your database up front to avoid fragmentation and performance issues with autogrow. Here's some articles by Paul Randal to help you out. Welcome to the DBA world: $URL$ Sharepoint gold: $URL$ 

You COULD but why would you want to? Theoretically you can have the whole shebang of services on same box (Small Business Server). Just because you CAN do something, however, doesn't necessarily mean you should. The Domain controller holds the AD database so if you want to risk bogging that down with printing (and god forbid) file sharing then that's a risk you'll have to assess yourself. If you want to play it safe stand up a Linux server for free and use that as a network file share or print server and try to keep your Domain Server boxes as just that. 

I think either of this will resolve your problem. Let me know if they dont. One last thing confirm that both machines are looking at the same DNS servers, again in a command prompt type IPCONFIG /ALL and make a note of the primary and secondary DNS servers. Hope this helps. 

One option you could use would be to select the top level folder (if possible) right click > properties > security tab > advanced > remove the option the inherit permissions and remove all entries and add your new username > owner tab > set yourself as the owner > hit apply and wait. All being well this should resolve your problem. 

you said you can access internal stuff but not external. it could just simply be a proxy server? Check your internet explorer options underneath connectivity! let me know how you get on! 

Otherwise I cannot see how you caused an entire network to fail. If they have the security you say they do this wouldnt not have happend by plugging in a switch. I think you can sleep easily. 

HI, Where is your domain's DNS hosted? If you do a NSlookup on your domain external to your network where does it say your Name servers and MX records Point to? When did you last make changes to your MX records? INITIAL VIEW It sounds like you have set your MX records internally on your server, we need to confirm your domain name is registered, is connected to a global name server and you have set your MX record correctly. 

When you register your CMS there's a drop down with Authentication. Change that to SQL Server Authentication (if I'm understanding you correctly) 

I'm not familiar with the NOD32 product (as in I've never used it). Does it offer some sort of registry protector or is it just antivirus scanning? Is the update password for getting updates only or working in general? Is it trial version or paid? 

Have you cleaned out your MSDB lately? Good article by Brent Ozar as to what ramifications this has on your db's and backups $URL$ 

For those who don't know the Browser service allows clients to see Named Instances, which SQLEXpress (by default) creates a named instance called SERVERNAME\SQLExpress. Without browser service running you won't be able to see it remotely. Also let the service run as Network Service (or trusted AD account is preferred, admin rights not needed) so you can see it without issue over your network. 

By virtual network do you mean you're creating a VM with a domain controller for testing? If so (I assume you're using VMware here), but when you create a VM you have to assign it a network based on the virtual networks you've created on the ESX host. 

how many people have authorised access to your FTP server? If its only a few I would apply a firewall rule to only allow the authorised user's external IP address. I think the most obviously solution is the block the IP address and maybe log an abuse ticket at the idiot's ISP. You can check the ISP of the user using the ripe database: $URL$ use the search box on the right. Hope this helps you! 

You need to run the cmd prompt as an administrator. By default you will not have the correct rights to do this. 

Is the server a 2003 sbs server or a standard/enterprise? The first thing you need to do is make sure migrating your hardware will conform with Microsoft licensing requirements. You need to check if your OS is OEM or Retail, if its OEM it dies with the hardware if its retail you should be ok. Is this server a domain controller? You will need to check the folder structure and the standard that was setup when the server was brought into action. If you can let me know the answers to the above I can edit my answer with a solution for you.