That’s the way it is in the beginning. Everyone wants to succeed. Who would not want to @ Ashwin Kumar? But as you are now working with it both in meditation and being neutral, you begin to notice that you can observe things in the mind you wouldn’t be able to observe any other way: how it changes its mind, how one intention can sneak up on you to sabotage a previous intention. If you’re careful, you can see these things. If you’re alert and mindful, you begin to notice the tricks the mind plays on itself. As you get better and better at the meditation, you learn how to undo those tricks, work your way around them, find exactly what it is in the mind that wants to wander off anyhow. You start entering into a dialogue with all your different skillful and unskillful ideas, your skillful and unskillful intentions. And you start converting more and more of your mind to the skillful side. That right there is an important achievement. Bit by bit you begin to figure out all the different ins and outs of the mind. You develop a greater sense of unity, not only in getting the mind to stay with the breath in a state of good strong concentration, but also in getting more and more of your mind on the side of wanting to do what is correct. That’s what right effort is all about, learning how to generate desire to do what’s skillful and to drop what’s unskillful. 

You have correctly identified principles (IMO) of moral conduct in your OP, @Dewmini Gunasekera. For the benefit of others may I list them? While the five precepts are usually stated in negative terms they have their positive counterparts. They are the principles of non-injury and loving-kindness, the principles of honesty, the principles of sexual propriety, the principles of truthfulness and the principles of sobriety that a Lay Follower is to follow. Some Buddhists observe the Eight Precepts once a month. These three additional precepts are: Abstaining from eating after mid-day; Abstaining from dancing, singing, music and other forms of entertainment; and Abstaining from garlands, scents, cosmetics and other kinds of adornment. For those who are desire a greater degree of withdrawal from lay life, and are prepared to make a full-time commitment, there are two more precepts. They are Abstaining from luxurious beds, and Abstaining from accepting money. For lay Buddhists the keeping of the five basic moral precepts of is adequate but is in itself quite demanding. One of the fundamental Buddhist principles of moral thought and action is kamma. Kamma is the Law of Moral Causation. Kamma, literally, means action; but, in its ultimate sense, it means the meritorious and demeritorious volition (Kusala Akusala Cetana). It is the principle of Kamma that prompts a person to refrain from evil, do good and be good without being frightened of any punishment or tempted by any reward. For Buddhism the relevant kind of action is volitional action, deeds expressive of morally determinate volition, since it is volition that gives the action ethical significance. Thus the Buddha expressly identifies action with volition. In a discourse on the analysis of kamma he says: "Monks, it is volition that I call action (kamma). Having willed, one performs an action through body, speech, or mind." The Majjima Nikaya Sutta Number 24, Rathavinãta Sutta, shows us the importance of the Purification of Morality (Virtuous conduct). Moral discipline is the foundation for concentration, concentration the foundation for wisdom. The Pali word for "moral discipline," is Sila. The observance of sila leads to harmony at several levels — social, psychological, kammic, and contemplative. At the social level the principles of sila help to establish harmonious interpersonal relations. The ultimate moral code taught by the Buddha is beyond the changing conditions of the world. For example a disciple is a person who has submitted to the Blessed One and His Dhamma. To yield or surrender (oneself) to the will or authority of Buddha and Dhamma requires real discrimination—the capacity to recognize the necessity of completely opening oneself and letting go. The more one surrenders, the more accountable one will become for ones own choices, ones own practice, and for the terms of one’s engagement in this path. If you find a person who understands submission to authority and you’ll see a person who is humble, full of love, unselfish, accountable, and personally responsible. Find a person who does not understand submission to authority and you’ll see a person who is prideful, full of criticism, selfish, self ruled, and spiritually irresponsible. Such mindful surrender is an opening to a deeper dimension of truth. 

The illusion of Sakkayaditthi, that Egerton C. Baptist noted is the gross state of manifest of Upadanas. Sakkayaditthi as understood by a Stream Entrant is a collection of constantly changing physical and mental components [of clinging] ([upadana-]skandhas). When contemplating on the Dhamma thus, the Stream Entrant comes to realize the absence of a permanent and unchanging self (identity) or soul in any or all of the constituents of empirical existence, and beyond skandhas, there is no actual self. He she comes to the understanding that what is normally thought of as "self" is a collection of constantly changing physical and mental components [of clinging] ([upadana-]skandhas). The illusion of ATTA, is the most Subtle state of manifest of Upadanas that ONLY at the final stage of Arahanthood would one truly come to know of and transcend this clinging to personality belief (attavad-upadana). Atta means self, ego or personality in Buddhism. But it is a mere conventional expression. It is only in Hinduism, in Vedic philosophy that we come across this doctrine of Atman. Hindus refer to three types of Atman namely, Jivatman - Micro cosmic soul; Paramatman - Macro cosmic soul; Visvatman - Cosmic soul. For them, the attainment of Salvation means comprehending these three types of souls, and salvation is nothing but unification with Brahma or the Creator God. But the Buddha said that it is nothing but a noxious concept which prevents the realization of Nibbana. In Buddhism, the three characteristics of existence are impermanence, unsatisfactoriness and non-soul. Attachment to ego-belief is one of the four perversion (attasanna). Buddha has showed twenty kinds of ego-views with regards to the groups of existence that are called the clinging to the personality belief (sakkayaditthi). So we should understand that Attavadupadana is the most subtle form of sakkayaditthi that ONLY at the time of Nibbana that one would fully comprehend. 

Strong ego or Personality view(sakkaya dhitti) Doubt(Wichikiccha) Wrong rituals and observances/ Superstitions(Seelabbatha paramasa) 

The short answer is “Yes”… Olivia Glad,… because the others provide the grounds, the right conditions for a kamma to bear fruit. How this comes to pass needs some explanation. The laws of kamma are not just based on causes and effects, they depend on conditions. This is what prevents laws of kamma being deterministic. Understanding this would make it clear that one’s future is not determined by one’s past actions or kamma alone. Thus past kamma do not necessarily lead to kamma vipāka. What first gets created is a kammā beeja, or a kammā seed. For that kamma beeja to bring about its result (kamma vipāka), suitable conditions must exist. We can avoid many possible bad kamma vipāka by being mindful and not providing conditions for them to appear. We can also make conditions for good kamma vipāka to bring about good results. If one goes into a bad neighborhood at night, that is providing conditions for any suitable bad kamma seeds waiting to bring about their bad vipāka. Once a bad vipāka materializes, we can certainly manage it to minimize its effects, and in some cases even get rid of it by working to making conditions for a good kamma seed to overcome it. Kamma will not bring about any kamma vipāka, if and when one attains the Sotapanna / Stream Entrant stage. One can then erase all kamma vipāka that would lead to the four lower world realms. 

So, Fruition simply means “Coming to Fruition”. It is the moment of the fruition of their path (magga-phala) – be it the stream-entry path, the once-returning path, the non-returning path, or the path to arahantship. The moment of fruition is the understood experience and results in a turned-around vision of existence. The new understanding at the culmination of the stream-entry path recognises and go beyond the first three fetters (saŋyojana) that bind a being to rebirth, namely self-view (sakkāya-ditthi), clinging to rites and rituals (sīlabbata-parāmāsa), and skeptical indecision (Vicikicca). The new understanding at the coming to fruition of the Sakadāgāmi or "once-returner," stage is first three fetters (saŋyojana) are fully cut off and that s/he has significantly weakened the fourth and fifth saŋyojana. The new understanding at the coming to fruition of the anāgāmi or "non-returning" stage is that s/he is free from Kāma-rāga (Sensuous craving) and Vyāpāda (ill will). A key principle in Buddha Dhamma is cause and effect; nothing happens without a cause or a reason. The word “FRUITION” can be used here in this way: Even if root causes are there, we can stop them from bringing their results by blocking the conditions for them to come to FRUITION (a seed has the potential to bring about a tree, but for that to happen the seed must be given a fertile soil, water, and sunlight). In the same way, kamma vipaka (result of a past kamma) can come to FRUITION only when right conditions for the corresponding kamma seed to germinate are realized. This is why we can prevent many bad kamma vipaka from come to FRUITION by acting with yoniso manasikara or by “being mindful” in seeing life through the ‘Dhamma Eye”. 

According to Buddhism Demons exist. The Four Great Kings in the Cāturmahārājika Heaven keep watch over us of harm from these demons. There are a handful of (few) good demons too who have seen the Dhamma.) These four Devas are Virūpākṣa (he who sees all), Dhṛtarāṣṭra (he who upholds the realm), Virūḍhaka (he who causes to grow), and Vaiśravaṇa (Kubera) (he who hears everything). All four Devas serve Śakra, the lord of the devas. All demons have spontaneous birth (opapatika) like the Davas and the Petas (Hungry Ghosts). You may know by now that there are four kinds of birth - namely, egg-born (andaja), womb-born (julabuja), moisture-born (samsedaja), and spontaneous birth (opapatika). There are four lower planes of existance = Niraya = devoid of happiness. There are four kinds of niraya - namely, woeful state (apaya / hell), the animal kingdom, the plane of Petas (hungry ghosts) and the plane of Asura-demons (Titans). None of these states is eternal. According to their unwholesome / unskillful kamma beings may be born in such woeful states. Departing from those states, they may be born in blissful states according to their past good kamma. In the sense-sphere (kamaloka) the human plane and the six celestial planes are regarded as blissful states. They too are not eternal. Devil is referred to as MARA, in the scriptures. Mara means killer. He is the personification of the force that kills virtue and also kills existence. His armies are poised to attack all persons; they even tried to overcome the Buddha on the night of his enlightenment. But Mara is a post that is been held by a person. If you are attached to the six senses, you are in the Mara (Devil)s grasp (a firm hold or grip). He is a tempter, distracting humans from practicing the spiritual life by making mundane things alluring, or the negative seem positive. At the time of Kakusandha Buddha – our Gautama Supreme Buddha’s chief disciple, Ven. Maha Moggallana was the Mara, chief of demons, lord of the lower worlds. Kakusandha is the fourth of the Seven Buddhas of the last 91 Kalpa (Aeons), and the first of the five Buddhas of the present kalpa. The present day Mara is his sister’s son (nephew). When someone talks about “God’s grace” and “God’s mercy”, it can more likely be that the blessings are of Mara and his hosts. This is possible. As the great jealous one, Mara has the power to bestow blessings on his hosts and subjects. Getting back to the subject of Demons, here is a question & answer session that once took place between a King (Milinda) and an Arahant ( Ven. Nâgasena): 

Suicide is one of the greatest of sins that one could do unto self. In the Vinaya generally, suicide is condemned. Assisting or encouraging suicide is equal to the gravest offences. A monk who deliberately ends the life of a patient, even from compassionate motives, is expelled from the monkhood and can never re-ordain in this life, so there’s no room for assisted suicide in Supreme Buddha’s dispensation. It is said that this act will take you to the worst hell - the great hell / Ānatareika Niraya. Now you know the danger of this Samsara. You and I would have committed suicide a countless number of times in our previous births. This shows the urgency and importance of becoming a Sotha-Aapanna – to get into the stream – the Noble Eight-fold Path.