Yes, if your heat or light source is unlimited. However if it is limited, practical steps can be taken to improve efficiency. 

source: NASA On Construction Day, the building is already finished. We start driving whilst the combat engineers sprint ahead of us, blazing the road. At 2.0 MPH, we get there with 2 hours to spare. Since there's only one vehicle passage, there's more time for the combat engineers to tidy up/coverup the obvious haul road, and they don't have anything else to do. The huge tracks can be hidden by fold-down covers. Obviously this doesn't work with a canyon or swamp, but for a wide flat river like the Platte with good rock beneath it, it might be just the ticket. 

Skin in the game Pay them at wages competitive with private industry -- contingent on good performance. And then, have the voters decide that by popvote. Or whatever. I'm just looking for a pretense to have a tickable box on the ballot specifically for venting approval/disapproval of the government -- so they don't misuse the category where they select Candidate Blue or Candidate Orange. 

For the purposes of this question I'm going to assume the monomolecular blade is about 1-2 water molecules across. Much smaller than that and quantum forces start to dominate and I'm not a quantum physicist, I'm a biologist. Anyway. Such a blade behaves very strangely, and how much damage it does depends a lot on the kinetics of what you're doing with the target. A leg holding a person up, for instance, will be nearly completely unaffected. It might hurt, but not much and not for long. Cell membranes are, on the microscale, self-healing. They're built of phospholipids that self-assemble into two-sided layers, and if disrupted they reassemble very quickly. Nerves are essentially long tubes made of cell membrane, and the opening in the membrane created by the blade's passage is not wide enough or long-lasting enough to damage the neuron. The membranes will therefore mostly be fine, and any damage is small enough to be repaired by the body. DNA deserves a quick look, but essentially any nucleus that the blade passes through will have its DNA shredded into hundreds or thousands of pieces, and even organisms capable of reassembling double-stranded breaks are bound to get it wrong at least once. Catastrophic DNA damage, and cell death follows. However, the slice of cells this actually happens to is pretty small, and cell death from DNA damage takes a few minutes minimum, so this isn't fatal or even particularly wounding. Bones are a bit weird, but on that scale ossified cartilage(bone) is more like a sponge than a continuous material. See here for pictures. The space between the pores is filled with cartilage and other goopy things, but if the bone is under compression the spiky bits of sponge will jam into the holes on the other side and hold together enough to heal properly. If the bone was under tension it depends on the forces involved. Proteins are a different question entirely. Muscles are essentially extremely long proteins overlapping in a staggered configuration, and are nearly always under some amount of tension. The blade would cut these protein assemblages and they'd recoil, leaving a gap between muscle proteins. Laminins and the proteins that give structural strength to skin and connective tissue would also be cut neatly. In terms of the bigger picture, the two bits of flesh would be structurally very weakly connected for the first . Two perfectly smooth surfaces stuck together with a sticky semifluid adhere fairly tightly, so even though the proteins are cut there's still some strength to the join. In a short period of time(seconds? less? The kinetics are complicated) the protein matrices that give strength to the tissue will recombine. Shortly after that blood clotting factors released by ruptured cells will glue together other damaged pieces of tissue. Note: the cells won't be ruptured by the blade, but more likely by the spring-loaded protein networks inside them suddenly moving. Recovery of full strength may take days in the case of cartilage but there are few structures in the human body that aren't under constant remodeling. If the body part is under strong forces at the time of the cut the two halves might peel apart before they can be knit back together, but the strength required is a question of strike speed, temperature, body viscosity, and some other unknowns. NB: 'strong forces' are experienced by the heart every time it beats, so whether you live or die may be a question of whether your heart was beating when you got slashed with the monofilament or not. 

What if despite all the Tolkienic propaganda, orcs aren't actually jerks. Maybe they've had a few near misses with genocide and decided genocide was wrong. Maybe they learned that when their species subjugated other races, the end result kinda sucked. Fine things ceased to come out of that culture ( "fine things" being, to an orc, tasty food, wagons that actually hold up, quality weapons and armor since the first thing you do in an occupation is outlaw them, etc.) Meanwhile they were forced to waste their time being jailers and fighting a bloody insurgency, in the end wondering who was jailing whom. So they confine their foreign affairs to getting others to "leave us alone". 

Gamma-ray beacon. Go straight to the nearest nuclear power plant -- FAST. Read all the manuals as quick as you possibly can. Intervene to stop the reactor melting down. You will now have a nuclear plant in the middle of a large territory that is expected to be a huge emitter of gamma radiation... but is not. Gen-II reactors perform rather badly when "just abandoned" (unlike the largely vaporware Gen-III+ reactors, which only need their water tanks topped up every few days). So the expectation will be that every reactor has melted down. Rescue teams will have maps of expected ~30 mile contamination zones and ~100 mile detection zones, as well as dosimetry equipment in case the contamination zones are not shaped as expected (wind is a factor). A saved reactor will be easily detected by the lack of any increase in gamma whatsoever. Even if observers have no idea where the nuclear plants are, they will become immediately obvious with nighttime thermal imaging. A nuclear plant will emit about the same decay heat whether it has melted down or not. It will be most peculiar on a thermal image, being a rather large structure which has odd heat sources; or in your case has heat sources from obvious structures intended to emit heat, such as a cooling tower or stack. Yours will also lack the accompanying radiation. No one would expect a gen-II reactor to remain stable indefinitely using only on-site resources. Therefore, when search teams notice a reactor which has not cooked off, they will make it a top priority to assist there to make sure this good luck continues. 

Something a little different: Microwaves! Your average North American weighs about 80 kg, which is mostly water. The specific heat of vaporization for water is about 2.2 kj/gram, or about 176 MJ to vaporize a person if they're 100% water. According to this lovely chart, we get the best performance for liquid water versus gaseous water in the infrared window between 8-14 microns(near-IR radiation). They're not very large or powerful but I'm sure you could scale them up easily. The radiation is efficiently absorbed by liquid water but inefficiently absorbed by their boiling flesh, so it should pass through the expanding gas quickly and get right back to heating the rest of their body. Bones and connective tissue might be a problem, but you did specify 'most of the enemy'. The chief problem is cooling, but since you mentioned you could put a tank of LN2 nearby and not have to carry it, this technically counts as handheld. You might also want to plug this into mains power, you will pull down 3MW or more for the whole minute, or about 4 thousand horsepower. A small nuclear reactor could power enough lasers to melt five people a minute, but a single really big diesel generator will work great for just one person at a time. 

It may be worse. Their science teams may have error or faulty presumptions in their calculations. (this is a new phenomenon, right?) Rogues don't even have science teams. Lastly, what if the planet is be able to control where it reappears? If so, that is trivial to weaponize, the waiting ships would have no choice whether the planet appears 200km under them. That will surely occur to their science teams. And they may not know whether the planet can control that, if this situation is novel to them. Speaking of novel, that's up to the writer. Of course, the power of science is that we can avoid drama, but if science fiction novels wanted to avoid drama, they too would stay in spacedock. 

Since what makes an AI an AI and not components is entirely virtual... ... Death for an AI means it is gone. There is nothing to bury. We do indeed commemorate the passing of humans whose bodies are lost, like the Challenger or Columbia 7, or sailors lost at sea. And that is an option: The empty casket. Or the name on the memorial. 

Okay, so skip the active nuclear reactor here. It's too hot, too big, and too heavy. Think RTG. In fact, let's think Cesium-137. A beta emitter that produces gamma radiation from it's barium daughter nuclide, Cesium-137 has a half-life of about 30 years and is soluble in water. Beta radiation is pretty easily absorbed, and there are fungi that eat gamma rays, in fact specifically Cs-137 gamma rays. So imagine a dragon that piles U-235 bricks in a big water bath, letting it get to just barely subcritical. The accelerated fission produces loads of cesium-127 as a decay product. Your dragon drinks this boiling radioactive water and secretes the cesium into an internal organ ringed with pads of melanized tissue that eat the gamma radiation as if it were sunlight. Presto radio, a 60 year meal. Filling! Perhaps instead of constructing primitive fission reactors it precipitates uranium as crystals just under the skin, in its scales. High-energy neutrons from interstellar radiation catalyze fission very slowly, enriching the scales with cesium-137. The scales slowly migrate, displaced by new scales laid down. When they're 'aged' into energetic deliciousness, they're broken down and the cesium 'eaten'. You could also just use bricks of U-237 or strontium-90, a thermocouple, and fix carbon dioxide into food directly from electricity. It's less cool but is way simpler. 

You get exactly this effect in largely agrarian nations which have one big city and place their nation's capital there.** As farm work gets automated... as transport gets easier... it becomes easier to live in a lovely flat in the city and simply commute to the farm jobs. Quality of living being the motivating factor: availability of specialty shops with necessary supplies, restaurants, nightlife, specialty BOAF, mating opportunities etc. ** In the US and Canada, we work hard to avert this trope, by intentionally putting capitals not in the big cities. That's why DC not NYC. Albany not NYC. Madison not Milwaukee. Sacramento not L.A. Ottawa not Toronto, etc. Sometimes that doesn't work, as in Ohio. 

The door just won’t open If you've ever reopened a refrigerator right after you closed it, you know a tiny pressure differential makes a big difference on opening a door. Like the fridge, pulling a door toward you against a lower pressure outside will be simply impossible. That direction is easy. How about the other direction? If you've ever done rope/cable/chain rigging with couplings, you know that it's quite hard to unlook a line that is under load. Most couplings either require that you unload them entirely and slack the lines (like a carabiner), or the mechanism binds very hard so as to make it impracticable without "taking a wrench to it". Apply the same design principles to a door under pressure. Include an over-center mechanism or other arrangement. And then tune the length of levers and the ratio of gearing so it's very hard to open against atmo; consider this "good UI design". Of course you must also help people distinguish between atmo on the other side of that door vs the door binding from damage. That is easy since atmo is bouncy and binding is not. 

A Snakebot that is perfectly cylindrical would have a surface area of about 28 million square meters. Let's round down to 20 because cones. Metals have a heat flux coefficient of maybe 5-8 watts per m^2 K. It's about 70 K above background, or about 10 GW dumped to atmosphere all the time. Thunderstorm scientists measure air energy in CAPE, which is complex to calculate but is about 5000 J/m^3 at worst. Over my head today it's about 300 J/kg. A microcell thunderstorm is about ten kilometers on every side, and heating that much air would take ~days. In sum: It could trigger rain if rain was in the forecast, but it can't cause rain on its own. 

First: What would such a plant look like? Think pinecone. Pinecones are designed to open up after a forest fire and exploit all the nutrients and space that was just opened up by all that fire. So let's imagine a dry coniferous forest with pretty dense, spindly, resinous undergrowth so it burns hot and fast and completely. Weathering the fire isn't really an option. A closed container filled with oxidizers(nitrates or maybe phosphates or even acetone peroxide) and simple fats or sugars (note: this is expensive in terms of nitrogen, but given the time between fires this may be worth it for the plant) hangs off the plant. Maybe it drops off when warmed. Come firetime, the heat from the blaze sets off the explosive and the seeds are fired every which way as shrapnel. Some will pass through the blaze and land safely in the already-burned area. Some will not. C'est la vie. Natural selection should ensure fairly slow detonation speeds and fairly large seed shrapnels for more distance. Grow yourself an orchard and manually select the best trees for more explosive power and larger fruits. In terms of warfare: Who knows. Grenades would be really easy to invent? 

In deep space, light is just another frequency of RADAR. Like RADAR, it would have considerable throw range and good return. And unlike RADAR, the frequencies are ones humans can literally see. That greatly simplifies data analysis, because they can call it up on a display in the same frequencies and look at it directly. How do you suppose it is that the Enterprise can say "closing to visual range" and then "on screen"? Visual range is infinite, what range are we talking about? The range of the Enterprise's lights. Looking directly through long-lens optics would also be an option: but not a recommended one, because if you accidentally tracked across a star or the other ship's own lights, you'd be blinded. 

It really depends on how they behave. If they give the government any good reason to see them as a threat, they will be labeled enemy combatants and that will be the end of that. Greatly aiding that classification will be that they did not enter the US legally. One does not simply enter the United States. In the elegant British vocabulary, the immigration office must agree to land you, literally giving you a stamp of approval that it better serves the country's interests to land you, than to not. Immigration officials lightly presume you'll be bad, and allow you to prove you'll be good. That's a high bar for a demon. The demons would be tempted to enter the country illegally. This means they are already not behaving well. If that's all they do, that is merely awkward. If they enter illegally and then harm Americans as a plan or creed, that's a problem and they risk the "enemy combatant" label. And if they enter illegally and commit crimes on a large scale, that's an invading army. Civil rights is now out of the picture entirely. Demon Nation is not a signatory to the Geneva Conventions, so the US does not owe them protections. They have no rights whatsoever. The US might honor the Conventions anyway on hope the demons would too. But if the demons did not reciprocate -- gloves off.