This article might help: "Can my boss fire me for taking off to care for a sick child?" You have a small child. They won't stay small forever. Your manager acts like this is a permanent problem. Regardless, you will only have one opportunity to care for your child with your whole heart. If your manager continues with this mindset, start looking for a new company with a more family-friendly environment (they are out there!) 

Option 2: Talk to Your Recruiter Assuming you have a good recruiter (and not some rookie or recruiter who is only in this business for the money), it's their responsibility to ensure you are in a healthy work environment. They should be calling the client and you at least bi-monthly to see how things are going and address any small issues or misunderstandings before they become big issues/misunderstandings that cannot be fixed. If you have a good relationship with them, bring it up in your next conversation with them. At the very least, this ensures you brought it up for the record, should your manager escalate his behavior even more. You can ask your recruiter not bring the issue up to your manager at this time; that you prefer to handle it on your on and will update him/her after you have addressed it. 

There is nothing wrong with pushing a little. Don't get trapped into telling them what you want to make. Use the comment above to avoid answering it. How can you give a number if you know very little about what you'd be doing? That's where you get into trouble. How to Avoid the Money Trap Question If you DO get trapped into answer the salary money, make sure you did your research on salary ranges for the position you're interviewing for. If the salary range is 40K-60K, for example (and it's an approximate because not all companies pay competitively and others pay above the trends in the market in order to motivate their employees to stay long term), then you would say that you're looking for a position that will allow you to expand and utilize your knowledge in (whatever your role/skill is) and from your research, the market average is between 60K-70K. Never mention the low end of what the real range is and when you phrase it to be more about "the market is paying" vs "I am looking for", it protects you from giving them a set number. You don't want to give them a set number because you may be completely undervaluing yourself and they will make an offer to you at the lowest number you give. Regarding your comment: 

Have you asked your boss why he/she feels they need a doctor's receipt? To me, that implies that there is low trust, as if you're saying you have a sick child but actually I'm just going home because I don't want to be at work. Trust issues are brewing grounds for future problems. Ask him/her what can you do to reassure them that you are committed to your job and putting in your full 40 hours each week? 

Regardless of whether or not your manager intends to make you feel uncomfortable, you're feeling it. Here are a few options to think about: 

Do you have the option to make up the time and work from home while your child is sleeping? Can you bring work home? You could offer to make yourself available on Skype when you are at home during business hours. Can you make up the time on the weekends or work through your lunch when you're there during the week? 

Option 3 (and my favorite) Stop letting it get to you: So your manager thinks of you as a just a contractor. So what? The higher ups think you're great and that's who you need to impress and build rapport with. Stay visible, build rapport with the execs and just smile when your manager refers to you as a contractor because his opinion doesn't appear to have a lot of weight. Many professionals who work on assignment do so because if frees them from having any attachment to the politics or drama that a permanent employee has. Just look at your manager as a means to an end and let go of the feelings you have about being called a contractor. Needing to put you in your place has more to do with his insecurities and lack of self worth than it has to do with you. 

Do your research before the interview to understand what the salary range average is for this position. Check out indeed.com/salary If you're familiar with Linkedin.com, there are thousands of people on there that specialize in what you're interviewing for. Find a few and reach out to them. Just asked them if they would be open to a 10 minute call or if they wouldn't mind answering 3 or 4 questions. Then just ask them what they believe is the starting salary for a skill-set like yours. Your college should have this info as well. Go check out XYZ company on Glassdoor.com. If you've never heard of that site, you're going to love it. Google the company name and dig into the last pages of the search. You're looking for anyone who has written about the company in a blog. Lots of good scoop that way. Look for people that use to work at XYZ company. Find the ones that left over a year ago. They are usually pretty open to talking if you'll just reach out to them. Ask them what the pros and cons were about working there and why did they choose to leave. 

You're not getting taken advantage of. It could easily just be that you're dealing with an inexperienced recruiter or a company that doesn't have a formal interview process. I see this a lot with smaller companies. You're going to make less going in with no experience than if you were 5+ years. 

Question: What's Your Hurry? You're just starting your career...you have 30+ years to explore different companies. Unless you don't find this position a fit, why wouldn't you consider staying for a least a year? 3 months here, 6 months there...this can hurt you long term, so switch jobs and companies with the big picture in mind, and a lot can happen in a year. Do you live where you are obligated to stay for X number of years once you accept the permanent position? Just curious. 

If it's not written in your contract that you are not allowed to work another job ("moonlighting" is what it's called in the US), then you are not under any obligation to tell your employer. As a manager myself, I would prefer that an employee not mention this to me because I don't want to pre-judge them when they are sick or come in late. Things happen to us all (sick, bad traffic, etc), but if I know you're working at night, I might immediately assume you're coming in late because you're tired and then my bigger concern is whether or not you can perform the duties of the job you're doing for me. Telling your boss will just worry them. If you're saying you can put in several hours each night and work weekend for several months and not burn out or not let it impact your day job, keep it to yourself and go for it. It will be great experience and a teaching opportunity to test out how well you can juggle and handle stress. 

Consider going through a Recruiter: This is one reason why Recruiters exist. Going through a reputable recruiter (or 2) ensures complete confidentiality. Recruiters are not suppose to present you a company without your permission and they keep your information confidential. That's their job to do so. Do your own search: You can also search for positions on your own, but that's more of a reactive job search. You want to include proactive techniques in your search. In other words, rather than finding the position and applying to it online, start with first identifying 10 to 20 companies that you want to work for based on your personal criteria (i.e., less than 10 miles from home, their involvement in the community, the size of the department you'd be working in, their reputation on sites like glassdoor.com, etc. Build Your Proactive Job Search Strategy: Now that you know WHO you want to work for, now you can determine WHO you need to build rapport with at each company and dedicate at least 90 days to the process of reaching out to people at that company that are either decision makers or influencers. LinkedIn.com is a perfect tool to use for this. If you take this approach and focus at least 90 days to 4 months on it, natural attrition will likely occur in the department: someone will quit to relocate with a spouse to a new city, someone will get promoted, someone will get fired, maybe even a female employee will elect not to return back to work after being on maternity leave. When any of these situations occur, you want to already be TOP OF MIND. If you wait for the position to be posted, you're several weeks behind because that hiring manager starts first with his/her inner network to try and get referrals before posting it online. By the time it's online, it's usually been open for several weeks. You want to get into the game as close to when the position became available. There's no better way to do that than to start building rapport with the people who have the influence or authority to hire you before the position even shows up on the internet. 

Bonus Thoughts/Advice Your Career is Like a Financial Portfolio - Choose Wisely Many professionals I meet that are a few years into their career never really planned out the kind of roles they should focus on and the companies they should work for that will elevate their professional status. They jump from company to company, job to job. But as a new professional just hitting the workforce, think of your career path like a financial portfolio. You want each opportunity to build on the previous position, offer new challenges, new skills to learn. You also want to work for reputable and even better, high profile companies. Working for a 7 person company isn't nearly as impressive as working for a 5,000 person company, for example (at least in the US it's like that). Hiring managers and recruiters look at your career path choices as an example of your decision making and strategic long term planning skills. It's not the only thing they use to evaluate you, but it is one of them. Start With The End In Mind Start with thinking about where you want to be in your career in 5 years, 10 years, etc. What skills, roles and industries do you need to focus on to get you there? For example: I have a lot of professionals who have devoted the first 10 to 15 years of their career working in the TV/Broadcast industry. Many viewed this profession as exciting and high profile. However, it's a tough industry once you get into your late 30's, settle down and have family. The hours are brutal. Many want to "break into corporate" for the stability and 9-5 schedule but unfortunately, corporate doesn't value their experience nearly as much as they do a professional who comes from another corporation. Their hind-site is usually wishing they had diversified their experience early on before picking one direction to stay in for 10 to 15 years. Best of luck and I hope you have a prosperous journey! 

Option 1: Address it Directly "[ManagerName], I think of myself as an extended part of your team focused on supporting your departmental objectives and projects for as long as I am needed, and I'm really excited to be here. I've been a consultant for XX years and have worked on a lot of challenging projects. During this time, I have observed how permanent employees can have preconceived opinions when they hear the word contractor and frankly, it makes me feel uncomfortable when addressed as one. Would you be open to introducing me as a 'consultant through ABC IT Agency' or as one of your [Job-Title-Here]s through ABC IT Agency?" The keyword here is "uncomfortable". He needs to know that how he's referring to you is making you feel uncomfortable. If this were to escalate, this would be an important statement to refer back to with a witness in the room (most likely your recruiter). 

On one hand, you don't want to be removed from the assignment and on the other hand, you don't want to be somewhere where you feel undervalued. However, it's not likely that you'd be replaced because it takes time to train and ramp up on a 6 month assignment. Replacing you costs the recruiter and the client more money in the form of time and projects missing deadlines while the replacement learns the ropes. It's not ideal. Question 1: What leads you to believe that the intent behind your manager's regular comments about you are threatening? The tone he uses when he states that you're a contractor is key. Is he using a sarcastic or demeaning tone? Question 2: Did your manager hire you or did someone else hire you? Do they have the authority to let you go or is that someone higher up? This could help understand whether or not he has resentment for you being there. Question 3: Does your manager say "He's just a contractor" or does he say "he's a contractor" - the word just is definitely demeaning. Question 4: Are you a career consultant or are you hoping to land a permanent job soon? Question 5: Has your recruiter stated that the 6 month assignment has potential to go perm or is this truly a short-term assignment? If there is a slighted chance of going perm, maybe your manager feels threatened.