No, being in a commited married life does not make it impossible to attain Nirvana. Being in a commited married life helps you towards reaching Nirvana. Suffering always helps you reach Nirvana. When suffering is present, commited married life can arise. When commited married life arises, good action and bad action towards liberation arise. When good action arises more than bad action, knowledge leading to liberation rises. When knowledge leading to liberation has rised enough, liberation follows. When liberation follows, suffering has come to an end. When suffering comes to an end, compassion for suffering of other beings is arised. When compassion for suffering of other beings is arised, only good action towards these beings is arised. When good action towards beings is arised, your strive to help these beings become liberated is arised. If suffering comes to an end while being in a commited married life, your strive to help your woman (or child, or family,...) reach liberation is arised. Sometimes this means ending the relationship. Sometimes it means staying in the relationship. You see, when you reach Nirvana while being in a commited married life, it's like reaching Nirvana while being a butcher in your own farm (the case is extreme, but it is not impossible). When you reach Nirvana while being a butcher in your own farm, what do you do with your animals? Yes, you stop killing your animals. But, do you let them go? No, because letting them go, would be the same as killing them, as they don't know how to survive because they were domesticated by you. So, you decide paying the price for your past bad actions - you stay with the animals, feed them, nourish them, teach them how to survive, help them towards their strive to end their suffering. Only after you've done everything you could to help your animals, you let go of them. Only a liberated mind can know when he has done everything he could to cleanse his past deeds. Once you let go of them, you never, ever, build your own farm again. 

Does anyone know the significance of The Treatise on the Ten Doubts in Pure Land? I cannot find much online. 

The Nyanaponika Thera translation is a bit more condensed here and uses "fettered" instead of "joined" 

That sounds to me like impermanence, and "rise and fall" does seem to have that meaning in the Visuddhimagga. Here it is in full -- Visuddhimagga XVI: 

Interestingly, the connection of the amygdala to anxiety and fear responses has recently been cast in serious doubt by neuroscientists, perhaps illustrating the pitfalls of meditation practice based on science (as opposed to direct experience), certainly such an immature field as neuroscience. 

Suppose somebody strongly believes in no post-mortem rebirth and strongly denies the possibility of the existence of rebirth. Is such a belief/view a result of craving for views regarding rebirth? Is it possible to attain Nirvana with such a belief/view? Does an arahat strongly believe in no post-mortem rebirth and strongly deny the possibility of the existence of rebirth? 

Because there isn't anyone to die. Since there isn't anyone to die, nobody is involved with this "ever-changing processes of concocting, of compounding". If there really was someone involved with this "ever-changing processes of concocting, of compounding", when that person would be annihiliated, the "ever-changing processes of concocting, of compounding" would stop after that person's annihilation. Since that person would be involved in the "ever-changing processes of concocting, of compounding", with the annihilation of that person, the "ever-changing processes of concocting, of compounding" would stop. But since there isn't anyone to be annihilated nor there is anyone involved in these "ever-changing processes of concocting, of compounding", this process can't just magically stop with the annihilation of the physical body. Just think about it: if there isn't anyone involved in this process, then why does this process run?? Nobody is involved in it, so why does it run?? Who/what runs it?! If there isn't anyone involved in it, then neither the physical body is involved in it nor anything in the entire universe at all is involved in it! If neither the physicall body is involved in it nor anything in the entire universe at all, that would mean, that if the physical body and everything in the universe is annihilated, this process wouldn't stop!! This "total annihilation" would not affect this process a single bit! 

addendum -- 2/28 As I said, I am not looking to discuss pros and cons of "mindfulness of brain". I just want to know if anybody is even attempting it. This is a small part of a larger research project on the consequences of current neuroscience for Buddhadharma. In fact, if nobody is doing it, that would confirm a hypothesis. But there are a lot of people drawing connections between neuroscience and meditation, so it's conceivable that someone is attempting "mindfulness of brain". If so, I'd like to know the story. If nobody responds, that's fine. It will be some evidence of non-existence, though obviously not definitive. It's all but impossible to do an online search for this idea because all the conceptual material on neuroscience and meditation gets retrieved first. That's all -- I'm not advocating it. Thanks. 

Craving and clinging within the child is the cause of the child's stress. This is the only right view if we want to reach full liberation. Conventional thinking about the cause of suffering goes like this: When things are in order, I'm happy. When I'm happy, I will cling on things being in order. When things are not in order, I'm not happy. When I'm not happy, I will crave for things coming into order. Things are changing order, there is nothing I can do about it. Thus, sometimes I'll be happy, sometimes I'll be not happy. Buddhist thinking about the cause of suffering goes like this: Things are changing order, there is nothing I can do about it. When things are in order, I will not cling on things being in order. When things are not in order, I will not crave for things coming into order. Thus, I'll not be, which is beyond happiness or anything you've ever imagined. 

If my conjecture is correct, these are what's known in Buddhsim as vajra and lotus position respectively. Even if this is correct, however, it does not address the gender connection. Maybe that is just a Vajrayana (Tantric) convention -- male figures use the vajra position and female figures the lotus position. But even if so, I'm sure there is a story behind it. 

I'd be grateful for references to some of the major Pure Land schools' versions of the Three (or Four) Marks (Seals) of Existence: 

A problem here is that the term "half yoga posture" is not a standard yoga term (according to a web search). But perhaps they meant "half lotus". Here, by the way, is a site showing both, using the names from yoga: lotus and half-lotus -- $URL$ 

The aspirant who has liberated himself from all cravings should easily answer such a question. Why is this so? The aspirant, who is liberated from all craving, is liberated from future rebirth by knowing the cause of his future rebirth. Knowing the cause, he removes the cause, thus liberating himself from future rebirth. What do you think is the cause? If you think the cause is the desire for food and water, either you missed something or your question is missing something. 

No. Explaining to a human being how to look at the past and present karma of beings would lead to madness. It is too complicated for us to comprehend this madness. Only Buddhas can comprehend it. 

So, my question -- can folks point me to similar material in the Pali Canon, Visuddhimagga or other non-Tibetan sources. Likewise in Tibetan lineages other than Gelug. 

I am looking for references to any (obviously modern) practices that might be described as "mindfulness of brain" or "meditation on brain" -- using the brain, part of the brain or nervous system, or any neuroscience concept as a meditation object or theme. An example might be using Daniel Goleman's idea of "amygdala hijack" for meditation on fear or other problematic emotions -- thinking about the amygdala during meditation or even trying to visualize it. This might include subtle body techniques (chakras, channels, winds, etc) that make explicit reference to brain or neuroscience concepts (which would be highly speculative, scientifically speaking, but that’s ok for my purposes). I am seeking references to established teachers or meditation systems or programs -- online or in books or papers -- not just ideas about how to do it, or the pros and cons of the notion. I'm also not seeking programs -- which abound -- that talk conceptually about brain or neuroscience but don't integrate that material into specific meditation material or themes. 

UPDATE 2: You are indulging in the view "Sentient beings do not exist". You think that sentient beings are just a dream. Thinking so, you think that once you wake up, sentient beings would vanish, because they haven't ever existed in the first place, isn't it? For you, sentient beings are non existent, isn't it? You think sentient beings are just characters in your dream, isn't it? You think that I and other sentient beings don't exist. That's what you think and that's the reason you're not satisfied with the answers. You think that my dream is part of your dream. You think that my dream does not exist and that it's just part of your dream. That's not true. Your dream is your dream and my dream is my dream. They are two separate dreams. When you wake up from your dream, I'll still be in my dream. When you wake up from your dream, this world and the sentient beings in it would not cease to exist - they would still be in their dreams. But you, because you think that they are all part of your dream, think that they wouldn't exist anymore, which is incorrect. Just think about all sentient beings who woke up from their dreams. If we were just a dream, after a sentient being woke up, then you and me would vanish and would not be here. But you and me are still here, even though numerous sentient beings woke up. How could that be?? They all woke up from their dreams, but we are still here? If we, sentient beings, were just a dream, we would vanish the moment a sentient being woke up. But that's not the case. We're still here, even though others woke up. Why we're still here? Is it maybe because every sentient being is in his own dream? Yes, that is the answer. Wrong view is: when I wake up from my dream, other sentient beings will stop dreaming because they haven't ever existed in the first place because they were just characters of my own dream. Right view is: when I wake up from my dream, other sentient beings will continue to be in their dreams. It is wrong view to say "Sentient beings do not exist". Right view is "Sentient beings neither do not exist nor exist" and even this view is wrong if not understood properly. Correct is to let go of all views: 

3149 retweets -- so that's probably where I saw it. As for adding environment to body, that's probably my interpolation, since the material circumstances of one's present life are clearly karmic, according to Buddhadharma. It's probably impossible to trace this to a single origin, however, as it seems to be all over the place in various versions, including from sources other than Buddhists. 

Others have nicely explained the different meanings of the two terms. As for their relationship, I'd actually say that samsara and dukkha are the same thing from different perspectives -- samsara from a cosmological standpoint, dukkha from an individual (psychological) standpoint. To be in samsara is to experience pervasive, self-reinforcing (cyclic) dukkha due to ignorance. To be in ignorance is to suffer and hence to be in samsara. So samsara => dukkha and dukkha => samsara, hence samsara <=> dukkha. This is an elementary example of how cosmology and psychology (phenomenology, experience) mirror each other. Rupert Gethin treats this at some length in a great series of papers, though with more intricate concepts. Here it is summarized in the Wikipedia article on samsara. You can look up his papers on the subject, and he also treats it in chapter 5 of his text, The Foundations of Buddhism. You could also add avidya (ignorance) as a third element of the equivalence, perhaps from the philosophical or conceptual perspective.