Originally I was thinking Thomas Paine. He was imprisoned and survived the reign of terror through a fluke. But upon researching it, he left France for America on his own terms. He was not required to by the French Legislature as stated in the question. 

I don't really think were was a "typical" configuration. I think military configurations varied widely based upon culture, experience, and what was available. I'm thinking of the battle of Agincourt.. English - 6000 - 9000 4/5ths long bowmen fought French - 12,000 - 36,000, 10,000 of whom were knights, unknown thousands of other infantry, crossbowmen and archers.. The English won, The French military was superior on paper, outnumbered the English, and was significantly more expensive to maintain. The French could not have fielded an army of 4/5ths long bowman if they wanted too. I think this is a pattern throughout antiquity. Hannibal and Carthage had Elephants, Rome had the Phalanx, Persians, Mongols, and Huns all relied on Calvary mounted archers. Most military's were not professional, but relied on the skills and composition of the banner men and their subjects. There is much more standardization today because everybody watches what everybody else does, and learns from mistakes. But Even today standards vary greatly... China, North Korea, Russia believe in a doctrine of numbers... he who brings the mostest wins... The US and western countries tend to rely on smaller more heavily trained forces. Both are convinced on the merits of their philosophies, and when they mean someone is always disappointed. 

The swiss Sebastian Münster One of the most important cartographers of the Renaissance. His Geographia, published in 1540, became the new global standard for maps of the world. 

Roosevelt took some time to think about it. At first he was non committal, he even told leading Democratic candidates that they should get into the race as he would not be seeking a third term. Then he went silent refusing to answer any questions on a third term. Political cartoonists portrayed him as a Sphinx, remaining quiet and deflecting any inquiries on a third term. Ultimately though Roosevelt did commit to seeking a third term, 4 days before the start of the Democratic National Convention in Chicago, and about two weeks after the surrender of France to the Nazi's in Europe. 

The repayment crisis wouldn't be resolved until President Grant would take office. In 1870 President Grant's Secretary of the Treasury Boutwell finally got a strategy through congress to retire ( refinance ) the nations Civil war Debt. Congress authorized the Secretary, to issue $500 million in 10 year bonds at 5 percent, $300 million in 15 year bonds at 4.5 percent, and $1 billion in 30 year bonds at 4 percent. These bonds were to be paid in gold and exempt from local and Federal taxation. Though it would require more than 30 years from the end of the war for the Union to pay off it's Civil War Debt, the 1870 act closed the book on the repayment and refunding crisis which followed the war. 

As Late as 1925 teaching evolution in the United States, was a criminal offense(Scopes Trial). A trial prosecuted by a three time presidential nomination, former secretary of state, and ordained minister in William Jennings Bryan in which the bible featured prominently for the prosecution. A trial in which Evolutionists lost (conviction overturned some years later after Bryan's death). 

The following shows the numbers of men who entered military service through the Selective Service System during WWII Number of Inductions: 10,110,104 By year. 1040..............18,633. 1941.............923,842. 1942...........3,033,361. 1943...........3,323,970. 1944...........1,591,942. 1945.............945,862. 1946.............183,383. 1947...................0. 

Back then the OS still had to be installed manually on either an IBM PC or clone. PC DOS for IBM PCs. MS DOS for clones. Then Windows was installed from separate disks also manually not pre installed. Starting with windows 2.0 Microsoft gave away word and excel with every version of windows. There wasn’t many native windows packages available but Microsoft word and excel were available and free. Back then hard disk space was rare. And measured in megabytes not gigabytes. If you had installed Windows 1.x, many did not. But if you did install windows 1.x you probably deleted it shortly after checking it out. because it took up disk space and while pretty and cool there wasn’t much you could do with it. With Windows 2.0 it became more practical as you could actually do a few things with it. But word processing and spreadsheets in windows natively was all Microsoft. windows 2.x was the first package which I could justify leaving installed. Windows 3.0 and especially windows 3.1 would become ubiquitous with Dos. Which remained a separate product until Windows 95. Microsoft misled their competition. Microsoft said Microsoft Windows wasn't going to be a pursued product line. That OS/2 was going to be the OS branch which would get the majority their developers attention and improvements. This caused their competition to wast time and resources developing OS/2 products which had no hope of market penetration. Then Microsoft did exactly what they said they would not. They did not pursue OS/2 and they made massive investments in Windows. 

Here is a newspaper article from Nevada Daily Mail (see second column under "Sign of Nervousness") which talks about Roosevelt receiving a letter opener made out of the forearm bone of a Japanese soldier and he responds that "that's the kind of gift I like receiving". So wide spread was the mutilation of Japanese soldiers that twice the Army Chief of staff had to order directives against the practice. 

The 1898 unanimous US Navy board of inquiry which found the source of the explosion was external to the ship had glaring mistakes in it's findings. 

The price of cotton did increase during the industrial revolution. Demand dramatically increased and this fueled the dramatic increase in cotton as a cash crop. It wasn't just farm land which would be necessary to supply the ever increasing demands of the automated looms of the early industrial revolution. It was farmlands with proximity to ports and roads so the cotton could be transported. This meant that centralized production had a huge advantages over smaller farmers. It was the large farms which mass produced farm goods which filled most of the demand for cotton. Those institutions which massed produced farm goods at the dawn of the industrial revolution were known as Plantations. Prominent plantation crops included rubber, sugar cane, tobacco, figs, rice, kapok, sisal, and Indigofera, used to produce indigo dye. The demand for cotton would become one of the plantations greatest cash crops. Yes cotton demand did make some farmland more valuable, but not all farmland. Just the large aristocratic farmers who were in a position to export cotton on the large scale that was required to meet demand. 

The reaction to these acts would magnify the Boston Tea Party into the spark for the Colonies to organize their own underground government (Continental Congress first conviened 1774), The Declaration of Independence(July 4th, 1776) and ultimately the Revolutionary War. Detailed Answer Important Dates. 

In the movie, clearly the 1937, Mississippi crowd was upset by the interruption of the music, not the Klan affiliation. The first clue to this answer should be, Who was the Senator from Mississippi in 1937? 

By the mid 1930's the investment and innovations in RADAR were coming out of Britain and Germany. Why hadn’t the US military pursued RADAR harder and why wasn’t the largest economy in the world(the United States) spending the most money on this important technology? The US army prior to WWII was not an institution which had much financial support to pursue innovative high reward projects with long research cycles like radar. The United States had the largest economy in the world for decades by the time WWII began, but the United States maintained a small poorly funded military commensurate with a historic policy of isolation and neutrality in foreign wars. In 150 years the only "foreign war"** which the United States ever entered was WWI. The policy of neutrality and isolationism which had come down from George Washington in his farewell address was one which had significant popular and political support right up until Pearl Harbor. ** By "foreign war", I don't mean a war with a foreign power. I mean a war like WWI or WWII which began as a war between two foreign powers and the US entered due to an alliance or perceived interest. 

Samuel Pierpont Langley was an American astronomer and physicist who competed early on with the Wright brothers in the race for flight. Langley being a credentialed scientist beat out the Wright brothers for an important military contract designed to develop a usable airplane. Langley used the U.S. military seed money to build an "airplane" called the Aerodrome which crashed every time it flew. It was launched on the cliffs of Virginia overlooking the Potomac river, which was lucky for the pilot because that's where he ended up on each of the "flights". My question is, what is so special about this failed never flew scientist / airplane that it hangs today prominently in the Smithsonian Air and Space museum? (Dulles annex). There was a long period in the 1960's and 70's when the Aerodrome hung in the DC location and the Wright Flyer was not displayed. What gives? 

Tripoli declares war because while the United States has agree to pay them. The United States is not paying them in a timely manner. So the Pirates start causing trouble. Thomas Jefferson uses a two pronged approach to deal with the declaration of war from the Bey of Tripoli. A). Recently returned from Tripoli in disgrace was one of the Great Americans lost to history. William Eaton. William Eaton had been serving as a kind of Foreign Service Officer to the Barbary Coast Pirates under the Adams Administration so he was familiar with the part of the world and the pirates. Eaton had recently been recalled when Commodore Richard Morris, had shown up in Tripoli and had been "arrested", until he agreed to pay off Eaton's $26,000 debt. Commodore Morris's brother had recently cast the tie breaking vote in the US senate which selected Thomas Jefferson as our third President over Aron Burr. There is some question as to whether all the debt was really owed but some of it was. They Bey bascally saw the opportunity for a pay day and sticking it to the United States who wasn't paying tribute in a timely manner. Morrison's squadron paid the sum, and Eaton was returned to the US in disgrace with an angry Commodore Morris blaming him for the embarrassing episode. Anyway Eaton makes it back to Washington City (Washington D.C) just ahead of the notice that the Tripoli had declared war on the US. Jefferson initially tells Eaton that the US government isn't going to honor / pay for his debt; which would bankrupt Eaton's family. Then Jefferson finds out that the Bey of Trippoli has declared war and basically wants a bucket full of money. Eaton counsel's Jefferson that you have to stand up to him or the extortion will never end. Jefferson agrees not or decide William Eaton's debt issue at that moment, in return Eaton will return to North Africa and elicit the Bey's older Brother living in exile to overthrow the Bey. Only Jefferson doesn't give William Eaton the resources or operational command to accomplish this task. William Eaton basically gets passage back to North Africa, an honorary rank in the US Navy, and no budget to accomplish this coup. B). Meanwhile.. Jefferson dispatches Tobias Lear, an infamous and also forgotten name in US history. Lear was George Washington's aid /book keeper/right hand man after Washington Left the White House. Lear is infamous for (1)attempting to embezzle money from the aging Washington; and (2) sending out letters to the founding fathers after Washington's death; offering to destroy Washington's personal correspondences and diary entries which could be embarrassing to them. Lear would provide this service for a price. Anyway Jefferson and Lear had done business and this lead to a series of lucrative postings for Lear under the Jefferson Administration. His latest was as diplomat seeking to settle/payoff the Barbary Pirates. In Oct 1803 The USS Philadelphia under Captain Bainbridge is trying to blockade Tripoli. 1 Ship blockade. That's what you do when you have fewer than 10 ships in the entire US navy. The USS Philadelphia runs aground. Captain BainBridge immediately gives orders to dump the guns and gunpowder overboard and surrenders. The USS Philadelphia unbeaches itself a few hours latter when high tide comes up, but by that time the 307 US servicemen have already surrendered and become slaves of the Bey of Tripoli. So much for the US Navy. William Eaton and 8 marines(lead by 1st Lieutenant Presley O'Bannon) meanwhile start recruiting mercenaries and the Bey's older Brother(Hamet Karamanli) who is living in exile in Egypt. They promise US Navy Support and elude to a chest of gold which they keep guarded and protected to assist in recruiting an army of about 500 hopeful souls. The chest of coarse is empty. This "army" with almost no support, and with just scant provisions crosses 500 miles into Tripoli. There with US Navy support they successfully attack and capture the second largest city in Tripoli(Battle of Derna (April–May 1805). After they capture Derna, they send word back to Malta the base of operations for the US navy squadron. Eaton calls for more Marines in preparation for an assault on the Capital Tripoli. Only Commodore James Barron, basically has blown his budget. He tells Eaton their is no more money in the Navy's budget for this little war. He also says his ships can't take another winter in the Mediterranean and need to be going back to home waters. Commodore Barron, a sickly man with little vision basically pulls the plug on William Eaton's amazing, but never really supported successful war. The Hero's Eaton and O'Bannon are forced to abandon their "army" in the field as they slip aboard a US ship and flee back to the United States. The now properly motivated the Bey of Tunisa and Tobias Lear reach an agreement where the US agrees to continue to pay tribute to the Tripoli pirates, to go along with the tribute we are paying to the Morrocco Pirates, and the Algerian Pirates and the Tunisian Pirates... and Jefferson declares victory.... but make no mistake, the United States Lost. 

After being captured and held hostage by their own military veterans Congress still did not act on paying it's debt for more than 7 years. This systemic defaulting on credit both foreign and domestic was not Congress being cheap or dishonorable. It stemmed from two inter related issues. 

As stated here previously the United States Army when WWII began July 1939 was smaller than that of Portugal's, and months before Pearl Harbor when every informed person in the country thought war was imminent, the US army survived being decimated by 2/3rds by a single congressional vote. The US military during the interwar period was not maintained to be a threat to any European power, much less the first tier powers such as the UK. The US military didn't have the political support, financial support nor the intent to take on such a challenge. So why did the United States have a plan then? PRACTICE!!... They were training future war planners and they did so by taking every imaginable and many unimaginable scenarios and mapping them out and then reviewing and critiquing and refining. Just like we do today. As you can imagine when these secret plans were eventually released to the public. All the Color-Coded plans, including Code Red (Britain / Canada invasion plan) from the interwar period released in the 1970s; considerable angst was generated from close allies. Which brings us back to the Zombies and extraterestrials Aliens. Examples of politically correct "enemies" who the US military can use as learning scenarios without giving our closest allies and half the world heart attacks. 

The first line gives us our first clue. The best way to make fire, is from existing fire. So no fire in your "dwelling-place" says to me there was a communal source of fire. Back to the scriptures: 

The United States did not assist Israel in the six days war. Israel was not a client state of the United States before the six days war. The IDF did not fly American airplanes for example. The IDF flew French Mirages in 67. The special relationship between Israel and the US with regard to financial aid and military aid started after the six day war. In 1967 total US aid to Israel was $23.7 million dollars. In 1968 it would quadruple $106.5, in 1971 that number would increase again by 5 times or $634 million dollars. By 1974 total US aid was up to 2.6 billion. This is the period when the special relationship between the US and Israel really began. As for how the Israeli's won the six day war.