Note this will be Unladen, or "unsagged" fork length. Ideally both forks will have the same sag settings, but its still just an approximation Also, my sample measurements are completely made up, and yours will vary. 

The bars are aluminium alloy 3T "Competizione" or possibly "Super Competizione" and date from the 90s. Like this ebay auction They're nice but not rare. 

Depends on your focus. If you want to go somewhere and compete at a higher elevation than where you live and ride, then there are acclimatisation systems that can help train your lungs to work better on lower pressure and lower oxygen levels. The highest cyclable road in the world is 19,005 feet/5792 metres elevation, and is in Bolivia. The top 10 are in Bolivia, Tibet, India, so in the Andes and the Himalayan mountains, and all are over 17,500 feet/5334 metres. At those elevations there is less oxygen available, so your lungs have to work harder to keep your blood/oxygen ratio higher. 

Sounds to me like your Rear Derailleur simply can't cope with a 34 tooth rear cog. You could replace the cassette with a 32 or 30 tooth maximum, perhaps find a smaller upper jockey wheel, or simply don't use the 34 tooth gear without drastic need. My folder has similar problems with on its largest cog because the top jockey wheel is interfering with the cassette. The teeth in the jockey wheel (pulley) directly touch the cassette's teeth. I simply put up with it, because both are wear items and will be replaced in due course. 

In your case you would want two 22" rims side by side, each with 28 or 32 spokes, laced to a single hub with 56 or 64 holes. This would be a high-spoke-count wheel. I don't think you would have to weld the two rims together, but Downsides are it would track straight and would resist turning aggressively. Your turns would have to be super slow and vertical, or you have to lean and get onto the inside tyre only, leaving the other suspended in the air. Rim brakes would flat out not work, so you have to have a disk brake. And your fork and frame clearances would need to be enormous to let two wheel rims and two skinny tyres sit side by side. 

Personally I'd rebuild the wheel with better thicker spokes. My Ebike wheel had 13 gauge spokes and never broke one, but it was only a 250W motor and it was on the front. If your hub and rim can take more spokes too, consider increasing the spoke count. Rear wheels take more than half the load of a normal bike, normally around 60% of the whole bike+rider's weight Given you have a heavy motor in there as well. The motor's weight is also unsprung weight, so it will affect the wheel more than the rider's weight. As such, don't jump off kerbs/curbs and don't slam into potholes. 

I have recently acquired a folding bike. One of the most irritating things is the folding pedals, as pictured: Pedal in folded position 

Prosthetic Depending on how much of the leg is missing, its possible to have a strapon leg that rides like normal. Above-knee amputee's comments or this guy who rode the Haute Route with one leg and one arm 

Google and other traffic providers like Here (nokia) exchange traffic data, which is crowdsourced from cellphones. If you're plotted at 5 different points along a know main road and your average speed is 50 km/h there's a decent chance its smooth-flowing vehicle traffic. If you're riding at a snappy 30 km/h, then it could look like slow traffic. So your results get compared with other vehicles on the same road and direction at about that time. If you're roughly keeping up with the vehicles, then your trip could be detected as a car ride. I don't know how the apple ecosystem does it, but if you use android and google services, then visit $URL$ to explore your locations and your day's travel. Some of the travel segments could be detected as a walk, a bike ride, a train, or a car. You can correct this info too, if you see fit. Here's the google timeline screen showing three different modes of transport, walking, cycling, and car. Also shows a wrong guess in grey (we didn't stop walking at the hospital, we just walked past it.) 

Edit - more detail, and photos with some decent zoom. Closer shot of the wheel in question The back is identical, cos there is no cassette. 

Pure Gold note: this picture is not a pure gold bike - its just plated. This answer has not been done in real life, but it did achieve a lot of discussion under Could you make a bike frame out of 24kt gold? Advantage 

EDIT 2 years later I have retired this wheel. It broke a single spoke on a downhill road at about 50 km/h (35 mph) and the sudden lack of true made it rub the brake/fork while shaking madly. The spoke broke toward the hub end, so I still had the oversized nipple stuck in the hub and the rest of the spoke was hanging from the rim. My suspicion is the spoke was weak from someone (maybe me) holding it badly while truing which weakened the metal with a score/scratch. If one more spoke broke it could have locked up with a nasty full speed prang. A normal 32 spoke wheel could survive the loss of multiple spokes before becoming unrideable. I did replace the dead spoke, but all of them have a phenomenal level of tension on them, which is also a concern. For now, its hanging on a hook as a spare wheel. 

Answer: If you're stopped still, in the right place giving way as required, you are not at fault and nothing requires to be done. Sadly this doesn't stop you coming off badly - being run into at car-turning speed of about 10-15 km/h is going to damage you and your bike, but the car will likely suffer nothing worse than scratches and some minor denting. Extended Answer: The only way to prevent an accident that someone else is causing, is to be defensive and anticipate every vehicle's actions. See a car slowing and moving to the side of the road? Anticipate they're going to turn. For example - this : 

If you're going to all this effort you should change the outer too, not just the inner. To decide what is inside the frame for internal routing. First, push/pull the outer housing where it passes through the frame. Watch the other end for movement. If if moves you have continuous housing which is easy. 

I've searched the site and we have no answers about plastic wheels at all. I have tried fitting some single and dual pivot road bike calipers but they just don't have enough reach, so I'm stuck with these stamped metal ones for now. 

Used is cheaper, and you'll get more value for your money. However look out for stolen bikes, and have no fear of walking away if anything feels bad. 

If the segment is short (ie under a minute) then Merck's suggestion of "Start Fast, Ride the Middle Fast, Finish Fast" applies. You essentially want to sprint the whole thing, maybe even out of the saddle if you can do so. Its okay to feel slow in the end, but look at your strava speed graph and see if you did slow down, much or not at all. For longer segments, push hard but you can sit down. Stay aero and work on maintaining your fast speed, and not flagging at the end. 

Third option is a bit reversed - if you fit longer cranks to the BB, then your lower foot will be lower again, effectively increasing your seat post length. However this could get expensive and will only gain you 10mm going from 165 to 175mm cranks. Then there is the increased risk of pedal strike on turns. A cheap option is to find the shoes you own with the thinnest sole, and make them your riding shoes. This will only give a few millimetres thougj 

Check the rim for protrusions - is the rim tape misaligned? Are there any lumps/bumps? Any spoke ends prodruding just a bit too far? Check the inside of the tyre/tire for lumps and bumps too. Are you using a presta valve in a schrader-sized rim hole? Could be opening a small hole there when pressurising. Do you always put the tube in the same way around? Try flipping it to move any weak point around. Hmm - "weak point" raises a thought... Perhaps you should cut your losses and just fit a new tube. They're consumable; I guess your current one has done its dash. Don't want the weak point to turn into a blowout. 

So all the easy fixes have failed. You're going to have to get brutal and your nuts probably won't survive the later options. 

Rule 12 says that you should aim to own N+1 bikes, where N is the number you have now. While that's completely tongue-in-cheek, there's some merit to having gear fit for purpose. For example I have a fast road bike, which is uncomfortable in the rain and useless for carrying stuff. I also have a 20" folder with carriers and mudguards/fenders, which is okay for moving things, towing a trailer, and works well in the rain. But fast it is not. The advantages of multiple bikes is flexibility 

Consider asking the seller for the original sales receipt. Not having a receipt doesn't prove they're fake, but having the receipt implies they're not fake. That is, as long as the receipt is from a legitimate bike supply shop, and not from $URL$ You can also contact the original supplier and ask for a check. In the long run, caveat emptor once the cash is paid, its a done deal. 

I think the yellow landing is for the B tension screw to press against. That will adjust how hard the derailleur pushes away from the cassette, essentially adjusting the gap when its at the big cog on the cassette. Small chance that your new derailleur is for a different style of hanger ? Do you still have the old derailleur to compare? 

Do check the duplicate question for answers on how to reduce squeal. Or embrace it - I had some canti brakes that would make hideously loud noises under hard braking, but under gentle braking they were silent. After a while I realised that is really a feature, cos hard braking squeals is like a car horn and alerts people to a possible danger. 

Depends how they've been stored. If they were inside a garage or otherwise dry, then that's a lot less work. If they were outside or damp, everything will be that much closer to EOL. Gear changes and brakes: if there's been moisture in the cables then they can suffer but housings and inner wires can be replaced. Tyres and tubes can degrade in heat. Oils and greases will thicken and congeal so an all-round service of bearings can be in order. Finally, why were they unused for a long time? Was there a fault that was too hard to fix at the time? Look for function. On the other side, sometimes a good wash, and a lick of paint can make an old bike appear very much nicer too. 

I'm taking a different view to @Morten 's answer. A good cyclist is one who survives every trip, by successfully avoiding all the hazards while not being a hazard to other fellow road-users. That means: 

The other style is an older separate clamp that goes around a necked area on top of the seatpost. To undo this you'll need one 1/2" spanner. 

Apple Users I have no idea - does apple have any tracking like google? Newton / iBike / powerpod Grab the Isaac software from $URL$ and see if it can help. Garmin / other bike computer If your dedicated hardware has munched the ride, you may be stuffed too. Check out forums - there could be a way to get some info back. Last Resort You can create a track in Google Maps and "save as" a KML which can then be massaged into a GPX file. This is long and tedious, and your times will be completely made up. So your best plan is to 

Its intended to hang off my landrover (the toolbox-on-wheels) for community fixups. The whole thing unbolts and fits in the back. Can also tie a tarpaulin over the top for on rainy days, and provides easy access to the toolboxes and spares in the back. I also have some old plastic pallets that provide footing if its muddy. The pictured scene was doing some video testing of freewheeling for a front hub motor compared to a normal front wheel hub. This conclusively proved that the electric motor freewheels about the same as a normal wheel when unpowered. 

Sorry this is impossible to directly compare. Because of subtle different purposes. On a MTB you use the ground, for dabbing, for traction in turns, and as an obstacle to jump or reflect off.. On a road bike the ground exists only as something for the tyres to roll on. So fit on a road bike is all related to how your contact points map to the feet/hands/backside, and how your various angles sit for comfort. Conversely, on a MTB you want to be able to move the bike and body so they're in the right places relative to the ground, for balance and applying force to the bike, through the bike to the ground. Answer A road bike needs to be comfortable sized for the rider when mounted, a MTB needs to be slightly physically smaller to be moved around by the rider. 

Since you've probably already got the valve stem in the tube, your only options are to manipulate the tube to get the core back into the valve, or to cut a hole in the tube opposite the valve for easier access. This last suggestion is the last resort, cos the sealant will make it hard to put a patch on the tube, so clean it really well before buffing. 

Title says wheel alignment but question says you removed and reinstalled the tyre. Check alignmnent with your fingers - the space between the rim and the forks should be equal and consistant while the wheel rotates. Does the wheel rotate less freely? Could be you've accidentally upset the cups on the axle. Test this by wiggling the rim left and right. It should have minimal movement. Does the wheel spin okay when its off the ground (like in a stand) but badly when its being ridden? Did you put sufficient air back in the tube? May be simply low pressure increasing rolling resistance. Finally - why did you remove the front tyre? Was there a problem with it? Did you refit the same one or did you replace it with another? 

In reality, this is more likely to be a gold electro-plated steel bike, or an anodised aluminium frame underneath a very thin layer of 9 karat gold. 

I don't own one, but by this photo it should pull straight out the front after undoing the two screws. 

Unless its a super low spoke count wheel (16 or 20) then it should have 32 or 36 spokes. 9 broken ones is totally unrideable, but the remaining spokes should be okay to get the freewheel off with a vise and a freewheel tool. Depending on what killed 9 spokes, the rim may be unusable, and at some point your wallet is better off with a new replacement wheel. 

The saddle is too new, and there appear to be no wheels, but its very close to being complete and rideable. You need a new chain and new brake pads too. 

I remember seeing courses about how to make a bike frame, but they were not about new designs, they used standard designs and the courses were about selection of tube, welding/brazing, finishing, etc. Perhaps you start by learning to braze, then building a "conventional" lugged steel frame, then develop that based on what you learn in the process. This plan would assume a level of competancy with your hands, and a commitment in terms of tools and learning. Expect to take anything from months to years to be able to build a rideable reliable and safe frame. Courses: