Just answer the phone. You are having a XY Problem here. Do not use phone like email. It is a synchronous mode of communication. People use the phone when they want an immediate reply, or at least immediate feedback on their issue or question. Returning the call "within the business day" is using phone in asynchronous mode, which is not how most people expect it to be used. No wonder people get frustrated and keep calling back until you respond. It is, of course, unreasonable to respond to phone when you are out of office. That is when voicemail comes into the picture. Voicemail is not meant to be a "do not disturb", although you could use it that way. Do that too often (or, what seems to be all the time, in your case), and you will end up with a long list of dissatisfied clients. 

If this still doesn't satisfy you, then nothing in the universe will, no matter which planet you are from. 1 You could argue till the cows come home whether the American Way is the "right" way or the "better" way, but that is not relevant to the question. 

1 This goes without saying, but just for completeness, I must mention that you should not parrot the same lines for multiple difficult questions in the same session. For the 2nd and subsequent questions, "I will make note of that as well", should be enough. 

Your best option is to do nothing. Don't even start thinking of sending them a "corrected" resume. That would be the equivalent of dousing fire with gasoline (or petrol, if you prefer British English). You see the green square as a huge mistake because you are only working with your own resume, and it occupies a significant part of your "mind space". The person reading your resume reads dozens of resume per day, and isn't aware of the "significance" of the green square, and hence, would most likely not think much of it. Pointing out the green square ensures that they pay more attention to your "mistake" rather than the rest of your resume. See also: Streisand Effect 

1 It is common for management to delegate relatively unimportant decisions like "social events" and "fun tasks" to a committee of staff, so I consider that an irrelevant detail. Nonetheless, some users disagree, so I decided to include this option for you. 

With all due respect, you are trying to treat the symptoms than the disease. Additionally, the effectiveness of your treatment is questionable. Finding another job because of one of your coworker's poor work might help you escape from your current problem. However, what if you end up with even worse coworkers at your new place? A better approach might be to figure out why the coworker is performing poorly, and work with him and your manager to fix that. If he doesn't like the work, see if your manager can assign him some other work more suited to his tastes. If the commute is tiring him, figure out if he can move closer, or if he can be offered more flexible timings. I would look at it as a great opportunity to demonstrate your leadership. Take it up as a challenge to make your coworker productive, and if everything you tried fails, then quit. That way, you and your manager know that you tried fixing the problem rather than just assign blame and escape. Moreover, you don't need to figure out a "professional, tactful way" of stating your reason, because your manager already knows. The IT industry is a small world. You never know, 3 years later, you might quit your next job and land up with the same manager (or the coworker!) at the third job. Leaving with a good impression would certainly do you no harm. 

Don't exaggerate the numbers to make your resume look good, however. "I worked on this.", "I was responsible for that.", etc. don't sound impressive because they just tell that the candidate did the work assigned to him, which is the minimum expectation. Perfect grammar or absence of "I" doesn't matter. Nonetheless, the "I" in the resume is redundant because the reader already knows it is your resume, so drop it entirely. However, if your resume is otherwise impressive, no sane hiring manager will discard your resume just because of the "I". That said though, avoid spelling and punctuation mistakes because being sloppy about your resume doesn't leave a good impression. Get your resume proofread by someone fluent in English, preferably someone who has reviewed a lot of resumes. 

Don't overthink this. There is no need to waste time inventing conspiracy theories about your move or worry about what other people will think of it, because: 

In a world of dreams, the employer would give you the salary hikes on time, provide candid feedback on your performance, look after your career growth, and keep all the promises that they made when they hired you. We do not live in a world of dreams, we live in the painful real world, where it is all about business, and promises are of secondary (or no) importance. The employer is not under any obligation to increase your salary after 12 months. It all depends on the business results when they can give you a salary hike (if at all), and how much. If you are unhappy with your salary, find another employer who would make you happy and leave. This system of voting with your feet works fairly well in practice, and I don't see much of a serious problem that needs to be addressed here. If enough employees leave due to the lackadaisical attitude of the employer, their business would be affected, and they would be forced to take salary hikes more seriously, because: 

Talk directly to them and ask them to stop sharing pirated material. Whether the manager intends to or not, they will see this as an official reprimand. Ask a senior team member to talk to them "unofficially". This will hopefully resolve this issue, without the manager getting involved. 

Call the HR and tell them that you want to submit your application, but you cannot use the "Apply" button. You have no need to tell them that you saw the post a week ago. Pretend that you are a candidate who just saw the post. There could be several reasons why the Apply button is disabled. Maybe they already found enough good candidates (as Philip said). It is also possible they have a technical problem or scheduled maintenance going on, so they decided to disable the button to prevent problems.1 You will find out when you call what is their actual reason for disabling the Apply button. You would also know if they plan to re-enable the button soon, which would be of interest to you. 

I would just mind my own business. Life is too short to worry about what X thinks of Y. Let X and Y deal with it, it has nothing to do with you. 

Notice how this is better than, "Boss, my coworker got a new desk, but he isn't getting rid of the old one. What should I do?" 

Telling your boss and HR that you will start looking for a new job was not a good idea. This is especially worse when done right after raising an issue that they did not solve. Whether it was your intention or not, it makes you come across as a bit of crybaby. Take this as a lesson, and in future, if you are not happy with the work, do your job search stealthily. 

Don't overthink this. In a typical internship, the designated mentor is principally responsible for the intern's work. Your mentor is reviewing your code. You shouldn't be worried about whether she is doing the code reviews correctly, and your judgement in this matter is not important. It is normal for other seniors to also sit in on code reviews, but they have no obligation to review your every code change, unless their boss has asked them to do so. In the world of business, work priorities keep changing frequently, especially for senior level members. Chasing after every project activity is not feasible. It is regular occurrence for the most important task of one week to be entirely dropped next week (and vice versa). The most reasonable explanation for Bob and Carla's "neglect" of your code reviews is not that they find your code too terrible to review or that you have offended them. It is simply that they now have more pressing matters to attend to, and they consider it sufficient to trust Alice's judgement. Moreover, if they truly had reason to believe your code was terrible, they would respond by scrutinizing it more strictly, not by ignoring it entirely. That also suggests (as Wesley Long points out in the comment) that they now consider your code good enough to not require reviews by everyone. If this still bothers you, you should talk to your mentor or your boss about it. If they see the lack of reviews from Bob and Carla as a problem, they will figure out how to remove the impediments and make the reviews happen. 

If their decision directly affects the work you were hired to do, then you should raise the concern with your manager. If a law is being broken, you should raise it with your manager, HR, or law enforcement (preferably in that order). For example, if the "newspaper" is actually hate propaganda or child pornography or some such material that is illegal according to the local laws. However, in this case, regardless of the reputation of Daily Mail and your strong opinions about it, it doesn't look like ordering it breaks any law or affects your job in any way, so I would advise against confronting the management in this matter. While you are free to feel angry and uncomfortable about anything, it would do no good to your professional standing in the company to get involved in political activism at work or to pick up a fight over trivial issues. Here are a couple of alternatives you could try instead: