The most powerful corporations will depend on several factors, but the main factor is simply supply and demand. So, the largest corporations are ones that control industries with low supply and proportionally high demand. Here are some real-world examples: Very low supply, relatively high demand: Think gold, diamonds, designer clothes, large banks, etc. The amount of these items are very limited, often artificially, but that does not stop people from spending a lot of money on the few companies that make them. Decent supply, incredibly high demand: Think oil and practical technology, like computers. Although oil is very plentiful in many areas(Middle East, US, Venezuela, Azerbaijan, etc.) if an area doesn't have oil, they NEED to get it from whoever owns it, giving them a lot of control. Likewise, certain technologies that are used by nearly everybody but are only built by a few companies(Microsoft, Apple) will give those companies a good amount of power IF they can keep their technological edge. Variable supply, constant demand: Think transportation and communications. Letters can be lost, trucks can crash, internet can be slow. Whoever an provide these services in a cheap and reliable way, such as Amazon, or can get create barriers to potentially better competition, like Comcast, will be in high demand. These types companies have the added bonus of being critical to other companies: it doesn't matter how much oil you have if you can't ship it to customers. So, to put this into examples in your world: if the N-energy fuel is only found on a few planets, the owners of those planets will be powerful. If the fuel is very volatile and difficult to transport, whoever can transport it reliably will be powerful. If the gates require advanced technology to build and maintain, whoever designs that tech will be powerful. 

So, an empire easily can control an entire landmass: it's the size of the landmass that determines if some single empire can control it. According to real-life examples, a landmass the size of North America seems to be the upper limit for an empire with an ancient or medieval level of logistics ability, since nothing has gotten larger than that on Earth even though larger landmasses exist. 

Unfortunately, by definition of the term physical 'constants' can't really be different in different areas of the universe. If they could, I suppose they would be called physical variables instead. So, the only way this could happen is if you forget physical constants, and embrace physical variables. In the real world, the gravitational constant is used to calculate the amount of gravity between to masses. This value never changes, so any two masses will always have the same gravitational pull between eachother. Always. Everywhere. No matter what. That's because a constant never changes. Observations of other stars, galaxies, and superclusters conform to how we expect gravity to behave, so we have no reason to believe it's not constant. So, you must build your universe on the presumption that there are no physical constants. Although this goes against our current understanding and observations of the real universe, you're the one building this universe. Simply describe some mechanism for why physical properties can be locally constant(on a galactic scale), but cannot be properly predicted in distant regions of space. Maybe dark matter does some weird things, or some other as-of-yet unknown mechanism is manipulation our observations of the universe. If the amount of space in space isn't constant, then there's probably weird other physical characteristics of our universe that we haven't yet observed. You certainly can come up with some handwavy-scientific reason that gravity or whatever else also isn't constant. 

This question goes into various ways that a dragon might produce fire, and this answer might be a good natural reason for your situation. Basically, the dragon would have a sac containing ethanol-producing yeast, and another sac containing sulfuric acid-producing bacteria. These would combine to produce the highly flammable diethyl ether, whose Wikipedia page contains the very disturbing line "It was used as a general anesthetic, until non-flammable drugs were developed". 

To make a proper simulation these uploaded people still have to sleep, right? If so, then for a third of each mind's entire 'life' in the simulation you can put them to good use. After a mind drifts off to 'sleep', for 8 hours it can be used by your secondary company, a provider of specialty cloud 'AI' software. You said the simulation was already a luxury item, so it's filled with people who can afford luxury items: the rich and famous. Many of the most successful bankers, CEOs, artists, scientists, celebrities, and politicians would upload their mind at some point, and they have knowledge and thought patterns you can put to use. An investment company signs up for 200 hours of your Business AI package to review their stock strategy and give advice. A pharmaceutical company signs up for three months of your Research AI package to develop a research and testing program for a new drug. A screenwriter signs up for 8 hours of your Movie Star AI package to hear what certain lines of their screenplay sounds like when read by certain historical actors. A politician signs up for a month of your Marketing AI to develop political ads before an election. Your original company retains their competitive prices, your new company leads the field in AI services and makes money doing so, and all of the uploaded minds get to experience vivid dreams of the real world. It's a win-win for everyone. 

In short, it's unlikely that the southern hemisphere can be as devastated as the north unless a good number of bombs fall on them too. Since infrastructure and the governments are mostly intact, at least some of these nations will be able to get control fairly quickly. Rationing and martial law to alleviate the starvation and chaos, and stability and progress should soon follow. People will still be dying of cancer at 50 and these countries may look like North Korea, but they won't completely collapse like their pals in the north. 

Fallout: Fallout is simply radioactive material thrown around after a nuclear explosion. You mention nuclear winter, so you already understand why this radioactive material will cover the planet and not just where the bombs fell. The vast amounts of dust and other material kicked up by all of the blasts will be full of radioactive material, especially if 'dirty' bombs are used by any side. Wind will blow the fallout around the world. Although much of the radioactive material produced by nuclear fission will last only a few decades, 7 isotopes will stick around for anywhere between 200,000 and several million years. The southern hemisphere will deal with toxic dust for about a century as the unstable materials decay, and general health issues for a long time. Ecosystem: Regardless of exactly how bad the war and resulting fallout/nuclear winter is, the world ecosystem will suffer. Plants will die as the Earth cools and darkens due to the dust, animals will die due to lack of food and radioactive dust that they don't know to avoid, rain will wash fallout into rivers, and even the the ocean will suffer as the fallout settles at the bottom and around estuaries. Crops will fail, livestock will die, food sources will be scarce, etc. The southern hemisphere is likely in for mass starvation. Economy: As can be seen here, large chunks of southern hemisphere nations rely on exports. Worldwide, exports make up 28% of GDP, so (very) roughly we can say about a quarter of people worldwide are involved in the export business. So, almost overnight unemployment would skyrocket. Add to this the panic, rioting, looting, fear, and general chaos that would occur after a nuclear war, it is safe to say most economies would simply collapse. Once the nuclear fallout begins to spread south, food becomes scarce, and even more people start dying, many societies will also collapse. However, since these nations were spared most, if not all, of the impact from the war, their local infrastructure and military should still be intact. Unfortunately, this means that they likely won't be able to stay down for the 500 years you want. Although many will die in the chaos and ensuing starvation, they only really need to work on gaining control over the panicked nation rather than rebuilding from scratch. 

Depending on your world's ability to digitally interpret, store, and mimic physical sensations, remote-controlled androids and other synthetic organisms could accomplish what you want. The created body is this not an actual, 100% copy of the original body: rather it is a remote controlled organic husk that the original person can connect to. This world has 'teleportation' to create bodies and remote controlled virtual reality cameras to follow them, so why not combine the two concepts? The original person(Body A) hops into the body-making machine to produce a duplicate(Body B). Body B has fully working senses(sight, touch, etc.) which, instead of being processed in Body B's brain, are sent to Body A's brain using whatever communications method the observing cameras and satellites you mentioned are using. In place of a brain in Body B, it can basically be a hardrive and transmitter in order to send the data back to Body A. Body A's brain is able to process this disembodied stream of information without going crazy due to the holodeck-esque virtual reality room you mentioned. It basically just needs to be a sensory deprivation room in order to prevent Body A from perceiving any 'real' stimuli and instead focusing entirely on stimuli coming in from Body B. Kinematic sensors on Body A's body can be used to send movement information to Body B in order for it to follow Body A's movements. Unfortunately, since information cannot travel instantly there will always be some amount of lag between the two bodies. Lag is a source of problems for real-world virtual reality, however if every sense is experience the same amount of lag the brain might actually be able to adapt to such unnatural stimuli. 

If you want to know how a fictional UN-like alliance would regulate a superweapon, you can just look at the real world's attempts to regulate superweapons: During the 1950's and 60's, efforts were made to limit the buildup, spread, and advancement of nuclear weapons. After about 15 years of relatively futile discussions due to mutual distrust among the relevant parties(US and USSR), progress was finally made through the Partial Nuclear Test Ban Treaty, which sought to limit the advancement of nuclear weapons technology by banning most tests. 5 years later, another treaty sought to limit the spread of nuclear weapons by instead encouraging the spread of peaceful nuclear technology. In short, current efforts to limit superweapons focus on the technology used to make them: by imposing limits on weapons-focused advancement of the technology, and by encouraging peace-focused advancement of the technology. Unfortunately, the results of such restrictions have been mixed: South Africa voluntarily dismantled their nuclear weapons in the 1990's, whereas North Korea has been focused on getting nuclear weapons for decades. For your example, this would mean encouraging all nations to study the airship to find peaceful applications of the technology behind it, while monitoring for any attempts to weaponize the technology.