I would like to hike part of the Alps that go from France to Slovenia, but I'm not sure what type of equipment I'll need. I'm wondering if I need to bring crampons; I have Icetrekkers (Diamond Grip), which are more like traction cleats than crampons. Because I'll be backpacking, I would prefer to know in advance instead of bringing an extra two pounds that I won't end up using. Update: I'm not looking for equipment advice, which is why I didn't post this to OSE. I want to know if it can be hiked: Are the trails cleared for hikers? Are they even open? Or are the trails open, but not cleared, thus leaving the trails "hike-able" only to those with special equipment and training, such as mountaineers? Looking at the official Switzerland tourist page and other various pages, I was unable to find any such information. 

I'm debating between carrying a larger water bottle and a smaller one. A larger one means I'll have to stop less to filter water, but it means I'll be carrying more, at least for a period of time. Even if that temporary added weight isn't an issue, the larger water bottle still takes up more space in my already crowded pack. On the other hand, a smaller water bottle means I'll have to filter more often, but will allow me to to carry less weight and takes up less space. Is there a general rule to this for backpacking? 

While planning my trip, I was looking at some trails. They all say x amount of hours, but I didn't know if that was to the peak or if that was back and forth. What is the general rule? 

From my experience, I've only ever used hard shells simply because I've always thought they were made for more treacherous weather. However, I recently saw a video by Patagonia that claimed soft shells are more durable. Is this true? If so, why is it that hard shells are advised over soft shells for harsher weather then? 

This is a question that has bugged me for some time. Some very hard sport routes are very, very long. Some examples: 

Execution of a double bowline with security knot. Figure taken from Alpinismo su Roccia - Club Alpino Italiano (2008) 

I am looking for a book or digital database of rock climbing pictures from before 1950. I tried to search online, but, except for a few pictures, I didn't have much luck. Also, the name of the photographer and/or the source are often not reported in the pictures that I found online. The period I am more interested in is the 1920s-40s, the "golden age" of rock climbing in Europe. To be even more specific, I would be very happy to find some photography book/database about climbing in the Alps in the 1920s-40s. 

Preuss even wrote a series of principles to express his ethics of climbing, criticizing the use of any artificial mean (including the rope) for the progression. However, people like Preuss were rare, and most of the alpinists in the world didn't bother about how a summit was reached, as long as it was reached. The debate about the the ethics of climbing made a return at the end of the 60s and of the early 70s: the advances in technology and the diffusion of the expansion bolt had made possible to climb almost anything, as long as you had enough gear and patience. The excessive use of bolts and artificial means was strongly criticzed, amongst the others, by Reinhold Messner in Italy, who wrote in 1968 the famous article The murder of the impossible and by Royal Robbins in the USA, which described his ideas in the book Advanced rockcraft (1973). Adventure and boldness were still considered prominent in rock climbing, and not much stress was put on technical difficulty. Therefore, using too many artificial means was seen as a betrayal of all climbing was about. Things started to change in the late 70s/ early 80s. In some circles attention began to shift from the heroism of climbing to the technical difficulty. An important step in this process was the invention of modern rubber-soled climbing shoes in the early 80s. 

Peanut butter and tahini sauce are very high in calories and I am searching for a lightweight but safe way to carry some while backpacking. They are soft and oily, so of course I really don't want any leak from the container. But also, I'd avoid a container that is so big and heavy to cancel the advantage of the high calories-to-weight ratio. I am thinking about sturdy freezer bags (would you recommend any?) that would resist some impact or scratch that may accidentally happen, closed with a clip like this: $URL$ but I did not try it yet, so I don't know if it would work and how well, or not. Any reccommendations would be much appreciated. Thanks! 

How can there be such a massive difference? 6 percent of people dying from trauma from hitting trees and rocks in Europe and 50 percent in Canada... with the US being about in the middle of that statistic. The very first - quite rough - idea that comes to my mind is, there may be much more trees and rocks in the average Canadian ski route compared to European ones. But, it sounds quite superficial. Still, those numbers differs too much; there must be some reason behind this spread. Does anyone knows what this reason is (or are)? 

According to my jacket instructions, it performs best when clean (gore-tex pores need to be clean from sweat, skin oils, and whatever else from the outside). Also, they instruct to tumble-dry the garment after washing so to renew its water-repellent treatment. Can there be too much washing and tumble drying? Would that ruin the cape on the long run? Or, should I just follow the instructions slavishly? 

I thought about fishing boots. They would probably take the same space as an extra pair of pants and boots anyways, but they would save you from getting wet from freezing water and be a lot cheaper as well. 

Another important event that marks the birth of sport climbing is the first climbing competition: Sportroccia, in 1985 at Bardonecchia, Italy. The competition took place on real rock, and not on artificial walls like modern competitions. 

From my personal experience, people either use a double bowline (*) or a double figure 8. The bowline (in my experience!) is used only by fairly experienced climbers, probably because it is more difficult to execute. I will list some pros/cons of the two knots; remind anyway that both knots are absolutely safe to use (as I'm sure is the Yosemite bowline, which I don't know). Double Figure 8 Pros: 

The two most famous pioneers of sport climbing of sport climbing in Verdon were the two Patricks: Edlinger and Berhault. I don't know much about the birth of sport climbing in the USA, but this article identifies Smith Rock as one of the birthplaces of this activity: 

As far as I know, the "change of paradigm" that led to the birth of sport climbing happened between the 70s and the 80s, and it happened separately in Europe and in the United States. From the early 1900s to the 50s, rock climbing was mostly seen as a "tool" necessary to reach the summit of a mountain. There was no real distinction between "aid climbing" and "free climbing", too: the goal was to reach new summits and to establish new bold first ascents in the mountains, whatever the means. Of course, there were those who advocated a purer climbing style, as for example the german Paul Preuss: 

Figure: the south-east face of El Cap. From www.xRez.com The first ascension of El Cap passing through the Dawn Wall was realized in 1970 by Warren Harding and Dean Caldwell after 27 days on the wall (source). The name given to this route was Wall of the Early Morning Light (WEML). Since then, other routes have been established on the Dawn Wall, most notably (source):