You can convert a lightweight internal combustion engine to steam, it is even easier with 2 cycle engines. You have to cut and weld the cylinders and making a new crankcase improves the efficiency a lot, but a decent mechanic could do it. Some engines (tall double acting cylinders) work better than others of course. You don't get the same power you do with petroleum fuels, but it will run around just fine. You can still get high speed you just do not accelerate as fast. People have even converted trucks to run on firewood. And of course a mechanic with some fabrication skill could just make a steam engine. As a bonus if you design them right steam engines can be used to purify water as well, always a bonus in a post apocalyptic setting. Also consider a liquid burning steam engine will burn expired fuels just fine. Alternatively you can re-refine expired gasoline into usable gas, it's not to mechanically difficult. It will run out eventually but this will extend the time you can use unaltered cars. Finally many vehicles are made to run on kerosene which is both easier to refine and has a far longer shelf life. Propane is even better with an unlimited shelf life. Besides existing engines that run on it converting a gasoline car to run of these is not that hard. 

Colliding winds can help. The mississippi river watershed manages to be fertile (at least most of it) despite being between two mountain ranges, the collision of air from a warm sea to the south and cold lakes to the north means the air stays saturated enough to generate significant rain. Also impassable by foot is not the same as impassible to rain. The appalachians are rugged and mostly impassable by ground traffic without being very high so enough rain makes it over them to supply at least the eastern part of the country. note that a large enough expanse of land will deplete the rain without needing mountains, so how big your place is is important. 

Well first you have a large desert with no mountainous border at the same latitude as several gigantic marshlands, that makes no sense. Deserts are generated by latitude(what portion of the hadley, ferrel, polar cell you are in) or terrain, this one appears to be made by neither. It also seems to have a lake in the center of it with no source for the lake. on the right you have a mountain range running from coast to coast with marshes on both sides, which is basically impossible at the same latitude as a desert. The only way to get both a marsh and a desert at the same latitude would be the rain shadow effect which you don't have. Look at South America for inspiration gigantic jungle on one side of the mountains, on the side of the prevailing wind (east to west) and on the other side of the mountains one of the driest deserts in existence because all the moisture was dumped going over the mountains. You really should think about what your prevailing wind direction is, your continent is not large enough to have more than two. They occur in pretty straightforward bands ue to the planets rotation, them plus your latitude will control your climate. Also consider smoothing a few random parts of your coastline an entirely jagged coastline says post-glacial or extreme tectonics, so either you are close to the antarctic circle and thus should have no deserts without rain-shadow effect(see end) or you should have a lot of volcanics. Second you need more forest, early civilizations and cities that do not have a steady source of timber don't survive for long. Deforestation is probably the second leading cause of city collapse after warfare. It is needed for building and for fuel, and cities need a lot of both. third many of your rivers appear to start near the coast and flow inland, without the coast being mountainous this makes no sense. The Jiazhi area appear a particular offender.River maps are one of the harder thing to get right, I suggest looking at real drainage maps for inspiration. But generally if the river does not start in the mountains you have made it too long so it's end origin looks unrealistic. Rivers rarely cross so much of a land mass, especially small landmasses unless starting from mountainous terrain and simply can't flow towards the closer coast. One or two is fine but your map has a lot of them. Extension of 

There is no way to have them evolve on the same world, some will take a lot longer to reach human like characteristics which makes it highly unlikely for all of them to happen on the same planet since once one has them it will spread, out-competing the others, we saw the same pattern with early hominids. But there are several ways to GET them on the same world. I know several authors who have solved he problem by having them evolve on different worlds then bringing them together by other means, (magical gates, wormholes, crashed ships, ect) by intermittently seeding the world with new arrivals it also makes for a lot of story opportunities. Additionally since you can have arrivals already possess some level of civilization the out-competing issue is no longer a problem as technology can put the groups on more even footing. Magical or technological intervention. In fantasy experimenting sorcerers is a popular option along the same lines. Technologically you could have these people artificially created either as experiments uplifting animals or as normal humans opting for some sort of heritable alteration, see will's answer for more on this. 

This is actually more common than the human system, humans are one of the few organisms with a "hidden" ovulation cycle that is an ovulation and "menstrual" cycle that are not completely correlated. It is believed this is to make it harder for human men to tell when a female is ovulating thus making them stick around. basically it is an adaptation to encourage pair bonding. You may want to look up estrus in animals. 

If I had to pick one group it would be Negroids becasue most of human genetic variability is within that group, its not a big advantage but I you had to pick one group it would be that one just becasue they have more variability to work with. Of course evolution tends not to parse that way, it will be individual populations that survive and spread not wide racial groups but you are more likely to find the right combination of traits in that group. But really all those groups will survive equally well, human variability is pretty minor, and so much will depend on other variables, like technology, location, livestock, run up events, etc. But your biggest effect will be which population was living is the most similar conditions you drop them in,the knowledge of the individual's dropped into this situation will have a much bigger effect than anything genetic. If I drop Bob and Tom in a new environment and Bob was a hunter gather and Tom was a wall street stockbroker, Genetics matters less than the fact Bob knows how to start a fire and Tom does not. 

Kythirawas close to stable with 500 residents in the ~16th century with a land area of 279.593 square kilometres, so you could double or triple that. how reliant on trade the island is will affect it, Kythira was well placed to enjoy easy trade. 

flexible limbs of near equal length, the primate should allows foe a very wide range of motion, which is why we can brachiate (swing arm over arm). Having all your limbs the same length allows for a more even motion and allows them to switch from quadrupedal to bipedal easily and smoothly. Near equal length is important for ground speed, the primates that are awkward on the ground are the ones with disproportionate limbs, like chimps or us. long prehensile tails, extra limbs are always useful but the tails also serves as a cantilever for vertical climbing and a ballance pole for balance and jumping. They also serve as counterbalances for changing direction quickly, even cheetah use large tails for this. Ideally the tail should be the same length as the limbs if not longer. binocular vision, Primates evolved binocular vision so they can judge distance easily which is vital for a jumping from branch to branch, get your distance wrong and no amount of agility will save you. The smaller the better, the bigger you make your animal the less agile it will be, this is just due to the laws of inertia and the feedback loops of muscle size and strength, an animal twice as big needs far, far more than twice as much muscle to move at the same speed, which of course adds even more weight which means you need even more muscle. Notice gorilla are nowhere near as agile as a spider monkey or lemur this is simply due to mass. There is also the fall risk the bigger you are the shorter a fall needs to be to do serious injury. large semicircular canals, this is internal anatomy but a major feature of agile climber and flyers is their inner ears are huge, these are the organs responsible for our sense of balance and the larger they are the more sensitive they are. Larger brain this sounds weird but coordinated movement requires brain power which means a large cerebellum, Your animals are going to be changing their gait constantly so they need plenty of brain power to coordinate that. large strong flexible hands and feet, the larger the variety of grips your hands and feet can form the larger variety of objects it can grab, they also need to be strong to gain purchase from even partial contact. 

value itself is an emotional argument, value and goals require emotions. But really emotions is how behavior is coded, pleasure = do that more, pain = do that less, disgust = avoid this, ect. Emotion is required for a large amount of decision making. We know what people without emotions are like, they will sit an intersection for hours because they cannot come up with a logical reason to go left vs right. They skip meals because they can't decide between chicken and beef. $URL$ $URL$ as for your bullet points 

The same one that works now, exercise and training. If you want to make your new human more fit, just make them enjoy exercise more than normal humans. Minimal changes to the human, just a few changes to the initial wiring of the brain, and it can be spread organically(breeding) or artificially (genetic manipulation). If going to gym was as pleasurable as going to the strip joint, bar, or dunkin donuts you would have a stronger, faster and more fit populace. 

how well sealed the room is, keeping rodents out is essential, they will eat bone just for the calcium. the humidity, fungi can eat bone so you want it dry, light is likewise the enemy. the temprature, if it is exposed to freezing and thawing the bones will powderize quite quickly. so it needs to be consistently above freezing or consistently below, dryness will also help. how much anatomy the people finding them know, the more anatomy they know the worse off the bones can be. 

lets start with the basics What would an aquatic race want: remember it needs to survive underwater or they won't want it. They won't have much use for clothing water is not an insulator like air so clothing does not help much in maintaining warmth and there is no rain to keep off. Glass especially mirrors, bottles, and lenses no way to make glass under water. glass floats will also be popular. Brass, copper, and steel: steel is actually alright underwater as long as it stays underwater, it will rust faster than on land but will stay usable for decades. . tools and weapons will be especially popular, even brass nails will be valuable. Lumber especially poles: very little wood underwater and again as long as it stays underwater it will not rot any faster than on land. Gold: again no way to smelt metal underwater, they can work gold but have no way to smelt it. silver will become quite ugly very quickly however. Pottery plates are useless but jars are easier to make on by shaping and firing than carving as aquatic races would have to do. Surface foods food has always been a popular part of trade, this will run both ways and will be most common where both civilizations are close to each other. Cooked food will be popular, every animal ever tested shows a preference for cooked food sue to the higher nutrient availability. Now for the aquatic races What can they offer. Sponges sponges have always been valuable enough for trade and they are far easier for them to collect than fishermen. Ore there are ore deposits underwater just as on land. Many are actually easier to collect. Fishboth as direct trade and as indirect by selling information about movements Pearls this one should be self explanatory Maps seafloor navigation maps take a lot of time to make, an aquatic race can make them much faster and cheaper, they will need a human agent to copy them to air friendly materials. sunken ships the location and recovery of sunken ships and their cargo will be profitable and fairly easy. This of course could create pirates. Art coral carvings, shells, and similar art will always have a market. Ship maintenance certain aspects of ship, bridge, and dock maintenance will be much easier for an aquatic race this could easily be worth trading for. Travel rights and guards through territories/kingdoms will be a big deal, for those aquatic races that are amphibious this will run both ways. Remember they can sink ship with ease if they want to. I could easily see a negotiation for guards for ships. who better to stop merfolk pirate than other merfolk. There will be other things they can offer all depending on how they live and what their technology is like. maybe they make a seaweed extract that is really savory or collect a snail venom that is useful for treating cholera. I can picture trade houses built out of stone that have a waist/chest high wall with water on one side and dry land on the other. trade partnership between merchants should be common. Math and standardized measurements will be important, a pound of iron on land is not a pound underwater. writing will probably be exchanged each way just for the novelty value. I imagine their written language will be runic relying on carving rather than ink, I could also see a knot based language like Quipu. Both can be read like braille which will be useful for fishfolk that live in deeper waters. Although I could easily see them farming bioluminescence coral or sponges for light. Pencils work just fine underwater provided you write one slate and not paper, ceramic slates may be popular since they can be made for a much cheaper cost. 

~A few thousand to ten thousand generations, with the latter being more likely It is basically impossible to say, mostly becasue we don't know what adaptations are necessary in detail and even if we did predicting the evolution of such things is speculative at best. Plus as has been said evolution is not a destination, there is no end point to adaptation, problems may well persist forever. Evolution is full of things we are just stuck with, like bad backs, from using things in ways they never originally evolved for, and different gravity would definitely fall under that. That all said you can come up with a safe estimate for when said people will be physiologically distinct from other humans. In 2-3 million years we know a new hominid species can evolve so when in doubt go with that. That comes out to around ~10,000 generations as a safe estimate. Also consider it took humans ~3000 years/~130 generations to evolve lactose tolerance after we domesticated cattle so there is your bare unbelievable minimum. You should increase that by an order of magnitude considering you are talking about a whole suite of adaptations even for a minimum.