As a manager, you can lead and train people to make them better. One way to do that is to model the behavior you want; another is to correct people in the moment when they do something wrong. Some specific tips for this person: 

When they try to argue about whether or not you deserve it, they are working on the second point. They want you to accept less. This generally doesn't leave people feeling happy. But when you want a huge increase, you are setting yourself up for "only" getting a large one and feeling bad. Why do that? As a note, I let my people set their own starting salaries. I ask them in the interview what they would like to make. If they're worth that, I hire them and if not, I don't. I never try to get them to accept less. This makes everyone happier, in my experience. I suggest you not inflate what you "need" or "deserve" if the truth is you would accept less. It just leaves you feeling that you started the job with a small failure. 

During my internship a few months back, I developed this software for a certain energy company, which interestingly now they are finding quite profitable, and want to extend it to a national level, they have asked me as a favor to come and teach some of the company's developers the main features of the application so they can keep on with the development. Now of course I don't plan on it, unless some mutual agreement is found during a meeting next week, but the issue is, when I signed up for the internship I don't remember signing any documents saying that anything I developed belonged to them, and if I did I have no documentation of it whatsoever. The software was developed on site, although I was asked to bring my own equipment, so the application was never really developed on any of their computers. I had no work contract at all, so nothing stating my work belonged to them there either. I did receive a payment, but that was more symbolical than anything, and since there was no contract there was never any resignation either. So again, who owns the code? 

One thing to keep in mind is that in the context of the show, the person is not asking their employees personal questions. They are pretending to be a peer (or less than a peer) of the person they are talking to. That is, although we hear the CEO ask the assistant manager a very personal and intrusive question, which would be awkward, the assistant manager hears the new person, typically presented as someone who is "starting over" at some entry-level job while being much older than is typical for such a job, asking questions of their new boss, or of their more senior coworker. There is a good chance that the "new person" revealed some personal details of their own before asking. Consider "I sure hope I work out ok in this job. My kids are teenagers and I really need to be making money so they will be ok. Do you have kids?" The show can edit out this leading question and we just see "do you have kids?" - and then the revealing answer from the assistant manager. And finally, if the "new person" tries to have a personal conversation with someone who doesn't reveal personal details about themselves, that person will not get the "lottery win" at the end of the show where the CEO sets up a college fund for the kids or provides the down payment for a house so the wheelchair-bound mother can live with the manager or whatever. Not everyone the undercover boss interacts with gets that sort of thing. 

For a large organisation, the HR department is usually the best bet. They will be able to tell you what the pay scales / employment grades are. They will also have resources to help you progress - there may be internal training, certification, or other services they offer. HR will almost certainly have a list of job specifications so that you can see what qualifications / experience you need in order to move up the ladder. For a smaller company, chat with your manager. Explain that you're happy in your role but want to understand what your career progression is going to be like - what she expects you need to do in order to get a promotion. 

In general, you are right to try new things and find ways to be efficient. But you also have to consider the human cost as well. You've just made your boss look stupid. He's been employing all these people and telling his boss how great the team is. Now a teenager has come in and said "you're all idiots, this can be done in 5 minutes using stuff that was invented after you got out of university." So, how should you approach this? Start by explaining to your boss what you're doing and why you're doing it. There may be very good reasons to do it the old way (the law may require an audit trail, for example). Show your boss the benefits. Don't say "we have more time" - do say "we've saved money and can pay more attention to XYZ." Finally - your boss may not be interested in doing things better. Some people just like working the same way they've always done. In this case, you can either subvert your boss and try to convince other people yours is the best way - or you can speak to the client directly and ask what they want to do. 

Should get you at least the start of an explanation, and you might be able to say "could I type it, so it sticks in my brain better?" when the typing starts. On a larger scale, you could ask 

I have spoken to groups as large as 2000 in person (larger electronic audiences) and as small and terrifying as my thesis defense committee. I still occasionally get a little nervous. Here are my suggestions: 

First, asking you what you don't like about your work environment is in no way inappropriate. It's exactly what a new supervisor should be doing: figuring out if something needs to change to make things better for those who report to the new supervisor. Second, the lunch offer is probably an attempt to convey that this is an informal conversation. Not only is it not your performance review, it's not even a true meeting, just two people who know each other chatting. Do not say more than you would in a formal setting. You could perhaps use a more casual conversation structure - it would be weird to show up to lunch with a PowerPoint - but don't say "we should have half as many meetings" or "these weekly reports are a total waste of time" if you're not ok with word getting around that you believe those things. Third, do not withhold information because you feel it somehow belongs in the performance review. This sort of conversation should be ongoing and continuous. The fact you two were once peers or are friends is not a pre-req to having this sort of discussion. A supervisor can ask their reports any time "hey, do we have too many meetings, or what?" They can ask "why did this deploy fail? Was it related to communication? What should we do about that?" and the reports should participate in that problem solving. Anyone who answered a question from me with "I think we should discuss that in my performance review" would likely find themselves discussing it in their exit interview. Since you ask what is not appropriate, I'll give some clearly inappropriate questions that a friend and former peer might ask: 

I work in the IT department of a bigger company. For the last couple of months I have been in charge of tech support of a couple web applications, I only do this occasionally since I work in software development full time. A specific person, the head of a different department, is well known for somehow always experiencing issues with his software or computer equipment in general, but mostly the issues appear to be because of his own wrongdoing. This person is also a user of said web applications. Since I'm responsible for them, he takes every chance he gets to ask for my presence so he can explain to me everything that "is wrong" with them, complaining about how he has to waste several hours each month (web apps are used on a monthly basis) to try and make them work but still they don't. He gets aggressive enough to complain loudly about how we may have time to waste but he doesn't, about how it's unbelievable that he has to every month call someone and show them what's wrong and still nothing gets fixed, about how he thinks we are doing it on purpose so he can't take care of whatever else he's supposed to do, about how can we develop such horrible systems that nothing ever works on them. Basically he thinks it's garbage, and he knows I'm the only person responsible for it so the use of "we" is only a euphemism. Now, in a way, I understand some of the things he says, there are several things I see on the software that I probably would have done differently, but that's the issue, I didn't develop it, I didn't design it, I wasn't even an employee before this was up and running. And it's not like I can just say I'm gonna work on that because he keeps complaining, I'm part of other projects, with several deadlines that take all my work time and even more in many cases. However I don't tell him that, I only tell him the truth, every time he calls me I try to explain the same things, that some functionality is actually designed to behave in such a way (it is), that there are things that because of security he cannot do, that the software works as it was intended to and so on. But it serves no purpose, he just keeps yelling at me because "well... but it doesn't do this and it doesn't do that... and also...". My direct boss is aware of him and the so called issues he complains about, then I'm told I probably shouldn't worry too much about it. But still I'm the one that has to keep getting yelled at because of others' past decisions plus the lack of greater understanding of this person. He's even passively aggressively threatened me to talk with the head of my department and complain about how everything "we" do is garbage. Something I'd have no problem with because he also uses those web apps and doesn't experience those issues. I like my line of work, I enjoy it, I strive to make the best out of everything I make. And it angers me that basically he tells me I am everything I try not to be. I have no idea if he does the same to other people, he might as well, but I know for sure he didn't do it to whoever was responsible for this before me. So, if you've read all this through, how could I deal with this? 

These kinds of questions are a little scary, because getting them right usually makes no difference. I've hired people myself, and advised clients who are hiring people, and nobody ever says "let's go with Chris, I loved that persuading answer." But you can really really get them wrong and it can be the no-hire reason. Some ways to get them wrong: 

You could also add information about other boots-on-the-ground knowledge you have of US culture that would be relevant in the context of teaching English. This is also where you can put that summer you spent in France or Argentina, or the culinary training you did, or whatnot. I would put this section towards the top of the resume, and refer to it in a cover letter also. 

Pairing - whether for programming, carpentry, or any other task - is not about speed. It is about combining strengths. Assuming that the two of you have been paired mindfully and deliberately (which I understand may not be the case) then you have an important role to play in making the pairing work. For example, perhaps your partner types while thinking and often it all has to be ripped back out. Perhaps your partner roars into the "guts" code that does all the work, but skips the precondition checking and the error handling, only adding them later while debugging. Your style may be closer to what the team wants. The first thing you need to do is to reframe from a deficiency in you: "I am slow" to a strength you bring to the partnership: "I always remember to check the parameters passed in" or "I like to write the tests" or "my code is more elegant". Then work out a dynamic that harnesses both of your strengths. It's intuitive to let your partner type so you can think, but not if your partner just type a lot that needs to be ripped back out when you finish thinking. It might make more sense to have your hands on the keyboard, and have your partner take notes of the values you see while stepping through, or write scripts to automate the tests you think of. Work together to reduce your partner's frustration and desire to get the mouse and keyboard from you, and your own frustration at seeing someone just run off without thinking. You should end up making each other better. Or plan B, your bosses are just dumb and you two are a mismatch: pretend to pair but in fact divide the work between you and reconnect every hour or so to share what you've learned and done. But try the first approach first. 

The policy. Ignore this problem. Someone, somewhere, screwed up. A new policy has been put in place. Yes, they are idiots. Yes, it could have been costly for you. It wasn't. It's annoying, but if you suffered no harm, it's not a battle worth fighting. Even if you "won" you wouldn't gain anything. Pay. I assume you pay tax via PAYE? This is definitely the company's responsibility. A bonus shouldn't have been taxed any differently to your normal pay - you would still pay Income Tax, NI, & Student Loan repayments on it. So I don't see how you would have lost out financially. What may be different is the amount paid into your pension (if you have one) and the salary they have on record for you if you want a raise next year. 

This is perfectly normal - and totally acceptable in every company I've worked in. From tiny start-ups to huge multi-nationals. Getting personal reward points for company purchases is fine. HMRC (the UK Tax Man) have a section on their website dedicated to it. 

This boss in my company is retiring at the end of the month, he politely asked me if I could get an external hard drive so he could save personal pictures and videos along with other personal files stored on his work computer, he is no IT guy so I politely agreed. For the sake of the argument let's say he gave me $50 USD when we talked about it and said he would give me the rest once I had bought it and knew how much it was. Let's say I spent about $80, would it be ok for me to tell him that it's fine and he shouldn't worry about the rest? Would that seem weird or even petty? I don't know him for long but he has been a friend of the family for a while, also I did get a recommendation from him when I started working here although I don't work directly with him. I've never been in this position so I really have no idea if: 

It's a tricky problem. Some people within a company want to do as little work as possible. Some are burned out from doing meaningless crap for ungrateful jerks. What's in it for them? There are, in my opinion, three main things you can do. 

The paint fumes are unlikely to be toxic (I hope!) - but it would be worth carrying out a Health and Safety check just to make sure. In extreme cases, paint fumes in enclosed spaces can kill. The best way to get rid of smells is not to cover them up. We're at the tail end of summer now, so I would suggest keeping your windows open for as long as the weather remains mild. Improve the ventilation, have someone in looking after the building over the weekend while you air it out. And get some plants to cheer up your employees :-) 

As per the comment, this may depend on where you work. That said, you absolutely have the right to say to your boss "I want parental leave - I'd rather not discuss this with my co-workers. Is it all right if we describe it as annual leave?" Personally, I think it's fine to make that request - but accepting it is a different matter. Suppose one of your co-workers comes up to your boss and says