Any time you have a gap in your employment, you have some explaining to do. There is something to be said for someone willing to make an effort to learn the skills required, but where do you draw the line? Are you always going to need time off for new things. Does working at a full-time job render you so exhausted at the end of the day that you can't take a couple extra hours for self-study. Don't confuse this with expecting anyone to put in 60 hr worke weeks. From the perspective of hiring, I don't think taking time off is a positive sign that you are able to pick up new things quickly. The key is a few weeks (not really noticable on a CV.) for a few months. That is not a big deal for hiring jr/unexperienced people, but if someone has the foundations in programming they should have the mental horsepower to learn new things and apply them to their job pretty quickly. I've studied for certifications without taking any time off and it wasn't really a technology that was closely related to my day to day work. Many people are able to obtain college degrees while working full-time. I'm afraid the technology industry is notorious for thinking people eat, sleep and breath programming, so they may not look at your sabatical in a positive way. 

My suggestion is that you need to start getting used to working in "less than ideal" places because you are surely going to encounter this again later in your career, possibly a lot. You are a programmer? You will definitely encounter projects/team/work environments that give you stress, have difficult people to work with, and so forth. Hang out at this gig until it finishes or until you complete a year, then move on. (Why "a year"? This is basically the standard here in Silicon Valley, especially at startups, where you aren't really going to be frowned upon if you quit after a year.) That said, the fact that you are a contractor does give you leeway in quitting and moving on. People are more understanding and forgiving of this, particularly if you use the excuse that you have found a job with benefits and paid vacations. so, to answer your question: the best way to leave is what I have suggested: tell them you're looking for a full time job with benefits. This will ensure there's no bad blood between you. 

Don't send it. Leave it to their internal process to pass the resume along to the CTO. Take a copy with you for the interview, but don't send it beforehand. It also could make you look a little "too eager" (desperate or inexperienced in these matters), which is the kiss of death for you as a potential candidate. What I mean by this, is: a desperate candidate does not earn respect and often gets the short end of the stick during salary negotiations. 

I think work success/motivation boils down to this, are you willing to do the things to make money? Easier said than done. You may want to have some informal discussion with people individually and ask them: 

Why can't you ask your colleagues if they want you to bring it up? Some people are shy or scared to be the messenger that gets killed. There's no reason to name names. It can be a general suggestion that you forgot to mention during your exit interview. This is really going to depend on the nature of the complaint. You don't want the company to think they have some sort of mutiny or just a pack of complainers. Also, I would consider whether or not anyone has a solution. They company could make things worse if they're not careful. 

I'm not sure you can. You didn't mention him or the old way as being explicitly bad, but the new way is just better. If productivity has increased, there's no getting around that. The real concern is what will the boss's boss do with the information? If the old boss is any good, he should take the criticism and be concerned with improving in this area. He obviously didn't come up with a better solution. You gave an honest answer. I hope it was an honest question. 

People who interview you will be impressed by your skills and knowledge, not your club memberships. Here in Silicon Valley I work with excellent programmers some of whom are basically college dropouts and such. someone who knows you are Mensa, will know you're intelligent. But intelligence doesn't necessarily mean you are good at coding, work well with others, enjoy coding 10 hours a day, etc, which are the important factors that go into the hiring decision, at least for developer jobs. 

honestly, I don't think it will make one bit of difference, except on the off chance the hiring manager happens to be a Mensa member too. in the software world, what matters is results as well as the ability to work well in a team. What impresses most is the ability to demonstrate that you have achieved and are capable of continuing to achieve results. Best way to demonstrate this is: 

It helps to think of what the purpose of a manager is: to manage and organize Resources of which employees are one kind. Are you able to effectively allocate your resources (including your personnel) by talking directly to the team without impairing the ability of the team managers to organize their resources? Or would it be more effective just to deal with the team managers directly? To answer this, you need to know what your resources are. 

Commuting to work can be a major factor in selecting a job. Either in larger cities because of traffic or in more rural areas based on distance. Depending on your current address, this may not be a factor so there's no reason to mention it. If I thought someone would have a long commute, I would want to make sure they were aware of it and try to get any past history on willingness to have a long commute. Many people will say they are willing to live with a long commute, but may be more likely to take a similar job if it is closer. In some major cities, commuting can be very expensive if you're paying for parking, train tickets or even gas. Your address can be used to have more information about your prior work experience and probably to do a background check before hiring. Some names are common, so having a current address can make it easier to check the right John Smith. 

People may think your father plays favorites and didn't make you work as hard as everyone else. My experience seeing other people who have worked for their family is the opposite. They get more responsibility and grief. Your father was probably harder on you in many ways. Hopefully, this means you can demonstrate your skills and these additional responsibilities in your CV and during interviews. You don't need to explicitly state you work for your father unless you want to use that as the reason you're leaving or if they ask.