To understand what the permissive law is we have to examine the origination of the civil society as Kant sees it. We will then see that the permissive law isn't ad hoc at all but an important part of Kant's whole philosophy of law. As I did not read enough to give a systematic summary of that yet, I will leave this part to others and focus on the steps required for the argumentation. 

Reading Russell's Why I Am Not a Christian I stumbled upon a passage (The Moral Arguments for Deity) I don't seem to understand. 

If you're phrasing it like that the answer seems pretty clear to me. The answer is 'Yes' if you admit to morality being subjective, for if you do feel the moral obligation to counteract the majority's wish, why wouldn't you? The majority vote is interesting in itself. Rousseau said that the agreement on the majority vote is the only necessary concordant vote, because otherwise we cannot explain why pretty much always and everywhere, the majority vote is considered to be fair and valid, and why the minority should be accepting the majority's will (Social Contract, Chapter 5 [I think]). But even Rousseau, a radical democrat (let's call him that for reasons of simplicity), can't refute the possibility of the majority being wrong in exercising the collective will. I am mentioning this because even if you're not a subjectivist, the argument that majority is always just or that the will of the majority must be considered 'right' is impeachable. 

It would be interesting to have some passages to compare from these authors that you speak about. I too would say, intuitively, that they can't mean exactly the same. So I put my head into some books (not really) to see what I can come up with. I do not find my finding interesting enough to earn a bounty, but nonetheless I prefer to share. What I did find interesting was this distinction by Cicero from the Wiki on "duty": 

Studying Kant's Perpetual Peace I happened to notice the concept of adiaphora. Further investigations brought up almost nothing: There are several references to adiaphora in Kant's work that clearly contradict each other. 

You can read about that e.g. in Mind, Brains and Science. I'll try and give a shot summary as well as my personal two cents. Searle is trying to get rid of the evil dualism introduced by Descartes that has been haunting sciences, not only philosophy, for centuries. It is his agenda to explain how consciousness, as the sum of all mental phenomena, can be explained with what he thinks is "common sense": 

I'm probably overseeing argumentational gaps. If there is something missing, I will gladly add that. 

Which means that n, the number of individuals that have the attribute x, can be 0 or positive. But in this case (we find out he actually wasn't American) your second premise "stops" being true, because: 

The Presocratics were 6th and 5th century BCE Greek thinkers (starting with the Milesian school), while the hellenistic period went well over into the Common Era (the first 400 years, roughly, were the era of hellenistic Christianity) and contains Greek as well as Latin philosophers. To be precise, "hellenistic philosophy is the period of Western philosophy that was developed in the Hellenistic civilization following Aristotle and ending with the beginning of Neoplatonism" (Wikipedia), so the pre-socratic thinkers aren't part of the group. 

I don't know why you'd constrain that thought to the Golden Rule only. Neither do I know about al-Ghazali, so I can't point out any similarities, but my first answer would be: definitely yes! Just take a look at Kant's moral aims - the categorical imperative (together with the rational religion as presented in Religion within the Bounds of Bare Reason) serves the formation of the Kingdom of God on Earth (though the Categorical Imperative doesn't "serve" anything as a purpose [it has its purpose in itself], every action has its outcome, and the outcome of everybody obeying the CI plus living in a rational ethical community would be the Kingdom of God). That God, independent of our inability to recognize his nature, is postulated as the Christian God (at least I think so, should probably check that out). Kant proposes a totally different approach to religion and God, but his morality cannot be thought independently of them. Morality makes a human being free, and to be moral, they need the certainty that their felicity isn't contrary to morality (that's a thought that, too, can be found in Religion). Only the idea of a/the God can assure us that this isn't the case. The perfect community needs a God and a rational religion, not as foundation but as completion. 

A rule utilitarian thinks, before acting, about the consequences of people following that rule. If the outcome is regarded as positive, she might decide that it's good to follow that rule in general, and will apply it in future. An act utilitarian doesn't generalise the act, but regards it as a single action with a single outcome. She will have to weigh the possible consequences each and every time she acts. Therefore, rule utilitarianism is considered to be more practicable, countering the anti-utilitarian argument that weighing each and every possible outcome each and every time is just not the way we want to (or can) spend our time. On the other hand, act utilitarians consider rule utilitarians somewhat dull-witted, for a smart person might think of herself to be able to decide what to do without just applying rules time and time again. Also, blindly applying rules to specific situations can have unforeseen negative consequences that might have been averted by somebody who paid more attention instead of executing a programme. At the same time, act utilitarians are criticised for their double standards, for they think it is useful if everybody follows "good" rules while they take for themselves the right to decide whether or not it is clever to stick to those rules in a specific situation. An example: A rule utilitarian drives at night and sees a red intersection light. Thinking "it would have good consequences if people would stick to the rule and not cross red lights, so everyone is safe while waiting for a short while", she would apply that rule to herself and wait for it to turn green. Meanwhile, the act utilitarian might think "well, I certainly hope that people, who aren't me, in general follow that rule and stay put, but as there's no one around who might get influenced by my act, since there's no police around to fine me, and since I would see an approaching car as it's dark, I might as well cross right now." Sources: There is a paper by Smart which you can find here; I'm pretty sure that's what we read in the seminar where I learned what I wrote. Smart's the act utilitarian. 

But what's really interesting is this Pdf on legal terminology I found. It states that even from a legal point of view, there is uncertainty about the use of these terms. I quote: 

It seems to me that this is far from "a priori" as Kant defines it. Furthermore, it rather seems to be a tautology. Because to say that we know that God exists because we clearly and distinctly know what his nature is means the same thing as to already know that he does exist. Are there any other ways to read this? Am I mistaken? I am not looking for affirmation but on the contrary for arguments against my maybe premature opinion. 

I'm not surprised by that statement, I'm just wondering if that's really an established dilemma, as it's depicted here, and if somebody knows of any papers addressing it in more detail, so I can do some reading on that. Also, if you happen to know by heart where in the Critique of Pure Reason Kant addresses that topic (I suppose it has something to do with his rejection of the ontological proof of god, but I don't remember where I read that), please let me know. 

I marked the sentence that is of interest to me. What is Russell's argument here and where does this conclusion come from? Can you point out the hidden premises? Is the claim that, if God decided between possibility A and B and decided to do A, that he could have done otherwise and that there is no inherent qualitative difference between A and B before his decision? 

I understand the induction part of Aristotle's categories, and I know about Kant's categories, but apparently not enough to understand how they can be derived deductively. How can categories, and from what, be derived deductively? 

I don't want to simplify, but this almost seems to be a logical blatancy: As a human being without a moral superior, you are forced ("condemned") to choose. Even not choosing is a choice. A moral superior provides a) rules you have to follow to achieve b) a certain objective. Following these rules and knowing what you're doing it for often makes choice a lot easier. Which is why the atheist is endued with condemnation - because it makes his/her life so much more troublesome and complicated.