While I agree in general with the other answers, I think they miss something very important. Ad hominem is a technical term, in a category, logical fallacy, that has a precise meaning: Something that is presented as (or appears as) a proof or disproof of an argument, but that does not legitimately address that argument. In the examples you give, it is impossible to judge them as ad hominem without more context. Is Person A advancing an actual argument (whether weak or strong), that Person B wants people to discard solely on the basis of who Person A is? Or is Person A just making absurd personal accusations with no actual logical content (valid or not)? Please note: It would be perfectly reasonable for someone to say "Person A has a long, consistent history of making worthless claims, therefore it is likely that this claim is worthless (and/or therefore it is likely to be not worth the time to listen and try to understand). It is, however, fallacious to say "Person A has a long consistent history of making worthless claims, therefore this current argument he is making is (or must be) invalid." No possible accidents of personal history are legitimate disproofs of any strong or valid argument. 

If you are a solipsist, from your point of view you would only be talking to yourself anyway, so you could say whatever you wanted. If you're a (presumably external) interlocutor trying to catch a solipsist in an implicit contradiction, there will be probably be plenty. Even if one has no actual belief in the existence of others, one still needs to behave and speak as if one does to make any progress at all through this illusion we call life. 

There's two general answers I perceive to this. One is that the Flew argument targets a god with no fixed traits (that is hence infinitely mutable). In other words, the argument starts from the assumption that the god being defended does not exist. No believer actually believes in such a god, almost by definition. Every actual theist believes in a God that has at least some assertable characteristics, reflected in some way in the universe as we experience it, such that one could create a description of an entity that could confidently NOT be equated with God as that believer envisions God. A Christian does not believe that the Flying Spaghetti Monster or the Space Teapot can be identified with God as understood by Christians. So it not the case that God is not falsifiable for the same reasons as the Space Teapot is non-falsifiable, from the viewpoint of a theist. However, a theist might be comfortable with the notion that God is a necessary being, and unfalsifiable for that reason. One cannot prove logic with logic, or mathematics with mathematics. If God is the ground of all experience, then there can be no experiential way to falsify God. Is this a problem for a theist? It's important to remember that the principle of falsification is foundational to the concept of scientifically established fact. It does not preclude the existence of truth or verification outside of science (such a statement would be non-falsifiable, and therefore self-defeating). Our intuitions about what lies beyond the boundaries of all experience cannot be empirically falsified. Someone who restricts themselves to scientific verifiability must forever suspend judgement on such questions, but a theist is under no such obligation. Another way of putting this is that the belief in God is the primary and foundational belief for (at least some) theists. Their answer to Flew's question is thus that is not even theoretically possible to disprove God for the reason that all other beliefs are less secure (including the belief in reality as we perceive it). 

As adminitude noted, this is not typically the way it works. Many of the anti-atheistic arguments developed within specific social and religious contexts in which the local orthodoxy could be confidently contrasted with atheism as the only two reasonably possible options. Accordingly, the rationalist arguments you reference are usually about the existence of God in general, and defend most centrally a conception of God sometimes called "God of the Philosophers," the abstract unity of all perfections, rather than a personified conception of God. There are other kinds of arguments, which are not necessarily the same (or rather, necessarily not the same) for the reasons to prefer one religion over another, first given the existence of God, and still other kinds of arguments around the specific points of doctrine that divide one sect from another. As the world globalizes, the problem of defending a specific religion simultaneously against atheism and against other religions becomes more acute, and one might expect new arguments to emerge with this as a goal. The only one I'm personally familiar with, however, is Kierkegaard's argument for Christianity, which is actually anti-rationalist, and centers around the paradoxical concept that it is the very absurdity of the Christian narrative that certifies its validity. (I believe CS Lewis also tackles this issue head on, but I don't have any specific citations available.) As far as why people don't just advocate a generalized non-specified theism, some do, but the historical record seems to indicate that people in general tend to find this approach considerably less compelling. Speaking personally, as a person of faith, I would say that the abstract arguments are comforting and fulfilling at an abstract and intellectual level, but that for the challenges of everyday living, you need a faith community, and all the specifics that go along with that. One might not be able to defend that second choice, however, with the same formal rigor as the first. 

It depends on why you have faith in God in the first place. If your belief in God was a philosophical logic-based conclusion, and if you came to that conclusion after taking into account the fact that bad things do happen in the world, then changing that belief based solely on your personal experience would be philosophically inconsistent (since your own personal bad experience is nothing but a special case of the premise that bad things happen). However, for many people of faith, belief in God is based on a relationship with God, not a logical argument, and they may lose faith if they feel that relationship has been betrayed. For such people --or for people whose belief is based on less than either logic or personal relationship (habit, for instance, or peer pressure)-- a loss of faith cannot be counted as "bad philosophy" per se, although it could certainly be critiqued on other grounds. 

The most likely exceptions to this general rule are the trial (Apology) and death (Phaedo) of Socrates. In particular, the Apology was written relatively close to the time of the event it depicts, and Plato would almost certainly have personally been in attendance. It's also one of the few of Plato's Socratic works that depicts an event also attested to by independent observers. Judging by their accounts, Plato's version is neither entirely truthful nor entirely invented. The Phaedo is generally considered to have been written later, and Plato explicitly mentions in the text that he was NOT present when it happened (which reads like a signal to readers to view it as fiction) so it's even less likely to be accurate. All the other dialogs are increasingly less likely to be non-fictional, for the reasons detailed above. 

I don't think brevity alone justifies coining new words, but in philosophical writing, the coining of new words is often doing substantial conceptual work. There is a school of thought that holds that we can only think about the things we have words for. Even if that is only slightly true, it suggests that coining new words is one of the ways philosophers shape future pathways of thought. 

In a very rough sense, the meta-question of whether or not this is a "pseudo problem" or not is the dividing line between classical philosophy, which was often focused directly around this very question, and modern philosophy, which typically denies the entire legitimacy of the question. I have my own strong ideas about this, but since forum rules discourage original philosophizing, I would direct you instead to read some of the classic thinkers --Plato, Aristotle, Lao Tzu. While you might end up concluding their answers are wrong, inadequate, or nonsensical you could at least learn what some of the great minds have thought about the question. In brief (and these are only rough glosses on complex concepts), Plato's idea is that our purpose in life is to come closer to embodying a metaphysical ideal more real and eternal than the superficial illusions of every day life. Aristotle's idea is that our purpose can be discovered by coming to understand, through observation and classification, what kind of creatures we are. Lao Tzu seems to imply that we are all parts of a giant cyclical process centered around the dynamic tension and ebb and flow between opposites. You might also find it useful to read both Sartre and Kierkegaard who wrestle (from opposite sides of the atheist/theist divide) with the question of how to find purpose in a world in which in which no set purpose is imposed on you from outside yourself. We might characterize Sartre's answer as "you are what you do" --your personal actions and choices create their own purpose as you progress through life. Kierkegaard, in contrast, draws meaning from a direct personal connection with the divine, and judges the activities of daily life with an aesthetic standard, through the eyes of an artist.