This question broadly regards the Denettian "intentional stance" to agency, which says that on the most fundamental level there are only physical things in the world, but nevertheless for certain complex physical entities (and people in particular) it is often pragmatically useful to treat them as if they were agents acting according to beliefs, goals, etc., rather than try to understand them fully on the physical level. In order to do this, we have to decide which parts of the physical world constitute the agent and which its environment. In some cases there may be more than one useful place in which this boundary can be drawn - Clark and Chalmers give the example of a person called Otto who has to write everything in a notebook due to a memory disorder, and they argue that the notebook can reasonably be seen as part of Otto as an agent. With that background in place, my question is as follows: is there a name for the "cut" that we must make in order to apply the intentional stance, between something we wish to treat as agent and its environment? There are two other "cuts" that seem related, but not the same. The first is the "Cartesian cut" between the world of the physical and the world of the mental. This cut is different because it is a cut between two parts of the physical world - one that is to be considered an agent, and one that consists of everything else. The other related cut is the "Heisenberg cut" in quantum mechanics, between the system we wish to measure (to be treated using quantum theory) and the apparatus we use to measure it (to be treated classically). This cut shares the property that we have some flexibility in where we draw it, but it deals with a different domain of enquiry. 

Mathematics is considered a universal language because the principles which it holds are the same no matter what. 10 of something is 10 of that thing no matter where you are, what you speak, and how you write it. This is the reason why the SETI project has been broadcasting mathematical formulas on multiple bases ensuring that the recipient will understand at least one of them if not all of them like we do. Because math is a fundamental building block foundation, any civilization or lifeform will have to have a form of it. This means that at that level, they will have math and can communicate back to establish a cipher for bilateral communication. They can choose base number system 2 binary (how computers communicate) 3 ternary 4 quaternary 5 quinary 6 senary 7 septenary 8 octal 9 nonary 10 decimal (how we commonly refer to real numbers) 11 undenary 12 duodecimal 16 hexadecimal (again commonly used in programming and computer hardware) 20 vigesimal (Aztecs and Mayans used this for planetary positions) 60 sexagesimal (used by the Babylonians and still used to measure time) and even if they use one that is not here, when we send them the same value on all of these bases, they can use it to calculate what it would be on their math base and send it back allowing us to figure out the base and establish a key. This is absolutely critical in foundation of language and basic communication with unknown languages, similar to the techniques used to decipher hieroglyphs, ancient Persian tablets and so on. This is how we decipher dead languages on our planet, so it will be applied to any new intelligence in the universe and if they are intelligent enough to be communicating with us or even receiving us, then they have reached a development stage allowing them to comprehend and adapt. Now that being said, given that math and geometry are steps toward understanding elements of physics, they would have come to the same conclusions as we have over the years. They may have come to them at different order, with different level of specificity and by different names, but the principles of the physical universe would be observed. Now barring a silicone based lifeform able to live on the surface of a red giant and breath sulfur, we can safely assume the same rules of physical universe would apply to them as well. 

I don't know whether I am a materialist according to your definition or not. But I find something else strange in your argument, different I think from the other objections. You claim that twin A's experience of MR can be compared to twin B's experience of MR, in such a way that it's meaningful to say whether they're equal or not. In other words, you have these objects PR and PB, which can exist as part of either person's experience. It's not obvious to me that this is the case. To expand on this, let me write P(A,MR) for twin A's perceptual experience of light from a red object hitting the retina, and similarly P(B,MR) for B's experience of the same scene. Your premise is that P(A,MR)=P(B,MB)=PR and P(A,MB)=P(B,MR)=PB. Others have objected on the grounds that a person's subjective experiences don't exist or can't be meaningfully defined from a materialist perspective. My objection is that even if these things can be meaningfully discussed, it doesn't follow that we can compare them in this way. In other words, P(A,MR) is part of person A's experiences, whereas P(B,MR) is part of person B's experiences. What's to say that these aren't two completely different spaces? If they are, then we can meaningfully make claims like P(A,MR)!=P(A,MB) ("person A can perceptually distinguish between red and blue objects"), but claims like P(A,MR)!=P(B,MR) ("person A's experience of red objects is different from person B's experience of red objects") are not well-formed and have no truth value. After all, when we discuss our experience of seeing a red object, we can only do so intersubjectively, through mutual agreement on the meaning of words. This allows me to put myself in your shoes and imagine would it would be like for me to be you, but perhaps it's not possible for me ever to know what it's like for you to be you. (See Nagel's 'what is it like to be a bat?') Indeed, this unknowability is a premise of your argument. I think that if a materialist were to accept your premises that P(A,MR) and P(B,MR) both exist and that they cannot be distinguished experimentally, then they would be forced to conclude that what I say above is the case, that a claim about whether those objects are equal is not a meaningful one. 

Well this has been subject to various philosophical debates for a very long time. If you look at the definition of the two terms, you will get what seems like a circular answer. One refers to the other and the other refers back, case in point: 

I have been a hacker and programmer since I was 14 and I have done advanced education and research in Artificial Intelligence. We all know that we do not yet have a computer entity that is "truly" intelligent since all have to conform to their coding and logic proposed by the programmer(s) therefore limited by the scope of those instructions. However, let's assume for the sake of argument that one of those machines becomes sentient, like humans. It thinks for itself, by itself and without any reliance on programmatic logic. It would be considered a new lifeform; albeit created by man. Here is my question: If god has made us in his own image and therefore is God because he created us, does that also mean that if we as humans create a sentient lifeform from say Artificial Intelligence, would we be considered it's God? I ask because if the premise for God is that he/she/it created us, then by all standards we would be God as we have created a sentient being. So in essence, we are to it as god is to us, right? 

If the food is healthy to eat and made readily available to you, duplicate it if possible, using as few resources as possible. "Spread throughout the Earth and subdue it. Rule over the [animals]..." is a call to decent scientific study. One studies to learn, and one learns to use, and one uses for good. "I desire mercy, not sacrifice." 

Man's rules change. "I, the Lord, do not change." Therefore, man's rules are only valid if they meet God's rules. God designed man to live and to understand and to revere and obey God; and his words are kindness, justice, and righteousness that he exercises on the Earth "because in these things I delight". And so at the heart of all these questions we ask each other is a desire for Kindness (love), Justice (betterment), and Righteousness (goodness -- faithfulness to God who alone is good). So the law must concede to reality. The law was made for man; man was not made for the law. Copyright and patents are designed to limit right to sell, not right to use. 

It sounds like a pretty silly argument when written explicitly, but I've come across it in science from time to time. It sometimes happens that if one assumes a hypothesis (A) to be true, then one can make progress on some important unanswered question (B). This sometimes leads the hypothesis to be treated as a principle (i.e. a postulate that must be accepted without explanation). It can then become difficult to question A, because this also means questioning all the progress that has been made towards B under the assumption that it's true. I note that this form also comes up quite often as a (perfectly valid!) step in solving logic puzzles. Its validity in this case comes from knowing the puzzle has a unique solution, so one can correctly conclude that it won't be left unknown. Please note though that this point about logic puzzles is just an observation - my question is about the situation in the paragraphs above, which are about the cases where we do not know the problem has a solution, so we cannot correctly make this inference. I guess it's a form of appeal to consequences, but I'm wondering if it has a more specific name. It also seems related to the streetlight effect, though it's perhaps even stronger. 

Now you can see that in a way they are being defined interchangeably. However it seems that what separates the two are a matter of perspective and understanding of its context. Ironically what brings more light to this difference are the synonyms. Observe that while some of the synonyms are the same, given the way they are defined not a real surprise, there are key differences in there that if they were truly the same would not happen. The primary differences are: 

The trend of the differences for duty seem to imply that some part of the social contract is responsible for it. Duty to vote can be a burden to some and liability to others (the disenfranchised vs. those seeking future political office). Calling to be a soldier, cop, doctor, journalist, humanitarian, activist, etc etc (suggesting a familial trend - my father, his father, and his father ^n was a soldier so its my calling to serve, etc). So we can say perhaps that DUTY is born out of ideology or social contract which motivates the action with a sense of implied greater purpose. Now looking at the differences for obligation seem to imply imposition of some of kind of responsibility out of legal, moral, or religious rules/laws. Obligation to obey traffic rules, caring for your offsprings, going to church, academic honor to not plagiarize or cheat, do not steal, do not kill, etc, you get the idea. We can perhaps see that obligation tends to come out of legal responsibility, moral or religious beliefs. The differences may seem subtle but they do include nuances that may be significant to how the individual behavior is guided.