Because the purpose of language is communication, in theory, what would be needed for a global language to arise is a global communication system. In practice... that's exactly what we're seeing. Look at how rapidly English is becoming the lingua franca of the Internet ever since the rise of the World Wide Web. It's already accomplished more, in a few short decades, than the combined resources of colonizing empires, missionaries, and traveling ESL teaching programs have in centuries. 

The reason that racism is problematic in our world is that it's based on a lie: that people of other races are inherently different, in a way that makes it harmful for them to interact with us. The simple truth is, we're all human and we all have approximately the same capacities for good and for evil as everyone else. If you want it to be justified, take that lie and make it true in your world. There is something inherent in their nature that makes at least one group, if not both, fundamentally harmful to the other. Subtle biological changes can exist between human subraces. Caucasians are almost unique in their ability to tolerate lactose beyond childhood. Native Americans don't have the genes for facial hair. IIRC the Japanese have an enzyme that improves their ability to digest raw fish. Sickle-cell anemia is common in people whose ancestry traces back to parts of Africa in which malaria is endemic, because the altered blood cells are resistant to it. And so on. Perhaps in your world, race A has a pheromone that is harmless to them but triggers allergic reactions in many members of race B. Now it is literally not safe for them to be around each other. That's all it takes. 

In addition to what JDługosz has said, you are talking about blowing up a perfectly functional generation ship and expecting it to still work. Earth has been supporting human life for about a million years. By breaking Earth into chunks you will disrupt just about every system on the planet such as: 

If feathers get in the way of manipulating objects your intelligent tool users will evolve to not have feathers on their hands long before they develop the tools and culture necessary to not cut feathers as a indicator of wealth. Congratulations you've discovered fingernails. These days humans can do all sorts of fancy things with our nails if we aren't doing manual labor. We have only reached this point after a long period where every proto-human was needing to work with their hands and manipulate objects constantly for survival. Note for instance that we have less hair on our hands relative to the rest of our bodies. 

So yeah, there are plenty of hooks you could use to create a civilization where a god that places what outsiders see as an excessive level of emphasis on happiness could be viewed as evil and problematic. 

No matter how stable your society is, eventually new ideas will arise and science will progress--especially if your neighbors, who you've historically been rivals with at times, are doing it too and you don't want to end up at a disadvantage. So eventually the elves are going to have to start picking up modern technology, if for no other reason than to keep up with the humans and the dwarves. There's just one problem. Steel is nearly as essential to human-style technology as electricity, and elves, being fey-blooded creatures, are harmed by the touch of iron, including ferrous alloys, similar in severity to a human with potentially-life-threatening allergies. How would a stereotypical forest-dwelling, nature-magic-wielding Elven society develop modern technology if they can't use iron and steel? Other structural metals, including bronze, aluminum, and titanium, are perfectly safe. Magical metals (such as mithril) are mythical and generally believed to not actually exist. 

You can't communicate with maths. Maths are a collection of related formal systems that are somewhat an extension of formal logic. Languages are systems for communication. These are two very different types of systems that aren't necessarily compatible. While some mathematicians will discuss the universality of math they are talking about a very different thing than communication . Try translating "pass me that" into maths and see how it works out. What maths is great at doing is reasoning about things. Assuming there was a method of mathing back and forth at each other you'd find out that you both agreed about whatever mathematical proof you happened to exchange. If you remember from The Arrival there was another team that was trying to communicate with the aliens via math. The result was that they got the aliens to solve simple math problems and produce sequences of prime numbers, not an answer to the question of the movie "What is your purpose here?". To quote from Artelius' answer to a similar question: 

It's hard to see how "a rational and moderately intelligent precog" would be able to beat this strategy. 

Don't worry about it; Cthulhu's really not all that tough. Last time he tried to manifest in our world, he was taken out by some ordinary schmuck ramming him with a turn-of-the-20th-century boat, and we've learned a lot more about building destructive things since then. If it comes down to it, I bet a rocket launcher would defeat him just fine. There is precedent, after all... 

It's common knowledge that one of the things that makes stealth aircraft so stealthy is that the body is covered in a skin of special material that interferes with radar. Would it be theoretically possible (for a more-or-less reality-based superhero concept) to create a "stealth car" based on the same principle, that won't register on a cop's radar gun? 

Probably not. There are many loud sounds. When near a loud sound you won't move to a louder sound unless it is sufficiently close. It is rare that there will be a clear gradient of increasing volume. What's more likely to happen is that there will be many local maxima that zombies will congregate towards. Eventually these congregations will become large enough that the sound of the zombies is louder than any external sound preventing any zombies in the cluster from leaving the cluster. 

An infection suddenly becoming lethal after infecting a majority of the population is pure fiction. The closest real world analogue are diseases that have an asymptomatic infectious phase before they start harming people. Unlike in Plague inc. where every infected person suddenly gets ill, real diseases don't coordinate between people. 

Cellulose is a very good terrestrial structural molecule. Very popular in forests. It can create large structures in a massive variety of shapes. Unfortunately fungi don't use cellulose as a structural molecule. You could wave your hands a bit and say that they do but there's another more plausible option. Chitin is a polymer based off glucose with a similar structure to cellulose. Mushrooms already produce it. If we're imagining a forest of Morrowind style giant mushrooms. We can ever so slightly wave our hands and say that they use chitin to give them their structure similar to how plants use cellulose. 

All of the answers on here so far have held on to an implicit assumption in the question, one that's worth challenging: the idea that only one side would have a dragon fighting for it. This goes against everything we know about the history of warfare; decisive, game-changing weapons don't tend to remain decisive for all that long, because the technology behind them ends up spreading. In one of the most dramatic examples, the Manhattan Project conducted its first nuclear test in 1945. Later that year, the technology developed by the Manhattan Project was used on Hiroshima and Nagasaki, to bring an end to World War II. It was later discovered that one of the physicists on the Manhattan Project, Klaus Fuchs, was a spy for the USSR, and between him and a few other spies, the Soviets were able to complete their first working test bomb in 1949, just 4 years after the USA. With these dragons providing such a decisive advantage on the field of battle, it doesn't matter what period of history they appear in; other people are going to want in on the game. It might take a while--depending on circumstances, they might have to go so far as to steal a dragon egg and raise the hatchling to maturity themselves--but it would happen, and from that point on, a dragon appearing on the field of battle would no longer be an instant-win condition. 

I'm unaware of any examples of mammalian inflation. The spines of animals like hedgehogs, porcupines, and echidnas are all made from modified hair follicles. These modified hair follicles allow the orientation of the quills and spines to change from lying flat against the body to erect, pointing in every direction. This will allow the same animal to be perceived as much larger and spikier, similar to why pufferfish inflate. 

To know if an object can fly in a given environment upward force must be greater than the downward force. If we're assuming that the only forces that matter are gravity and lift, we want the downward force of gravity upon the object (159N) to be less than the force of lift. To calculate the minimum flight speed we need to find the speed where L = Fg. This can be done by setting L = 159N and solving for v. 

From Brandon Sanderson's Mistborn series: The heroine, Vin, was fighting a warrior who had Atium, which gave him the magical power to see her attacks before she made them, and to react to them accordingly. It was believed that the only counter to the precognition of a warrior with Atium was to have Atium yourself, but Vin had used all of hers. But then she realized she could: 

They want to keep education valuable by keeping it expensive Here's a crazy idea: We know that people with money are better off than people without money. Therefore, let's give a million dollars to everyone, and end the woes of poverty overnight! Anyone with even the most basic understanding of economics can take a single look at that and say "that's crazy, because inflation". Money is used as a proxy for labor and necessary resources, and putting more money into the system doesn't actually create more labor and necessary resources, so something has to give and it ends up devaluing the money. What does this have to do with the question? Well, here's another crazy idea: We know that people with education get better-paying jobs than people without education. Therefore, let's give a degree to everyone, and end the woes of poverty overnight in 4-6 years! With the context above, it should be immediately obvious why this will not work. Education doesn't get you a good job; it simply helps you distinguish yourself from less-educated applicants. It can be thought of as somewhat similar to money in this sense, and putting more degrees into the system doesn't create more good jobs; it just devalues the degrees. (See: US education policy over the last few decades, leading to some places where they literally require a Master's degree to be a pizza delivery guy, because that's how high you have to set the filter.) Which means you end up with a bunch of people trying to pay off a Master's degree worth of student loans on pizza delivery guy wages! (See: current US student debt crisis.) A government that's aware of the problems of inflation uses monetary policy to try to keep inflation down. A government that's aware of the problems of eduflation (yes, it's a real word, and it's a shame more people don't know about it) would use a restrictive educational policy to try to keep eduflation down. 

There is still a gravitational force (a slope) at a lagrange point so that an object with no velocity would still fall out of position. 

Religion by it's very nature is prone to schisms. There are no examples of a religion on earth of any longevity that hasn't split and factionalized. This is such a common phenomena that it's possible that it is a fundamental part of human nature. If it's impossible for religions on one earth to not split constantly. It's going to be impossible for a religion spanning multiple earths to do so. To quote xkcd: 

Sanitation won't spark an industrial revolution. It is neither necessary nor sufficient. A modern understanding of sanitation is unnecessary to start an industrial revolution. Given that the Industrial Revolution was considered to have ended sometime between 1820 and 1840 and the Broad Street Cholera Outbreak happened 1854 in London we can safely assume that adequate sanitation did not exist throughout the Industrial Revolution. The capabilities to build a system of piped water and covered sewers existed as far back as Rome. Building the system would promote economic growth and improve the quality of life for the inhabitants of the town but would not lead to any of the innovations iconic to the Industrial Revolution. 

This most likely would need to be vocal in nature, because as a few answers have already pointed out, verbal language lends itself quite easily to recording and preservation without alteration, which is extremely important for technological development. So yes, a non-verbal, telepathic culture could most likely arise and build a civilization, but it would never progress beyond the Dark Ages without speech. (Come to think of it, that would make for an interesting hook right there: a society in which speech is for precise technical matters of science, engineering and law, whereas telepathy is used for social communication.) 

If you want to make a language that truly sounds weird, try messing around with what grammatical bits and pieces are and are not required. 

He says that generally speaking, there are two basic ways to deal with magic in your writing: give it strong rules that the reader (not just the characters!) can understand, in which case it can be used as a neutral storytelling tool, or keep it "mystical" and deliberately loosely-defined, at the cost of not being able to be helpful without looking like a deus ex machina. (Deus ex magia?) He calls the first style "hard magic" and the second "soft magic", essentially a direct reference to "hard" and "soft" sci-fi, and points out that both styles can be quite successful, pointing to The Lord of the Rings as an exceptional example of soft magic. But because LOTR is soft magic, magic can't be used to resolve conflicts--though of course it can always make things worse for our protagonists. For example, when they have Gandalf hold off the Balrog with his magic, they end up losing his guidance for a major part of the story. (This is also why you can't "just have Gandalf fly everyone to the volcano on giant eagles;" it violates the convention and would ruin the story.) In "hard magic", on the other hand, if the reader knows the rules and is able to follow along, then he doesn't feel like the author's pulling a fast one when the protagonist uses magic to solve a problem, because it makes sense that he can do that. He uses Spider-Man as an example, even though his powers aren't technically magic, because it's an example that will be (presumably) familiar to all readers: because the audience knows that he can shoot webs, sense danger, cling to walls, and has superhuman strength and agility, "therefore, we’re not surprised when Spider-man shoots a web in a bad guy’s face. We’ve established that he can do that, and it makes sense to us when he does it. It is narratively a Hard Magic system, rather than a Soft Magic system." To give an idea of what not to do, one example (my example this time, not Sanderson's) of hard magic done badly is The Sword of Truth, in which the magic working by strict rules is basically an informed attribute: we're told, over and over and over in the story, that there are very strict, well-defined rules that magic works by, and several of the characters clearly have a very good understanding of those rules, but they are never explained to the audience, and so when, at the climax of several of the books, Richard resolves things by suddenly figuring out how to work some magical marvel, it ends up feeling like the author simply extracted the resolution from his nether regions.