First, it's probably a bad approach to think of it as a shift. It's a rotation. similar to a spinning top. It's called precession. It's always been there - (so to speak). It's part of Earth's motion. The Earth is sufficiently massive and space, sufficiently empty that there's effectively zero resistance and the Earth's precession is permanent and largely consistent. (unlike a top that slows down due to friction from the ground and air resistance). Earth's precession shifts a tiny bit due to the sun, moon and gravity from other planets but those adjustments are very slow and not relevant to your question. As Earth's precession completes one rotation every 22,000 years (give or take), over a human lifetime that's about 1.5 degrees or 1.5 days, which is pretty small and easily missed by anyone not taking very careful measurements. That doesn't affect calendars however. Calendars are a little complicated, and I'm not sure it's necessary to go into that in detail for your question. Calendars also can be adjusted to match Earth's orbit. Any un-adjusted calendar will eventually mess things up like putting July in winter, but that has nothing to do with the 22,000 year precession. 365.25 days (a leap year every 4 years), was inaccurate enough to lead to the year that lost 11 days in the UK in 1752. 365.25 days (Julian calendar) is much more accurate than 365 days (which loses a day every 4 years (in effect, a 365 day year would put July in winter in 720 years, not 11,000). Any movement of winter across the calendar depends on how good the calendar is, NOT earth's precession. 365.242 days (Gregorian calendar), or 97 leap years every 400 years is better than the Julian (1 every 4). Having an accurate accounting of leap years and being able to add or remove one as needed, will keep winter in the winter months for as long as we need to, much longer than 11,000 years. What changes with Earths precession is the position of the stars. The sky will shift depending on where Earth is in it's 22,000 year wobble. Similarly, the North star won't always be the North star. The night sky will look shifted by about 46 degrees in 11,000 years (some of the stars will have moved over that time-frame as well, but lets ignore that for now). You've herd the term "Age of Aquarius". The astrological ages each last about 1,800-2,000 years, and the cycle of 12 ages corresponds to Earth's 22,000 year wobble. Note, that article says 25,860 years and your quoted 22,000 years. The solar system also wobbles, so how those wobbles add up can give different estimates. If you use 22,000 or 25,860 or 25,771 or 26,000 or 23,000 on average, the different numbers don't change the answer to this question. This explains the variation in the numbers used. 

It was almost certainly multiple. I can't say for 100% but I think it was very very likely - cause of the way they split apart for one. For example, today: Europe, Asia and in a practical sense, Africa are all connected but contain several different plates. The Indian Plate and the Eurasian plate are 2 different plates but the land is connected, so you'd never know it was two plates - well, except for the frequent earthquakes. 

There's a principal in science called the double-blind study, where you set up two equal experiments, with one variation and you don't know which experiment has the variation and you study the effects. This is a good scientific approach but it's not always possible. You can study the effects of smoking by letting one group smoke and another group not and compare the two groups, but we can't build other Earths to study one with burning fossil fuels and one without - models are all we have. How accurately the models predict what will happen by 2100 is hard to say, but inaccurate models are better than none. Take a financial advisory firm that runs models and one that doesn't - and you tell me which one will be right more often. There's also much more consistency with planet Earth than there is with financial models. The solar energy the Earth receives year to year varies by less than 0.1%. Global could cover varies by perhaps 1%-2% year to year. Snowfall cover varies maybe a little more, volcanic ash comes and goes, but generally leaves the atmosphere pretty quickly, even the largest volcanoes only trigger cooling for a small number of years. The Earth absorbs heat from sunshine with a small percentage coming from internal heat and volcanoes and it loses heat by radiation. There are thermodynamic laws that govern heat transfer. That means the Earth is pretty consistent, having roughly the same orbit around the same star. By comparison, financial models try to estimate something that's a few orders of magnitude more volatile. Modeling isn't easy, but it beats blind guessing like the Patriots beating the Jets. That's true in both studying climate change and in finance. So, how do we know it's man-made? Look at the signature. Earth is warmed by the sun during the day and it radiates energy away at night. The atmosphere acts like a shield, blocking some of the solar energy from reaching the surface and a blanket catching some of the radiation leaving Earth. Climate change gases like SO2 and very fine volcanic ash thicken the shield, cooling the Earth - see year without summer. Climate change gases like CO2 thicken the blanket. Water is also a greenhouse gas so where CO2 has the biggest effect is low absolute humidity regions like the poles. Other changes, like albedo, the effect is in visible light, not infra-red. Ocean current changes are easy to detect because the effects are visible on location. A stronger mid-atlantic current = warmer European winter. The climate effects of El Nino, which warms the Earth, are many, but they are well documented. Heat-trapping greenhouse gas has a signature. The lower atmosphere warms, the upper atmosphere cools, the tropopause rises and the troposphere loses mass. The warming can be modeled based on greenhouse gas to be largely polar and the comparing temperature by time of day, the Earth warms most at night, where a hotter sun would do the opposite and warm the Earth during the day and that's where you'd see the larger variation. Your question implies that scientists ignore all the other possibilities. Nothing could be further from the Truth. Scientists (on average) appreciate possibilities and will rarely dismiss valid alternative explanations. While the theory was first proposed in the 1900s, modern climate change theory had a rebirth in the 1950s, and was the subject of much study through the 60s, 70s and 80s. It was met, not with immediate acceptance, but decades of skepticism. It's only now accepted because the evidence in favor is very strong and the evidence for alternate explanations is hovering close to zero. Decades of research, models that aren't perfect, but fit both matching what's happened so far and going backward, and the signature of the warming matching what is expected from CO2 and the counter theories all failing. The evidence is very very strong. All it would take to disprove manmade climate change theory is one unexplained cold year - just one. One year like the 1970s without a volcano to cause it and the theory is dead. That hasn't happened. We've had nothing but warm years for a few decades now. You could also disprove it by showing a signature that doesn't fit with CO2. The opportunity (and funding) to disprove climate change is enormous, but you can't disprove a truth, not scientifically. If it was false, it wouldn't be that hard to show scientific evidence that disproved it. It's not like this is Rosalind Franklin who worked out how to take photographs of the DNA molecule and she was reluctant to share them with other scientists who'd take the credit for her work. This is the Earth. The data, the evidence is out there. The means to disprove man made climate change - if it was disprovable, are available, and the funding to disprove it is available and significant and they have nothing. All the evidence still points towards man made climate change theory being right. (too long? too preachy?) 

This isn't a good way to look at the greenhouse effect. I mean no offense, but it's simply not accurate. To get a more realistic understanding, you have to look at reflection and wavelength, and/or by looking at the Earth's energy balance. Most of our heat comes from the sun, but a smaller share comes from the internal heat of the earth, but the internal heat from inside the earth is reasonably consistent and can be ignored for the sake of this argument. Stored heat is also important, and that, for example, explains why the lowest sunshine day of the year (December 21) isn't the coldest day of the year, but to keep this reasonably short, lets ignore stored heat too. The heat in / heat out balance works kind of like this (from the link above): 71% of the energy we get from the sun warms the earth, 29% is directly reflected back into space. Of that 71, 59 is returned to space from the atmosphere and just 12 is returned to space from the surface. That's the atmospheric blanket effect in a sense. Most of the heat, in the form of infra-red light has to travel through the atmosphere to leave the earth and the greenhouse effect reflects that light, just like colored dye in water reflects light, where clear water mostly lets light pass through it. Atmospheric circulation plays a role too, so do clouds, but lets ignore that for now as well. The greenhouse effect, caused by CO2 or other greenhouse gas, H20 or CH4 (H20 in clouds is different, that's tiny ice particles), but water vapor, which, in the air is invisible to our eyes. They work in essentially the same way as putting colored dye in water, the colored water absorbed and reflects more light than clear water, and the sky, to infrared light, is opaque with greenhouse gas. That Opaqueness can only be removed by reducing the amount of greenhouse gas. It can't be removed by adding other gas, so the greenhouse effect is essentially, directly tied to the amount of greenhouse gas in the atmosphere. What Greenhouse gas does is it affects the 12% and 59%, and the rate and way that heat leaves the earth. If heat leaves the earth more slowly, the earth gradually warms. What "global cooling" gases do, doesn't undo what greenhouse gas does. That's not possible, any more than it's possible to make a dye in water stop being opaque by adding another color. Global cooling gases do exist, but they work in a different way, by affecting the 71%-29% ratio. Volcanic gas, for example, raises the 29% of immediate reflection and that cools the earth. Volcanic cooling however is quite temporary, lasting a few years at most, but that's basically the gist of your question, is, what reflective to visible light gases can be used to raise the 29% so that the thicker blanket of greenhouse gas is counteracted, and that's a perfectly valid question. There's 3 problems. The first is, when you talk a few parts per million in the entire atmosphere, you're talking billions and billions of tons. inserting billions and billions of tons of gas into the atmosphere is no simple task. The 2nd problem is, atmospheric half life. CO2 has a very long half-life in the atmosphere. Your average CO2 molecule that enters the atmosphere takes over 100 years to recycle back either by photosynthesis or by oceanic absorption. It stays in the atmosphere a long time. CH4 has a much shorter half life, of just a few years, and that's the case for many gases, so if you attempt to cool the earth using a global cooling gas, you'd need to replenish it every few years (billions of tons every few years), that gets expensive. The 3rd problem is many "global cooling" gases are gases we don't want in the atmosphere like SO2, which creates acid rain. I don't think anyone wants to shoot, (you might not need billions), but tens or hundreds of millions of tons of SO2 in the upper atmosphere every few years just to fight climate change. That would be both expensive and it would cause other problems. Freon has a slight cooling effect because it reduces Ozone, but that's even worse. I looked but couldn't find a list of gasses that cool the earth though I've seen them in the past. If somebody can find one, feel free to post). Other methods of increasing the 29% reflected, we could perhaps, build orbiting giant mirrors or put reflective surfaces over land or large floating disks in the ocean but none of those methods are easy. An article on some of the problems with trying to increase the earth's reflection: $URL$ It's not talked about as much as reducing CO2, but increasing reflection of solar energy is being explored and studied as a possible or partial solution to man made climate change. Hope that wasn't too long or wordy. I'll try to clean it up a litte. Corrections welcome. 

I've never seen a pre-cambrian era estimate on sea level so I don't know how they are estimated. This is the oldest I could find. As the article explains, historic sea level is estimated by finding where the shorelines were at geologically historic time periods and looking at what was under water. There's probably a pretty significant margin of error in those estimates I would think. The article also says 

Tropospheric (near the surface) ozone is a powerful greenhouse gas, even in trace amounts. Strataspheric ozone or the ozone layer is opaque to UV rays coming in and it's opaque to IR rays going out so it has both warming and cooling effects. The net effect of a thickening of the ozone layer is a small warming (with some uncertainty), so the ozone layer is not a very strong heat trapping driver, but ozone in the lower atmosphere is, and it's a strong heat trapping gas one too. Ozone is very reactive and as a result, it has a very short atmospheric lifetime. (hours-days), but what Ozone has is an equilibrium concentration in the atmosphere (337 ppb). It's concentration is maintained in the troposphere by sunlight hitting trace elements in the atmosphere. 

The Magnetic Axis and the Axis of Rotation seem to have very little to do with one another. The Rotation Axis' relation to the plane of the solar system, I suspect that has even less influence, but I have no idea how to go about explaining the why behind that, it just feels improbable to me because the effect seems more internally generated and the inside of the Earth cares which way it spins and stretches, but not how it lines up with the plane of the solar system - (I would guess). In addition, the Earth's Magnetic North Pole moves around. Earth's Axis changes very slowly. It's difficult to see a relation between the two beyond "in the same general area". 

Precisely how much hydrogen and water the Earth contained at formation vs how much it acquired by solar wind (Hydrogen nuclei) and comet and asteroid impacts (water and other gases) isn't known. I think it's likely that the majority came from impacts and I think that's where the consensus leans, but an precise answer isn't known. As far as the Earth combining Hydrogen with Oxygen, there's relatively little free Oxygen in the solar-system. Oxygen binds easily with many elements, so it's abundant but not in it's elemental/gaseous state. The Earth also tends to lose gaseous hydrogen and not having Oxygen until about 2 billion years ago, it's unlikely that much water was formed in that way. When we learn more about exoplanets, we might find that larger/super Earths might retain more hydrogen and form abundant water in that way if they have photosynthesis to create Oxygen, but that's just theoretical. Earth is too small to have retained enough hydrogen to do that in large amounts. 

In other words, you're asking, without measuring the components of a planet's atmosphere, how much can we tell about the surface temperature of two similar planets, G and N by studying the radiation that comes off the planet. That's a solid question. A problem with this question is that the components of a planet's atmosphere correspond to specific bands missing from the thermal radiation leaving the planet. This is an atmosphere's spectroscopic signature. The greenhouse gases create dark bands in the IR-spectrum of light leaving the planets, so the IR light would have distinctly different signatures. The net heat leaving planet G and planet N has to be equal but Planet G traps certain wavelengths that planet N does not, so it needs to be warmer to emit the same amount of total energy into space because it has more dark bands across it's IR spectrum leaving the planet. More detailed explanation here. That's a very rough answer anyway. spectroscopy and heat irradiated from a planet gets complicated. Actual models of a planet's heat trapping are much more complicated than dark bands missing from the IR spectrum leaving the planet. If anyone can provide a more detailed explanation please feel free. @Gerrit is also right. It's a bit wonkers to run this calculation without albedo, as that's a huge factor. But the simple answer is basically the correct one. Greenhouse gas is a blanket. More heat gets trapped, and IR has a harder time leaving the surface of the "G" planet, so the planet needs to be warmer on the surface to achieve the same solar radiation into space.