How do we develop empathy? We learns to see things from another person's perspective but we must first reflect on our own feelings to understand causes for the arising of a particular feeling. And when we have an understanding of these causes, we begin the appropriate association of causes with the feelings. So when we put ourselves in another persons perspective then these associated feelings arise, though not in the same way as they arise in the other person. They arise with the understanding that the perspective of the other person causes those feelings to rise. When we experience those feelings conditioned by perspective as a third party or bystander or observer, then mudita (sympathetic joy) or karuna (compassion) may arise depending on the feeling. 

The two traditions are different in that Mahayana uses a transformation process, that is, we try to "be" a bodhisattva which means incorporating their virtues and their mind. So we try to have a non-dualistic view. We don't get it in the beginning so we continue to refine our views. Question what do we do with hate and craving in Mahayana? In the Theravada (which is similar to, but, is not hinayana) tradition it is a development process which means we deal with greed, hate and delusion until we eventually automatically come to posses a non-dualistic view. Some people find transformation easier, rewarding and enjoyable, while others find development easier, rewarding and enjoyable. Which do you prefer tea or coffee to quench your thirst? nb similary with Vajrayana. 

First a brief answer: DO is in operation all the time and the reason we do not yet see it is because we have the wrong view that there is a self (me) doing all this things. Then the question is: if "not I" is doing all these things even though I have the wrong view that all this things are done by me, how then does things get done by "not me"? Here DO comes in (I use because instead of depending just to make it clearer): Because there is contact, feeling arises, because of feeling craving( or its lesser form desire arises). At this point desire(craving) is a past conditioning, habit if you like, and conditioning takes over when mindfulness is weak. Question: what conditioning takes over when "not me" choose an orange instead of an apple? Is it because "not me" like an orange over an apple? No, because there is "not me" there cannot be like and dislike. So what conditioning then? The answer is that there are 24 types of conditioning it could be: Dominance condition, habitual condition, proximity condition, etc.. The subject of causal relationship is complex it is in the 7th book of Abhidhamma called the patthana (contains summary of conditions) For the book Patthana Dhamma is practically unreadable even for those who have some mastery of Abhidhamma. It is said of the "Patthana", or "Causal Conditions and Relations". ... And while he contemplated the contents of the "Dhammasangani" (the first book) , his body did not emit rays; and similarly with the contemplation of the next five books. But when, coming to the "Great Book" (the seventh book) , he began to contemplate the twenty-four universal causal relations of condition, of presentation, and so on, his omniscience certainly found its opportunity therein. For as the great fish "Timirati-pingala" (a giant fish) finds room only in the great ocean, so his omniscience truly finds room only in the Great Book. Rays of six colours- indigo, golden, red, white, tawny, and dazzling- emitted from the Teacher's body, as he was contemplating the subtle and abstruse Dhamma by his omniscience which had found such opportunity.... 

When your sense of self arises it means you're holding on to something. So it's either a craving you're holding onto or a view. Either way your meditation has made you more aware of your sense of self; and that is good! 

As to the question "die in the sense atheist attaches to death". The answer is no .i.e. complete extinction, total annihilation, because there is the unborn which is deathless. "Death has no (ultimate) reality.".. is the correct view ("who" dies?). 

It is not the case that one can obtained enlightenment without wisdom. The word enlightenment itself also means wisdom. To be enlighten means to be wise. 

Through unity one experience the experience of others. When one does not share other's view, there is duality, my view and the other's view. If we fully understand views as just conditioned thoughts: conditioned by class, society, upbringing, books one reads, inclinations, peers, parents, teachers etc.. then we realise that our own views are just as conditioned as the others'. One view may be the result of more skilful thought, but it is also due to conditioning. So one may say this is skilful thought, this isn't but not this is yours and this is mine. When we see thoughts as just arising due to conditioning ( which is one, not your conditioning or mine conditioning) then there is unity. The arising of thoughts due to conditioning. The unification of self and others into a single entity called a conditioned being, results in one shared experience! As for understanding another's experience it comes through having empathy. 

As a person is about to die, a good or bad action may present itself before his mind's eye. It may be either a meritorious or a demeritorious Weighty action (garuka kamma), such as jhānas (ecstasies), or parricide etc. They are so powerful that they totally eclipse all other actions, and appear very vividly before the mental eye. If there is no Weighty action, he may take for his object of the dying thought a Kamma done or remembered immediately before death (āsanna kamma). 

Yes, in walking meditation we can use any of the 40 objects of meditation. Listening to Dhamma talks would put it under recollection of the dhamma as it gave you a sense of appreciation of the truth of the dhamma, IMHO,rather than the investigation of Dhamma (Dhammavicaya). 

In short they get reborn as a human being sometime in the future and practice. You could help by reading some dhamma(suttas) to your cat if you wish. There is a precedence in a sutta where a frog was listening to a Buddha's discourse and got killed because someone accidentally impaled it with a walking stick. It was then reborn as a deva. 

Kamma nimitta is any sight, sound, smell, taste, touch or idea which was obtained at the time of the commission of the Kamma, such as knives in the case of a butcher, patients in the case of a physician, flowers in the case of a devotee, etc. By gati nimitta is meant some sign of the place where he is to take birth, an event which invariably happens to dying persons. When these indications of the future birth occur, and if they are bad, they can be turned into good. This is done by influencing the thoughts of the dying person, so that his good thoughts may now act as the Proximate Kamma and counteract the influence of the Reproductive Kamma which would otherwise affect his subsequent birth. 

The Buddha taught about stress, the cause of stress, that there is an end to stress, the path to the ending of stress. He taught the way by means of using the 6 senses to see the 3 characteristic of conditioned thing, dukkha (stress), anatta ( non-self), anicca (impermanent) using the five aggregates and the law of dependent origination. Various other meditation practices, both insight and calm, are also taught to relieve attachments, hence suffering so that we are able to do the task of see the three characteristic in conditioned things. When one of the three characteristics are seen clearly we pass through the gateway of voidness or emptiness ( when anatta is seen), the gateway of the signless ( when anicca is seen) and the gateway of the desirelessness ( when dukkha is seen). - Theravada tradition. 

Taking one of the aforesaid objects, a thought-process runs its course even if the death be an instantaneous one. It is said that even the fly which is crushed by a hammer on the anvil also experiences such a thought-process before it actually dies. 

To put it in another way Sujato Bhikkhu postulates a root text which he calls Satipatthana Mula which other later Satipatthana suttas and sutras "added" their own stuff. He derived a postulated root text not just by elision and finding common contents but other textual analysis. The results he obtained happened to be similar to those found in the Theravada Abidhamma Vibhanga. My quick and brief comparison from his table shows that the current pali version contains the following practices which according to Sujato Bhikkhu are not present in his postulated Satipatthana Mula: Theravada Satipatthna Sutta adds: Four postures; Clear comprehension; Anapanasati; 4 elements; Food; Space (5 element); Oozing orifices; Charnel ground; 6 sense media; 4 noble truths; Rise/fall; Knowledge; Independence Ekayana Sutra added: Arahantship