If the jobs you are seeking require project experience, a flash drive containing stuff you did on your own isn't going to overcome the lack of that requirement. Almost certainly, the job requirements you read meant "project experience in a work environment", not "things (projects) you did on your own". Perhaps they exist, but I know of no interviewer who would bother to plug in a flash drive from an unknown candidate, in order to explore the fun projects they did in their spare time. Instead, if you land an interview, be prepared to talk about what you have done on your own, and how you believe it indicates your ability to handle real work projects. 

Just asking someone to "be more proactive" is unlikely to be helpful, unless you follow up with a more detailed explanation and reinforce the message. You could conduct regular training sessions for these new members. We do that regularly for new folks on our teams. Perhaps one of your sessions should be entitled "Improving your skepticism" or "Trust, but Verify" or something like that. Give them specifics about how to be proactive, what to do and not do, etc. 

While I'd be unlikely to extend a third invitation to someone who bailed on me twice already, anything is possible. Perhaps you are so good of a candidate, they are willing to overlook your behavior. 

Unless you are specifically asked to evaluate others, or unless your role typically involves this type of advisory capacity, then you shouldn't bring up this issue with him. Workers do the work. Managers manage. This colleague was hired by your boss. Thus, its extremely likely that your boss knows what this individual's background and familiarity with your platform is. You probably wouldn't be telling him anything he doesn't already know, and would risk coming off as a whiner. In tough times, you don't want to be the whiny one. Instead, you could talk with your boss privately and indicate that you feel that your team needs more hands-on help. Focus on what you believe need rather than what you believe your company doesn't need. Don't talk about who you feel is redundant - that's not your job. It would be up to your boss to decide if he will bring on more help or not, and if so how to fill the position and manage his budget. 

Unless you have some sort of "pact" with your coworker, you are not compelled to share internal job opening discoveries with anyone. Certainly your coworker can view the same website that you did and choose to apply (or not). If you feel that your relationship with this coworker is very valuable, and potentially worth sacrificing the "edge" you may or may not have gained in getting this job, then tell your coworker. Otherwise, keep it to yourself. Ultimately, it comes down to how much you value this potential job, how much you value your relationship with this coworker, and your prediction as to how this coworker would feel if you got a job that he didn't learn about. That's something only you can decide. 

Nobody can speak for all employers. But in my experience, "normal" people are far preferred over "eccentrics" by most employers. One of the critical factors that a hiring manager must judge is "will this person fit in to my company, and my team?" For most companies, a "normal" person will fit in better, by definition. And most hiring managers tend to favor hiring people who are a lot like them. (I'm not saying this is a great practice, but it's just human nature). That said, it probably matters how you define "eccentric". Everyone has their personal preferences, and many have minor quirks. But the term "eccentric" can span an extremely wide variety of activities - some of which might make an individual very hard to hire. 

You don't need to include your PhD on your resume. You can omit anything you like. But if you apply for a government job and they ask if you have a PhD, answering "No" could get you in trouble. 

PIPs typically ask you to sign to indicate that you have received the document, not that you agree with the contents or implications. You aren't admitting any guilt by signing. You need to sign it. But if the wording isn't clear, you can add something like "I sign to signify receipt of the document, not to indicate my agreement." Keep a copy for yourself. If you refuse to sign it, you will be terminated. And that lack of signing could make it more difficult for you to pursue later actions. If you sign it, you will likely be terminated at the end of the Plan period anyway. Still, you should work hard to follow everything indicated in the PIP to the tee. That way, you are in a stronger position to claim unfairness if you are still terminated. Refusing to sign and Resigning don't make a lot of sense. You will put them in a very strong position to say "Well, we offered a way that Undisclosed could turn things around, be she decided not to take that route." Additionally, in many locales resigning means that you may be ineligible for unemployment benefits. Being let go often leaves you eligible. Meanwhile, start looking for your next job. You will almost certainly need one, given the circumstances. see: $URL$ see: $URL$ 

Accept the discipline, and learn not to make the same mistake. Either that or find a different job that lets you do things even when you know you'll be told not to. 

That would not be at all common any place I have ever worked in my professional career. On the other hand, I held a few non-professional jobs very early in my work history where such comments were routine. 

In my experience, working with/for VCs is very much dependent on your personal network. Search long and hard to find a connection. You almost certainly know someone who knows someone who knows a VC or two. Use that connection. Perhaps you have worked at a VC-backed startup before? Or perhaps in your mergers & acquisitions specialization work you helped acquire a VC-backed startup? If so, consider all your coworkers at that company as folks who could potentially put you in contact with a VC or two. Start calling and asking. Perhaps you know someone who knows a VC? If so, call and ask to be put in contacts. Lots of M&A folks have a network that includes VCs or folks that have worked with VCs. Many have gone on to become VCs themselves. Call some of your personal connections and ask. As with most employment activities, there's no magic here - just hard work. As with many job searches, your best friend is your personal network. 

You'll want to show how you are under-resourced not just now, but for the foreseeable future. You want to show the volume of work for the next several years, and compare that to the capacity in your current team. If you have critical projects coming up, explain how they will be negtively impacted if you don't have enough help. As much as possible, you'll want to point to specific projects/tasks that have not been completed due to lack of manpower. And you'll want to do the same for upcoming projects which you don't have the capacity to service. If you are filling the need with temporary workers now, you'll want to highlight that expense and show how it will go away if you increase your permanent headcount. As @Bmo correctly points out, you can touch on the issues this lack of help is causing with your existing team. Excess juggling can cause them to lose productivity. It can cause morale to plummet. If this gets severe, you may lose critical team members. While addressing all of these will make you case stronger, companies are still reluctant to add to the permanent headcount, so it could still be a tough sell. If you are juggling now to stay on top of demand, you may need to be prepared to juggle faster for a while (at least that's the situation I'm in at the moment). 

It's most likely a (minor) waste of your time. Bulk emails to new graduates almost certainly won't amount to anything down the road. You name would quickly be dropped once you indicate that you aren't looking for a job now, due to your masters degree plans. It wouldn't hurt anything to be polite. The thanks might reach someone who would remember you favorably at some point in the future. That's unlikely but you never know. 

Let's assume the job doesn't fall into the exception categories above. Are you willing to tell the interviewers that you will be leaving within a few months? If not, then many (including me) would consider this action unacceptable. Are you willing to let this be a part of your "permanent record" on your resume, and explain to future employers why you took this job when you planned to leave so soon? If not, then many (including me) would consider this action unacceptable. But "acceptable" is something you need to decide for yourself, using your own conscience as a guide. It's your reputation, you are in control. In general, I hire employees for the long term - otherwise I use contractors to fill short-term needs. When I hire someone I invest a lot of time, energy and money in getting them trained and up to speed. For the jobs I usually fill, that would all be wasted were the employee to leave after just a few months. 

First get clear in your own mind what the problem is and about the outcome you desire (not doing any bug fixing, sharing the load with others, getting more credit, getting a raise for doing this work, whatever). Then talk to your boss about it. Whenever you have a question about what has been assigned to you, talk with the one who could potentially change the assignment. I'm assuming that's your boss here. 

This is something only you can judge. If there is still a reasonable possibility of a recurrence or flare-up or something else that would mean significant time off or even leaving the job, some would say that it is best to be proactive about the condition. You need to consider the likelihood, the impact, and the severity of the condition. 

It sounds like your contract requires you to stay for another 8 months. Unless there is something written into your contract that guarantees you a raise, there's nothing left to be done. Do the best you can until then. Be the best employee you can be. At the end of the 8 months, discuss your desire for a raise, and be prepared to leave at that point if necessary. 

I'm not sure I agree with your premise that many teams can't be self-organized. It's my experience that, while some groups talk about it, extremely few companies want real self-organized teams. Even fewer companies are willing to cede control to teams in order to achieve self-organization. 

If the topic of the conversation is "after the internship", then certainly you should tell your boss that you have already accepted a job offer, and when you will be joining them. That will avoid any confusion in case you are correct and your boss intends to make you an offer. 

Your career (at least the part relating to your current company) is always in the hands of the people at the top - incompetent or otherwise. Without knowing a lot about your company, it's hard to tell if there is anyone you can confide in. Your best bet is to talk with your trusted co-workers. 

I'm not sure how it worked in your company, but in my company the "Team" page was controlled by the Marketing group, who were extremely slow to react. Two months was nothing. They meant no malice, it just wasn't high on their priority list. Your mileage may vary. If I were really concerned and wanted to be removed quickly, I'd start with the first approach. I'd also keep copies of everything I sent in case I needed to escalate. 

You should talk to your lawyer. I suspect any decent attorney will advise you that her "telling employees that she fired you for insubordination or something else untrue" is not really actionable slander or defamation. But if that's not the case, your lawyer will be able to tell you how to proceed. 

It may very well not come up. But if asked about the hours you spent at this position, just explain it. It doesn't look like you are trying to be intentionally misleading in your resume or references. As long as you are honest with your replies to questions during interviews, I wouldn't worry about it so much. 

Explain to them why it wasn't your flaws that caused you to jump through four jobs in four years. Your question doesn't explain that very well. Explain to them why you will stick around in your next job. Most importantly, research the companies and hiring managers you apply to more thoroughly. While it might not be completely possible to forecast disagreements with the boss, you can certainly discern salary, overtime, lack of career perspective, and commute during the interview process. That way you can convince the hiring manager that the issues that caused your job hopping in the past, won't apply this time. 

Yes! If for some reason you have gone a week and haven't yet spoken to your manager, don't wait - do it now. When you talk with her/him make sure you learn what the expectations are, and what you should be doing now. 

Most likely you cannot. If your boss "always makes some sort of comment when I'm here later than 8:00" then promptness appears to be very important to him. Thus saying (however diplomatically) "I'm doing the best I can. Stop fretting so much and don't worry that I'm late a dozen times or so per year." isn't likely to be productive. Since you "have never been told that arriving after 8:00 is a real problem" perhaps you just need to ignore his needling. After all, it's only once a month or so. You might just say "Sorry boss - the traffic was brutal today!" then forget it. But perhaps it has reached a point where you feel you cannot. In that case, if you value this job you should leave home earlier and try harder to be on time. But if you think you'd have to leave "significantly" earlier to not be tardy when you hear that traffic conditions are poor, and if it's true that "starting my commute significantly earlier than I do isn't possible", then you might need to find a different job. Perhaps you'll find a job that doesn't care as much if you are occasionally late. 

I've personally seen it happen. In fact, I've seen cases where the resignation was kept secret until the individual was gone from the company entirely. I wouldn't say it was common (and it's really hard to keep secrets). But it happens. (Secrecy seems silly to me.) 

When I do annual Performance Reviews, I don't like to have any surprises. For me, if my team isn't able to fairly accurately predict how their review will go, then we haven't communicated well enough in the preceding year.