Did Aristotle mean by 'Mean' exactly the middle between two extremes, or just some "sweet spot" that need not be the middle at all? 

Now, here's the catch: trust is something you have to a certain degree, but anxiety is something you either have or you don't. In other words, predicate like "I trust in X" "belongs" to the fuzzy logic, while the predicate "I have anxiety because I don't know if X will fail me or not" "belongs" to both the fuzzy logic and classical logic. It is surely a contradiction to say "I trust X completely and have anxiety because I don't know if X will fail me or not" , but it's not a contradiction to say "I trust X a little bit and have anxiety because I don't know if X will fail me or not". Taking this all into consideration, we can understand now why you even have this question: you speak English, and English (like virtually all natural languages) is vague. You cannot know for sure whether a person claiming "I trust X" really means "My level of trust in X is 100%" (i.e. "I trust X completely"), or if she really means "My level of trust in X is 99%" (can be obviously any number reasonably close to 100). So, in short the answer is that the statement "I trust X and have anxiety because I don't know if X will fail me or not" is a contradiction if and only if by "I trust X" the person claiming this really means "I trust X 100%". In all other cases, it is not technically a contradiction. 

There's an episode in Plato's writings (I'm not sure) which I can't find and I'd appreciate any help. Socrates (I'm not sure), advances a theory through a fable which is hard to believe. An interlocutor asks skeptically whether anybody would believe such nonsensical claim. The answer from Socrates is something along these lines: "not in this generation, no, but in 2 or 3 generations they will believe it." Would you recall where this conversation is located??? Thanks! 

Plato's dialogues are "almost intolerable ... so many blunders contained in them" for Bochenski who sees Plato as a second- or third-rate logician. Plato used fallacies deliberately to explain his arguments, e.g. R. Sprague. 

I was wondering if there's an English/Italian translation of Cicero's Phaenomena Aratea (Prognosis?)? i.e. the translation that he did of Aratus' work. Thanks! 

Several recent researchers discuss Plato's fallacies or reasoning flaws in his writings (see list of references). Yet what remains mostly unclear is why there are so many logical errors/fallacies/blunders in Plato's writings in the first place. The KEY QUESTION is: Did these many "flaws", e.g. in the Phaedo, escape Plato's attention? If so, the answer is obvious. If not, why he deliberately left them? Did he has a more mystical purpose in mind perhaps? I've found two main answers to this question: 

What do the behaviours and symbols suggest, if you don't jump to conventional interpretations, reinforced by emotional responses? Who is even really awake in the scene outside, aware of their surroundings in the moment, instead of being absorbed in yesterday or tomorrow? What happens if we stop being automata, driven by the replication of our genes towards expressing post hoc rationalisation of ideas really just designed to express group allegiance, and instead react to this very moment completely engaged in it like we are creating a piece of modern art, or answering a koan? "But at my back in a cold blast I hear The rattle of the bones, and chuckle spread from ear to ear." 

'Sapiens: A Brief History of Humankind', Yuval Noah Harari. You can catch Harari talking about this on the Sam Harris podcast $URL$ Things like how these mental structures like nation and religion allow ideas like dying for something an individual will never see, which you could never convince a chimpanzee to do. 

Just look at a judicial code. It sets out what is wrong as being illegal. It is defined, objectively. Problem solved? 

Capitalism is generally given such vague terms that it means any use of money. There are no completely 'capitalist' systems. Even the US has a mixed economy, the UK has more state run industries and interventions, all the way to China & Cuba, and even North Korea now allows some state-independent traders. So it's a spectrum. So too with being 'laissez fair'. A lot of ideology and temperament gets mixed up with peoples stances about where we should be or go on the spectrum, which obscure where people want to get, with advocacy for the direction they want change in (eg. smaller government, not no government). There have been Darwinian arguments to go in that direction, that the selection process creates value/fitness and interference undermines it. The US spends far far more than most countries on R&D, in a relatively free market system. A lot of innovation happens there, though many argue the strength of Silicon Valley is in 2nd chances to entrepreneurs, not harsh selection. In the US it is usually a moral, not a practical or evidence based argument that is made - Obamacare is rejected for 'unfairness' to a small minority, or rewarding 'profligacy', and the fact US healthcare is much more expensive and worse than Canada's or the UK's, is ignored. Ayn Rand and others identify positive moral qualities in competition. You have to engage with values, not just evidence, to take these arguments on. Unless you Holland or Denmark, where you just get on with following the evidence.. 

Robin G. Collingwood's posited the existence of absolute presuppositions (AS). As a reminder, presuppositions are for Collingwood assumptions and guiding precepts that are closed to further analysis or revision (Collingwood 1940). He lists the AS scattered in his writings, so I'm curious to find as many of the the AP as possible. Many of them are in the Essay on Metaphysics. Have you come across others? here's the ones I found: 

One may think that the answer lies in between these two, but can you think of a more realistic philosophical, historical reason? After all, the Dialogues sparked approval and criticism for many centuries. EDIT: Examples of fallacy: Fallacy of equivocation in the Phaedo (Keyt): Socrates uses the dyad dead & not-dead. Then he equates not-dead with immortal (equivocation here), and finally with indestructible. Thanks! REFERENCES: David Sachs A Fallacy in Plato's Republic The Philosophical Review. Vol. 72, No. 2 (Apr., 1963), pp. 141-158. Raphael Demos, A Fallacy in Plato's Republic?The Philosophical Review Vol. 73, No. 3 (Jul., 1964), pp. 395-398 Keyt, D. (1963), The Fallacies in Phaedo 102a-107b. Phronesis: A Journal for Ancient Philosophy, 8, (1-2), 167-172. Weller, C. (1995) Fallacies in the Phaedo Again. Archiv für Geschichte der Philosophie, 77 (2):121-134 Sprague, Rosamond (1963), Plato's use of fallacy,: a study of the Euthydemus and some other dialogues. BN. Sartorius, Fallacy and Political Radicalism in Plato's republic. Canadian Journal of Philosophy. Volume 3, 1974 - Issue 3 Bochenski, I.M., Ancient Formal Logic, Amsterdam, 1951