I discovered a discussion of logical fallacies inherent in Pascal's Wager. It occurred to me that a similar strategy could be used to sidestep the debate regarding determinism: It simply makes sense to believe in free will. What have you got to lose if it turns out there is no free will? 

However, that sounds a little lame to me. Yes, it's a personal attack, but couldn't we refine it a bit more? I posted a similar question over at Logically Fallacious, and the discussion was remarkably short compared to this discussion. Verdict: If the activist could be blamed for the government's actions, then it's like an inconsistency fallacy. If the activist had nothing to do with the new law - even though the government and/or media may have said something to the contrary - it could be a false cause fallacy. But even that may not cover all the bases. I think this type of situation may be a combination of fallacy and mental baggage (e.g. cognitive biases). It's more complex than I at first realized. Another point: The fallacy I describe is similar to yet distinct from the shoot the messenger fallacy. We might call it the shoot the activist fallacy, or the condemn the one who cares fallacy. It's probably significantly more complex than the shooting the messenger fallacy. A messenger simply delivers news, welcome (good) or unwelcome (bad). An activist, on the other hand, makes news. It can be very difficult to understand precisely why various people would condemn someone for criticizing a loathsome individual. Many people may know that a pedophile judge, for example, deserves to be criticized (and worse), but their allegiance lies with their bank accounts, not children. Conformism is another factor. If everyone seems to be cheering for a disgraced judge and condemning the whistle-blower who brought him to justice, then most people will follow the flock. I've observed many people who are simply insane (or at least not terribly bright) and don't seem to have a clue about anything. So if a person says, "See what you've done? Thanks to your activism, the government just took a bite out of our free speech!" we can interpret it it in at least a couple ways: 

In the socio-political arena, I often view interactions between people as math equations. If women are paid $10 an hour for doing a job that men get paid $15 for doing, then we have an unbalanced equation. If they get paid the same, then we have a balanced equation (called justice). Similarly, a military attack on another country for no just cause, resulting in the deaths of 1,000 people, is bad math. But if that country has weapons of mass destruction and a reputation for using them on civilians, then attacking that country and killing 1,000 people in order to save millions is good math. Most people would probably consider it just. This is an obvious example of doing a bad thing (killing people) for a just (good) cause. 

The question of ethics is all over the map. A boycott targeting a corrupt corporation or state (e.g. the oil cartel, the U.S. or Israel) might be perfectly ethical, but what if Israel used its political power to boycott the boycotters? This would be an example of an immoral boycott targeting a moral boycott. The question "When are boycotts right" is largely subjective. People will have opposing views regarding almost any boycott. The onus is on the boycotter to study the issues and decide what the right course of action is. Of course, it helps to have a good background knowledge of political science, philosophy, etc. Geoffrey Thomas makes some good points in his answer. However, I don't agree with this passage: "Against (say) state actions and policies that are plainly wrong - wrong by the standards of international law - the boycott is justified if the harm caused to the boycotted party is no worse than the harm it is causing and if the incidental harm done to non-players through the boycott is no worse than the harm the boycotted party is causing." That's what I call a tit-for-tat response. To put it in perspective, imagine if someone hits me over the head with a baseball bat and steals my wallet, which contains $100. If I decide to not exceed his crime, I would have to chase him down, hit him over the head with a baseball bat with exactly the same force and take no more than $100 out of his wallet. But shouldn't I be compensated for the fear I experienced when the mugger invaded my personal space and attacked me? Shouldn't I be compensated for the effort it took to chase him down? The key word is accountability, which generally translates into punishment. If an organization or state is engaging on "bad" behavior, I certainly want to make them stop. But I also want to inflict enough pain to make them think twice before they do something similar again; I want them to know I mean business. I may also want compensation for the victims of past wrongs. The role of "non-players" can also be complex. First, how we define "non-players"? Imagine if people around the world boycotted U.S. companies because of the invasions of Afghanistan and Iraq. Anyone who supported President George W. Bush could arguably be considered a player. But anyone who supported Obama could also be considered a player, because he did nothing to get the U.S. out of Afghanistan - not to mention his hideous unmanned drone murders in Pakistan and the mind boggling destruction of Libya. What about people who are merely mired in apathy or who simply look the other way? Are they part of the problem? If not, should we view them as collateral damage, the way the U.S./Israeli governments callously dismiss millions of refugees and orphans as collateral damage? I'd like to make another point regarding individual boycotts vs group boycotts. I thought I read something in the other answer suggesting that it's OK to boycott goods or services on an individual level, but organized boycotts are bad. I can't find the statement right now, so maybe I'm mistaken. But I just want to emphasize that organized boycotts are generally far more effective than individual boycotts. If an intelligent, caring individual decides not to buy canned tuna because of concern about environmental issues, that's good - but for every intelligent, caring individual, there are probably 10,000 non-caring idiots who make the individual's crusade virtually irrelevant. In our era of unbridled corporate-government corruption, even organized boycotts can face an uphill battle. Do some research on the BDS (Boycott, Divest and Sanctions) movement against Israel. I can't remember all the details offhand, but I believe the governments of Israel and the U.S. both hit back in a very unethical manner. For example, more than twenty states have passed anti-BDS legislation. If elections are a sham, and we can't even boycott offensive entities, what options are left other than revolution? Boycotts have been traditionally viewed as ethical grassroots responses to perceived corruption. One final note: When national governments engage in actions similar to boycotts, they're called sanctions. Do some research on the economic sanctions the U.S. has used against various countries, including Cuba, Iran and Russia. That might offer some additional perspective. Boycott Economic Sanctions 

What notable philosophers or philosophical doctrines support my view that lying is acceptable or even necessary under certain circumstances? 

It seems like you're arguing in circles. Nothing personal - it's just the nature of the free will argument. You suggest that if there's no free will, a woman might be forced to focus on the CONSEQUENCES of her actions. So she does something intelligent - she avoids the actions you describe as "inevitable." If those actions are "inevitable," how is she going to avoid them? It sounds to me like she's exercising free will. 

Scholars say Trump went afoul in lumping Lee with founders Though I haven't followed this story in any detail, I never had the sense that Trump was casting Robert E. Lee as a founding father. He simply made a valid comparison; Robert E. Lee and George Washington were both slave owners. One could argue that we could solve the problem by treating Robert E. Lee with respect. Or we could tear down statues of George Washington. In the meantime, what kind of fallacy are the "scholars" perpetrating here? EDIT: Wow, this has turned into an interesting question. I did some more independent research, then found a forum specializing in fallacies. So I posted my question there, and the consensus is that this is "a classic strawman fallacy." 

It sounds like you're asking, is it OK to endorse vegetarianism, citing Adolf Hitler as an example of vegetarianism? It depends on the context/situation, but you probably won't get much mileage out of such statements because Hitler has been so demonized. I would actually like to see more comments about Hitler's good side to balance the insane demonization that makes it almost impossible to know the truth. I would also like to see an end to the use of Hitler and the Nazis as a metaphor for evil incarnate. What about the Romans, Spanish and British, who carved empires out of blood? What about Caligula, Vlad the Impaler or U.S. President Andrew Jackson? How was Hitler worse than Stalin? And how was he more racist than Churchill, Roosevelt or the French? Focusing more closely on your question, I wouldn't say it's unethical to invoke Hitler as a symbol of clean living. But it wouldn't make much sense, because most people would have a mini-mental breakdown. You'd be better off replacing Hitler with Obama, who murdered so many innocent people with unmanned drones. 

EDIT This is not a question about the definition or judgment of right and wrong, nor is it about moral relativism. Just as some philosophers believe in a Christian god, so are there some philosophers who believe in right and wrong, many of whom further believe that murder and pedophilia are immoral. I want to frame my question from just such a perspective: Let's imagine a society where murder and pedophilia are widely regarded as both immoral and illegal. However, there are members of this community who are murderers and/or pedophiles. Some of these people are very powerful, influential and maybe even respected. So when one of these individuals is exposed as a criminal, members of the community may attack the whistle-blower, for a number of reasons. Some of the attacks come from propagandists or friends of the accused who simply do what all propagandists do. Other attacks come from seemingly ordinary citizens who simply get upset when someone rocks the boat or says things that they think casts the community in a bad light. Here's a hypothetical example: Imagine a member of the community who criticizes a judge who has been exposed as a pedophile. The government retaliates by passing a law making it illegal to criticize pedophile judges. Rather than rally behind the pedophile judge's victims, the general public rallies behind the judge and government, blaming the obviously disgusting law on the whistle-blower. A newspaper headline reads "Self-appointed whistle-blower responsible for law shielding pedophiles." This can obviously be classified as propaganda, but can we further identify it as a particular kind of fallacy? 

Technically, everyone's a liar if we include "little white lies," defensive lies (e.g. lying to save your life), etc. Therefore, in the political arena I can't call someone a liar without being a hypocrite. Is there a philosophical term for "hard core" liars, such as corrupt politicians, people working in the media, etc.? 

I think someone misread or misinterpreted my answer. Natural selection can't be better or worse, because natural selection hasn't changed. What has changed is the fact that modern humans have, in a sense, divorced themselves from natural selection (with the help of technology). Imagine if we could transport the late Stephen Hawking (while he was still alive) back in time 10,000 years. How long could he survive without the technology that kept him alive? That isn't to say that natural selection isn't at work on humans today. But the sheer magnitude of global population growth speaks volumes. 

What does "one true love" mean? Theoretically, it could mean that, out of the billions of people alive today, you've found the one individual best suited for you. But how could you possibly know? Dating all the women in Peru or Ireland alone could pose a challenge. Practically speaking, the term "one true love" simply denotes the fact that you're really, incredibly attracted to and/or compatible with the person you've connected with. You may believe that there's no one else on the planet who could possibly be your one true love's equal, but how could you possibly know? 

Possibly existentialism. Existentialism was born in the 19th century, but one of its most famous advocates was the French philosopher Jean-Paul Sartre, who was a huge fan of Latin American revolutionary Che Guevara. I'm not sure if El Che considered himself an existentialist, or if he's considered an existentialist by others, but he seems to fit the bill. Existentialism would appear to be a powerful force contrary to both apathy and determinism (e.g. lack of free will). The latter are presumably embraced by the empire builders, who would be expected to either demonize or snub existentialism. There are lots of questions to explore here, but I suspect existentialism had a bigger impact on the 20th century that is generally recognized. You mentioned Karl Marx. Che Guevara was a Marxist who took the movement in a new direction; Cuba was as exciting an experiment as the Soviet Union, which was very different and collapsed decades ago. Cuba is still standing strong. 

I think it's safe to say that most philosophers see virtue in striving to understand the world we live in. But some people (possibly including a few philosophers) would argue that ignorance is bliss. (I personally don't agree, but I have learned that the truth can be very painful, and broadcasting that truth can alienate friends and loved ones.) The simple fact that philosophers have recorded their thoughts and ideas suggest they also believe it's important to educate others...but that's far easier said than done. In the scientific arena, there doesn't appear to be a huge problem. Scientists have been learning and sharing their knowledge for generations. Millions of people are eager to learn the latest news about the evolution, psychology and the cosmos. In the philosophical arena things are a little more confusing. However, there are people who are interested in philosophy and who are eager to share what they've learned. The political arena is very different. In contrast to science, one has to navigate an ocean of propaganda and a multitude of cognitive biases before one can even understand. The next step, sharing that knowledge with others, can be even harder. In fact, most people would probably give up in despair. So we might once again look at this from two different perspectives, personal and community, or holistic. If you believe that knowledge has value to the larger community (or the human race), then sharing that knowledge would appear to be a good thing. But even if, for some reason, you can't share that knowledge, it's still good to continue observing, studying and thinking for your own sake. The Greek philosophers appeared to be quite arrogant; they thought their philosophical pondering made them superior to other people. And, in a sense, they may have been right. How can you teach someone something you don't know yourself? 

It's simple and to the point. There's no obfuscation or name calling involved. Wikipedia clearly jumps through several hoops in trashing that definition. Yet no one here can identify the fallacies involved? 

Philosophers, theologians and atheists have come up with countless arguments they claim prove or disprove the existence of God(s). For many, it's a black-and-white issues - YES there is a God, or NO, there is no God. But philosophers have explored many angles (e.g. How does one define "God"?). I just recently listened to a talk by Alan Watts, who commented on intelligence. I don't know how respected Watts is in the philosophical community. I think he was kind of a 60's pop icon; many of the things he said certainly resonated with me. Anyway, Watts says it's in the nature of apple trees to produce apples, even using the word apple as a verb (apple trees apple). Similarly, he says it's Earth's nature to "people," producing people the way a fruit tree produces fruit. Although he didn't go into any detail in this particular talk, he said the rocks from which life evolved are "intelligent." Though it might sound like a stupid idea, it makes some sense (to me, at least). Are you familiar with the term Gaia, the view of Earth as a living organism? If you study evolution, you have to be in awe of some of the amazing trends that have continually transformed Earth. If we could travel back in time to the Cambrian Period, we probably couldn't survive on what was essentially an alien planet. Would there even be enough oxygen in the air to breathe? Yet the evolution of plants modified the atmosphere itself, at the same time stabilizing the land and nurturing the evolution of soils and herbivorous terrestrial creatures. Predators evolved greater intelligence, and their prey similarly became more intelligent in a sort of biological arms race. Some scientists have described plants as intelligent. For me, this is powerful evidence that one doesn't need a god in order to create intelligence - unless one believes that a prime mover (e.g. "God") was needed to create the cosmos out of a void, setting everything in motion. Others argue that the cosmos itself is God - a god very different from the Christian god.