Suppose you have a product that you can distribute for constant marginal cost $c$. For every $v\geq0$ assume there are some consumers who value the good at $v$. The net welfare created when someone consumes the good is their value minus the cost of production. Thus, if we want to maximise the total social surplus (net of costs), we should give the good to every consumer for whom $v-c\geq0$. Since a consumer will choose to buy the good if the price, $p$, is below their willingness to pay (i.e., if $v-p\geq0$), setting $p=c$ ensures the efficient outcome where exactly the consumers with value greater than marginal cost consume the good. Now suppose we have an information good that can be distributed digitally for zero marginal cost ($c=0$). The above reasoning implies that the socially efficient price is $p=0$! Intuitively, giving you a copy of the good does not cost society anything (because information can be infinitely digitally duplicated), so even if you only get a tiny benefit from consuming it, that benefit will produce a (small but positive) net increase the total social surplus. But the only way to make sure that people who get very small (but positive) value from the good choose to consume it is to give them the good for free. 

Given this demand curve, we can use all of the usual tools from the kind of standard monopoly optimisation problem that you can find in and introductory economics textbook. For example, if the CDF in the first figure is given by function $F$ then$$\Pr(\text{WTP}>x)=1-F(x)$$ so the revenue from setting the pledge level at $x$ when the audience consists of $n$ potential pledgers is $R(x)=[1-F(x)]xn$. Just like a standard monopolist's problem, we can compute the revenue-maximizing pledge level ("price") by setting marginal revenue equal to zero: $$R'(x)=n[1-F(x)]-xnF'(x)=0.$$ Substituting your empirical distribution for $F$ in this equation and solving for $x$ gives your optimal pledge level. 

that discuss cases in which offering better protection for intellectual property (in these cases, by lowering patentability requirements) might reduce the incentive for firms to innovate. Very roughly, the basic mechanism in these papers is that lowering the threshold for patentability means that an incumbent with a patent expects to be superseded by someone else with a better patent very quickly. Since the advantage to a patent does not last long, the incentives to invest in innovation to acquire such a patent are reduced. I am curious whether people can suggest other mechanisms by which strengthening intellectual property protection (including moving from no protection to a positive degree of protection) can reduce innovation, and provide relevant references. 

What bdsl's comment means is this: Suppose there was a way for "experts" (here or anywhere else) to predict when the pound would start depreciating against the euro, and that this method predicted that it would begin to do so tomorrow. What would the experts do with this information? They would start selling pounds today in order to get out of the market at the top. But this rush of selling activity would cause the value of the pound to fall (via the usual principle of supply and demand) today—a day earlier than forecast! This simple story illustrates the broader idea that a method for forecasting financial markets is self-defeating. As soon as anyone has information about the future direction of an asset price (be it currency exchange rates, stock prices, etc.), their buying or selling activity will, by itself, move the price in that direction. Thus, any information available to the public will be "built-in" to the market price you see quoted. Moreover, given the amounts of money at stake, large market actors have a huge incentive to act on new information very quickly so that information gets built into the price almost immediately. This general principle—that it is impossible to use publicly available information to beat the market—is known as the efficient market hypothesis. So-called specialists who claim they can predict what the market will do usually fail to do better than a random guess. Such people usually earn their money from commissions or advisory fees rather than from profits on successful trades. 

In the aftermath of 2008 economists were, fairly or not, blamed for a failure to foresee the coming crisis. Ideas such as "The Great Moderation" and market efficiency were openly ridiculed as hubristic. Now, almost a decade later, seems like a good time to take stock and ask: What have been the main developments in macroeconomics and financial economics research that have emerged in response to the financial crisis? 

A price matching guarantee is a promise from a seller to a consumer of the form "If you find the same product at a lower price elsewhere, I'll beat that better price". Common sense suggests a guarantee to beat the lowest price in the market should be good for consumers. Not necessarily so. Here's a rough illustration of why: Suppose sellers A and B both have price-matching guarantees and consumers have a preferred seller from whom they buy by default unless the other seller offers a better deal. Normally, sellers would cut their prices to try to attract consumers from their rival. But here that doesn't work! If A cuts its price then the consumers whose default is B can just go to B and get it to match A's reduced price. But this means A has no benefit from lowering its price and will just stick with the same high price that it had all along. The price-matching guarantee has completely killed price competition! 

Intuitively, since the consumers attracted by advertising will be (in part) stolen from other firms, each firm imposes a negative externality on its rivals and will tend to invest too much in advertising. This is offset, somewhat, by the fact that advertising improves the match between consumers and products by informing consumers about which products best suit their needs. Thus, contrary to the statement in the question, the level of consumption may well increase because consumers value the products the buy more highly on average. Grossman and Shapiro build a model in which the business stealing effect always dominates so that the equilibrium level of advertising is excessive. 

However, it turns out that The Tunnel (i.e. the dark blue area) is exactly equal in size to D+A+B. Intuitively, there are two ways to think of a unit subsidy: 

I don't know what the Indian government's growth accounting practices are, but the World Bank has an independent forecast that shows India's GDP growth increasing in the near-term (pink area is a forecast): 

This is known as the "split-the-difference" mechanism, originally due to Samuelson (1985). See Section 6 of Gibbons et al. (1987) for a discussion of this rule. In particular, 

If there are a small number of firms participating in a market then they have a very concentrated interest in that market and therefore have a large incentive to lobby for favourable treatment by a regulator. By contrast, it is likely that only a relatively small fraction of a consumer's income is spent in any one given industry and, therefore, each individual consumer has less interest in lobbying for consumers' interests in any antitrust proceeding. This leads to producers having a louder voice (a problem known as regulatory capture). The total welfare and consumer surplus effects of a behaviour often point in the same direction (e.g. lower prices and higher quantities typically correspond to both higher consumer surplus and higher total welfare). If measuring both consumer and producer surplus is costly then measuring only consumer surplus will often be a sufficient heuristic. There are information asymmetry problems insofar as firms have better information about their expected profit gains from a practice than do regulators. Producers are likely to overstate the private benefits of anti-competitive practices and the regulator would need to find a mechanism to induce truthful reveltation. 

"Loss leader" is a term primarily from marketing. It is occasionally used by economists, but not in a formal way because its definition is insufficiently precise. To see why we have to be careful, it is useful to think about the economic principles underlying the three examples you mentioned. I do this below, but the ;tldr version is that the business model for selling data follows a totally different economic logic and even grocery stores vs playstations follows slightly different logic.