You're seriously overthinking this. The same vague invitation was likely spammed out to hundreds of people who match whatever keywords they're looking for. Response rates for this kind of fishing expedition are really low (2-5%), so all you need to do to "stand out" is respond and show interest. 

Unethical? Yes, there's a strong conflict of interest here. Against the terms of the manager's employment contract or NDA? Quite possibly, but that's going to vary from employer to employer. Illegal? In itself, probably no, although there may be related financial arrangements that could qualify as bribery: for example, if the quote was inflated and the manager gets a substantial pay raise on joining as their pay off. 

Sure, it's acceptable. However, it's also completely pointless. Before an interview, you can at least try to glean some background about your interview's background and interests, but afterwards, it's not going to tell you anything about what will happen. 

Flaky recruiters happen. I was no-showed three times in a row (!) by the same recruiter for one job, with notice ranging from 15 minutes to zero. It worked out the fourth time, and I ended up taking the job. (She, on the other hand, no longer works there.) That said, it is rude for HR to not tell you anything, and I would have given up and sent them a note after no more than 15 minutes of waiting. 

You should expect to get some exposure to how the real world works. The primary point of an internship, though, is that it's an extended job interview both for you and the company: the company will decide if they want you working there in the future, and if the answer is "yes", you can decide whether you want to work there. 

The reason the company (HR) is demanding these things is because they're trying to cover their ass and ensure they don't get sued by you or, were you try to commit suicide again and succeed, by your heirs. So they're asking for: 

Should you expect to work on real projects in an internship? Well, yes, that's what good internships are for: it's much better to have a real-world project with real-world deliverables than some little toy sandbox to play in that will be discarded after your internship is over. This way you get real-world experience of dealing with real-world problems, which looks great on a CV when you're applying for a real paid job some day. And with all due respect, "participate in the production and writing of podcasts" does not sound like what I'd call a "huge" responsibility that will make or break the company. It's also important to remember that the ultimate responsibility for the work assigned to you lies with your manager, not you: if they have actually given you something that's mission critical and beyond your abilities, it's their problem if you can't deliver. Your responsibilities are to 1) try your best, and 2) keep your manager updated regarding your progress, especially if you're running into any kind of trouble. 

Float the idea of becoming a tech/team lead to your manager. This means that you're "first among equals" among your peers and have the (limited) authority that comes with this, but continue to report to your manager and he keeps handling the people management side of things (salaries etc). A good manager will welcome this, as it will lift some burden off his shoulders and elevate his own position as well (he now leads a team, not just a bunch of people!). But it's also the first step on the road to becoming a manager yourself, and a bad manager will take this as a threat. It sounds like you're growing fast, so it should not be a zero-sum game, you're better positioned than we are to judge how he'll take it. 

Good news: relieving letters exist only in India, so if you are moving abroad, nobody will ever ask you for one again. If you have payslips to prove you worked there, and if possible a personal reference or two (managers, colleagues etc), you will be just fine. 

Your negotiating power depends on how realistic your alternatives are (BATNA). Do you want the job at any cost? Then you leave yourself no alternative, all you can do is accept their 28k. But are you happy to reject the offer if it's too low? Then you can safely hold out for a higher number. So I recommend that you figure out a minimum salary you can accept and stick to it, and make it clear to them that you are not desperate: you're already happily employed and they need to pay you enough to lure you away. (For clarity, the minimum salary is not what you should ask for on Monday, it's your internal deal/no-deal decider when negotiating.) Last I checked, the market for good developers in London is pretty hot, and I suspect you're in a better position than you realize. Last but not least, have you already told them how much you are making? If yes, then don't tell them next time. 

It depends. Note that in all these examples, I'm assuming the employer has explicitly required you to travel, as opposed to (say) you choosing to live far away from the office and commuting, and that they're already picking up the tab for actual expenses (flights, hotels, taxis etc). So. If you're a salaried employee, and you travel during working hours, you're already getting paid and there's nothing to charge for. And since salaried jobs tend to entail flexibility both ways, you're unlikely to qualify for overtime just because you had to get up early to go to the airport, arrive a bit late, etc. However, if you're a salaried employee and you travel significantly outside working hours (late at night, weekends etc), you may be eligible for overtime pay or time off in lieu, because the time you use to travel is time away from your free time. However, this will depend on company travel policy. If you're on a multi-week assignment, many companies will also offer you a choice between flights back home or extending your hotel for the weekend, but they won't pay you overtime unless you're actually working on the weekend. If you're an hourly employee and you are required to travel, you should be paid for every hour of travel, full stop. If you're a freelancer or consultant, you can agree whatever you want with your clients and charge what the market will bear, and more often than not, travel time is paid for. In my own case, I charged my regular hourly rate for international travel, computed using the shortest direct flight time. This both compensated me for time when I could not meaningfully work for any other clients and was a nice little earner when I was commuting regularly between Singapore and Saudi Arabia, a good 12 hours apart (no direct flights at the time) -- and the client was OK with this, because there weren't many other people who had both the skills and the willingness to do it. That said, I've never heard of anybody claiming compensation for packing their bags -- just how slow a packer are you? Even the most generous travel compensation is usually measured from the door of your home to the door of the client site. 

Is there anything you can do? No, there isn't. I hire for support roles and in interviews often roleplay customers in troubleshooting scenarios. If you ask me clarifying questions, I will answer exactly what was asked, and that often means withholding critical information because the customer doesn't know it's critical and it's your job to figure it out regardless. It's OK (not great, but OK) to misunderstand something and go down a rabbit hole for a while. But if you can't figure out your own mistake and get back on track during the interview, sorry, you blew that question -- and in real life too, if you're debugging a customer's production issue today, it's not going to help much if tomorrow you realize you went down the wrong track. 

So I'm going to be blunt: odds are pretty high they did not get back to you precisely because they did look at your code sample, and they were not impressed. Look carefully at the rejection letter: 

You're being managed out. The discipline over tiny style violations is in order to build up a record so you can be terminated. The only feasible path to recovery I see here is asking the owner to choose between you and your manager, and that's going to be a long shot if they're neighbors and presumably friends. I would advise you to start looking for other jobs ASAP. 

In general, a bonus is a reward for past performance: if you did well in the past and were promised one, it should be paid out even if your performance right now is not so great. But if you don't have anything in writing and you were merely verbally promised a bonus, you're in a tougher spot. You could try asking payroll a general question, like "Can you tell me how/when bonuses are paid out?", and if it's clear that they're already being paid and there's nothing coming your way, then you can raise the matter with your manager. (And note that payroll may well CC your manager in their response, so be prepared.) 

No, you should let it go. You're very unlikely to convince him to change his mind, and getting into a pointless argument is going to harm your odds of landing the job, not improve them. Even if you manage to show that he's demonstrably, factually wrong about something (and it sounds like this is more a matter of opinion), it would be human nature to resent this and blame the messenger. Of course, it's possible that the difference in opinion between you two is so great that you decide not to take job over it, but that's another matter. But if this person is just the HR manager, as opposed to your future manager or the person who will conduct your interview, even this would be hasty.