I don't have that much experience in world building, but one thing I always try to keep in mind is: Why am I creating this world? What do I need it for? If you are just creating a world in your spare time, as a mental exercise, go right ahead and ignore this. If you, on the other hand need it for, say, an RPG or a book, make sure you understand what that product is going to need from your world. One example would be a short story. Since you are trying to tell a story and creating a new world for that purpose, there have to be something that sets it apart from the real world. In that case, I would try and figure out that 'otherness' and identify what you need to get there: Maybe the atmosphere is different or social structures developed in a different way? I hope this helps you. 

People have just enough hope that they can advance through some sort of system of of this squalor, be it education or hard work. A lot of slave societies (like Rome or Caribbean plantation colonies) had some way for slaves to earn their freedom and that helped to keep the 'unpleasantness' of daily life from becoming mutinous feelings. The main problem here is that you are not dealing with overworked people, but people who cannot find employment, and they are in a different mindset. People can't leave, which could be caused by the government preventing them from leaving or spreading misinformation about the 'greener pastures', so that people don't want to go back. The main issue here is why would the government want to keep people at the city, since they seemingly don't need them? Maybe there is something more sinister going on, like a social grand experiment or something along those lines. The problem with that is that it will move the focus of your story away from your protagonist and on to solving the 'mystery', which sounds like it wouldn't serve your story well. 

Maybe this question doesn't go too far, but when reading about liquid metal type materials like those that can harden with electricity or magnetism, I was kind of thinking of something there. For those who have read through stuff about developments in smart materials, is there a known material that could be made to harden and flatten like some kind of shield or harden and extend to a sharp point? 

Could I have some info on what would be realistic ranges for EMPs from nuclear bombs of different yields? I'm unclear about that. Of course it depends on altitude and blast yield, and some electronics can take more than others, but just in general what area would it affect? 

The whole concept of higher dimensions has always been a fascinating one, but I have to ask if anyone has found anything, like a popular science article or something, that suggests a useful way of interacting with them. One of the big problems with the idea of interacting with them or going to them is that doing so suggests a loss of energy from our dimension. At this point, there isn't any evidence of energy being literally lost from the universe as far as I know (discounting any zero point energy stuff). There is the suggestion that black holes could exist in higher dimensions or that dark matter could, but other than that there isn't much. The only way that I've heard about for going to other dimensions is by using an extremely huge amount of energy like the energy in particle accelerators. Is there any lower energy way someone or something could interact with a higher dimension that has some science behind it? 

This is an interesting sort of weapon concept I thought of. I imagine it to be useful for remotely causing pain to someone in an area. Essentially, you'd have police or maybe drones spray or apply by some means nanoparticles to someone, which would either sit on someone's skin or perhaps penetrate some distance, while remaining in the skin. They would absorb radiation such as microwaves, which would allow them to heat up remotely. That way, a strong microwave field would cause, say protesters to be burned while others around the emitter would be mostly unharmed. Microwaves do interact with human tissue, so perhaps if the nanoparticles could absorb/attenuate radio raves, that would work better. I suppose that one issue that occurs to me is that maybe the power needed to remotely heat up the particles might automatically fry any electronics in the area. Although maybe a dish could be used to focus the radiation a limited amount? To the extent that it wouldn't harm people without the spray. Thoughts on the plausibility of this? 

It sounds like you have put yourself in a real bind here. From what you have described, it doesn't sound like any sensible person would want to stay, especially if they knew what the 'countryside' looked like before they migrated. With the history of human migration (europeans moving to the United States in the 18th and 19th century, or the current migration crisis in Europe) I think it is hard to argue that people wont try anything to get out of a desperate situation like this. One question that really springs to mind is: Does the city even want people there anymore? It sounds like your story needs 'the crammed city' to work. In that case you should figure out the motivation of the government or the factory owners or whoever for not letting people get out of the city. I can think of three possibilities, each with a problem: 

This is a very interesting question. I would probably draw inspiration from the difference between the armies of the early Roman republic and the ones created by the Marian Reforms, which changed the army from a citizen levy to the professional legions we know today. There was a lot of factors behind the changes, but a few absolutely key factors were the centralization of almost all arable land in the hands of very few people, and the introduction of massive amounts of slave labor. Earlier, the Romans used property requirements, including how much land you owned, to determine who could provide what equipment. Once almost all land was held by the elite, and slaves, captured in military campaigns, could work the land for free, it induced both a manpower shortage in the old system (since fewer people had the necessary wealth to equip themselves) and a manpower abundance for the new system (a LOT of very poor and very desperate citizens). I would make your Counts, Dukes etc. a very wealthy elite and the only land owners. There need to be some reason why farming does not occupy a majority of the potential population (could be slaves, magic or some kind of technology) and a reason for the poor to see military service as the best way out of their misery. They might be forced to fight, but then it more like a slave army, which I would not consider within the parameters given. I would also suggest coming up with a good reason why armies need to be kept standing. Maybe there are a lot of surprise attacks or maybe the armies are need to keep the peace. I did consider a few other alternatives: Maybe the soldiers have some special quality that are hard to identify and lost if not used regularly or maybe the food production is so poor that even fighting medium scale military campaigns can devastate both the attacker and defenders manpower and so engagements are only fought between small groups of skilled fighters to not waste precious life.