7 speed is enough information. All bicycle chains share the 1/2 inch pitch (with one extremely rare exception) and derailleur chains for same number of speeds are very close to same width. 

The easiest way to find the correct length is to measure the existing spokes. Note that the front and rear typically use different lengths and rear has different lengths on left and right side. If there is a disc brake in front, the different sides may have different lengths too. The nipple threads are usually same size, but the middle of the spoke may be thinner, again the easiest way is to use a vernier caliper to measure the thickness. Shopping questions are frowned upon here, so I'll just leave a hint that spokes are available in most specialized bicycle stores, both online and brick and mortar. You can sure find one. Replacing the spokes is not very advanced skill but takes some patience at first. There are many instructions online, read at least one set before doing anything and decide whether this is something you want to attempt. 

You have a low quality bike. The low quality shows as failures in various parts, in your case the chain. An immediate solution would be to replace it (either chain or the entire bike) with a decent quality one. No need to go fancy and expensive, anything that is sold in a bike shop should do the job. 

In a comment, you mention that you are using V-brake levers. V-brakes have different mechanical advantage than road brakes and require more cable movement with less force. With levers like this, you can not produce enough force. If you can't use drop bars, switch to levers designed for flat bar road bikes or cantilever brakes. With decent road brakes, there should be no problem either lifting the rear wheel or locking both wheels. This is the actual limit and there is something wrong with either your equipment or technique if you can't reach it. 

The efficiency of chain transmission decreases if one of the cogs has very low tooth count. Track cyclists often use high gear ratios, and large chainrings are used so that a reasonable sized cog can be used. Another reason is that when the cogs are larger, changing to one tooth larger or smaller cog changes gear ratio a smaller amount than with smaller cogs, so larger cogs allow finer tuning of the gear ratio. Both benefits are small, but in racing you use all advantages you can get. For street singlespeed, the main reason to use large chainwheel is to make the bike look like track bike (isn't this why you bought the Omniums to begin with?). The other popular choice is 42t, because that comes standard with old road cranks and produces nice gear ratio for street use in combination with track cog. 

This is a service recommendation and is not going to help our American readers, but... airshells.com rents bike transport cases on many European airports, including Dublin. So, you ride to the airport, pick up the case there and check it in. At destination, leave it at left luggage office - which costs some money but saves a lot of hassle. I rented a case from them for a 10 day trip, and the service was excellent. On return flight the case was handled roughly and lost one wheel, there was absolutely no problem for me. 

You need something else to prop your weight against. Artistic cycling practitioners usually use saddles with high rear edge that can be leaned at. And of course you can use other parts of your body, such as shown here (check the rest of the video for the saddle). 

The other answers have covered technical features, but I'd like to add build quality. Because of higher price, the manufacturers can use better materials, more expensive tools and more manual labor in manufacturing and quality control of high end parts. Or the other way, better manufacturing can justify the higher price. This means that old but not worn out high end parts have nicer finish and often more precise function and better durability (with the exception of stupid light parts). Sometimes new technical features cover for this, but with established technology like road bike groupsets not always. 

Once again, I spent some quality time debugging a slow leak and found out it was a loose valve core. I tightened it with pliers, but it raises the question, is there a situation where it is useful to be able to remove the valve core? Also, have replacement valve cores been available at some point, and do the cores have a standard thread or is it manufacturer-specific? 

Yes, it is possible. Just unscrew the bolts holding the smallest ring. However, the chainrings in double and triple cranks are designed for easy shifting. With single chainring, it's a good idea to change the ring to one that has been designed to keep the chain on. So-called narrow wide chainring is one design to accomplish this. 

The reason is stability. Systems with positive feedback, like the self-energizing brake, are inherently unstable unless there is some kind of negative feedback or damping in place. The instability means that the same force at lever translates to varying braking forces, and especially maintaining a stable force at lever would produce a rapidly increasing braking force. A negative feedback system to control this would have to adapt to manufacturing tolerances, component wear (which your suggestions don't do) and be reliable and affordable. This is rather difficult to do, I'm not sure if it even can be done without electronic control, and doesn't solve any practical problem. Power brakes on cars work differently, using external power from engine input manifold vacuum to multiply vacuum force. This system does not have positive feedback and is stable. Bicycles don't need this kind of braking power, can't afford the weight of brake boosters and don't have a power source at hand. A similar but more complex problem is controlling unstable aeroplanes. It can be done, but with complex electronic control. 

The answer is "it varies wildly". By the far largest cost is the initial price of the bike, which in itself has a huge range and is multiplied by how often you replace the bike. The second largest cost is maintenance, which may also cost premium or you can do it yourself. For road and city riding with sensible part choices, the cost of wearing parts is below 5 cents per kilometer. Lightweight racing parts or bargain parts that wear out fast will cost you more. "Fuel" costs are negligible, unless you ride several hours per day the base metabolism is several times more than what you put into riding. For one take on official numbers, in my country the tax deduction for commuting to work is 0.25€/km for cars, 0.09€/km for mopeds and fixed 80€ per year for bicycles. Edit: In order to illustrate the range of numbers, I plugged the numbers from my singlespeed commuter bike to the spreadsheet. The lifetime of the saddle is based on my other bikes, as are the rims and bottom bracket. The difference in per year/month comes from 5000km/year because of winter, vacations, etc. 

The front one is Dunlop and the rear one is Presta. The rear rim is drilled for Schrader valve, which is thicker than Presta. I don't know the reason for this, but I suspect that whoever put the bike together just used the parts that were at hand without any planning. 

The steerer and handlebar diameters have already been addressed, but there is also the matter of brake and shift levers. The drop bar is thicker than a straight bar, so the mountain levers will not work. If your bike has cantilever brakes, normal road brake levers will work. For V-brakes (I guess bike from the 90s does not have hydraulic disks) you need a lever with higher cable travel such as Dia Compe 287V or Tektro RL520. Shifters are a trickier question, and to answer that I would need some more information about the gears. Or, you can go singlespeed :) 

As you noticed yourself, the largest difference is suspension fork. It adds complexity and usually weight, but these bikes are almost same weight. That means that the one with suspension fork has lighter and more expensive components. Whether it is worth it and do you need the suspension at all is a separate question. 

The actual reason for rub is that wheels are not infinitely stiff, but flex a bit laterally when climbing out of saddle or cornering. This is normal and not dangerous but becomes more apparent when you have tires that only barely clear the frame when the wheel is entirely straight. The sad truth is that many road bikes don't have room for 28mm tires, and yours seems to be one of them. If your hub had play in the bearings, you could feel it by just wiggling the wheels sideways with your hands, no need to push with significant force. 

Most of new tubes come with similar-looking valve that has a ball and spring mechanism instead of the rubber tube. 

Based on weather in Helsinki, Finland: You'll want gloves with waterproof membrane (Gore-Tex is fine but others work, too) and room for additional thin gloves under them. Gloves made for downhill skiing work well for riding and may be easier to find than winter bike gloves. If your brakes and shifters allow, lobster gloves and even mittens are great. 

Orbital is the brand name of the hub. 15mm and 20mm are different axle diameters, get the one that matches your fork. Edit: Most dirt jumping, DH and freeride forks use 20mm, 15mm is a newer standard used mostly for cross country. 

The research on subject (source: Wilson & Papadopoulos: Bicycling Science, MIT Press 2004) shows that crank length has very little effect on pedaling efficiency or or maximum power output. There is a small increase in maximum power output with shorter cranks and and in efficiency with longer cranks, and racers who optimize to the last percent do use different crank lengths for event-specific bikes. On the other hand, experiments showed that tests subjects had individual preferences in crank length even though efficiency was not affected. The crank lengths in tests done on recumbent bike ranged between 110 and 230 mm, where lengths above 180mm showed significant decrease in maximum power output. As already discussed in comments, an adjustable length crank would be heavy, complex and prone to failure, and these drawbacks would overweigh the small benefits. 

If you live in UK, you should have no problem ordering from Germany. The mail order houses there sell mostly lights that are street legal in their home country, and label non-compliant lights as off road only. EDIT: The above goes for bike-mounted lights. Helmet-mounted lights do not seem to be under the same regulation. If you absolutely must buy from UK, you can look up models on German sites and see if they are available in UK. Although, UK and continental Europe seem to be strangely separate markets even if they are in the same customs union. 

Shimano has a pretty good track record of wear parts availability for older groupsets. I am using 8-speed myself, and there are several European mail order stores as well as local shops that have spare cassettes and chains. I would expect that 9-speed spare parts aren't going away either. The problem with off-road groups is that rear derailleurs are not compatible between 9- and 10-speed, so you need to change shifters, derailleurs, cassette and chain if you need to switch later. EDIT: To clarify, even though 9-speed XT groups have not been sold in a while, XT-level 9-speed wear parts are still available. For 8-speed it looks like spares above Deore/Tiagra level are no longer available. 

Over the last decades, virtually all rear derailleurs have been based on the same parallelogram geometry. Its movement is close to linear over the cogs, but when you draw the half-circles different parts move in, it is clear that the actuation ratio changes near the edges of the range. Calculating the actual position of pulleys from cable position is quite complicated, since there are three fixed and three moving pivots (one of each for cable, two for parallelogram. The dimensions of different derailleur are quite close, so the small non-linearity behaves in similar way between different brands. On the other hand, 10 and 11 speed Campagnolo cassettes have slightly uneven spacing between cogs. This means that even perfect conversion from a system with even spacing would not be perfect match. The varying spacing is documented in Sheldon Brown's crib sheets and this photo. 

The new crankset is not exactly in the same position as the old one, so you need to adjust the front derailleur. The internet is full of instructions for the procedure, so I am not writing a new guide here. 

No. The rubber hoods are designed to closely match the lever's shape and are not stretched when installed. There are some third party replacement hoods, but they too are designed to fit specific lever models. If you can't find the correct part locally, there are many mail order shops that have good selection of even uncommon or old spare parts. 

All Shimano rear derailleurs have same actuation ration (except for 10-speed MTB), so you can just swap in a Tiagra one. For the second question, a higher quality groupset will be slightly lighter and work better. The shifter levers on Tiagra and upwards are different design, allowing more comfortable shifting from the drops. Changing entire groupset will require some special tools and be expensive, if you aren't looking for a DIY learning project it's probably best to sell the current bike and buy a new one. 

It is. The rim joints are never perfect after pinning or welding. Rims that are intended for rim brakes are machined afterwards to have a smooth surface. This rim has instead been painted. The crack comes from the pinned joint. The spokes are pulling the rim together with enough force to keep it from breaking apart. This being said, rims intended for rim brakes are also thicker at braking surface to compensate for wear. If these are Deep V's, you are fine. If something else, check if there is a rim brake version of the same rim. Rims not meant for rim brakes do not necessarily last long. 

Regarding locking the front wheel, they are sort of correct: on paved surfaces and tires with decent grip the rear wheel should lift off the ground before front wheel locks. However, it sounds like you can't lift the rear wheel either. A decent set of brake pads should last much longer than 200 miles and brakes should not be adjusted every week (unless you ride 2000 miles in a week), so it's probably best to switch to a different shop. It might also be that the brakes are just garbage and could be replaced with a better set. As mentioned in a comment, a brake booster arch might also help. 

Your frame is most likely intended for 135mm spacing and measures 134mm either because of manufacturing tolerance or because it was bent by using too narrow hub. The angle difference between 130mm and 135mm hubs is about 0.4 degrees, which is not really visible to naked eye. 135mm would be the way to go, but there is no immediate danger from keeping using 130mm either. 

Derailleurs don't really wear out but can be accidentally broken. And as already commented, the best way of managing this is replacing parts when they wear out. 

There are several bike computers that support different settings for two bikes. Cat Eye Velo 7 is not one of them. 

The problem is your pump's valve chuck. Some valve chucks press the valve's center pin, which lets the pressure from tire to pump and allows reading the pressure. Some other chucks, such as the one you have, do not do that feature. If pressure drops to near zero after every stroke, there may also a leak somewhere in your pump. Replacement valve chucks are available, you can replace it if you do not want to buy an entire new pump. 

Transmission is already covered, so I'll answer about the brakes. Older bikes have brakes mounted with a bolt that goes through the frame or fork, while newer have a shorter bolt and a recessed nut that extends into the frame. You'll need to find old style brakes or something where the bolt can be replaced. An easier way to improve braking would be keep the old brakes but replace brake pads, levers, cables and cable housings. Modern brake levers have different geometry that improves braking a lot. 

This happens because the power from a hub dynamo (which technically is a magneto, not a true dynamo) is not clean sine-wave AC but consists of short pulses with alternating polarity. At high speeds these pulses follow each other fast enough that a LED can burn continuously with a small capacitor and a filament bulb does not have time to cool down between pulses. The effect does not have anything to do with programming or the fact that LED is a diode, and it happens with filament bulbs too. A more complex LED setup could have a capacitor to enable continuous dim light and perhaps even be programmed to flash at low input power, but I doubt this is the case. 

The difference in rolling resistance is small but can be seen in time trial results and maybe in mass start races. The more noticeable difference is that typically race tires have smoother ride because the thinner casing transmits less vibration. Note that the categories are not clear and one manufacturer's tire marketed as training tire may have less rolling resistance than other's fastest race tire. One web site to check is $URL$ Is there a necessity? If you are racing and it is necessary to do everything possible to improve your placement.