In Mertons Seven Storey Mountain, his auto-biography from a man of the world to Trappist monk, he goes over in brief the notion of the Trinity in Catholicism in the penultimate chapter for the baptism of a novice: 

Hobbes famously declared that sovereignty must be absolute; his rationale being that if not, then exceptions not governed under its law will need arbitration by some higher power. But this power may also not be absolute...this, then demonstrates grounds for an infinite regress; and given that such regresses are not possible, we lose the sense of sovereignty - for there may be some act which is not governed by any law of this sovereign power; and this is against the proper sense of sovereignty. First: is this a reasonable summary of this aspect of sovereignty in the sense of Hobbes? This suggests that the 'divine right of kings' follows this notion; given that the deity is absolute in power; and this is distinct from its sacral dimension. Q. Is this correct? 

A real-world circle is not a true circle which, as far as Platos concerned, lives in the World of Forms. But isn't a fractal a mathematical form, so that does live in the the World of Forms; and as Mandelbrot pointed out, the coast of England, the shape of a cloud and the shape of a fern are fractals so they too live in the World of Forms? Going further, isn't the standard model when expressed geometrically a form so that too lives there, and its consequences are too, so the universe itself is in the World of Forms; doesn't this then involve a infinite regress? 

Mathematics is generally & popularly judged a science in the basic duality: science - humanities. As enemies and collaborationists. The border heavily & fiercely policed. However, it seems to me that Poppers theory, which entitles science-hood by falsification doesn't apply to mathematics at all. What can it mean that the Number Theory is falsifiable? Certainly a tightly-focused question will either be true or false. More general conjectures & ideas will be true when enunciated as the mathematical landscape is seen and a new shape formed. For example the Langlands programme (higher dimensional representation theory). Significance through aesthetics & ethics seem the key theme. The serious intent (ethic) towards the good & beautiful (aesthetics) towards the reverance & delight of contemplation. Platonism in essence. Badiou characterises knowledge as four domains (conditions) - love, science, art & politics. Is it then love - Number Theory being the material incarnation of a mathematicians embrace and adoration of Number? If not then is it art - Number Theory being the glorification of Number through steady & inspired craft. As a cathedral to God, so Number Theory to the One? If neither then could it be politics - creating harmony amongst bickering wilful abstract entities intent on having it their way? Number theory being a nation of number systems. If none of these, then does it lie with Philosophy, the place from which these four conditions converge (in Badious system)? One is reminded that Badiou states that mathematics is the very ontology of philosophy. He may give it space there, but does anyone else? 

Its generally accountable to the philosophical community who over time have generated certain critical standards; its in relation, or rather dialogue to this authority that ones own thought becomes critical & authoritative; this is one one reason to signpost readings of either the primary or secondary literature; and this is often reflected in style. This doesn't mean that the canon of philosophical works become a 'dead weight' but that they're used to draw up a map & orientation; one also becomes aware of the vast weight of previous argumentation and their repercussions on the cultural firmament of the time. For example Hannah Arendt uses the phenomenological orientation of Husserl & Heidegger to orient her understanding of political science - this looks at philosophy as being in the world as opposed to from sub specie aeternitas (from the viewpoint of eternity). She counters the valorisation of Platos contemplation with action in the public sphere - ie politics and this draws on her understanding of how politics was understood in the Greek city-state. Another example would be the Anglo-American analytic tradition which though in a narrow sense was stimulated by the logical argumenation and rigor of Russel, Frege & Wittgenstein; in a wider sense it is derived from the the style of argumentation in Plato where clarity in thought is seen as a natural good; and this is filtered through the European Enlightment tradition. What can be called the counter-Enlightment takes its orientation with artistic Romanticism; its exemplars are Nietzsche & Derrida amongst others. Their writings tend towards contradiction, polemic and obscurity; their work resists easy reading as the thought is concealed. One can consider it as a code that can be broken in several ways or creatively 'misread'. And their are the isms that help orient writers in the larger picture and thus orient in what way they are in dialogue with each other; a philosopher doesn't belong to a certain school; more that one should see these isms as a prism that overlays their writings and refracts it in many different directions; whereas seeing the influence of their philosophical predecessors turns their texts into a kind of palimpsest. All this isn't just true of philosophy, but of any scholarly tradition; and is true of the sciences - say Mathematics or Physics. One could ask of a more particular methodology; in the physical sciences for example there is the notion of the 'repeatable experiment'. But there is no such empirical inquiry - but the larger sense of observation is important; and thus, for example Arendt relies on testimony (and what is this if not observation?) filtered through the secondary literature to examine the notion that she calls Totalitarianism in her book of the same name, as a political institution in its own right - through its roots and its future; and how it is in fact characterised. 

Aristotle in his book, Metaphysics, stated that in his time all philosophers agreed that principles of things are contraries. In this view, one might suppose that the free-will of man and the determinism of nature is a contrary that is a principle. That the essence of spirit - freedom - is opposed to the essence of matter - neccesity. If one instead is a pragmatist, and so asserts both the determinism of physics and the freedom of the human will, then one can say that they are compatible but we simply do not understand nor describe precisely the mechanism of how this is the case. This sort of proof is reminiscent of an existence proof in mathematics where one asserts the existence of some mathematical object but it does not construct it, in some cases it is even shown that one cannot construct it. 

There is an old tradition of the history of science which is simple discourse of key ideas done by key people, and of true theories replacing false ones. A more nuanced picture was drawn by Thomas Kuhn in his Structure of Scientific Revolutions, who involved economic factors and intellectual ideas strictly outside the purview of science, and through his idea of paradigm shift argued against the view of science as being simply the accumulation of new data & new ideas, he argues for periods of revolutionary science where the map is redrawn and new questions asked. Perhaps the paramount one in the physical sciences is the paradigm shift between classical & Modern physics, where the key classical ideas of determinism , continuity, particle & wave are overthrown. But this still remains a history of objective facts & theories, whereas social constructivists of science tries to