Do you write down everything that is important or just everything? Many graduate programs expose you to a lot of information which you're required to synthesis into something meaningful. And like a job, no one is going to spoon feed you what is on the test like undergraduate work. My guess is you know what is important, but may be a little anxious with your new job and are writing things down just in case. Make sure you let others know you are paying attention. If you're constantly making people slow down so you can keep up, you may be writing too much information. Review you notes and work on condensing them. If you have to trim it down too much, it could be another indicator of writing too much. 

I think you should base this on your husband's prior history with any difficulties asking for time off and the amount of advanced notice. Buy tickets that can be changed. Many supervisors will allow their employees to use their judgement when taking time off, so they'll take current project status and accepting new ones into consideration. You would be putting your spouse in a bad position if he made promises to clients that he can't keep. Obviously if there are busy periods like end of quarter or holiday seasons, you're going to have to work around those. I'm lucky, I work for the kind of boss who would think this is a great idea and would cooperate. If you responded to an email while on vacation, he would thank you and tell you to get back to the beach. I've expressed to my wife how I feel about my boss, so she wouldn't need to ask anyone what they think. You may want to consider the surprise more about where you're going than when. The fact you're making the arrangements would be even better than the surprise. 

Instead of thinking of a management role as the person who knows more than anyone else and orders them to do things, think more about being a leader and actually helping your people do their job better. Use your marketing skills to sell your team to the company. 

Don't be too sure about this. If reluctant users are forced to do this, you're going to get very short responses. Too many people Tweet and text and don't go into detail This is a problem in technical areas. You may find yourself spending more time with email replies asking for clarification and may be better off just picking up the phone. If people insist on verbal suggestions, ask to schedule a meeting so you can go over it or send you an email. Is it too much to ask for you to meet with people who are trying to improve your website and take a few notes? I believe they call this the shoe being on the other foot. 

You recognize you have a bias, but there are other indications you have some objective concerns as well. As the leader of a team, it is up to you to make sure a member doesn't overly hinder the work of others and that includes you. Also, other departments don't want her, so what is the reasoning that you have to be "stuck" with her? I don't know if you can do anything about being annoyed by this person, but when someone takes credit for your work, there is a trust issue and you should bring it up. It is only fair to tell her about it and let Jane know she needs to get your trust back by not doing this in the future to you or anyone else. Any limitations in work production or quality should be brought up as well. Set goals and possibly assign someone else to be a mentor if you think they can be objective and try to improve this person't work. Hopefully, you can get some of her shortcomings in the workplace out of the way and maybe Jane won't be so annoying. At least be tolerable. 

Request to work from home a day or two a week. Present it as a trial period of maybe a month, so you boss doesn't feel like this is a permanent commitment of it doesn't work out. If people already work from a home computer, why do you need permission to do the same? I don't know the implications of this. I don't know why you'd need to discuss this with your boss if it is common. You may have to wait to move out of the country. There's a difference between having a remote employee who can come to the office on short-notice and one who for all practical purposes, will never physically return to the office. Maybe you could take an extended vacation to your home country, but make a few of the days work days. This way you can prove you can do the job. 

Work on the details for this job. Writing client-side code and UX are not the same. You may want some of both, but decide the ratio. This is the first step in getting the right person for the job. There are many devs that learn javascript, CSS & html, but couldn't design a command prompt. Get examples of their work. Hire a contractor on a part-time basis. If you make a hiring mistake, you can correct it easily by getting rid of the person for a lot less than a full-timer. As an option to #3, use a hiring agency. You can create a temp-to-hire situation if you want to gain a little freedom. Many people may question some of these agency's abiliy to identify technical talent. Some of better than others. Reach out to people in your tech. community and try to get some recommendations. Why just wait and see who applies. 

Thank you for providing more information because I think you risk losing your best candidates if you put too much emphasis on computer skills. Seems like people with a track-record of safely working in potentially dangerous environments is more important than being able to click a mouse. This may narrow your list of candidates to the point where making them take such a test under your observations would yield the best results. Yes, some people get nervous testing when someone is watching; you don't want to hire them. Also, beware of someone who is desparate and lets someone else do the online test for them. Google some of the online tests and have your current people take them and create a baseline of performance. I think the goal is trying to avoid hiring someone who is too reluctant to use a PC. Someone with extremely poor PC skills, could panic. Of course there is some balance, but I'd hire a crane operator before a gamer. Those boats crashing into the bridge are real. 

Like many developers, you just don't like the contraint and want to code when you're in the zone. For someone who works 12-16 hrs/day, surely you can manage to have it overlap 9-5. Then when everyone else goes home, you'll be able to get some work done. Your boss won't mind. In the mean time, keep your head down, put in some ear buds and focus on the task at hand. I don't know what it is, but I've sat in the center of the sales staff cubical section and all the sales calls never bothered me, listening to one person talk for an entire year about her wedding plans nearly drove me insane. Make sure you have lunch with other people. This is a great time for everyone to get the social gossipy stuff out of their systems and hopefully they won't feel a need to slip it in to you during the work day. 

How many people have to leave before they consider this a problem worth fixing? Do managers complain? Are projects falling behind? Loss of customers and revenue? You may just end up negotiating with an idiot. Beware of what you ask for. If there is so much opportunity to make more money elsewhere, why haven't you left? 

No. Focus on the outcomes first. You need to give direct and immediate feedback about these behaviours. Along with that, you need to establish consequences. If this person cannot meet these requirements, you can consider making adjustments. Usually, someone will let you know that there are some external forces (i.e. personal problems). Maybe you can adjust this person's schedule to come in later and work longer. I'd rather have someone come in an hour later, ready to work for a full-day, than someone struggling to get in "on time" at the expense of the rest of the day's production. Also, suggest taking a nap somewhere out of the way during lunch hour. It is bad for morale for one person to be sleeping around everyone else who is working. 

If carrying a backpack makes you look like a "meandering college student" it's probably because of how you're dressed. Carrying a briefcase in shorts and a t-shirt isn't going to make you look professional. How you arrive at work shouldn't be that big of a deal. I've worked at places that required a coat and tie, but I didn't always wear the tie into work and the coat ended up on the back of a chair. Meeting with clients or going to a meeting is another situation especially if you're in a high dress-code company or industry. Leave the backpack at your desk. 

I would apologize and just say you were using an abstract technical term. Ask her what she would like to call the group of rules the computer needs to follow. As far as getting rid of you, try explaining that she's just going to have to educate the next person because the terminology is fairly universal. If she wants to display empathy, ask her how the poor computer is suppose to know this isn't a business ;) 

I don't agree with this practice/strategy, but there may be other managers in the company that would prefer to keep you as a programmer. Good programmers are hard to get and they don't want to go to the trouble to replace you and get someone else up to speed. Too few companies offer enough growth paths to stay in development, but still move up in rank, salary, etc. The key here is what you are looking for in your career and it doesn't seem like anyone in your company knows or has bothered to ask you about it. Take some time to have a discussion with your boss and see what he thinks. Find out what the criteria are. Maybe they could put you in charge of a small project as a trial to see if you can handle it and whether or not you really want to be in management. You may find you don't like it. Going somewhere else should be the last resort.