There were a lot of doctrines released by the US to contain communism. One of which is the Truman's Doctrine.It aimed at stopping the geopolitical spread of communism in Turkey and Greece. Historian James Oakes explained containment as - 

This is what is written in the book. My granddaddy has this german book which was gifted to him by a friend of his. I went through the book as soon as I saw this question. I don't know for sure if this was his original text but as it is german and matches exactly what you asked for by google translate, I think this is authentic. 

What you may be confusing in this case is what is termed the War Powers Act which gives the President latitude to actually engage in military operations for up to 90 days before declaring war or going to Congress. Part of this stems from the face that Vietnam avoided this with the Gulf of Tonkin resolution which then President Lyndon Johnson used to initially get Congress to accede into allowing soldiers to be sent to Vietnam. Later there were disputes about the accuracy of the attacks cited to get the resolution passed, note the end of the article which mentions the major points. While the War Powers Act has been side-stepped since its passing, the discussions on this came up most recently after the September 11th attacks, a good read on this at Slate which goes over the War Powers act and some of the discussions around sending troops into combat. So to reiterate my comment, its not like it used to be but times and the methods of war have changed since the Constitution and the Presidents powers have been written. 

Recently we toured the New Calendonia culture centre. Our guide pointed to this marking on a rock, and said: 

My question is: What changed to make British Enclosures more profitable than tenanted subplots? -- Edit: Explanation: My reason for asking this question is that somewhere around the 16th-18th centuries - enclosures became profitable. Why did they become profitable? What changed? Here we read: 

What would have caused this? My question is: This is the second time Australia has had 6 PMs in 10 years. What caused it the first time? 

Since he was in India, it could be that your granddaddy was sent to India because of the great revolt of 1857 which was partially a success. The revolt was successful in the removal of the British East India Company's rule from India and the application of Queen victoria's rule over India. After the act of 1858 which ended the company's rule, the army was reorganized. The no. of European soldiers was increased to 65,000 and the no. of Indian soldiers reduced to 140,000. All modern arms and weaponry was taken away from the Indian soldiers and were only to be handled by the European soldiers. Your granddaddy wouldn't have been in action for a particular span of time. In the year 1889, your granddaddy was 18 years old. He would have been sent into action but not too much during a very "Prominent" event. In the beginning of the 1900s, the British faced a lot of difficulties and sometimes they deployed the army due to the rise of (Assertive) nationalism in India. Especially during the non-cooperation movement in the 1920s and the civil disobedience movement in the 1930s. 

In school I learned about the British Agricultural Revolution - at the time this was explained as 'increased efficiencies due to crop rotation'. (This now seems a bit simplistic. We know that in Scotland, the Highland Clearances were in part driven by the fact that farming sheep became more profitable than having farming tenants. In this particular situation - something must have changed the economics of sheep farming. Was there increased demand for wool due to mechanisation of wool processing? Did a national market for mutton increase the price of sheep meat? But there were many improvements in agriculture at this time: 

Countries like the DPRK and others joined the Non-Aligned movement despite showing clear proofs of support towards power blocs were and still are a part of the Non-aligned movement. During the Korean war, the PRC and the USSR clearly showed support towards the DPRK which was greatly accepted by the DPRK. After the war, it is said that the DPRK got nuclear support from USSR which very clearly shows that the DPRK was aligned with the USSR. 

The nationalists could have escaped to the present day Phillippines which is further from the Chinese and would keep them more safe or to any other island but why only Taiwan and also why didn't the Chinese prevent the nationalists from fleeing to Taiwan. 

The Spanish DID come to the New World to find Gold, and other things, but while I always thought they came across it much earlier than they did it looks like that was not so. At least in the province of California: 

I got this from the House of Representatives site noted below, and they give a little more on the tradition and how this was originally done by Junior Members, some who were the first's such as the first female Representatives from a state, first Asian-American woman who was the Representative from Hawaii. House History on the Farewell Address 

Some have said this is mere evictions due to a failure to pay rent. Some say it is racially motivated. Some say it is a land-grab. My question is: What were the motivating factors in the Scottish Highland Clearances? 

Australian Federal Politics has been tumultuous for Prime Ministers. The last 10 years have seen 6 Prime Ministers (when a political term in Australia is normally four years). But this is not the first time this has happened. It is the second. When we look at the historic record we see the first time this happened: 

In my History of Islam classes there was some review of Pre-Islamic Arabia and a few things were covered, from my class notes we talked about: 

The Han Dynasty came after the Qin Dyansty, after the government under Shi Huang Di collapsed. Liu Bang is noted as coming from a peasant family and becoming the Han Emperor, about this time there are many books and lots of material to look at. Still during this time China established the Confucian System, which began the Imperial Academies to train those who wanted to enter government, this also opened China to some international trade and during this period Buddhism entered China from India during the time of trade and the creation of the Silk Road. The government was fairly unified, but as during most periods of China you have various levels where the Imperial Government sits on top and dominates, then you have various local levels of control. The Imperial edict is generally respected, after all it comes from the Emperor, which allows lower level officials to work within the system created. There is an army that protects the country, but using marriage as a way to unify and create diplomatic ties to other countries you have ties of politics and blood. The Han period was also a technological period as well, where China began to develop some of the technological expertise it became known for. There are many World History sites that refer to the Han overall, including a PDF link that overall goes into how the Imperial soldiers (central army) were in compulsory service, trained and paid. There are periods when China did have lords who provided soldiers, but most of my recollections on that comes from later periods and not this early. Really to go into more I'd have to get some books together, but this should be a good start.