I found another study looking at 14 daily newspapers in the US titled which found the following result 

ESPN states that the reason was safety issues, and that Robert Lee himself was involved in the decision. To clarify a few points mentioned in your quotes: 

This can be partly explained by the lower average BMI for vegetarians. There are also studies listed in the review that show a lower risk for certain cancers. For osteoporosis there were no significant differences found between vegetarians and omnivores. But you also have to take possible nutrient deficiencies into account, especially for the more restrictive vegetarian diets like veganism. The authors of the review conclude 

This translates into more than a hundred deaths due to Propoxyphene per year in the UK, which is similar to the number you quoted if you take the different population sizes into account. The United States have roughly 5 times the population of the UK, which would translate into roughly 2500 deaths over 5 years. There is also evidence that Propoxyphene is not more effective than alternatives: 

Aside from their main function in cellular respiration, mitochondria play an essential role in the regulation of programmed cell death (apoptosis). 

Systematic flaws in animal studies and issues like publication bias are something that can be changed, they are not an unavoidable issue. Cases where the biology is too different between the laboratory animals and humans are much more difficult. The fundamental issue is that we just don't have anything better available than animal experiments in most cases. Studies in humans have to meet very high ethical barriers. And in vitro experiments and cell cultures are much, much farther away from the actual human biology than even the flawed animal models. Derek Lowe writes about animal experiments from the perspective of a chemist in the pharmaceutical industry:: 

So any vaccine will have to be shown safe and effective in clinical trials to get approved. They also continue to investigate the safety of the vaccines: 

Baker's yeast is capable of fermentation, so it can certainly produce alcohol. In 1926 it was reported in the Canadian Medical Association Journal that bread can contain between 0.04 and 1.9% of alcohol. This is just a short report, not a full scientific paper. In "Ethanol Content of Various Foods and Soft Drinks and their Potential for Interference with a Breath-Alcohol Test" the alcohol content of certain kinds of bread are reported. The highest alcohol content is found in Rosemary's onion bread with 0.98%, and lower values for other kinds of breads. So, bread certainly contains at least traces of ethanol, and possibly even rather significant amounts. 

The report this is based on is "Can Genetically Engineered Foods Trigger Gluten Sensitivity?" published by the Institute for responsible technology. As far as I can tell this is not a peer-reviewed scientific paper. On reading through it, the report makes a lot of small individual claims about the effect of GMOs, or the specific proteins inserted into GMOs like bt-toxin. Each of those claims would deserve a full post here, I'm not going to dissect all of them in this post. But that is also not necessary, as the report does not actually show any causal link between GMOs and gluten sensitivity. It creates a narrative that implies this link, but in the end it even states that there is no sufficient evidence: 

I just found an article titled "America's Real Criminal Element: Lead" via Hacker News that made an assertion about the cause of violent crimes that I found rather surprising. The article states that the addition and later removal of lead in gasoline is responsible for a large part of the rise and decline of violent crime: 

There does seem to be a distinct difference in composition of emotional tears, compared to basal and reflex tears (review in german). The emotional tears were found to contain about 24% more protein than reflex tears (Frey et al., 1981). Also found were increased concentrations of Prolactin, manganese, potassium compared to serum concentrations, as well as increased serotonin concentrations compared to reflex tears. This research shows that emotional tears are different from reflex tears, but it doesn't really support the claim that toxins are eliminated through crying. The german review I linked states that it is unlikely that toxin elimination through tears has a therapeutic effect. One additional aspect arguing against that is the fact that a large part of the tears is usually reabsorbed through the skin. This does not mean that there are no psychological or social effects of crying. But I could not find any evidence for specific toxins that are excreted via tears, the substances in the research I mentioned are not really toxins. 

It works by tapping on specific meridian points with your fingertips which "balances energy meridians". It is claimed that this heals about any psychological problem you can think of. There is no scientific basis for the existence of meridians in our bodies. The basic principles of EFT are not based on science, but on a vague concept of energy, that has no relation to any established scientific principles. There have been a number of small studies on EFT. The largest one of those with 119 participants divided into 4 groups did not find EFT significantly more effective than placebo. One small study with 5 participants in each group, performed by the originator of the technique found a significant effect of EFT. Due to the small sample size and the fact that the journal it was published in is dedicated to alternative medicine, I would not consider these results as proof of effectiveness. I did not find any convincing studies that would show the effectiveness of this technique. Considering the implausible mechanism it is based on, I would safely argue that EFT is extremely unlikely to work better than placebo and should not be considered a credible treatment for psychological issues. 

[1] Dean L., Blood Groups and Red Cell Antigens [Internet]., Bethesda (MD): National Center for Biotechnology Information (US) (2005). 

The Red Cross itself denies that the video is accurate. Their statement categorically denies that they were involved in any clinical trials for Malaria. You can find the following statement on the website of the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies (IFRC): 

In the study you picked as example the fluoride levels in the high fluoride group were 2.47±0.79 mg/L and the control levels were 0.36±0.15 mg/L. The amount of fluoride that is added in the US is closer to the control group than the high fluoride group of this study. So you can't just transfer the conclusions of the study to the drinking water in the US, the amount of fluoride is different. What I found surprising is that the study didn't spend much effort on eliminating other confounding factors, such as other toxic substances in the drinking water. The National Research Council examined those studies in their report "Fluoride in Drinking Water: A Scientific Review of EPA's Standards" 

Is "Big Pharma" exaggerating the development costs for new drugs or is this new study underestimating the true costs enormously? 

The first important point that is completely misrepresented in most articles I've seen about this is that Tifton 85 is not a genetically modified grass, but was created conventionally by crossing Tifton 292 and Tifton 68. See this article about the history and creaton of Tifton 85 bermudagrass for more information. Using this event to highlight the dangers of GMOs is ignorant at best, this grass is a conventional hybrid, not a GMO. It is known that certain plants and also grasses can produce cyanide in amounts that are dangerous to livestock (see "Potential for Hydrocyanic Acid Poisoning of Livestock by Indiangrass or Effects of Cyanogenic Plants on Fitness in Two Host Strains of the Fall Armyworm (Spodoptera frugiperda)). 

In this article the authors show that humans posess one protein that can potentially sense magnetic fields: 

The E. coli strain in this experiment is unable to use citrate as a carbon source under aerobic conditions, a major reason for that is that it can't transport citrate though the membrane. This E. coli strain has a copy of the citT gene which can function as a citrate/succinate antiporter, but this gene is under the control of a promoter that is not active under aerobic conditions. What the bacteria did that evolved the ability to use citrate under aerobic conditions is that they duplicated the citT gene. The duplicated gene was inserted in a way that put it under the control of an entirely different promoter, which is active under aerobic conditions. But this is not the whole story, they write in this paper: 

That are just a few results from a quick search, there are studies done for every approved vaccine. I'm using the US system as an example, but it will be similar in other countries. In the US the FDA has to approve vaccines: 

There are some studies by Robin Baker, but they are cited as controversial in the newer articles I found on the topic. From "Human cryptochrome exhibits light-dependent magnetosensitivity": 

All the scientific articles I linked are freely available, if you want to dig deeper into the details. 

Cancer Linus Pauling published a study claiming that high doses of Vitamin C can extend survival times in terminal human cancer. A weakness of this study is the selection of the control group as described in the paper 

High doses of beta-carotene can be deposited in your skin and can lead to a yellow color. Beta-carotene is a pro-vitamin and an orange dye, if it accumulates in the skin it will turn it yellow. Excessive consumption of Sunny D, which contains beta-carotene, has been observed to colour the skin of a toddler yellow (see this report from the BBC). This can happen with anything containing high amounts of beta-carotene, but it is not dangerous. But you need to drink an excessive amount of Sunny D for it to happen. 

There is some evidence that consumption of cannabis can cause shizophrenia in some people (see this BMJ editorial), the newest study about this connection claims 

There is good evidence that smoking bans reduce the number of heart attacks. In the meta-analysis "Cardiovascular effect of bans on smoking in public places: a systematic review and meta-analysis" published in 2009 in the Journal of the American College of Cardiology the authors state in their conclusion 

There is a nice article about X-ray backscatter scanners on Ars Technica. As Nick already wrote, the dose delivered by the scanner is smaller than what you receive from flying itself. A group of professors from the UCSF wrote an open letter about the risks of X-ray backscatter scanners and the FDA replied to it. The main argument is that the X-Rays are more concentrated in the skin as they don't penetrate as far as in conventional X-ray methods. The UCSF professors argue that due to that fact you can't just apply the usual safety limits as the radiation is concentrated differently. They ask for more detailed studies before the scanners are adopted. They also raise a second point, that the scanners use a fast moving high intensity beam and that an error that would stop the beam movement could lead to a high dose of radiation in a small area. 

There is a study published in the Journal of Pediatrics titled "On-time Vaccine Receipt in the First Year Does Not Adversely Affect Neuropsychological Outcomes" that directly refutes the claim that too many vaccines cause neurodevelopmental disorders in children. From that study: 

The report presents some convincing evidence that components of the fracking fluids are released, though the authors state: 

From another study titled "Parental corporal punishment predicts behavior problems in early childhood" published in the Journal of Family Psychology 

I just read an article in the german magazine "Der Spiegel" about a recent study claiming that 40% of all cancers are preventable. The article states specifically that one of the factors is the consumption of red meat: 

I've just heard someone claim that Mother's Day was an invention of florists, with the aim of selling more flowers on that day. Is there any evidence that the flower-selling industry is responsible for creating Mother's day, or at least for pushing it to the popularity it has now? 

The flu vaccine is only effective for the specific strains of influenca it was targeted at. Those strains are adjusted every year, but creating the vaccines takes time, and sometimes an unexpected strain like the swine flu appears and the regular flu vaccines is not adapted to it. 

The announcement of the german ISP Deutsche Telekom to throttle flatrates in the future, with the lowest limit being 75 GB per month, caused quite a media echo in Germany. One claim from a small router company was repeated by several media sources (e.g. Golem): 

The research on very mild forms of corporal punishment is not conclusive, as Dr. Kadzin states in an interview: 

So far there is no convincing data that humans can sense magnetic fields, but there are some results that merit some further investigation. But even if we can sense magnetic fields, I would strongly doubt any medical effects of such magnets unless they are shown in a clinical trial. 

This means that you can advertise the mentioned claim on water bottles you're selling. In the appendix they list for claim 1331 the wording "water keeps you hydrated", which is pretty much what was mentioned in the article. For the third claim, that water is a basic requirement for all living things, they concluded 

This argument, "Too many, too soon", is very common among groups opposing vaccines and promoting alternative cures. The basic argument is that the number of vaccines given to children increased substantially and that this "overloads" the immune system and causes illnesses, e.g. autism. I've heard this claim almost exclusively in connection with autism, so I'll focus on that in my answer. The number of vaccines you can find in the recommended vaccine schedule for the United States published by the CDC. But in the end the number of vaccines is nothing compared to the number of antigens children will encounter naturally. Paul Offit said the following about that subject: 

No vaccine is perfect, but they don't have to work 100% of the time to save some lives. If the vaccine is worth it is a more difficult question. If you're not one of the risk groups the benefit for you might be relatively small. But as Mark Crislip notes 

The study contains a rather uncritical description of accupressure, and the sample size is rather low, so I would not consider it very reliable. 

Though this argument is not based on article VI of the constitution I cited, the court made no decision on whether such clauses in state constutitions would violate this article. 

As already mentioned in the first answer, this article refers to an article by a german laywers association ($URL$ The article is a comment on the existing laws, not a court decision itself. I'll only address how your excerpt interpreted this article, I wasn't able to find any more reliable resources about actual cases like this. The closest I could find were mentions about an ex-husband still active in the Neonazi scene, where safety considerations were cited as a reason to deny the husband visiting rights for the children. The cited article argues that the deciding factor is the welfare of the child. What matters are how the child is affected by the actions of the parent, not the statements themselves: 

Your ABO blood type tells you which antigens of the ABO blood group are present on your red blood cells. The function of the A and B antigens are not known, but they are not essential, individuals without those antigens are healthy1. The ABO blood type has an effect on blood clotting1, but there is no reliable evidence that it has an effect on metabolism. This does not mean that such a mechanism is impossible, but the burden of proof lies with Dr. Peter D'Adamo to provide evidence for his claims. I could not find any clinical trials that would support this claim on his website, there are some scientific papers listed there, but those are just reviews of the literature. The Mayo clinic agrees, that there is no evidence for this claim, There's also a recent study in PLOS One examining the blood type diet directly, and it found that there is no basis for it. The diets themselves provide some benefit, but that benefit is entirely independent from the blood type of the person: 

This method does not ensure that the treated and the control group are properly matched. Two later fully randomized clinical studies (1, 2) conclude that high doses of Vitamin C are not effective as a cancer therapy. Common Cold It is also claimed that high doses of Vitamin C can prevent the common cold or at least shorten its duration. There is a Cochrane review stating 

Link to Pubmed and link to the article on ScienceDirect. Unfortunately, the study about the rash is not mentioned in that review. It only mentiones other studies, e.g. "A double-blind study of symptom provocation to determine food sensitivity." (free full text). 

In an article titled "The Make-Believe Billion - How drug companies exaggerate research costs to justify absurd profits" in Slate the author writes about a new study about the costs of drug development. The common cost for the development of a new drug that I have heard several times, and that is also mentioned in the article as a comparison, is about 1 billion US dollars. The new study now seems to claim that the real cost is only 55 million US dollars.