I disagree with Yellow Sky's assertion that the answer is obvious. Given the accompanying instructions, that answer is also incorrect. [Change of heart]. Okay, maybe I misinterpreted the instructions and YS proposed rule is possible. It depends on what your instructor means by "rule". Conventionally, these kinds of problems require a specific formal mechanism to change the underlying form into the surface form, and a statement of correlation would not suffice. That is the point of requiring an explicit underlying form. But your instructor might also allow an observation of correlation without a specific "how" as constituting a rule. You can probably tell if you've gotten instructions in rule-formalism.[/Change of heart] BTW, you should not be asking us to solve your homeworks. My answer is an elaboration and generalization of Greg Lee's answer. The general strategy for solving these kinds of problems is to identify possible underlying forms, and pursue the consequences of each choice. If some root is always pronounced as [blah], then there is no reason to think it is anything other than /blah/. If it is sometimes pronounced [blah] and sometimes pronounced [balah], then you have a reason to think it might be /blah/ and a reason to think that it might be /balah/. Each assumption about underlying forms entails a different set of rules, so if the root is /blah/ then you need a rule of vowel insertion to account for the variant [balah]; conversely if the root is /balah/ then you need a rule to delete the vowel to get [blah]. Often, it turns out that one of these alternatives can be quickly ruled out because there are also roots that are always pronounced [blah] in the same context (e.g. [bunt] in German can be from /bund/ or from /bunt/). That kind of strong evidence disproves one alternative (though you have to check that the alternative representation isn't also likewise disproven, which would mean that you've missed an important fact). If you can't rule out one analysis on factual groups, then you have to appeal to conceptual reasons, such as the simplicity and generality of the rules that each theory entails. That then means you have to have a theoretical framework for evaluating such rules, and that is kind of instructor-dependent. The concept of formal simplicity is very simple, but naturalness is poorly defined and depends on a huge amount of factual knowledge about historical linguistics, articulation, perception, and observation of phonological processes across languages (kind of not available to you at this stage). Instructors differ as to whether they accept the idea of two equally-good solutions, and they may insist that you make a single concrete choice. My opinion is that is teaching bad science, but it happens, so find out whether "either A or B would work" is acceptable. I would say that formalizing the rules isn't just an "if possible", it is an absolute necessity. Very often, students get an idea about an alternative rule but they can't formalize one of the the rules... because it isn't formalizable, with the given assumptions about formalization. That's a big clue -- an underlying representation that entails a "rule" that can't be formalized is wrong. 

This is one of those questions that has no right answer, because it depends on how you define the concept. So one way to look at it is that your instructor is right, by definition. You answer closely approximates the most rigorous definition of the concept, employed by taxonomic structuralists (who, b.t.w. fell into disfavor in the 60's). That is, they viewed a phoneme as being the union of a set of phones (in saying specifically "of a single phoneme", we call them "allophones"). They viewed phonemes, morphophonemes, morphemes and so on as concepts for organizing the facts. There are a number of principles at play in deciding how to organize phones into phonemes. The basic idea is that two phones cannot be subsumed under the same phoneme unless the contexts where they appear is complementary. Given the words [pʰɪt] and [bɪt], since these are distinct words, we know that [pʰ] and [b] cannot be members of a single phoneme (they are members of different phonemes). Given words like [pʰɪt] and [spɪt], it is possible that [pʰ] and [p] are members of the same phoneme (allophones of a single phoneme). Under that view, or honestly any view, "changes meaning" is not the right way of looking at the pit/bit difference. It's not that changing p to b changes meaning, since then you'd expect there to be some change in meaning if you replace p with b in play. Instead, you don't get a word at all. Different words are made up of strings of phonemes, so by selecting a different phoneme, it is possible that you will identify a different word. And different words tend to have different meanings. There are other views of the popular relationship "phoneme", some of which depend on having the "phoneme" and the "allophone" be made of the same "stuff", typically some kind of definition in terms of phonetic features. This view is wide-spread amongst practicioners of generative phonology (not exclusive to them, though). Thus the "phoneme" /p/ would be a voiceless unaspirated bilabial stop, and its two main allophones are a voiceless unaspirated bilabial stop [p] and a voiceless aspirated bilabial stop [pʰ] -- note the the phoneme and one of the allophones are the same thing. In that view, the aspirated allophone is the result of applying a rule. Now to focus on this "idea of a sound" matter. In the structuralist view, allophones are not physical sounds, indeed they had no way of dealing with physical sound, other than to listen and transcribe, assuming some reference sounds. Structuralist phones are abstractions, although they are not "ideas" since they were behaviorists. They refer to classes of behavior – in fact, the behavior of the linguist who is exposed to language stimulus and responds with transcriptions. Though they tended to think of themselves as outside the equation, thus ideally they are mindless automata that transcribe the language behavior of speakers. In the generative view, segments (phones / allophones) are not physical sounds, they are mental representations of sounds. (Specifically, they are the conjunction of a set of features, which are the "intent" to articulate in a particular way). This view is a consequence of the rationalist philosophy adopted by generative grammar: we are supposedly modeling mental states that cause speaker behavior, not modeling the behavior itself. As I hope to have shown you (superficially and incompletely), the ontology of "phoneme" is very complex (historically) and generally is not at all well handled at the introductory level. Generally, we are happy if students can grind out marginally correct answers to questions like "are p and b allophones in English". 

Your question seems to contain a number of false presuppositions which could be repaired by rewording. One is the distinction between absolute tendencies and implicational universals – the problem is the concept of an absolute tendency ("tendency" means that both outcomes happen, and one is more frequent, which contradicts the assumption of being absolute). The second is that properties can be manifested in a particular arrangement of vowel letters. Properties can be manifested in a language, and a language can have a particular collection of vowels, but tendencies are only latent in abstract vowel systems, so not all languages with the vowel system /a e o i u/ manifest the same properties. One thing that you can do with the vowel system of a language that makes sense is ask whether there is any reason for that vowel system as opposed to come other vowel system. For example, if you have /i u a/, you could ask why the language doesn't instead have /i u a ə/. The typical answer is that the vowels [a] and [ə] are acoustically too similar, and it is hard to tell them apart. That in a nutshell is the prevailing explanatory force behind most questions about vowel systems. Some of these supposed tendencies turn out to be tendencies about linguists, not languages. The real reason why there are no languages where all vowels are long is that length is not an absolute property, so however long a vowel is, a linguist will always call it a short vowel unless there is a contrasting vowel type that can be called long. There are two main approaches to handling phonetic tendencies in language. One is the approach of Optimality Theory, which says that people are genetically encoded with specific prohibitions, for example there is a tendency that forbids nasal vowels, symbolized as *Ṽ, and language with no nasal vowels obey that constraint. Languages like French which have nasal vowels ignore the constraint. The set of constraints is universally predetermined, and by stipulating that there is no constraint forbidding oral vowels (in all contexts -- there is one forbidding oral vowels next to nasal consonants), OT can express the generalization that no language has only nasal vowels. The alternative approach is the historical-evolutionary approach, where attention is paid to the phonetic structure of languages and inventory tendencies are attributed to different probabilities of people learning a given distinction, in the usual sub-optimal context where language is actually learned. For instance, you don't usually find vowel systems where all the vowels are significantly clustered around the center of the vowel space, instead they tend to maximize perceptual distinctness (Liljencrantz & Lindblom 1972 and much literature since). Nasalization in vowels does that sub-optimal thing -- it makes vowels acoustically closer to each other. Languages can tolerate vowel systems like /i e u o a ĩ ẽ ũ õ ã/ since ultimately people do have a remarkable ability to perceive subtle distinctions. But people also give in to perceptual expediency, and you often find that the number of nasal vowels is reduced relative to the oral set, because nasal vowels are the ones at a perceptual disadvantage. There would never be an advantage to having a set of vowels that are all nasal, hence ordinary linguistic evolutionary tendencies converge on the result that vowel systems are not all-nasal. 

A colleague had such a device some years ago, but it depended on a touch interface that was a decade before there were touch interfaces. Theoretically it would not be hard to create such an interface, where a touch corresponds to F1/F2 values; then you simply synthesize the vowel with those formant values. Praat allows you to play around like that: see this question with comments on how to create a synthesis script (it would be easier in the case of just a vowel rather than a CV transition). There is an online Klatt synthesis interface here, where you can specify all of the formants and anything else of interest. The hard part is mapping from intuitive vowel positions to actual formant values (which is not terribly hard). For educational and entertainment purposes, I highly recommend using the online Klatt program and play with formant values, not being bound by empirically-justified limits on particular formants: see what happens when F1 is 1800, and thereby find the boundaries between vowel-like sounds and machine-buzzing noises. This gave me an appreciation for the importance of F1. As noted by Jeremy Needle, Pink Trombone kind of approaches the desideratum of an articulation-based synthesizer (it looks "backwards", i.e. the vocal tract looks rightwards). With a mouse you can only change one articulatory setting at a time, but with a touch screen, you can get multiple constrictions. You could use Audacity sound capture to extract samples and find formants. 

First, it is possible that there was a single earlier language from which all current languages derive, but it is also possible that there is no single common ancestor to all human languages. Let's just assume that there was one proto-language, then what would it mean for a shared root to "cause" significant recognizability in words? We can take cases where having a "shared root" does affect guesses. Speakers of Germanic languages can guess the meaning of the word "hand" in another Germanic language because the words of Dutch, English, German, Danish, Swedish, Norwegian and Icelandic are derived from the same root of proto-Germanic. Likewise, speakers of Bantu languages can guess the meaning of the verb "to cultivate" in another Bantu language, because they nearly all have the same word pronounced [kʊrɪma] or something close to that. In such cases, you can say that ability to guess meaning correctly is caused by the shared root of Proto-Germanic or Proto-Bantu. But that implies something very weird: that speakers of English or Norwegian have some kind of mystical access to a fact of a language spoken millenia ago, which nobody alive now has ever heard. What allows speakers of Germanic or Bantu to make these "educated guesses" is not the fact that the modern words historically come from a common root, it is the fact that the modern words look very similar (which itself is because they derive from a common foot, and because the sound changes that affected these particular words happened to have not changed the shape of these roots all that much). When the modern words are not similar in shape, people are unlikely to correctly guess the meaning of a word in another language, thus speakers of Indo-European (who aren't bilingual and haven't studied Indo-European linguistics) will not guess that koun, ci, hound, chien, šuõ, šun, sobaka all mean the same thing. The root *gʷʰen is common enough in Indo-European languages, but people generally can't guess that because the contemporary manifestations are so diverse (defense, gìnti, gon, gjanj, φόνος, ganem). Even if a pair of words does historically derive from a common source, that fact doesn't cause people to correctly guess the meaning of the words. There is a very small set of words whose meanings are cross-linguistically guessable at a somewhat significant rate, especially "mother", "father", "dog", "chicken". The problem is that these words also have a tendency to be irregular from the perspective of historical sound changes – they tend to resist regular changes, as though there is some sound-symbolic force that keeps them exceptionally close to the standard of mama, dada/baba, bu, kuk, to the point that it would be impossible for such similarity to be preserved even if Proto-Human had these roots which were passed down to most modern languages. It's that sound-symbolic force, and not a common root in a language possibly spoken 100,000 years ago, that causes good-guessing behavior for these words.