There isn't a risk to putting it out other than the attempt failing, it is just impractical to do so once a large coal vein catches fire. You can read more about the Centralia, PA coal fire on wikipedia which sits on top of anthracite coal veins that have been burning for a little over 50 years and are likely to continue to do so for a few hundred years. Your proposed idea of "inventing weather modification" is not practical. While we have the technology to seed clouds and produce localized rainfall this still depends on the amount of water vapor in the air. You can bypass evaporating water into the atmosphere, seeding clouds and raining and instead just pump water into the mines and flood them. That will be much more efficient at getting water into the mines. So why don't they flood the mines? That too is not practical, and if memory serves me right, they did try that in Centralia. The problems are 

This is merely an effect of the diurnal temperature change. Relative humidity is the ratio of the actual amount of water vapor in the air compared to the amount of water vapor needed to saturate the air. The water vapor needed to saturate the air is a function of temperature. Warm air needs more water vapor to be saturated than cold air. If you have air with a constant mass of water vapor and vary the temperature between cold (e.g. 7 AM) and warm (e.g. the afternoon) you will have the same pattern of relative humidity you have observed -- very high in the morning and decreasing during the day. This is a normal pattern and absent of any effects moistening or drying the air you will observe this daily pattern of relative humidity in many places. 

A vertical cross section in RHI mode reveals vertical structure that you can't directly observe in a horizontal PPI scan. In the image below you can clearly see that there is a significant bounded weak echo region (BWER). You could put this together from PPI scans at different scan elevations combined for a 3D view but with RHI you can see this from a single scan. You can also get a sense of the anvil structure as shown in the image below. Whether you can determine anvil rain or structure is going to be affected by the particular radar and where it is located. Each radar band has pros/cons related to detection and attenuation but if you take these into account then you could be able to determine the features you are interested in. You should also be able to observe Doppler winds in RHI and if you are doing this in the field with research radars it is a good bet you have dual-polarimetric data as well. Here is a presentation of RHI scans in supercells with dual-pol data. 

Your variable holds 32 bit floats and has shape (1,73,144) corresponding to time, lat, lon and is located in the you have called 'U'. One way to put this in a numpy array is: 

This optical phenomenon is called a 22° halo which is a subset of other halos. This arises from sunlight refracting through hexagonal ice crystals, which can be found in high level cirrus clouds. Light that would otherwise not make it to your eye enters an ice crystal and then exits at an angle of approximately 22 degrees. This produces the arc of light you see in the video. You see (inverted) rainbow coloring of the halo because the light is not uniformly refracted but varies from 21.7 degrees for red photons to 22.5 degrees for violet photons. 

The subtropical jetstream The subtropical jetstream can be explained with angular momentum arguments. In an idealized circulation model of the atmosphere, there is a hadley cell that circulates upward at the equator, poleward along the tropical tropopause, downward around 30 N/S and equatorward at the surface. Parcels rising at the equator have a fair bit of angular momentum from the rotation of the Earth. As these parcels move poleward they tend to conserve this momentum and this manifests as a westerly wind. The subtropical jet is weak in the summer (ITZC and maxmium solar heating disrupt the hadley cell in that hemisphere), strong in the winter and is generally fixed at around 30 N/S and at a higher altitude than the polar jet. The polar jetstream The polar jetstream draws its energy from horizontal temperature gradients in the lower troposphere as a consequence of the thermal wind. To understand the thermal wind, consider a temperature gradient at the surface, cold toward the pole and warm toward the equator. Over the cold air, heights of pressure levels will be lower than normal and over the warm air the heights will be higher than normal. If you look at any pressure level this will result in a height gradient with higher heights toward the equatot. This gradient will increase with height. The geostrophic wind is proportional to the height gradient and thus increases with height. The polar jet exists where these surface temperature gradients are strong but above them around 250 mb. You will find the polar jet wandering around and associated with the strong surface fronts that come out out of the poles and into the mid-latitudes. It will be stronger in the winter when the fronts are stronger. During the summer the jet will remain at higher latitudes and in the winter can dip well into the mid-latitudes. 

Flow somewhat westerly, but direction is not as important as the magnitude. Surface to 500 mb shear: 

Yes. The height of the ground or ocean surface is of no consequence to the lapse rate as long as we remain above it -- in the atmosphere. E.g. the dry adiabatic lapse rate is a conservation of entropy as a parcel of air rises or descends. This means the temperature change is related only to the expansion of contraction of the parcel as it responds to changes in pressure. When you move down below sea level there is nothing fundementally different than starting at 500 m height and moving down from there. Both are moving down into higher pressure and the parcel will contract and warm as a result. 

Ice grows in many forms. As mentioned in the other answer, all of the ice we are going to observe is Ice Ih, but there are many other forms. See this phase diagram of water: 

and can customize their look with various options. The reference is the module. For further reading, here are some examples of plotting netcdf data from a friend of mine at CSU. 

Beam radiation is direct radiation, e.g. photons that have not been scattered. Diffuse radiation is indirect and has been scattered. Examples of beam radiation from the sky would be from the sun directly to your eye. Diffuse solar radiation would be the blue sky (scattered out of the direct beam by the atmosphere), clouds and anything you can see that is illuminated by the sun. Shortwave radiation refers to radiation of solar origin, which is primarily in the visible and shorter wavelengths. Longwave refers to radiation of terrestrial origin, which is typically in the infrared and longer wavelengths (dependent on temperature) and is radiated by the earth, us, clouds, the atmosphere, etc. A flux is the "rate of flow of a property per unit area" and for radiation is generally expressed in watts per square meter, Wm$^{-2}$. A watt is 1 Joule per second, so this is an energy flux, a or the mount of energy flowing through a 1 m$^{2}$ surface every second. To apply this to your variables: 

Water vapor is a gas and invisible. The amount of water vapor in the air can be expressed as relative humidity (RH) which is the ratio of water vapor pressure ($e$) and saturation water vapor pressure ($e_s$). Saturation vapor pressure is the partial pressure of vapor when evaporation and condensation rates are equal, represented by RH=100%. When RH > 100% net condensation occurs, but water has its own ideas. In a mixture of pure dry air and water vapor, water will not condense until around 400% RH. Reasons for this are a bit complicated but it has to do with very small droplets being more likely to evaporate as their curvature is very large (Kelvin effect, saturation vapor pressure is higher over curved surfaces than flat ones). Luckily for us, our atmosphere is not pure air but has small particulates suspended in it (aerosols). Some of these aerosols are classed as cloud condensation nuclei (CCN) and enable droplet formation at lower relative humidities. These work by forming a solute in water increasing the energy needed to break bonds and evaporate the water (Raoult's_law) The combined interaction of these are described by Köhler theory and describe droplet growth in terms of drop size, solute and supersaturation (RH-100%). In a nutshell, there is a critical drop size below which drop size decreases for decreasing supersaturation and above which drop size increases for decreasing supersaturation. The critical supersaturation is the supersaturation needed to attain the critical drop size, and is generally small (e.g. 0.3% supersaturation). Droplets below the critical size are 'haze drops' and these make up the haze you see on very humid days. Drops that reach the critical size can continue to grow to become cloud drops. The condensed water is carried in the air but is no longer water vapor and is not part of relative humidity (but does contribute to the parcel density) So... when does it rain? It rains when water vapor is in the presence of CCN, driven to a supersaturation causing growth to the critical drop size (on the order of $\mu$m) and continuing to grow to cloud drops and further to the much bigger drop sizes that make up drizzle (100-300 $\mu$m)and rain drops(mm), a process that takes around 40 minutes. Drops will grow until the updraft can no longer support their mass and then they fall from the cloud as rain. Your question asks at what humidity does it rain, but what surface humidity determines is how high the cloud bases are. When the dew point depression (the difference between temperature and dew point) is high, the cloud bases will be higher than when the dew point depression is small. As air rises it cools, and at some point 100% RH is attained. If there is forcing for vertical ascent, parcels can rise to this height and then to a height where they freely convect due to decreased parcel density caused by the release of energy during condensation (see: CAPE). So far to have rain we've needed water vapor (but not at 100% at the surface), aerosols to aid condensation (CCN) and a way to cool the air to reach 100% RH via lifting. It is these three things -- moisture, aerosols and cooling, that we need for a rain storm. We can have 100% RH days that are just hazy or foggy that do not rain and we can have days with mextremely little RH (e.g. deserts) that result in little rainstorms or large severe storms. We also have storms we call 'elevated convection' that are completely disconnected from surface conditions and when these storms cause rain is not related to surface humidity at all. If you are looking for a magic trigger for rain, your closest bet will be looking at temperature, dew point and the height parcels need to attain to freely convect (LFC). If there is forcing for parcels to get that high and instability above, then rain is a good bet. Forcing for lift can be anything from convergence along a boundary (sea breeze, cold front, outflow from another storm), orographic lifting (mountains, hills), thermally or dynamically forced. 

The next step is digging into the source code. From this perspective I suggest taking a look at CM1, which may be easier to follow than WRF from a programming perspective and will give you a foundation for how the math is applied in code to solve our equations and produce the output you see. 

Your approach to calculate an hourly temperature and relative humidity independently could be problematic, as these variables are dependent on one another. I'd be interested to see a plot of one such day of $t$ and $rh$ and then to calculate the water vapor mixing ratio or dewpoint from your values and see how it varies in response and whether it is realistic looking. If all you have in mean $rh$ and and a min/max temperature, one approach might be to derive a mean temperature and then from that a mean water vapor mixing ratio. This mixing ratio can vary through evaporation, condensation, boundary layer mixing, etc, but for a rough approximation you could assume it is constant. If you assume a constant mixing ratio and a temperature profile (e.g. your sinusoidal assumption) you could calculate the $rh$ profile for the day. Note that you'll have to assure that your temperature curve does not cool below the dewpoint. You have the mean $rh$ as a crosscheck for this method and can use that to iteratively adjust your method for obtaining the water vapor mixing ratio. Your diurnal temperature profile will vary based on latitude, time of year, proximity to large bodies of water, and weather. If you discount the weather you can get by with your sinusoidal approximation with your minimum temperature at local sunrise and your maximum temperature in the mid to late afternoon. The amplitude of the sine wave will be dependent on the your location (e.g. coastal locations will have small amplitude changes and inland desert locations will have large changes). With a constant water vapor mixing ratio this will yield the highest RH at the temperature min at sunrise and the lowest RH in the mid afternoon. If you can provide a $t_{max}$, $t_{min}$ and $\overline{rh}$ and a rough idea of where on earth your are looking at, I can run some numbers and provide more detail on this method. 

Canada is fairly similar to the US in how this works. As pointed out in a comment, Environment Canada is the primary provider of observation and forecast data within Canada. You can access plots of this data and somewhere on that site you can probably also get access to the raw data files to process on your own. Canada also partners with other states to provide data globally that others can use, some of which provide global model products such as ECMWF and NOAA. The data from the Euro is not completely open but the data from the GFS is freely available. The person on TV is working with their fellow station meteorologists and often under a chief meteorologist. They are going to look at data provided by Environment Canada observations and model output, global model data from others and perhaps private sector weather provider companies who themselves ingest all of that data and have operational meteorologists on staff. The general flows of data will be 

We can likely assume the parcel is not saturated and you are aware that that a parcel with a positive relative temperature perturbation is buoyant and will rise. To question you need to look at next is: what happens to a parcel of air as it rises? Your 0 - 1 km layer has a constant temperature but not a constant pressure so the parcel will expand as it rises. If the parcel expands then its temperature will decrease. At what rate does the temperature of an unsaturated parcel of air decrease as it rises? This number will allow you to calculate the height that the parcels temperature decreases by 0.5 C and neutral buoyancy is attained. 

Correct, clouds are not part of humidity, they are suspended liquid water drops, usually condensed onto a solute of some kind. 

The lapse rate of temperature is ignorant of clouds, it only cares that either $e/e_s < 1$ (dry) or $e/e_s >= 1$ (moist), where $e$ is vapor pressure and $e_s$ is saturation vapor pressure. A cloud is saturated (and in places supersaturated) and so the lapse rate will be the same as saturated air outside of a cloud. The theoretical parcel at 100% humidity when subsequently lifted (in the presence of cloud condensation nuclei (CCN)) will itself experience nucleation and condensation and become a cloud. In this respect there can be no difference between the saturated parcel outside of a cloud and a saturated parcel within a cloud, both will experience the same lapse rates. With that said, some types of clouds will cause a difference. Consider a parcel at its level of free convection (LFC) within a deep convective cloud and a parcel far from the cloud, saturated in clear air at the same height.