On the DonLindsay Archive URL you will find the explanation of the Galileo Argument term coming from the use of Galileo's tribulations as an example in the logical fallacy of appeal to pity: 

It might seem circular because it is so very basic, but knowledge is empirical verification of what is the case, the world, states of affairs, i.e. that which is empirically verified. In the case of expert or lay disagreement - is the disagreement over the case? the facts? the states of affairs? Is the disagreement of opinion regarding what is? Is there disagreement regarding interpretation of fact? Is there disagreement regarding implication of interpretation? In any instance, you have the tools of philosophy: logic, rhetoric and reason to guide your efforts such that knowledge may be obtained. So, with this restricted formulation of knowledge, what then are the epistemic limitations: 

Furthermore, see this article for a continuation of Searle's argument which demonstrates that syntax is not intrinsic to physics. You might also enjoy this exchange in the NYR between Searle and Motzkin (note in particular the technical end note re: the Turing test & Turing machines) 

You might enjoy these: Gottlob Frege, "Sinn und Bedeutung" Per the indtroductory note by Max Black, Cornell University: Sinn translates to "sense" Bedeutung translates to "reference" [for the process] or "referent" [for the object]. Note also modern translations of "sinn" and "bedeutung" from German to English include: "sinn" => sense, meaning, mind, point, feeling, signification, inclination... "bedeutung" => importance, meaning, significance, concern, definition, prominence, weight, bearing, implication, et cetera. Bertrand Russell, "On Denoting" P.F. Strawson, "On Referring" See here also for a decent overview of the "Semantic / Pragmatic" distinction: "Pragmatics and Semantics" by Francois Recanati If you are after an understanding of meaning, however, I suggest you read some Grice ("Meaning" as well as "Utterer's Meaning and Intentions") then consider what Professor Searle has to say in his article, "Grice On meaning: 50 Years Later", particularly: 

A kind of cum hoc ergo propter hoc logical fallacy of "with this, therefore because of this" such that if the argument is false, then the premises are also false. What you describe is simple fallacy tho as it does not follow that use of premise in a false or true argument has any bearing upon the premise's truth value. 

Well, construct and constitute are synonymous... In such cases I find it helpful to look at the etymology of each term to think about where there is overlap and where there is divergence. Otherwise, if an author has not explicitly articulated their particular useage of synonymous terms, it might very well be that they are not terribly clear on what they are trying to convey. You could always analyze their useage and consider how a particular morphology of the term is used by the author. Does anything change in the sentence if the terms are swapped? For example, in chapters 1 and 6 of "The Construction of Social Reality" John Searle discusses rules and distinguishes regulative and constitutive rules. Would his distinction be as clear if you replaced "constitutive" with "constructive"? Personally, I don't think so. For another example, Peter L. Berger and Thomas Luckmann in chapter 3 of "The Social Construction of Reality" say that, "By virtue of this accumulation a social stock of knowledge is constituted, which is transmitted from generation to generation and which is available to the individual in everyday life." Would their assertion change much if "constituted" were replaced with "constructed"? Personally, I don't think so. Off the top of my head, I usually think of "constructed" as the result of a prolonged action of building something which results in a whole construction. "Constituted" I generally think of as composed of particular materials, or constituents, that a construction is made up of. For example, a house is constructed by a crew of people, but the house is constituted by wood, nails and such. Hope that helps. 

The terms are somewhat ambiguous as to whether the sense of their use is ontological or epistemological. Professor John R. Searle explains as much in his paper, "Consciousness" 

The adequacy of descriptions and explanations: If consciousness were just interpretation, then sure, you could have no control over your actions because all you could consciously (i.e. interpretively) do is interpret. That said, isn't interpreting an action? When a reader interprets the metaphor of a poem, is this something other than an action on the readers part? Is an implicit unwrought understanding not an action on the readers part? Perhaps you mean perceiving? If consciousness were just interpretation (including action or not) then it would be logically impossible to have language. One of the few things which distinguishes us from other animals is how we use language. As an illustration of the scope of explanations, by one adequate description WWI started with the assassination of an archduke; by another with formal State declarations of war; by another the start goes back to ancient Rome... We simply do not know enough about the causal processes in the brain to adequately explain consciousness with the same molecular precision which we use to describe water as H2O instead of "colorless, tasteless liquid"; and explain features like "potable", "delicious", "undrinkable" or aspects like "steam" or "ice". Controlling our surroundings with our thoughts depends some on how the terms "thought" and "control" are used. Don't we all just agree and think that, for example, ink and carbon fibers in a certain configuration are paper money? The status of the "base" material in the certain configuration and its status function are matters of institutional fact (as compared to "brute fact" - per Anscombe), i.e. something we create with language (speech acts). Could we achieve such control of our surroundings without language? Without collective intentionality? If consciousness were just interpretation? 

Such is the "principle of sufficient reason" and "...many philosophers of the period...did not carefully distinguish between the two." Per $URL$ we can see how Spinoza uses the terms interchangeably: "Nothing exists of which it cannot be asked, what is the cause (or reason) [causa (sive ratio)], why it exists." A translation of "causa (sive ratio)" is either "the cause (or cause)" or "the cause (or reason)", even "the cause (or system)". Related to "ratio" note also that "rati" and "ratus" translate to "thinking" (compare to cogitare) - as well as by some accounts "thoughtlessly". The terms are, however, either synonymous or antonymous depending on use of term. For example, Q1: "Why are you shivering?" & Q2: "Why are you putting on your sweater?" are both answered by A: "Because I am cold" In the former instance, the answer cites (brute, physical, non-volitional) cause, in the latter, reason (and arguably, volition or "logical cause"). To discern meaning and intention with use of term, you might appreciate Grice's, "Utterer's Meaning and Intention." Lastly, as for how the "mental" is causal, you might want to investigate intentionality and I would recommend Searle's "Intentionality". 

CORRESPONDENCE Truth is merely a condition of propositions (statements, sentences, utterances...). This condition is satisfied when what is said corresponds to (matches, fits) what is (the world, the case, states of affairs). And that is all truth is. Another way of putting this is, truth is correspondence of utterance and what is. What is is that which is empirically verified. That which is empirically verified is the (at most one) world we live in. 

...and his writing is coherent considering a standard reading of the "expedient" as the "quality of being convenient and practical (despite possibly being improper or immoral)" Considering this definition of expedient, note that James uses right and good interchangeably. I think he means them in more of a sense of "acceptable" or "justifiable" than "correct" in any absolute or pure sense. 

You might also enjoy, "The Phenomenological Illusion" and considering your "animal" metaphor, "Animal Minds". 

There simply is no "Christian philosophy" - the term is oxymoron. Philosophy has to do with what is, not "what is to Christianity." Philosophy contends with ponderables heuristically and does not deal in hermeneutics and imponderables except to reject invalid and unsound argumentation in support or drawn from of such nonsense. Philosophy has to do with knowledge and truth. Christianity, like all religions, has to do with belief and coherent statements of faith. 

So what of the insufficiency such that no berries or grizzlies is insufficient for hiking to be safe? A truth table for your formulation of the second half: 

...and he gives the example "&therefore; All A is A" This may be true in the case of "All A is A" as it is self evident that A literally and actually is A. In your case, however, it is possible that the statement "All A is B" is false. Hence, "&therefore; All A is B" is not a syllogism. Furthermore, he states that a syllogism is a "...sequence of one or more [well formed formulas] in which each letter occurs twice and the letters “form a chain”" so, yes, per Gensler's definition of syllogism "All A is A" & "All A is B, therefore All A is B" technically have terms which occur twice, but it is a bit of a stretch to say the reasoning forms a chain in the way "No P is B; Some C is B; &therefore; some C is ¬P" does. Good find tho - glad to see you read the book! I agree that it is a stretch to call a conclusion a syllogism or to call a single premise argument a syllogism, but, consider that Gensler may be doing so in order to make a point in his effort to teach how to think logically. Sometimes these kinds of technical discrepancies result from a pedagogical strategy. Also, logicians do not always agree. As pointed out in the comments to your question, there are other authors who do not consider Gensler's definition of syllogism to be correct. I like his writing style - and his software is good for practice, and most of all his book is freely available on line, but don't let that stop you from looking to other author's :) Lastly, for a premise-less syllogism which is false, I suppose "&therefore; All A is ¬A" fits the bill, yes? 

Professor Searle is not a materialist. He off-handedly describes his naive or direct realism as biological naturalism. In his work he militates against the fallacies which materialism presupposes and leads to (see his answer to objection #1 in the biological naturalism link). As for ethics, this is something of a groundwork by him: How To Derive "Ought" From "Is" Also, see section 3e here: The Future Of Philosophy. "...ethics is really a branch of a much more interesting subject of practical reason and rationality. What is the nature of rationality in general and what is it to act rationally on a reason for an action?" And finally, a chapter from his book, Rationality In Action, "How We Create Desire-Independent Reasons For Action". 

If -analysis is used to mean the resolution of something complex into simpler constituents and psycho- (from the Greek psyche) likewise used to mean "self" or "breath" (as opposed to the imponderable use of psycho- to mean "spirit" or "soul") then it is arguable that psychoanalysis is not so much the point of failure as its misapplication to physiogenic malady. Unlike psychoses (e.g., schizophrenia, etc.) neuroses are not physical conditions; they are not brain disorders; they do not have physical causes; they are purposive behavior (e.g., phobias), something you undertake, not something you undergo. Neuroses may benefit from psychoanalysis, but psychoses not so much. Also, I think the ethical problems are more specific to the forced aspect, as well the efficacy of even relevant psychiatry. In the case of emergency, tho, there are uppers, downers and stabilizers and the physiological considerations of appropriate diagnosis and application are a matter for the practitioner, not the philosopher. As for the philosophical relevance, if you have not read Frank Cioffi's work on Freud, I think you might appreciate his work, e.g. "Was Freud A Liar?" & an extract from “Are Freud’s Critics Scurrilous?" - otherwise if you are registered w/Jstor a bunch of Cioffi's writing is available there. Also, consider that the reason why, for example, Freudian explanations are not hypotheses is not just that they cannot be verified or falsified; it is that anything given in their support are themselves incapable of being verified or falsified. Example: How do we know that a man's unconscious desires to (1) have sexual intercourse with his mother, (2) bear his father a child and (3) be reborn manifest themselves and find fulfillment in the act of defecation? Such claim cannot be verified because the desires Freud claims are unconscious, to which the patient cannot attest because he is wholly unaware of them; and such claim similarly cannot be falsified because any grounds given to falsify the claim that taking a shit is to the patient fulfillment of an unconscious wish to have sexual intercourse with his mother would itself be imponderable. Plato's idea of Forms and indeed all of metaphysics are exactly like Freudian explanations: In all cases there are claims to knowledge for which no one or no thing can be given to verify or falsify either the claim or the evidence given in its support. To say that there is an idea of a thing to which all like things aspire and partake may give pause for contemplation, but it is not demonstrable by any rational means. Ask yourself: Why is no more known about Forms now than was known upon first utterance, and this despite tedious frequentation over two millennia? Answer: For same reason that no more is known about the unconscious, id and superego than was known upon first utterance 100+ years ago. 

Other than the article you referenced by Nagel, as for philosophical thought specifically regarding (what Searle would call a pathological form of consciousness) "split-brain": 

Per Professor John R. Searle, "where consciousness is concerned the existence of the appearance is the reality" but as far as Dennet is concerned consciousness simply does not exist. As for what is meant by "illusion": in the sense that a rainbow is the illusion of, in the French l'arc en ciel, or, an arc in the sky, there is no actual arc, only a literal (figurative, or, metaphorical) arc in the sky. In the sense that this illusion is the refraction of light through a prism, the actual lightwaves do exist and, given the perspective of the observer, appear as an arc through the sky. Similarly, a sunset - from the vantage of an observer - appears as if a giant glowing orb descends below the horizon, yet we know that this descent is only illusory as the observer circumnavigates the glowing orb upon their own rotating sphere (Earth). In Dennet's sense of illusion, he is denying the existence of both the arc and the lightwaves; both the observer and the descending spheres. In his "Consciousness Explained" all he does is offer a metaphorical explanation of consciousness: