I haven't read any of the answers but what if the objective we are subject to is an projection from the subjective and it's distinction has no quantitative or qualitative value and cannot be determined to be the truth the result therefore negates my statement and leaves an indetermiation in it and the logic I know firmly that I experience my own thoughts but the truth is even that is subject to it and recursive in manner for all I know my thoughts may be subject to control by laplaces demon and are not singularly my own and my consiouness and experience is a product of that demon. I've just grown to ignore the possibility and carry on with my life lol 

Time allows us to experience events, events from the transient present become fact to those that observe them and reference them from memory. But only with a faith in the recollection because we are unable to determine any truth with the process of there allocation from our perception and its interpretation of the observation of those events. An argument for determination of any truth is able to be counter argued and leave you with no method of determining any truth if the argument for action and reaction holds. This argument if it has no counter argument, as the only truth leads to a necessity of having to have faith in everything you appear to observe or recollect as being the truth without the assurance of proof. Or maybe action and reaction is not a valid argument which frees us and enable us to determine truth through argument and not need faith which the argument 'causes'. 

Confucious' views on this topic are not always clear but in his comments and defense of Guan Zhong whose actions were not align with what was considered his duty are strong argueements that Confucious leans Virtue Ethics : Analects 14.17 

It is difficult to place confucianism in either Virtue Ethics or Deontology, since in his teaching there is a high emphasis on both( Analects 5.7 & 14.17 ). Although trough my study and understanding of The Analects I believe that the answer is Virtue Ethics. Also the question you have asked , does suit Zilu specifically well : Analects 15.4. 

Further understanding of what a Junzi is, and how public service is a part of the moral way can be found in Analects 14.2 where Confucious is again talking to Zilu : 

Doesn't the application of logic and reason to our world lead to us having a measure of the truth in the nature of the world we observe. It's application in the nature of understanding the spiritual we intuitively percieve as part of the world be an attempt in turning the intuition into a truth, like the approach attempts in the physical world. It occurs to me that if we determine the truth of the spiritual we remove the faith, and that removes an important factor in the formation of religion. The faith as my understanding is the strength that underpins religion as you have to overcome the weight of doubt by believing it to be the truth when it is not proved to be so,which is a personal big leap and requires strength of charachter. If the pursuit in the application of logic results in certainty and fact, the value of faith by its loss i think weakens the religion and the importance faith gives it. 

You have five people, and properties A, B and C. Your people respectively have properties AB, AB, BC, BC, AC. P(B|A) = 2/3 P(B|C) = 2/3 P(B|A,C) = 0 

Humans are a coherent process born of noise, formed by an incoherent filter over billions of years of jitter, and millenia of social development. At one point we figured out how to speak and to write. Some humans even told stories and wrote books that told others what to think, and a few of those even replicated wildly. Over time we have discovered systems of values, in which we encode what we have learnt. If we were conscious states in an ever-forgetful beast, we may have been born indifferent of continuity. If we were all facets of a single mind, far too large to have a coherent self but at no point separate from the rest, we may not even experience a sense of self, never mind value it. Had we neither need nor want to reproduce, it seems no stretch to believe it would have no place in our moral landscape. You ask for a universal coherent narrative on which to hang your thoughts, as if the hanger by itself would make others agree, the same way you view mathematics as true and others bound by your deductions. Yet though there is no such narrative, you can still see what is true, you want people to know what is good, you value a productive society, you see others believing the same. If God handed you the truth on a plate, you would still only take what you already believe; no offer would make you butcher children, no demand would make you stop caring about your own sadness. As long as you can feel these things you feel, you have a handle to the truth. You can wait to be passed the Mythical One True Handle so you can grab it should it compare identical to your own, or you can take the one you have already and move forward now. If you care so much about truth, look it straight in the eye and do the things that would be right if only you had a God to tell you so. More generally, on a societal level it seems very strange to pin modern zeitgeists on modern atheism. The religious past was not more productive, nor did they really love thy neighbor. Many other effects are much easier targets, like how huge global networks tend to polarize and how modern economics doesn't work like it used to. But regardless of whether this is to blame or that, it is your actions that shape society, and if you think an action is good you need not lie to yourself about why in order to take it. 

Your argument is a consequence of the logic of the language you used to form it in morality and immorality and its observed concept and the language used to communicate it. Society or people in fact everything is limited by what physically is possible and what is not and the perception of a causal nature in the result of a choice in action of the possible and a return in the perceived pleasure or pain of that action or from experience of a similar action. I have felt also guilt from my actions now I don't know if its a result of conditioning of society or an absolute return in the nature of a choice I took and a fundament of an immoral act. Society judges immoral act upon a notion of guilt and an attempt to keep order from that guilt but its hard to say if every immoral act judged by society results in a guilty feeling absolutely and should accumulate a social judgement of morality from that percieved guilty feeling. 

The idea that Zilu comes to realize in Analects 18.7 is a core belief in Confucious philosophy, that public service is a part of the moral way. The word Junzi can also be translated as a person of high standing, or ruler. But not everyone who is in public service is a moral person similar as in : Analects 14.4 

Here in 5.7 I argue that we have a denunciation of deontoligy without the moral way. Since if Confucious found that he could not practice the moral way in this world that he would turn away from the world and his duties and sail the sea. Also worth noting is that out of all his disciples he picks Zilu to come with him on this rhetorical journey. Zilu is one of the three standout early students (Yan Hui, Zigong, Yan Hui) who followed Confucious into his exile. On Yan Hui we have very little probably since he passed away early but he is mentioned in the Analects to Confucious' best student someone who's knowledge might even surpass Confucious( Look Analects 5.9 ), Zigong who has often protested when he did not agree with Confucious( As in 14.7 ), but Zilu is mentioned as a very faitful student who tried to apply Confucious' teaching as mentioned in 5.14 

If the story wasn't clear enough, I am saying that NA is right to treat this scenario asymmetrically. One's tools of rationality are designed precisely so that you are able to talk about areas of uncertainty. These are not a mere matter of convention, they are facts about the way the world works, and the further you stray from them the more wrong you will be. 

It is not just that empiricism works, and in 300 years has brought us from semaphore lines to global high speed interconnects, or that non-empiricism is a fervent breeding ground for falsehoods and mysticism; those are true and more than justify aversion to the magical, but they don't explain why that should be the case. Rather, it is that in the modern day we come further and further to irrefutable evidence that people are empirical. I will not go into detail on the evidence, but it suffices to say that if you agree to this much you also understand that there is nothing that you can do, even in theory, that a machine cannot. There is no mental magic that lets you probe beyond the veil. There is no mystical wand to wave that lets your knowledge constitute more than a map to the territory. Even if there was such a contortion of reason it would be nothing that could not in principle be done by another appropriate arrangement of gears and lasers. There is no higher level of knowledge than empirical knowledge because that is all that can be known. No matter how smart you are, Solomonoff induction is smarter. No matter how wise you are, your mind can only be causally related to causal objects. A devotion to a "higher level of truth" leads to epistemic voids like zombies or the ontological argument, arguments that seem appealing on the outset but do nought but waste time. In contrast empirical work is why we can now talk about the consciousness of brains under fully homomorphic encryption, or the measurement problem, real problems that represent huge leaps in the boundaries of philosophical discussion. Even when talking about the mind, or issues like free will, actual progress is made through empirical study. If you want to say that empirical arguments do not stand at the same height as the rest of philosophy, I would not disagree, but it is certainly not because it is lower. Until brute philosophy can make a single step forward in its own field the way Copernicus, or Turing, or Darwin, or Everett, did upon it, I hardly see much competition. 

Can't we simply use common sense in the statements negation the statements truth could only come from observation but it is an assumption. It contains a nature in its content which is contradictory ie eating when not hungry question the nature of the truth of the observation. The negation "Jakie does not eat sweets if she is hungry" is the common sense negation and results in a similar contradiction in the meaning of the content and maintains the possible truth or assumption in the observation. The logic applied is not an analysis in the nature of the determination of the contradiction in the statement and the negation, or the truth of the observation the statement comes from, but in the negation of the structure and syntax of the language the statement is a composition of. 

And in Analects 5.7 we can find insights into Confucious' and Zilu's stance on whether duty trumps the moral way : 

Based on this I believe that Zilu's philosophy is reflective of Confucious'. Since we can say that Confucious' philosophy is definitively leaning to Virtue Ethics, we can assume the same for Zilu's. At the same time we can not deny the presence of deontology : Analects 4.1. 

This tells us that Zilu is someone who has the capability to understand virtue since a few pages after this we read : Analects 15.8. 

In my oppinion Kierkegaard's best ideas do not require any other prior reading to be understood. Now I say 'best ideas' because he has spent a lot of his time writing about aesthetics and about what makes a true timeless masterpiece. Since he refferences a lot of Hegel and writes in-depth review of many plays and books it would help you understand him on these topics if you read about those, but I personally wouldn't recommend it. One book that did catch my eye as great additional reading after Either/Or is "Faust" by the german writer Goethe. Kierkegaard cites this to be one of the best examples of a timeless masterpiece.