Living beings that can let ideas die instead of themselves had better survival chances. If you are standing in front of a cliff and think about what would happen to your body you might come to the conclusion that it would be unwise to jump if you valued your life. Furthermore, if we assume that there is a universe and that the brain is part of the universe, then your mind also is part of the universe as it is the brain-in-process. So while the simulation of you jumping of the bridge only exists in your mind, there is a physical process taking place in your brain while you are doing it. And while you find it strange that we can conceptualize imaginary things, I would like to point out that our mind is not perfect suited in conceptualizing possible things. I actually built myself a mobius strip and used my fingers to convince myself that a three dimensional shape with only one edge and one area was possible. And once we enter the realms of quantum physics, we can only realize how very limited our brain is suited to grasp the real universe. 

I find myself not agreeing with any of those possibilities by themselves, yet agreeing on some on some levels. I think there is no such thing as malevolent intent for a drone, so every damage would be an accident. I hence doubt we could treat such a drone like a human and have it put on trial. An accident then could either be caused by a force majeure, e.g. due to a natural disaster, or be boiled down to technical failure. For technical failure, it would be either the the company's fault for not testing the device enough or the developer's one for making a mistake. The severity would then be determined if it was a somewhat understandable oversight or a grossly negligent act. I think the real question hiding in there is: What kind of security standard do we want to apply as a society on such devices without hindering innovation too much? Or don't we want them at all? If a company or a developer must fear high compensation for damages, wouldn't the rational choice be not to build such drones? 

I believe that there is a piano on your foot. (belief) I care that there is a piano on your foot. (motivational state of mind) 

We experience time asymmetrically. To us, the past seems fixed whereas the future seems unwritten, and therefore, malleable. We do not believe we can influence the past, but we do believe we can influence the future. This may be an illusion. It may be that both the past and the future are fixed ("symmetrical"), that we can influence neither. This may be how a God outside of time perceives things. Imagine the universe like a movie reel, where the beginning of the reel is the "past" and the end of the reel is the "future." We are somewhere in between, experiencing each frame sequentially. But all frames exist simultaneously and eternally. [1] Blackburn makes the subtle point that not even God can escape some asymmetry. There is an objective difference between the past and the future, between one end of the reel and the other, and the evidence is this: cooking omelettes always precedes eating omelettes. Never the other way around. (There are unlimited trivial examples that would serve to make the same point.) Blackburn then makes what seems to me a leap, where he concludes: "So in fact, it is useless to try to influence the past." And conversely, by implication, it is not useless to try to influence the future. Neither of these follow. [2] I honestly don't know what Blackburn is saying here. A few options: 

Philosophy of science is the science about science, or to put it differently the theory of science. It is a meta-science which determines which endeavors are scientific in the first place and not merely pseudoscience. So basically, it asks what science is. What do we have to assume to conduct science? Can we know anything (for sure) and, if so, what can we know? What rules one should apply in science? Which standard should we adhere to, strict or pragmatic? Is there such a thing as scientific progress? Are there different fields which require a different methodology, e.g.: Can we conduct "physics" in the same way we conduct "sociology"? Can science influence our sense of morality? Can it affect ethics or is that something else entirely? It is a very broad field, and for me philosophy of science is quite frankly the king of all sciences. 

Human reasoning evolved as a tool to ensure our survival on this planet. If a monkey miscalculated the distance of the next tree branch, he would be a dead monkey. This means, that our brain has to create a somewhat consistent model of the world, yet by no means was there evolutionary pressure to think logically in a strict formal sense. A lot of illogical fallacies are in fact encoded into our way thinking. Humans, for example, tend to think that if one object of a certain kind has a specific property, that all objects of those kind will have it. That may be okay if we want to eat apples, and conclude that because one is not poisonous that all are not poisonous. Yet it may hinder us on social scale if we start to generalize population of other nations this way because of wrong perception of a few individuals. This encoded way of thinking can be called our "common sense", which remains a useful tool, yet also a pretty dangerous one. Or as Albert Einstein said: 

This is basically a teleportation thought experiment, used to explore personal identity. Derek Parfitt in particular, has used this (among other experiments), and I highly recommend reading his work. Whether this transports one's sense of self depends on the relationship between consciousness & matter and on the nature of the self. Is consciousness a function of matter? If so, just what kind of function of matter is it? For that matter, how do you know that you even have a stable sense of self? Maybe you die regularly and are replaced by a clone who has your memories? If so, you are one of those clones and your personal continuity is just an "inherited" memory. If this is so, then teleporter dilemma isn't one, as it would simply do what nature is doing to you all the time. 

There's a distinction between language and reality. Language consists of verbal behaviors and concepts which may or may not have a correspondence to reality. So having a word doesn't mean that there's a corresponding object. Previous posters have mentioned classic examples like unicorns or even the obviously logical contradiction of square circles. But there's something else here that you touch upon which I think has some validity. Is nothing really the complete absence of anything? We can see many examples which seem to contradict this, all of which revolve around the fact that these nothings seem to do some real work. For instance, you bring up 0. 0 is supposed to be nothing, no quantity, yet its role in math is significant, and some consider it one of the most important developments in mathematics, possibly being the thing that made positional notation practical and with it, the relative ease of calculation that we have today. It's hard to imagine something not existing (having unreality) while simultaneously having this very real effect. Or take the more mundane example of the space inside a cup. A cup is hollow inside, hence most people would think there's nothing there. Yet, it's this nothing that allows the cup to hold fluid, and which gives it its use. Without this nothing -- with a "filled cup" we'd have a useless chunk of matter. So really, maybe nothing isn't nothing? If something exists in some level -- even as a contradictory idea -- it can have some impact on reality. Unicorns don't exist, but the idea of them has caused paintings, shows, etc... to feature them. That's certainly something. Square circles don't exist, yet we write about them, discuss them, and their analogies involve our discourse on contradictions. That's certainly something. So we use nothing in a relative sense, not in an absolute sense. 

[3] Blackburn is using these terms in a technical sense. The difference between a motivational state of mind and a simple belief can be demonstrated as follows: 

In philosophy, "belief" is a technical term meaning a proposition I take to be true. Propositions are statements that are either true or false. "The sky is green" is a proposition (in this case, a false one). If I take it to be true, it is a belief (a false or incorrect belief). An example of a non-propositional statement would be, "Fancy meeting you here." [4] Blackburn's wording is muddled here, but he is basically saying that a motivational state of mind does not express a proposition the way a belief does. Beliefs are about "facts," motivational states of mind are not "about" anything. They are experiences, psychological reactions to facts. (I see that there is a piano on your foot -- fact. I care that there is a piano on your foot -- reaction.) I don't completely understand your last sentence. It seems like you're saying one has to notice a fact before one can be motivated by it. That seems obvious and not something Blackburn or any philosopher would argue. Feel free to clarify. EDIT: On re-reading, I think I understand the question. Indeed, one cannot have a motivational state of mind without having a belief. As I said, a motivational state is a reaction to a belief. Blackburn is merely pointing out that these are two separate things because it is relevant to the distinction between cognitivism and non-cognitivism. I won't go into cognitivism vs. non-cognitivism since you didn't specifically ask about it, but if you want that clarified as well, I recommend asking a separate question. 

The Turing Test tests if a system can mimic a human being's behavior, not it's inner state. Therefore, what the system does internally is irrelevant. What does it mean for a system to mimic the inner behavior of a human? Two possibilities come to mind. 

Plotinus' philosophy is intriguing, but his use of contemplation stumps me. In particular, he speaks of non-humans (even non-living things IIRC) contemplating. So what does he mean by contemplation? If it's an activity of the mind, how can non-sentient beings do it? If it's simply being, well isn't that what we all are? What did I miss? Also, if anyone has some good 3rd party sources for Plotinus -- especially with regards to his contemplation (the Enneads weren't very ahem enlightening), I'd love to know about them. 

Short answer: Depending on your definition of God, science either can't disprove God or disproved God long ago. Long Answer: If God is defined as a being who created the universe, then God can't be disproved as God can always remain beyond detection. However, if God is said to have left certain marks that we can see, marks that uniquely trace back to God, then science may be able to find evidence for or against this God's existence. As a result, modern evolutionary theory challenges the conception of God that created people ex nihilo (or out of dust), and modern brain science challenges the role of God as moral arbiter and so on. There's some philosophical import to this. This same concept -- that a being otherwise unobservable could be known by traces -- can be seen as a motivation behind theodicy. That is, if there is an omnipotent, omnipresent, omnibenevolent being, then this being should leave a mark on the world -- namely, a lack of suffering. Yet, suffering exists. Further, what does a lack of evidence mean? What if we postulate the existence of (to use Bertrand Russell's example) an invisible teapot? Would we take the idea of this teapot with the same seriousness as we do of God? Why keep an open mind about God and not the teapot? Are we perhaps revealing a bias towards God? Then of course scientists have personal beliefs, and some believe in God and some don't. While the personal beliefs of scientists should not matter, some scientists may issue proclamations, perhaps as a result of over-enthusiasm for the methods and power of science or what certain findings imply. 

One of those thing will be true so the statement is always true. Yet is says nothing about the actual ability. Trivial sentences say nothing. So as a different approach, let us look at the term believe. It is often used to convey an assumption. So the statement might as well be: 

A lot of different forms of suicides were and are, depending on the culture, socially accepted. E.g. the hero's death: Killing in order to help someone or something else is often considered, be it family member or a nation, to be an honorable act. Though as killing oneself is not the main goal, it is a special case. More to the point would be soldiers and secret agents, who carry around suicide pills in order to avoid a more painful death and not to leak essential information, or even suicide attackers. Also, in some Asian cultures, ritual suicides served as a form to restore one's or the family's honor after failing an important task or committing a terrible offense, e.g. Seppuku. Those forms have one thing in common: They are not only committed for oneself but for others. What you are describing is a person who wants to die because they want to die never minding the consequences. So one could boil your question down to: Is it OK to commit suicide for selfish reasons? Does the person really have to care what others around them think and what consequences they have to endure due to it? You may cause your parents and family sorrow, or your children may be orphaned, yet where does the obligation derive from to not cause them such harm? I for one would allow for such selfish suicide. All I would ask was that the person in question would seek help in order to determine if the person has made up their mind in a sound way. The choice to kill yourself is quite final by definition, so it should be done with extra care. Many people who undergo a suicidal phase feel that their problems are unsolvable, even though they appear quite insignificant from an outsider's perspective, and very much can be solved. So I would argue that we at least try to help those who want to commit suicide to understand themselves why they want to do it. Yet there is no necessity to stop people from committing suicide, and keeping people alive against their will seems unethical to me, simply due to the fact that I can think of situations where I would want to die yet could not kill myself. (Just watch Johnny got his gun.) People are not asked to be born, yet they can control how they die. So for me, I will handle it in this way: "As long as I want to live, I keep on living. If I do not want to live anymore, I will seek help in order to analyse my unhappiness and if it can be resolved. If I understand my reasons and my unhappiness cannot be resolved I will commit suicide", and I recommend the same procedure to others who feel suicidal as well. 

If time is like a movie reel experienced sequentially in one direction, could we have experienced it going the reverse direction, like a tape on rewind? (But our labels of "past" and "future" would be reversed as well. So we would still regard "the past" as fixed and not subject to influence.) Is it just locally that cooking omelettes precedes eating omelettes? Maybe in other universes, it happens the other way around? This touches on the concept of entropy. In our universe, as time appears to pass, entropy increases. But perhaps in other universes, as time appears to pass, entropy decreases. To outsiders, this might look like the present influencing the past, or time going in reverse. But only because we've been biased by our universe; we've come to equate "the past" with low-entropy states. Assume that we can influence the future. Why, then, not the past? If there's no substantive difference between the two, if all of time is just "patterns," then why is our universe the way it is? Mere chance, or some innate feature of time? Is it impossible to influence the past in every universe, or only ours? (This is my best guess as to what Blackburn is saying, but I don't understand on what grounds he assumes we can influence the future.)