Therefore the time period between Buddhas will vary depending on when the Sasana will completely disappear. I doubt anyone would know the exact date and time, but when the Noble Eightfold Path and its 3 Trainings of morality, concentration, and wisdom are completely neglected then we can be fairly certain that the Sasana is dead.. 

So based on his note, "knowingly" here means knowing that the unwholesome deed does create unwholesome results. 

There're "hard" martial arts (like Karate, Taekwondo, MuayThai, etc.) and there're "soft" martial arts (like Judo, Aikido, Jiujitsu, etc.). The hard ones use punch and kick and could cause some serious harm to an opponent. The soft ones don't use punch and kick and mostly used for self-defense. The hard arts typically involves both defense and then using one's own force to counter attack. The soft arts basically just use the opponent's force and turn it against him. And since they don't use punch and kick, there's no potentially life-threatening injury to the body and its internal organs like those caused by a strike or a kick. Matter of fact, Aikido has no offensive move, it's a 100% defensive art. Your daughter might not appreciate the benefit of martial arts right now, but she definitely will when there're times she has to walk alone on the streets or a parking garage at night.. 

Just like a house needs a strong foundation to last a long time, one would need sila as the foundation upon which the entire Path is built: 

As the common saying goes: "god(s) help those who help themselves", if the gods could help someone, it'd be only in accordance with that individual's wholesome kamma. Someone who kills, cheats, or engages in various misconducts shouldn't expect to get "help" no matter how frequent and sincere s/he prays: 

The Theravada spirit has always been the emphasis on the "teaching" over a teacher. A common analogy is that the teaching is like the US Constitution while the teachers are like the US presidents. Presidents come and go, and might say different things at different times, but the Constitution is always there, consistent, and timeless. There're many great web sites with detailed info. about the Theravada teaching, the most popular are: accesstoinsight.org, suttacentral.net, budsas.org/ebud/ebidx.htm, palikanon.com. The introductory section of accesstoinsight.org is particularly helpful and I'd strongly recommend you check it out if you haven't. Good luck.. 

That being said, the consequences to the kamma of killing could be multi-faceted and quite severe for that act would bring not only pain and suffering to the victim but also to the people around him/her. So by killing a man, beside the apparent suffering one brings upon that man, one also generates tremendous suffering to the man's mother who just lost a son, to his wife who just lost a husband, to his children who just lost a father, and many of his relatives and loved ones. So it's kinda like when one owes a huge debt to so many people, it won't be easy to pay off this debt in one nice and clean lump sum payment.. 

Regarding the question of "saving one's own skin" versus compassion for others, the 2 are actually quite closely related. SN 47.19 gave great advice on the proper way of practice: 

What do a great pianist, a great martial artist, and a great scientist have in common? They work their butts off to perfect their skills. And these are just mundane skillset, not supra-mundane one. The suttas use a popular simile to express the urgency to practice the Dhamma: one should train as if one's clothes or head is on fire! While the exact amount of time for practice varies for different people, a regular daily sitting meditation and precepts observance is a must-have minimum requirement. 

Make sure your cushion or wooden block is slightly slope downward. It'll give multiple benefits: increase blood circulation in the lower body, creates a naturally lean-forward posture that straighten the back without tensing the muscles, and relieve some pressure off your buttock and that perineal region. Some images to illustrate here 

Even when the Dhamma was at its peak (the time of Gautama Buddha ~ 2500 years ago), not everyone became monks and nuns. What would be the odds of all humans practicing like monks and nuns in this day and age? 

Depends on the "what" of what we want. If one wants to get filthy rich so that s/he can indulge in all sensual pleasures of life, then it's obviously not good. If one wants to perfect their own virtues, attain the peace of meditation, or put an end to suffering, then those are wholesome desires. The important key here is to have wholesome desires, not having no desire whatsoever: 

Please see Ven. Gunaratana's "The Jhanas". He gave pretty detailed descriptions of the standard jhanas versus the vipassana one, what's called "momentary concentration"/khanikaSamadhi. 

In SN 19.11, Ven. Moggallana during his alms round in the city of Rajagaha reported seeing a man with head submerged in a pit of dung. The Buddha then explained the reason: 

It's possible for someone to attain the Noble Fruits (Streamentry, Oncereturn, Nonreturn, Arahant) but not SammaSamBuddha (Fully Enlightened One) when the Dispensation still exists. From MN 115: 

The spirit of the Buddha's Teaching has always been: "To come, practice, and experience it for yourself". He had long abandoned the ego to prove anything to anyone: 

A brain-dead person is not dead yet. When the body is officially dead, there'd be the full departure of 3 things: vitality, body heat, and consciousness (MN 43). So, does this person gets reborn? No, since s/he's not dead yet. What if medicine brings him back to life? That'd be great. What if this person would be left in this condition forever by keeping that person alive with medical resources? S/he is still who s/he is, but just like taking a long deep sleep.. 

The Octad for sunlight: 1. Pathavi/earth: solidity is present in photons existing in particle form (the other is wave form) 2. Aapo/water: adhesion is present since light emitts "packets" of photons 3. Tejo/fire: in the form of heat 4. Vaayo/wind: motion is present in photons' traveling speed 5. Vanna/color: present in the light spectrum 6. Gandha/smell: a little tricky but we'll get there fairly soon according to this link 7. Rasa/taste: similar to 6. 8. Oja/nutriment: without sunlight, we wouldn't have sat here chatting and earth would've been a dead planet 

Excellent advice! On a physical level, maintaining a nice and calm breathing pace makes a direct positive impact on your mental state. So do it as often as you can. On a deeper psychological level, the monk suggested to be mindful of what's going on around you, which the other post already gave some good advice. Mindfulness always reduce any stressful situation level by at least 50%. Why? Any stressful situation requires 2 negative mental states: one of the other person, and one of yourself. While you cannot control what other people think, say, or do, you CAN control what you think, say, or do. Being mindful takes care that half on your part, hence the automatic reduction of suffering by 50%. Lastly, don't forget to go outside. Just take your 5-minute break and get out of the office building. Take a quick walk and breathe deeply the fresh air outside. Again, that mutual relationship of mind/body.. 

Imagine you were a 10-year-old kid born in a war torn country. The warlord army approached, raped your sisters, killed your brothers and parents, and forced you to become a child soldier who had to shoot and kill people for a living. Needless to say, the level of suffering and pain would be indescribable. Now half a world away, another 10-year-old boy borned into a royal family of a wealthy country who saw this terrible news on TV and gave either one of these 2 responses: