Pluto and Charon seem to have surprisingly young surfaces, considering that resurfacing events were expected to be rare for them. Could the explanation be that they actually are young? Formed later than the Solar system at some other star and then ejected and captured? Or that they are ancient but have extra-Solar origin and have little cratering because they have spent billions of years as a vagabond planet system in empty interstellar space? Sedna is believed to be captured. 

IAU failed to understand that the concept "planet" is a cultural concept, not a scientific concept, not any more anyway. Of course there's no distinct objective scientific definition between what is a planet and what is not. Mercury and Jupiter in the same category? Yeah, right, as if that clarifies what we are talking about when we use the word "planet"! Pluto was discovered in 1930. Back then a planet was a dot in the sky. Since then our knowledge has advanced. IAU should've decided that there were 9 planets discovered in our historical culture. And now we discover many objects which are much the same as some planets. Another plutoid here, a jupiteoid there. But there are only 9 planets in the entire universe, because "planet" is a cultural concept. Now, what shall we call Ceres? It is not a planet, it is not an asteroid, it is not a plutoid. Are we back in 1801? And so called "exoplanets", are they really planets? How do we know that they have cleared their orbits? IAU should consequently decide to classify them as "exodwarfplanets". No exoplanets have been confirmed. How long is a string according to the confused IAU? 

My supposition is that within the distance of the so called frost line around a star, water in empty space sublimates, evaporates. I further suppose that this means that vaporized water is pushed to outside the frost line by solar wind or some other mechanism. (Please correct me if this is wrong) But there are some ways for water (not necessarily liquid) to exist within the frost line. I wonder under what conditions that is possible. What the origin or history such water can have. And how common or likely it is. I suggest some possibilities to be extended, elaborated or refuted: 

It is not only about up and down, there are deeper dimensions to this. Like infront and behind. The Moon seems to be "behind" us, as in expressions like: "Going BACK to the Moon". Although it does go all around and never gets anywhere, much like ones own bottom, actually. Even Ptolemy didn't argue with that fact. Might this be a clue to this geometric puzzle? Your grandparents might argue against this and say that they definitely remember that the Moon was the horizon in front of them. How little they knew about what would become our behind! 

A telescope located in the gravitational focus of the Sun can use the Sun as a magnifying lens. The focus begins 550 AU away, but maybe a 700 or 1000 AU distance is needed to get rid of disturbances from the Corona, and the focus extends practically indefinately. Here are some slides by Dr. Maccone who has promoted this idea he calls FOCAL: $URL$ I intend to ask about the technical design and feasibility of such a project in the Space Exploration SE. Here I rather ask about the scientific value and challenges. POINTING: The magnification would occur only in the exact direction of the Sun. But since the Sun moves and the background objects magnified move, I suppose that the observed targets would change continuously. Would it even be practically possible to give the telescope a trajectory which keeps it aiming at for example Alpha Centauri? Would there most of the time be nothing in the right direction as the line between the telescope and the Sun sweeps across space, or would there alway be some star or galaxy in sight? Like CMB if nothing else. GAIN: In the slides linked above, Maccone has calculated the expected gain to 114 dB for infrared wavelengths. How many times "magnification" does this mean? I don't think I understand the units here, I get a ridiculously large number. Can it be explained somewhat intuitively? Would a FOCAL mission be a unique revolution in astronomy, or could similar results be achieved by building an interferometer with interplanetary sized baselines here nearer to the Sun? How does the science value of a gravity lens compare to that of a wide baseline? Are they good for different tasks? DISTORTIONS: Could the lensed signals be reconstructed thanks to our knowledge of the Sun and measurements of corona activity? If pointed towards a central part of the Milky Way, wouldn't signals come from multiple objects at the same time, some much further away than others? Would the gravity lens of the Sun have bigger problems with distortion than the intergalactic gravity lenses we know of today? And finally, can any natural strong lensing inside the Milky Way be used today, for example using a globular cluster as a lens? 

The planets range hugely in sizes, Jupiter is more than 300 times as massive as Earth. But the sizes of the large moons seem to be uncorrelated with the sizes of the planets they orbit. Why doesn't Jupiter have a giant moon with a mass hundreds times larger than the Earth's Moon's? Among gas giants, Saturn at a third of Jupiter's mass has the largest of all moons and Triton way out at 30 AU Neptune is the 7th largest of all moons. The theories of the origin of the moons seem to vary much too, without explaining any upper size limit. The Moon was formed by an impact. Triton and maybe Titan were captured. Other large moons were formed along with their planet. Is this upper size limit on moons imaginary, coincidental or is there some reason for it to be this way? I of course mean a hypothetical expected upper size limit for exomoons in general, not only statistics about the Solar System moons. The wonderful illustration here is from Emily Lakdawalla at The Planetary Society, it is now my desktop background. 

Astronomers don't face much of an ordinary jobs market in their "trade". What does the process look like from choosing a topic for the PhD to doing research in a specific topic? Let's say that you're very interested in exoplanets, would you as a new PhD on the topic be offered and accept a position in a project which does galaxies instead? And could you choose weather to do the physical theory or the observations or coding simulations? Can you pick and choose? 

Imagine two cubes each with the side 1 light year. One of the cubes is empty of any matter. The other cube contains a massive star. 

Mappings of practically all potentially dangerous asteroids is well underway. But comets seem almost hopeless to protect against. 

Will the astrometric precision of the Gaia space telescope be able to detect the gravitational influence of cold old solitary neutron stars on the movements of stars? At least in a statistical sense to estimate how common they are around here, which could say something about how large the population III stars were. And if an inactive neutron star could be precisely located thanks to its gravitational influence, would it be possible to observe it directly? 

Sunstones are believed to have been used by vikings to determine the direction to the Sun on cloudy days. That helps you point the ship in the right direction, and by experience you can estimate the side ways drift in the water. But the longitude will still be very uncertain without precision time keeping. The news paper article I linked to says that a Sunstone was find at a wreckage in the English Channel from as late as 1592. 

For example: Are they soft landed meteorites? Or do they form from melted material during a violent impact? Or are they the result of some kind of erosion process? 

Juno's low perijove should be great for measuring Jupiter's gravitational effect on Juno's orbit. Cassini together with VLBI has measured Saturn's location to within 4 km. Will Juno too be able to be measured by VLBI to determine Jupiter's location and orbit at a similar precision? At a precision useful for mapping the Solar System outside of the Kuiper Belt? 

LIGO has a mind boggling sensitivity. What would it take to directly measure the expansion of spacetime, along the laser beam? I suppose it could be done at interplanetary scale. 

Already 15 million years after Big Bang! That is 13,783 million years ago. Well, that is according to the "habitable zone" criteria which is the temperature where water can exist as a liquid. The entire universe had a temperature which allowed for liquid water on all rocky planets, though rocky planets themselves were quite rare back then in the old days. But maybe the origin of life depends on something more than only temperature? The whole thing is just a thought experiment since we have no data about alien life and no explanation of how it started on Earth. That allows for many degrees of freedom, which is the phrase physicists use when they don't know what they are talking about. “Anything is habitable if you are clever enough,” -Freeman Dyson (The immortal alien life optimist) 

I'm curious for an estimate of how wide a field the Hubble space telescope has observed. Say, for example, how many times it has changed its pointing, and what fraction of that were revisiting the same field. 

Could Olympus Mons have thrown ejecta out of Mars' orbit when it was active? Does it fit with the composition and dating of meteorites with martian origin? 

The prime candidate for the origin of interstellar comets, if any of those are around, are star systems which formed together with the Sun out of the same nebula collapsing into an open star cluster. Being captured from a Solar sibling might mean nothing more exotic than that. Same time of formation, same mixture of elements, same trajectory. That is more likely because they should've had similar movement as the Sun. A star capturing anything from another random star is very unlikely unless they begin with a similar movement. Concerning capturing material in general, my user name here is local fluff because that is the puff of gas and dust through which the Solar System sails now in human times. Material ejected from active newborn stars in the so called Scorpius–Centaurus Association. But they don't throw any comet sized objects at us, just individual nucleus, atoms, molecules and dust grains drifting past us driven by the stellar winds. 

The Exomars rover of ESA and Roscosmos would be the obvious answer. To be launched in 2018. It will drill 2 meters deep and as far I know is the only mission since the Vikings in the 1970's, to explicitly be equipped to find biosignatures, signs of life. But the Russians, who will land the rover, have had a very poor Mars mission success rate, ESA cooperates with them since NASA abandoned the project a few years ago, and ESA's only own landing attempt on Mars failed too, Beagle 2. And some biologists think it is more challenging to detect sparse exotic microbial life than what that rover is capable of. It weights about 1/3 of MSL Curiosity, and underground life can maybe be very local. I want to recommend the blogger Robert Walker who writes at great length and well informed, still interestingly speculative, about possibilities for life on Mars, what one maybe should be looking for. I should add that since 1960 SETI uses telescopes to pick up evidence of interstellar life which is powerful enough to somehow change its environment to make itself astronomically detectable. That's the other main potential except for probes in the Solar system. But not even SETI people sit up waiting for it any more. 

I was googling Neptune's trojan companions and found on Wiki this claim about ~200 km diameter (316179) 2010 EN65: 

It's hard to search through the entire (observable) universe, but the most luminous thing there is must on the other hand be easy to find. Can we now say that the most luminous quasar we know, is the (intrinsically) most luminous one that exists, or will we soon? 

My understanding is that any star catalog today represents only such a very tiny and local part of the Milky Way, that you would have very little use of it for your purpose. In a year or two the Gaia space telescope will have mapped the one billion or 1% of the nearest and brightest stars in the Milky Way. Even then, to model a galaxy one needs other ideas than maps of individual stars. 

I've heard of "interferometric synthetic aperture radar" being used for Earth observation from satellites and airplanes. Is active radar used interferometrically for astronomical purposes too? Such as characterizing asteroids or space debris, or identifying volatiles in the polar craters of Mercury. Unfortunately for this idea, Arecibo and FASTare located 173 longitudinal degrees apart and have limited fields of view, so they can't observe the same object simultaneously. 

Some new large telescopes in the near future, on Earth and in space, will use multiple mirrors. The individual mirror pieces will be hexagonal in shape. I wonder why this shape is prefered over the circle sector shape (like pie slices). I would think that corners and joints between mirrors cause practical problems. And a circle sector slice has half as many corners and two rather than three or six neighboring pieces, and shorter interfacing edges with neighboring pieces overall. So shy is the hexagonal shape prefered? 

Are such features commonplace or another particularity for KIC 8462852? How wide would a confidence interval typically be for a finished Kepler light curve when all adjustments for telescope movements and whatnot have been made? 

The Moon's orbit is more eccentric, 0.0549, than most planets. I can understand that planets get eccentric by disturbing each other like under the late heavy bombardment. And likewise for multiple moon systems. But shouldn't the debris after the collision with Theia have been circulirized? Is its orbit being changed by the planets, at every opposition with Venus? 

The Gaia space telescope is in a Lissajous orbit around the Sun-Earth Lagrange point 2. The orbit period is about 180 days and the size of the orbit is 263,000 x 707,000 x 370,000 km. It has been theoretically concluded that there should be a population of temporarily captured orbiters (TCO's) around that Lagrange point. All but a handful of them should be less than a meter in diameter and too small to be observed from Earth. Only one TCO, 2006 RH120, has ever been observed, a 5 meter diameter one. Since Gaia will be in a somewhat similar orbit as the TCO's and will scan the entire sky several times over the coming years, and an IR telescope is sensitive to asteroids, I wonder if it will be able to detect such TCO's. And if so, what could we find out about them? Gaia will not track any asteroids nearby, if it catches the same TCO more than once it would be by chance, I suppose. Could Gaia learn about their sizes, orbits, surface compositions?