An older version of this answer just used the qtree package (instead of tikz-qtree) and draws something that looks like your tree. The only trick we need is to use and , because otherwise the bar over the T is touched by the edge. The differences with the original: 

This system developed differently in different languages. I cannot comment on the situation in Arabic (which as far as I can see from Wikipedia must also have developed the new L stem) because I don't know enough about it. In (Biblical) Hebrew, there was the issue that Gt, Gp and N both indicate relatively rare non-active voice unmarked for Aktionsart. This leads to the dropping of Gt and to a large extent that of Gp as well, whereas N takes on passive meanings and Dt takes over reflexive voice unmarked for Aktionsart. Also, Ct is almost not attested in Biblical Hebrew and as far as I know does not exist in Modern Hebrew because reflexive causativity is so rare. Thus in Hebrew the situation has become far less symmetric than it once was. On the other hand, in Syriac, the function of the passives was taken over by participles and the N disappeared, leading to a highly symmetric system of only 6 stems (in fact, like the original table above). After this long detour I would still like to comment on the terminology of "degrees of passive/active". I'm sure that the author had his reasons for this term, but it doesn't seem to be accurate: it covers only one dimension of the system (voice) but neglects the other (Aktionsart). Thus, the verbal stems G, D and C all indicate active voice (the same "degree of passive/active"), whereas Gt/Dt/Ct all indicate reflexivity and Gp/Dp/Cp all indicate passive voice. (Only in Hebrew the system is more complicated, because N can indicate both middle and passive voice, thus being in between degrees). Lastly, for your convenience a table of the more common names of the stems in language-specific grammars: 

A term often used synonymously to "generalisation" is bleaching. Joan Bybee in his Cambridge Textbook in Linguistics on Language Change defines it as "a meaning change in which specific features of meaning are lost" (p. 267). 

If yes, it is a true homonym; is not, it is merely polysemy. Incidentally, one could argue that every word is polysemic, since all words can be used metaphorically. So the answer is, no, only a diachronic criterion works to distinguish between the two categories that our intuition wants to put different labels on. 

Permansive comes from Latin permaneo, loosely translated as "remain in the same state, be permanent" (English remain comes from remaneo). It is considered equivalent to stative from what I saw in the literature, which indicates a verb expressing a state rather than a change. It is used in certain Semitic languages, like Akkadian and Old Babylonian, for adjectives that have morphed into predicative verbs. As I understand it, an adjective like "heavy" evolved into a verb that meant "to be heavy". It is called stative or permansive because it indicates a state of being, as opposed to a change. This article on Balshanut explains it well enough, and it is in any case interesting: 

There are a few definition problems here. What counts as immersion, and which aspects of it do you consider essential? 

One should keep in mind that phonemes which sound very similar to a foreigner may sound very different to native speakers. For example, I once pronounced Navarra as Navara in Spanish, and my Spanish friend had no idea at all what I was talking about. After my third try (it was admittedly in a noisy bar), he said, "ohh, you mean Navarra! Then why didn't you say so?" To me, r and rr sound like the same phoneme—but certainly not to Spaniards. It depends on how many relevant minimal pairs there are in the target language. If there are many words, or a few very frequent words, in which only [e] and [ɛ] are different, it will be more difficult to understand for the native speaker if one is used for the other. It also depends on whether the native speaker is aware of the fact that the foreigner is apt to confuse these two phonemes. For example, since the Romance accents in English are fairly well known, an Englishman will not be misled as easily if a Frenchman keeps confusing this (/ðɪs/) and these (unaccented before consonant: something like /ðis/). And there are probably more factors to consider. 

You are implementing the Jaccard coefficient whereas the library has the Jaccard distance. The coefficient tells how related two sets are (it is high when they are similar), whereas the distance does the opposite; it is low when they are similar. In fact, they are each other's complement, i.e. d = 1-c and c = 1-d. This is also explained on the Wikipedia article you linked: 

For biblical Hebrew there is the Semantic Dictionary of Biblical Hebrew which may give you some inspiration. 

It is a ב (beth). The thing above it that made you think of a lamed is a cholem (the vowel sign), and it has a dagesh in the middle. This is a masculine plural participle of the root בטח "to trust", i.e. "those who trust" (if used as a noun). This word is for instance used in Jeremiah 46:25: 

Floating quantifiers are quantifiers that can move away from the corresponding noun, such as "each" in "The boys hit each other" where it modifies "The boys". I am interested in prepositions in these bipartite reciprocal constructions, as in "They followed each others onto the stage" or "They waited for each other." These constructions are comparable to "They waited, each for the other." In this last example, the preposition is near its complement "the other", but in the earlier examples it is not. Is there a term for these kind of "floating prepositions"? This term does not yield any results on Google Scholar. 

This is almost certainly done with LaTeX, or one of its friends, and the tikz-qtree package. It is an improvement of the qtree package with nicer node placement. If you are not familiar with LaTeX, and want to learn more, this Wikibook might help (link is to the page about linguistics, but the book is in general about LaTeX). Both tikz-qtree and qtree have a quite extensive manual. Below is LaTeX code using the tikz-qtree package to draw your tree. The only difference with the original seems to be that the bar over the T and the v is less bold. Perhaps this was done with something like this, but I cannot get it to look exactly the same. 

Here there are prefixes such as "matu" and "ilu". What is the meaning of the prefixes? If they represent characters in the actual cuneiform text, why are they not rendered the same as the other characters? Also, as long as we are on the topic, what does the notation mean (found twice in the transcription above)? Note that this transcription is from Die Amarna Tafeln by Knudtzon, one of the standard works of historical Assyriology. 

In this excerpt from the online version of RIM we see raised half brackets around "ri-ik-DI-DINGIR" in the first line, around the "EN" in the second line, and around "sur" in the third line. The same kind of notation is found in the printed version. What does this notation mean? What book describes these notations? I have read the paper volumes of RIM and they do not explain the notation in the book. It seems kind of strange that RIM should use a notation and not explain it. Is there a particular volume of RIM that explains how they use notation? (Note that in the preface to the books it says that "Further technical details of the system of transcription is given in the Editorial Manual", but nowhere can I find this so-called 'editorial manual'.) 

I know how to pronounce Ypres in both French and English, but what about the pronounciations in Flemish, Belgian, Dutch and German? How is it pronounced all six ways? 

As I recall, we were taught in Latin that "b" was pronounced like "v", but in class we always said "b" anyway. For example, "liber" was pronounced LEE-ber. Now, in Welsh the word for book is "llyfr" which is pronounced "liffer" and is the same word, so this would suggest that the ancient Romans pronounced liber the same way, liffer. Is that true, or was it pronounced libber or lee-ber? Or were different pronounciations used randomly by some Romans and not others? 

I am trying to figure out why it is that Babylonian (and Assyrian) king names do not match their Akkadian transcription. For example, in the one known inscription for Nabonassar, which is written in Akkadian, his name is given as "AG-URU-ir", but it is translated as "Nabu-nasir". How is the translator (Grant Frame?) obtaining Nabu-nasir from AG-URU-ir? This same phenomena is true not just for kings, but lesser officials as well. For example, in the same inscription, the viceroy of Babylon is named as AG-GIN-NUMUN and this is translated as Nabu-mukin-zeri. I would guess this is supposed to be the same name in a different language? In other words the cuneiform symbols have different soundings depending on the language. So, AG=Nabu, URU=nas, GIN=mukin, etc. What is the explanation? 

There were many duodecimal numeric systems in use around the Mediterranean, so it seems likely that the uncia was at some point equalled to the smallest "unit" in any duodecimal system. I believe duodecimal systems are ultimately related to sexagesimal systems (=5x12) as used in ancient Mesopotamia. There are more ways you can divide twelve into integers than, say, ten: you can divide twelve by 2, 3, 4, and 6, while ten can only be divided by 2 and 5, so twelve as a base was more useful in many simple physical transactions and quick calculations. Remnants of such a system in modern cultures are the way our hours and minutes are 60 times the smaller unit, and the way we use sexagesimal minutes and seconds in angles (360°=6x60). And of course the fact that we have twelve hours in a day. 

It is clear that who must refer to the new King of Spain and not to Madrid, because context tells us Madrid is not a person. 

But that doesn't prove anything: the word about cannot normally be left out in English, so this is an entirely different construction. The fact that there is little change in meaning is, again, a coincidence rather than a structural feature. In this construction, doing is a gerund (not a participle), because it functions as a noun. Only things that function as nouns can be the object of a preposition. You can see that it is not possible in other instances of the same construction, which shows that doing is no gerund here: 

A feature of English (ellipsis) is that we can sometimes leave out the subject and the form of to be. In this case, that is possible with while if the subject is the same as that of the main clause and the finite verb is a form of to be. Then we get this: 

I'm afraid there is no real answer. The word "correct" can refer to a correspondence of symbol to reality, as "the earth is round" refers to a situation in what people perceive as reality. When "correct" or "legal" is used to describe a grammatical phenomenon, however, there is no such correspondence to reality; at best, one can ask, "given grammatical rule x, is utterance y legal/correct?". Further, one can try to test a certain rule for consistency with other rules and call it "incorrect" if it seems inconsistent. But language is a huge set of rules and idiomatic exceptions: the mere fact that utterance y does not follow a rule or goes against a rule says no more than...the fact that it is irregular. It can be stylistically undesirable, neutral, or desirable. There can be no true objective judgement of "correctness" or "legality" about this. When people say "utterance y is incorrect", what they usually do is give an aesthetic opinion: does it sound good or not? These aesthetics may be influenced by various factors, such as social class, consistency, etc. A political authority, like the Académie Française, or the author of a style book, or prevailing cultural norms, may influence what things people approve and disapprove of; but to declare the decrees of such a political entity "binding" is an aesthetic, moral, or practical choice, not an observation of "fact". In conclusion, there is no objective way to establish when or whether a certain construction is "the norm".