My presumption is the "radio" is like a real radio and translation is accurate and effectively instant: There is no significant delay. I presume the planet is normal, rotating (not tidally locked), and orbiting a star. Edit: We can deal with delay as long as it is reasonably consistent and/or not very long; we can measure the average round-trip time for a response (a ping in network terms), presuming the other side is constantly monitoring. Position: For two groups effectively anywhere on a strange planet, even on opposite sides of it; positioning is going to have to be accomplished by solar and Constellation position. First we can establish (by radio) our relative Longitude; similar to a time zone on Earth; by measuring through the radio the timing of high noon, meaning zero shadow for an upright pole. (noon because sunrise and sunset can be confused by being on mountains or in valleys). (upright): water can find a level on a plain; or show how to make level; and right angles are easily constructed to insure the pole is at right angles to a level field. Water in a long thin channel or tube will suffice. (We can also ensure a noon stick is plumb with danglers (free weights on long threads, thin ones (think like heavy needles) extending very slightly away from the pole in 8 compass directions, from close to the top of the pole; they must not touch the pole; and the pole should be perfectly centered in the vertical channel they create.) We have two natural directions; the sunrise direction and sunset direction. If my sunrise is after yours, I am in the sunset direction relative to you; and vice versa. However long a day is (sunrise to sunrise from a given position is best) by any measurement of time, the difference in the time of high noon tells us how far around the planet the other group is. Facing the sunrise, at right angles, we can call North on the left and South on the right. Latitude: this is the position between the two axis points of the rotation; our north and south pole. This will be less accurate and require sun angles and / or constellation angles. The Noon stick, for example, halfway to the North Pole, will never have a zero shadow if it is plumb: (Presuming the planet equator is in line with its sun, like on Earth; but the math is still deterministic of that is not true). The noon stick radiates from the center of the sphere; so if it isn't near the equator, it will always cast some shadow. The shape "cut out" by that shadow throughout a day can tell you how far you are from a pole, and the direction of the equator: At the equator, the shadow is a simple line. Well north or south; the sun cannot be directly overhead and the shadow will always have length; its shortest length is noon; and that must always fall on the same side, and opposite that side is the direction of the equator. To find each other, head for the equator. Length: Slightly tougher; you need a very tall noon stick! on the order of ten to twenty feet. Different lengths for the two groups is fine; but you need enough so you can distinguish a fine difference in length for sticks that are a significant difference apart; as I will explain. The length will be, for example, a few arcminutes (an arcminute is 1/60 of one degree, about 1.16 miles on Earth). The point is that we want two Noon sticks, separated by some number of miles (but not so far that people cannot signal each other from end to end). What we seek is the distance that causes a specific, small percentage of change in the length of the shadow. (Because that percentage is actually the tangent of an angle). The line from the shadow tip to the top of the noon stick is the hypotenuse of a right triangle. Without measuring the sides (pole height and shadow length) we know their ratio, by any arbitrary measure (like the width of a piece of straw), is the tangent of an angle; and a specific tangent implies a specific angle. i.e. the tangent of 1 degree is 0.0175, or one part in 57.29. For one arcminute, we need one part in 3437.75; so we want our noon-stick to be measurable to that precision using any found object that is quite thin. That can include, for example, thread from clothing: Tightly wound, we can get over 100 threads per inch; so to get to 3437.75 threads would just mean 34.3775 inches which is less than a yard. To be accurate, I'd probably like my noon stick to be about 10,000 threads tall. (The 'inch' is just for your reference; the group measures both stick height and shadow length in threads, period; and takes the ratio: The measuring unit cancels out to reveal the tangent). The point is we can, now, measure an arcminute (or any specific angle) worth of planet on the ground: We want noon-sticks (which can be different lengths) separated on the ground, far enough apart to be at least an arcminute apart. We can then measure that distance; say 1.16 miles, or 6143 feet. Again, it doesn't make a difference how the group measures this; they can have different units of measure. Measure it in threads. (If you wind up 1000 threads on a straight piece of stick; you can cut something like another stick to precisely that size (with a little sanding using a stone), and use that to measure things in 1000 thread units. Meaning you don't have to wind thread to get to 1.16 miles long). The point is that 1 arcsecond of planet is the same distance for both Group A and Group B, there is only one planet! Subdividing that distance will give them an accurate common measurement of distance; say dividing it by 100,000: On Earth that would be what we call 0.73723 inches. Both sides can do that sub-division and call that their standard unit: Maybe 74 of the threads used by Group A and 86 of the threads used by Group B. It does not depend on the threads used, or the size of the noon-sticks used. Now you have a standard measurement, call it a "fleck", and volume is measured in cubic flecks. Weights are measured as the weight of water in a cubic fleck, and also call that density 1.0. Other densities are the weight of a cubic fleck of the substance, divided by the weight of a cubic fleck of water. And so on; using the metric system as a guide to compute other types of measurement (heat, energy, etc). 

Without even advanced tech, there are billions of cameras recording the public, billions of phone conversations going on, and no telling how many stored videos easily available for every kind of human interaction (including every form of sex, fighting, talking, humor, etc). Internal cameras surveil inside of buildings, workplaces, prisons, etc. Tapes are stored for years. No matter what the aliens look like, they can watch anything from a dog's birthday party (filmed on the corner of my residential block) to sex to somebody literally being beaten to death. Or a board meeting, if you want that. Or Congress, or sports, or an actual autopsy in medical school. 

After reading Cort's impressive answer; I'd offer an alternative, to "nearly" perfectly sealed. Construct a cover that fits over the ship; as close as possible with the constraint of being only two pieces with a single seal between them (as small as possible). Or for practicality, as few pieces as possible with seals as obvious as possible. Make the cover of glass diamond$^1$ and stainless steel. Then pressurize the gap between the cover and the ship to match (or very slightly exceed) the ship's pressure. $^1$ added: The OP allows future tech; present tech allows us to deposit diamond film and use high pressure to create gemstones; presumably future tech will be able to make pure diamond windows and thick diamond films for the cover described. The point here is to use some non-toxic commonly available gas (the most common are hydrogen, helium, oxygen, nitrogen, neon, in that order) to pressurize the gap between the cover and the ship wall. Neon is probably your best bet, it is non-toxic and chemically inert, meaning it forms no compounds (unlike nitrogen and oxygen which both form compounds), and has an atomic mass of 20 (vs. 1 and 4 for hydrogen and helium resp.) As Neon outgasses from the cover, it can be scooped up for replacement purposes. This makes it a good "sacrificial" gas, i.e. we may leak neon, but we don't leak our oxygen and other special recipe of gasses inside the ship that sustain life comfortably. To the extent that Neon ingasses to the interior of the ship; it is non-toxic and we can filter it out for re-injection into the gap (the ship walls can have ports for this; remember only the outer shell needs to have as few joins as possible). The advantage of the cover is also maintainability; with just a few simple straight seals that are easily accessible, we can mount equipment there to monitor the seals for leakage and fix them with relative ease. Such equipment can operate in a vacuum; the communication can be by magnetic field fluctuation, acoustic or radio wave through the cover without penetrating it. The same goes for other sensory equipment the ship may require, or antennae, lasers, telescopes, dishes, armaments, etc. Of course the entire outer cover is sacrificial, as well. In the event of damage by space debris it can be repaired; but because it is not pieces bolted together and has no "components" other than the single seal (or a few simple seals) repairs can be hard welds and permanently fused glass melted into place. In dock near planets the neon gas can be depressurized and re-liquefied for storage (yes, neon of all elements has the narrowest range of temperatures for liquefaction; just a 5.5F degree window, but we have future science on our side!). Then the cover can be detached; perhaps stored in space while the ship heads to the planet surface. Of course the ship would still be constructed to be pressurized itself, and would suffice in an emergency (like the cover being breached by an impact that does not breach the ship's hull); but it can be designed with many components for maneuverability, landing, loading and unloading cargo or passengers and so on. 

I admit I can't answer the question directly; but an interesting corollary is that the number of extra people that would have died would likely have been replaced by extra people born. In societies extant today, those with high infant and child mortality tend to have more children to compensate, and the same was true in early America and Europe a few hundred years ago. So vaccinations as a means of preventing death is obviously more desirable than suffering through the premature deaths of half your offspring; but once the reduced expectation of child death is proven, this also leads to having fewer offspring. So the result of vaccination is fewer deaths, but (counter intuitively) not a larger total of number of people living, due to the reduced reproduction rate. I think even without knowing the exact number of "lives saved", this might help you in parsing out the results of a world in which vaccination was not invented: Larger families, greater death losses, but about the same number of adults. Also, in societies with high childhood death rates, presuming food is not a problem, more resources are devoted to their children (it is more expensive to try and raise 6 kids than 2 or 3), and women are culturally pressured to be more or less constantly pregnant from about 16, because the children of 16-24 year old mothers are (statistically speaking) healthier than children of older mothers. 

The weird thing is that prices can be arbitrary, or wages can be arbitrary, but they must be highly correlated. Say the minimum wage is \$8/hour, for argument's sake. If I make it \$800/hour, commerce does not change if I also multiply all prices by 100x, so the minimum wage buys exactly the same thing. The people really damaged by that are the people that hold wealth. Say a loaf of white bread costs \$2.50 (as it does at my local grocery). If I have \$1M dollars in the bank, I could use that to buy 400,000 loaves of white bread. However, if prices suddenly are multiplied by 100, I can only buy 4000 loaves of white bread! I can't build a bread fort with that! But the minimum wage worker with zero money in the bank is not affected at all, in 8 hours on Monday he is paid \$64, and can buy 26.6 loaves. Tuesday all prices are multiplied by 100, he gets \$6400, and can still only buy 26.6 loaves. He might as well be paid in loaves (as people once were). Now we can answer the question. You have to decide what the lifestyle is for the common laborer. Much of your research should inform this already. How many hours does he work? How much bread does he eat? How much meat? Does his shelter cost him anything? Does he pay for healthcare? Taxes? Transportation? Try to put these expenses in terms of an item; like bread. (As I did above). At $8/hour, my minimum wage worker needs to earn about 25 loaves a day to stay reasonably healthy, sheltered, and able to continue working. You can even go beyond that, and say it is basic calories: A loaf of plain white bread generally has about 2000 calories. 25 loaves is 50,000 calories a day. So he isn't going to EAT 25 loaves a day, he is going to trade them for meat, eggs, shelter, medical help, clothes, beer, and so on. Now all you do is set a completely arbitrary price for a loaf of plain white bread. Call it a copper, or a penny, or a shilling or a filium. It makes no difference, all that matters is a common laborer gets 25 of them for a full day's work (which you can vary, too, up to about 12 hours, 7 days a week). All other prices, for luxury goods or servants, and all other wages, can be computed from there. Even using modern ratios. Unskilled labor makes minimum, slightly skilled (e.g. cooks) earn 25% more, etc. You can look at national labor charts to see what various professions make; cast those in multiples of the minimum wage, and presto; you can compute their salaries in filiums per hour. Which is the track I think you are already on. 

To answer the question: I'd say the ability would be something like dropping napalm from a plane, without a plane. It would also be nice for cooking and warming up the campsite, I guess. It could allow a single wizard to stop an oncoming charge, defeat a cavalry charge or beach landing. Burn a village to the ground from atop a hill or tree. It might offer a unique escape: let the wizard climb a tree in the forest, and then burn everything around him (but not his own tree) to kill or drive off soldiers pursuing him in the forest. ELECTRICAL: Both the brain and heart are absolutely dependent upon finely controlled electrical impulses; which are typically self-regulating. This is why a defibrillator works; the shock forces a new electrical state which a heart can self-regulate back into a normal rhythm. Control of electricity allows a wizard to cause anything from instant unconsciousness, epileptic-like seizures, heart attacks or just instant death, by disrupting or overloading biological electric impulses. Also, of course, disrupting or destroying any electrical device, just like lightning can, and (like an electric arc welder) it might be used to melt or deform metal. PLASMA: not very useful, but hot enough to burn through metal and stone, perhaps. 

This is actually the most feasible outcome! It requires the least amount of magical effects. There is a mode of time travel that isn't discussed above: The future is obliterated. Imagine the time machine resets the entire universe to a previous state, with the only difference being the machine itself, and Bill inside it, are protected from this reset. (for discussion, call this TT-Bill, for Time Traveled Bill). That becomes the equivalent of a machine and person(s( from the future simply materializing, in an instant, in our time. TT-Bill's time and what led to TT-Bill no longer exists. The universe is reset from 2342 to 2017 with a simple edit: a cut-and-paste of a sphere with a ten foot radius. Everything inside that sphere is severed from cause and effect, TT-Bill's 2342 universe and all the events leading up to him, his mind and knowledge and equipment, cease to exist, but the product of all those events, the physical manifestation of TT-Bill and his machine, is preserved (and transported to wherever in the Universe Earth was in the past; since Earth is looping its way through space). You can let TT-Bill travel into the future in a matter of seconds, as far as you want; this is just Einsteinian relativistic time dilation, with a little hand-waving to stay in place. Any effects TT-Bill had on the past just evolve naturally for however many years or centuries are desired. So anything TT-Bill did in 2017, including exploding nuclear bombs and killing dozens of his own ancestors (or all of his own ancestors) has its effect. In the new version TT-Bill is never born, but it doesn't matter: That was true the moment TT-Bill appeared in 2017: the future was dissolved. Now, just like us in real life, every tiny action or decision TT-Bill takes has an effect on the new future. But what happens in that new future does not affect TT-Bill's body or mind back in 2017; there is no thread of causality running from the future to the past, just as what is going to happen to us, in real life, does not change our bodies or mind right now. This version of time travel also means duplication of people. Let's have a different Time Traveler, TT-Chuck, he travels ten years from 2017 into the past (2007), the younger Chuck is there. TT-Chuck is there, as a separate and real person. They both evolve; could embrace each other, speak to each other, whatever any two real people could do. TT-Chuck could kill his earlier self, or vice versa, or TT-Chuck can leave his earlier self completely alone. However they both evolve, ten years later they are both there. If TT-Chuck travels into the future, they are both there; although Chuck has had 10 different years of experience. For example, say TT-Chuck does something to prevent the imminent accidental death of his (in 2007) 12 year old girl, successfully. That 2007 world is now different than the one TT-Chuck experienced. Let TT-Chuck jump 10 years into the future: Chuck is now the same age as TT-Chuck, but never experienced the death of his little girl: What happened is Chuck came out to drive her to school one day, and found a flat tire with a nail in it. TT-Chuck hammered it in at 3:30 AM, and made sure the tire was completely flat, but Chuck was just irritated: He spent 45 minutes changing the tire, drove his girl to school and made excuses, and that is it. Ten years later, he barely recalls the incident, and neither does his girl. Chuck was never in the car accident that killed his girl. The rough-housing speeding teens that crashed into them were not killed either. TT-Chuck still remembers it all vividly, the accident, waking with his girl dead and staring beside him, his inability to revive her. The funeral. His emotional scars all remain intact. Nothing is faded. Because TT-Chuck's brain and neural patterns and connections were transported from 2017 to 2007 intact, a physical system of synapses and neurons, that are not magically affected by what then transpires. New memories (or injuries) can be formed (or suffered) but that isn't magic, that is normal biological processes. Whereas, it would take some form of magic to undo such physical systems and replace them with some other system. So if he likes, he can try to find a way to watch his little girl grow up. With some preparation from 2017, he can become nearly instantly wealthy in 2007. The changes he intends to make won't have much or any effect on the stock market or Vegas betting markets for sports games. In 2017 he can find convicted forgers that were active in 2007; and get a forged identity he can use in 2007. He can buy the house next door to Chuck and remark on the incredible resemblance between them, they must share some ancestry! TT-Chuck can become lifelong friends with Chuck (he obviously knows enough about Chuck to do that); so he can watch him raise their little girl. And if necessary, time travel again to save her again; creating yet-another Chuck. Or if the proliferation of time traveling Chucks becomes an issue, send a video from the future explaining everything to the first TT-Chuck, including how to prevent the problem: The TT-Chuck sending such a video dissolves; the TT-Chuck receiving the video checks his time-machine's messaging system every day for precisely this reason; and knows it is the real deal. All other systems of time travel, characters fading out (like in Back to the Future), vanishing, or the universe preventing paradoxes, require some kind of unexplainable magic effect. So does this "reset" version of time-travel, but it is an instantaneous effect that is not operating in any continuous manner or causing any observable and unexplainable physics. One second there is air, in the next second the air is pushed aside and replaced by TT-Chuck, with his very high-tech Time Traveling device surgically implanted as a marble-sized object in his sinus cavity. Then the world, physics, biology, life and death all proceed normally. TT-Chuck cannot help but have some effects, he is an obstacle to breeze and sunlight, he is consuming oxygen and weighs a few hundred pounds as he walks on the ground. But there is effectively zero chance such effects "butterfly" into any significant changes to the future in the next few years. Heck, 99.9% of normal human deaths have no measurable impact on the course of stock markets, business, politics, wars, sports, or anything else.