Sometimes a company will just throw ducklings into the deep end to teach them how to swim, those that swim survive, those that don't well, you know what happens. While I don't necessarily like this strategy, I can understand legitimate circumstances that lead to this. Firstly keep in mind 30 dollars an hour, whilst is still money, it's all relative, and you can consider that 30 dollars to them may be like 30 cents to you. This can happen if a company is overworked and doesn't have time to invest in people, but have a deadline which has already passed and all resources are directly devoted to meeting that overdue deadline as quick as possible. Another reason is if the company has a low number of grads they might not see the point in investing time in creating an induction program as well as training. If this is something that is very important to you then you should either speak to your supervisor about your expectations for training and inductions or make this a priority when looking for a company. It's a good thing if you find a job like this which you don't really like but find out that training is very important to you for your job, then you can go about finding training in your job, or potentially outside of your job with online courses or meetups etc. As an intern though you are at the bottom, and from a manager's perspective you rather give the guy making 30 bucks and hour the project which has a high risk of going no where and doesn't need much skill. But from your prospective this is a bad project to be on. I encourage you to find out what the deal is at your company, think about the reasons they might have for working with you in the way they do, once you understand them it will all make sense, its just learning agendas, politics, welcome to the workplace etc hahaha. 

Your manager obviously believes they can keep postponing dealing with this until the project finishes. So you'll need to put an ultimatum to them and make sure your manager knows you will follow through and be ready to do just that. I can't advise what that ultimatum should be, but preferably something that won't get you fired, be really careful there make sure you seek advise before you come up with something. But do come up with some alternative arrangements which are acceptable for both you and the business. This could be something like no more joint client site visits without a third person, having your manager directly delegate tasks directly to your coworker after a group meeting, etc. Get the right timing with this too preferably right after an incident occurs with your coworker which highlights your plight so you are not seen as being the difficult one. 

There is also more to compensation than mere salary. There are a lot of books out there on non-monetary compensation. For an example of how under-paid techies can stay in one spot despite known pay disparity vs. market-rate, take a look at the previous job I listed above. That job was sticky for a variety of reasons. There is another value that employers know about called the total cost of compensation for a worker. This value includes things that don't show up in the pay-stub, or if they do they're in the negatives column: 

It's a bad idea, that's for sure. But how to handle it involves the above. In all likelihood, a strict reading of the contract bans such usage. However, some companies like to apply "common sense" to the application of contract language, so may actually permit certain banned usages so long as it doesn't impact anything. Don't do anything precipitous until after you've learned a few things. In this case, since you're new to the company you're not really in a position to understand how corporate culture modifies contract language application. Secondly, you don't know who allies are, so embrace that role and go to the manager of those systems (someone, er, like me). Declare ignorance of how things work (which is true), explain what you found, and ask how this works. You're seeking education, not tattling on a co-worker. At that point, you've done what you could. You've reported a questionable behavior, and probably now have a much better grasp for the edge-cases around your employment contract. If it turns out that such usage actually is banned, you'll have earned an ally in that manager. If it turns out that it's allowed, you'll likely get some of the background for this specific case, which will help your understanding of how the company works. 

Speaking as a Systems Administrator, I've run into just this kind of thing (it wasn't Bitcoin, but something like Seti@Home). This is a bit different since I'm the officially responsible party for such systems and can take action on my own authority, but the principles guiding how I respond also apply to you. There are two competing interests at work here: 

Who knows. But to be honest I believe you made some critical mistakes, but that you have learnt allot from this experience, so you need to just take this with you and move on. Trying to analyse what happened: Your aim as I understand it was to gain the title of Head of Department. The first mistake you made was opposing your colleague's promotion. This was an extremely risky move. You could have used this developer as an example that you are ready for a promotion yourself as you successfully trained him so well, even though he does not have a software engineering background but is now contributing well to the project because of the time you invested in him. This was critical IMO. The next was then how you asked for a promotion. By saying it was could have been construed as criticising your manager's management style. It really just sounded like to me that you wanted the authority based on seniority to overrule your colleague on decisions. Now it doesn't matter if that's what you meant or not, it's how it all looks. It looked like you can't work with your colleague without a third party resolving conflict or having seniority. Not a good look when seeking a promotion. This working conflict you had with your colleague. I don't think is something your manager was going to do anything about, and that it was a bad idea to go to him with this problem. Instead if your colleague was head of UX and you of logic, then you handle the backed and him the front-end. If you have trouble separating the two then you can try and improve the modularity of the product so you can, or you just let these go. From your prospective this wasn't ideal, maybe even dysfunctional at times. From another this is just the normal day-to-day working relationship and is perfectly acceptable, and doesn't warrant giving you increased powers. Coulda woulda shoulda: I beleive you should have taken a different approach with your manager and made a strong case for the Head of Department, that you brought the product up from almost nothing, successfully integrated and trained a new developer who is now Lead of UX, and if not now, then you would like a pathway to become Head of Department. The company is doing well, you were instrumental in its success and deserve a reward, and you have a vision for how development can progress. But don't dwell on the past. Some people in this industry are just sitting in a corner growing cobwebs on them, you pursued your ambition even though it appears you made some grave mistakes, that's what humans do, learn from it, take it with you. Next time I suggest proactively seeking mentoring before consulting your manager for promotions and working relationship issues. All the best NO REGRETS! 

The HR department of the employer I spoke about above passed out a break-down of each employee's TCC. In my case, the bit that didn't show up in my pay-check came to +35% of my salary. When factoring that against the TCC of my market-rate peers I was actually pretty close to market-rate. Salary isn't everything. And then there are the other 'intangibles', which are very hard to quantify, but employers try (hard) to foster. These are value adds to the "benefits of working here" column that don't show up on the pay-check. Employers try to exploit this because most people are not solely in it for the money, and is why most job postings have "and we're a great place to work" somewhere in there. This is where ping-pong tables and beer in the fridge come from, but it is also how well the office works together. An office that works really well together is one that is retentive. Your hypothetical female programmer may have found herself a workplace free of the microaggressions that so plagued her previous workplaces (internships, OSS work, pickup work during college, etc), which means she'll happily take a 20% pay cut just so she doesn't have to put up with all of that crap. This is a good example of non-monetary compensation, If employees aren't asking for raises, or new-hires aren't regularly forcing the organization to up their rates of pay, pay can slip below market-rate due to simple inattention. That's a market force too, it's call inertia. 

Some employers, notably government though large employers are likely similar, can't offer individualized increases, or make 'reclassification' hard due to overly broad job-classes. There can be significant variation of skill level within a job-class, which further makes reclassification-for-raises (sometimes called 'promotion') difficult. Certain skills can command a premium over market-rate (Blackboard Admin vs SharePoint Admin), even though abstract job-duties and experience requirements are the same. For organizations that can't offer individualized compensation packages this is a major problem, this is why you see certain skill-sets hired at a higher job-title than they otherwise would be. 

We started getting attrition when the 2008 recession and associated increase-freeze started being really felt.