Which suggests that the sides (current club and the player) should bilaterally agree on the transfer during the course of the season (winter transfer window in most cases is in the middle of the season), as the activation of the release clause against the will of the current club is an unilateral termination. 

Now, if we consider Borussia Dortmund and Tottenham Hotspur as "mid-ranking teams" (as bookmakers consider them 12th and 13th ones who're likely to win the tournament), we can compare then their average Champions League winning coefficients by bookmakers before and after the draw to answer your question: 

The situation you are interested in is not explicitly mentioned in Laws of the Game or specifically in Disciplinary Code of Royal Spanish Football Federation (PDF in Spanish, page 56). Showing a direct red card after showing a red card for two accumulated yellow cards is redundant. Because what is more important, as you have already guessed, is what the referee wrote in the post-match protocol. And here comes the most entertaining part: what has Ricardo de Burgos Bengoetxea mentioned in his protocol? Below you can see the original protocol, published by MARCA: 

As a result of this incident, Cristiano Ronaldo was banned for five games. So, this decision has been made because the referee mentioned it in the protocol and regardless whether Ronaldo received direct red card or not. 

There was also another research by Manuel J.A. Eugster, Jan Gertheiss & Sebastian Kaiser (2010) LMU Munich 'Having the Second Leg At Home – Advantage in the UEFA Champions League Knockout Phase?', where they analyzed only 304 individual matches from the UEFA Champions League (1994 - 2010) also using UEFA club coefficients for removing seeding system disturbance and they concluded that: 

That being said, FIFA indeed takes geographical constraints into account as you may see from the sophisticated FIFA World Cup 2014 draw procedure. So, as we don't know how FIFA will exactly conduct the draw and given that the way the pots are formed for WC2018 are completely different from the previous edition, I can guess that the draw will be conducted with the help of computer (like UEFA Champions League group stage draw - video) and computer will only allow such draws that it never gets stuck at some point given the constraints. 

It's team D with the least points (0 points). Now rule-a doesn't help us to determine first 3 positions in the table as all three teams (A, B, C) have 6 points. That's why we move to rule-b, which states: 

Side note: after CONMEBOL introduced the round-robin qualification format for World Cup 1998, no team from this confederation was able to qualify without a loss. 2002 

Probably, Swindon Town's 1 - 4 defeat to Northampton Town during the period of 1907-1912, when Chapman was the manager of Northampton, was one of the earliest recorded matches that employed counter-attack. This TheGuardian post also mentions Chapman being the one who practiced counterattacking style of play in the clubs he managed: 

The short answer is that these 2 terms have equivalent meanings in football. And whenever you read one of these words in a sports article, most of the times, authors don't distinguish between terms and don't emphasize any specific meaning. 

Side note: The accepted answer incorrectly references to Law 02 - The Ball: 2. Replacement of a defective ball. 

GB11's answer summarized it well what are the tracking devices. From the YouTube page of GPSSports Systems you can see that what Zlatan wears is called GPSports SPI HPU tracking device, which according to its brochure has many features, some of them being GPS, accelerometer, wireless communication, water resistance, 5.5 hours battery life, etc. The data collected by tracking device from players is auto-analysed to provide practical information on players' performance, like: 

Do Soccer Leagues have less control over their players than the NHL does? Domestic football leagues (or their corresponding associations) have no control over players. These leagues are not isolated as NHL but are member associations of UEFA, CONMEBOL, CAF etc. These are the clubs (like Real Madrid, Manchester United, Bayern Munich etc.) that have control over their players and they have much more control over them than NHL teams have over their own: e.g they can grow their own players in their own youth academies, sell them for cash etc. The only thing clubs can't do is not to comply with FIFA or respective federation (e.g UEFA) rules, otherwise they will not be able to acquire licences in order to compete in the most prestigious continental club tournaments (like Champions League, Copa Libertadores etc). Is it just too big of a tradition to break? These breaks are not random, they are published on FIFA International Match Calendar. Annexes 3 and 4 well define the dates of breaks: 

For some reason, I enjoy awkwardly funny situations and fans' favorite team conceding a goal while they are emotionally supporting their team is awkward but also kind of funny. So, I'm curious if anyone has ever witnessed Liverpool conceding a goal while their fans were singing the famous and beautiful "You'll Never Walk Alone" song. (someone should have witnessed as Liverpool fans are always singing and Liverpool, put it mildly, is not well-known for its defensive skills). Just mentioning a single match when this happened should be enough. 

The situation you've described happens quite frequently actually and you will see the examples at the end. As you can read from the IFAB (International Football Association Board) Laws of the Game; Law 12 - Fouls and Misconduct; 3. Disciplinary Action; Sending-off Offences Section: 

Ideally, the rules of the tournament should be defined before it starts, but now that we're here: In my opinion, the best loser out of 3 teams lost in the quarter-finals (or 1/6 finals in your case) is the one who performed better in the games involving only those 3 teams during round-robin phase or even who finished higher in the table. Because this way the loser will be most probably the strongest one. Why? Here's a demonstrative example: 

As the last sentence in his reference to the Laws of the Game by @Philip in his answer still wasn't crystal clear: 

German Bundesliga: Moritz Stoppelkamp for SC Paderborn against Hannover 96 in 2014/15 season from 83 meters. Video, source: bundesliga.com - German. Italian Serie A: Enzo Ferrari for Palermo against Roma in 1968/69 season from 77 meters. Source: forzapalermo.it - Italian, gazetta.it - Italian. Spanish La Liga: Antonio José González Santos for Numancia against Sevilla in 2004/05 season from 68 meters. Videoǂ, source: elmundo - Spanish, marca - Spanish. 

It's obvious that Ronaldo was nearer to the goal line than the the second-last opponent (the guy in the red shirt: Mats Hummels). Now the dubious part is whether Ronaldo was nearer to the goal line than the ball. The answer is yes, he was, hence, he was in the offside position. Why? Because the offside-line in the picture you use is not quite parallel to the goal line, but look at another picture from goal.com, Ronaldo's head was closer to the goal line than the ball: 

Here is a video that shows and explains the rules in an easy way. Interestingly, I learned this game from Assassin's Creed video game. 

Nothing, except the player himself (or his agent). The value of the release clause of a player is proportional to the unwillingness of the club to sell the player in the future. For example, in an interview to the BBC, Cristiano Ronaldo's agent Jorge Mendes said that Ronaldo's release clause from Real Madrid was 1 billion euros! Which essentially means that at the time of signing that contract neither Real Madrid nor Cristiano Ronaldo were considering any possible transfer negotiations with other clubs during his contract. The release clauses can be absurdly high, but then if the club declines any transfer offers (despite the will of the player) below the release clause, then the players that wanted to be transferred may get angry and wait till the end of their contracts and then would go for free. The less years there are left in the contract of a player to play for his club, the less is the power of the release clause. Why? Because, if a club declines transfer offers below the release clause when the player's contract is due soon, eventually, a player may leave his current club for free when his contract will expire. The rule of thumb for the club is when defining the release clause is to make it high enough, in order to create a room for possible future transfer negotiations, but also keeping in mind that players' agents will not agree to the extremely large release clauses if the player himself may consider in the future leaving the club during his contract. 

Bocce and it's variants. Normally, played on a flat court (13 feet wide, 91 feet in length) with one small ball (called also jack/boccino/pallino) and each team having 4 big balls. In the simplest variant, there are 2 players/teams. Action 

Everyone remembers Benzema's "La croqueta" against Atlético Madrid in the 2nd leg of 2016/2017 Champions League's semi-final, right?                                               (Source) Now that you've remembered, my question is what if Benzema would have been fouled behind the goal line (outside the pitch) near the penalty area when the ball is still clearly in the field? How the game would have been then restarted, namely, if Benzema was fouled at this very moment: 

You can easily find them on different web resources, like for example here. As Panna is a street and freestyle game, there are no strict rules, but in a nutshell: