Turning the server token off in the header does not appear to be an option for static content. You can reduce then disclosure to using the option. You can minimize disclosure by adding the following lines to your configuration. Reload the configuration after making the change. 

If you are doing address validation, you may be triggering any number of spam avoidance techniques. While in the past address validation was generally permitted, spammers have resulted validation being restricted. Fixing the items above may help but I wouldn't count on it. These days the only widely supported address validation is to send an email with a validation link for the user to confirm their address. You may want to review the canonical posts on email and postfix. 

may be your friend. It will sync differences in the file systems. Use the one file system option to limit the copy to the partition being copied. Piping to should also work, but rsync will do the least I/O. For Ghost-like backups I like Mondo which creates bootable recovery disk. 

Check your logs for messages containing . If there are problems setting up logging, then it should should be locked. Is running? It is needed for locking to work on NFS versions before 4. Alternatively, you may try mounting with the option for local lock management. This is not recommended if you have remote clients for the file systems. 

EDIT: Amavis does seem to support testing directly. There are some hint on testing on the mailing list. This indicates something like the following. 

Try sending a message to port25's verifier address . You may want to review my experiences in Detecting Email Server Forgery. The article includes a list of verification services which may help you track your problem. 

An authoritative answer should come directly from a one the name servers for the domain. Non-authoritative answer can come from any server which has an answer. Unless the configuration has been recently changes the answers will be the same. Requests can specify that they require an authoritative answer. These may require additional lookups as an authoritative server must be contacted. When changes are being made it is possible to get differing answers from different authoritative servers. The answer with the highest serial number should be the most recent answer. (In rare cases where the serial number is being reset, this is not the case.) Non-authoritative answers should be answered by the first server contacted which has an answer. This is the fastest possible response. These answers are sufficient for most uses. Services like Google are a special case. They use special servers which provide different answers depending on your location. They may also do load balancing. Both of these will result in different answers over time. Cached (non-authoritative) answers will likely be older and reflect the preferred servers at the time the result was cached. Google tries to direct you to servers which have the best connectivity to your location. These servers should have lower RTTs than other Google servers at other locations. 

Start by running the and commands to get a handle on what is happening. will show what is queued. will tell you what the running processes are doing. Log files for Exim include mainlog (all messagess), rejectlog (reject messages with more details), and paniclog (failures, rare). They should be under /var/log possibly in /var/log/exim or /var/log/exim4. Messages in the queue can be found in Exim's spool directory, likely /var/spool/exim4 or such. Messages are in the input directory, and status information is in the corresponding msglog directory. If you are getting a lot of retries something is not configured correctly. My rant on Running an Email Server will give you an idea what is required, and my posting on Detecting Email Server Forgery may give you an idea why your queue is growing. It has been my experience that mail servers for web sites tend to be poorly configured. Take the time to get the configuration right, it isn't that difficult. A few variables which may help you include: 

Per domain aliases (may be documented as virtual domains). Global aliases (apply to all domains) which are ideal for addresses like postmaster. 

File deletion requires write access to the directory. Try disabling write access to the directory. Warning: This will also prevent file creation. It is only appropriate for fully populated directories. 

If you are looking at graphing your monitoring output you may find Munin simpler to setup than Nagios. Either will only monitor total bandwidth usage on the interface. Munin's alert configuration is not as flexible as Nagios's. I have had success using n2rrd to generate graphs from Nagios monitor output. Ntop is an entirely different tool than Nagios and Munin. It is designed to give breakdowns on bandwidth usage. Breakdowns include interfaces, hosts, protocols, and ports. 

Stuff would consist of trees of servers, users, and anything else you track. You will need to setup ACLs to work based on the logged in user's DC. Give them access to things in their DC and bellow. This would give you three DC levels arranged as follows: 

An implementation similar to BATV (Bounce Address Tag Verification) should be able to handle this. The tag would be tied to a post. The MDA would need to be aware of the tags and respond appropriately. 

There are servers at both ends which are doing Network Address Translation (NAT). As the address passes though these servers the header address on the data packet gets rewritten to that servers Internet address. The server keeps track of which connections belong to which internal host. Traceroute displays data from inside an ICMP packet indicating whether or not the host was reached in a given number of hops. The NAT routers do not alter this data. As a result you see the address that each host received the packet on. Normally the servername on the far end in this case has been routed using DNAT (Destination NAT) to a host on the private network. It is likely that the address is being passed over a VPN tunnel between two sites. The VPN be encapsulating the source and final addresses inside the packets being sent between hops 3 and 7. The effect is the same, although the mechanism is different. The routers at hops 3 and 7 would know the addresses ranges supported by the remote routers, and route the packets accordingly. Leaving hop 7 the IP destination would be 67.0.0.7 with a public address belonging to hop 3. This is invisible due to the way route tracing works. Depending on the VPN protocol some hops after hop 7 may not be traceable. In some cases you may see an ISP routing over private addresses to a public address. This will appear as one ore more private addresses between two public addresses. If the intermediate routers with public addresses belong to the same organization, it is possible they have routing rules allowing end to end communication without translation.