Do they both play a role in getting rid of the hindrances or is one better then the other? How do they eliminate them? 

As I'm learning to master the first jhana one must do two things, master the five masteries & be able to extend the sign. For the masteries, • Mastety Of Adverting  ×Turning your attention & focus on any jhana factor after! anywhere,time or place • Mastery Of Attainment   × Entering jhana concentration quickly, Anytime you wish  • Mastery of Resolving ×Staying in the absorption for as long as one wants.  • Mastery of Emerging × Emerge from The Jhanas Quickly • Mastery Of Reflection ×Looking at & learn each thing you did to enter each jhana factor. Please tell me if I'm incorrect. Now for extending the sign. I don't truly understand how to do such a thing, or even what it is. Here's a passage from the book I'm reading. 

Old fashion hindu, brahma, was begun before buddhism, so people in buddha time usually worshiped to their god, before they change to be the buddha-follower. Buddha just change them from god-believer/random-result/suffering-still-remain to cause&effect-professor/best-advantage/suffering-perfectly-vanishing. So, if they normally worship god with incense, candles, flower, etc, buddha just change them to worship the cause&effect-professor, buddha&dhamma&saṅgha, instead. Because idol and statue are what the follower try to imitate to do and to be the same. If they were still paying the worship to god, they will be god-believer, but if they change their habit to pay their worship to buddha/dhamma/saṅgha, they will be cause&effect-professor instead. Example, can you change the homeless habit immediately? If you can't, how can you use their daily habit to change themselves? This is the reason why the buddha is the best teacher, anuttaro purisadhammasārathi&bhagavā, because he can change the illogical homeless/illogical king/illogical people to be the perfect cause&effect-professors. Another, Worshiping, offering, giving gift, donating, making statue, naming the road as the people name, and investing are just an exchange. We are acting like that because we expecting some effects. So, the buddha just let them do the right exchange by leting them change their common action, god-worshiping, to the new right habit, cause&effect-worshiping, such as in Sutta. Ma. U. mahācattārīsakasutta, that the buddha taught the listener to worship to right reason, right relation of causes&effects, instead of god: 

I have been meditating for a while now and i found my way to get into jhana, well i haven't enter jhana but it was more me not fully in knowing how but now i think i understand. But one thing i keep getting stuck on is the signs. I haven't to my knowledge experienced a nimita. Maybe cause i use visualization to enter the jhanas From what i gathered first you have initial & sustain thought. Then as time goes on you developed joy. Which brings this pleasant feeling. Then you move your attention from that to the pleasant feeling to enter rapture and the first jhana. So where do any counter or learning sign come in. Is that only for certain meditations 

Certainly the subject of enlightenment or The Dharma can become hindrances. But we need guidance to achieve the proposed states of mind. Saying that we should "just become more aware" sometimes isn't enough, usually we need some insight. He makes the following metaphor: 

For sure. If you go to 1 hour right away you will probably just get yourself tired. And also, I think it is much better to meditate for 20 minutes every day than one hour once a week. 

The point of meditation is not to make the mind devoid of thoughts, but to stop being dragged by them. Not to follow them, not to feed them, and so on. 

I'm having trouble understanding what they mean here. What iis life-continuum? It said in brackets consciousness so it's disrupting consciousness of the jhana object? What i guess they mean is once you come out of jhana use applied thought to focus on the things that intruped that jhana then once you have "applied" applied thought move to focus on the objects with sustain thought once you can do this uninterrupted you mastered adverting? 

I am reading A Critical Analysis Of The Jhanas In the book we were going over wise considration and how it will help you eliminate the hindrances. But i am having trouble understand what this is referring to. Any help would be appreciated. 

No, you are feeling neither pity nor compassion, but you feeling appreciative and indebted (kataññū & katavedī). Yes, you are. We attaching everything, included our mother, our hair tip to our toe nail. 

Path of purification was written follow sāriputta's cannon, paṭisambhidāmagga. Many quotes and sequence in Path of purification follow paṭisambhidāmagga. According to mahāgosiṅgasālasutta venerable Sāriputta was a teacher of venerable Mahākassapa, venerable Mahāmoggallāna, venerable Mahākassapa, venerable Anuruddha, venerable Ānanda, and venerable Revata, too (except ānanda, sotāpanna-ariya, the others were arahanta-ariya). According to understanding section in Path of purification, that mostly describing about vipassanā (adhipaññā-sikkhā), you can found too much abhidhamma in this section of Path of purification. So, your understanding about relationship between abhidhamma and anattā is correct. But your abhidhamma knowledge still wrong. 

They say to master jhana you must master five factors. I understand the first four but mastery of reflection is kind of leaving me unsure. I think i get it. Once you come out of the jhana state, you refect on the absorption factors like you do the jhana factors you focus on each until the hindrances is gone. But what are these absotbtion factors. Do i just think about it or stsrt a second meditations on each factor and be aware of them? How do i know what these factors are and distinguish them? They also say there different absorption factor to reflect on. Can you help me understand 

The article refers to side effects of the meditation practice on people with very deep mental illness. Mindfulness certainly is good for anyone, but meditation can be harming. Normal people could experience boredom and sleep at worse. People with depression and anxiety have very sharp minds, and meditation (not mindfulness) could possibly worsen their state. I think the problem they are trying to address is that on meditation you leave people to look and feel for themselves, and it is not safe to leave these mentally ill people "wander" on their thoughts and feelings by themselves. 

I have read once you have reached the bliss stage you should take your focus off the object and on the blissful sensations and hold it. Then in time you will be in Jhana. But i also read in other sources you should just stay with the object and one pointed focus will rise that way. Which is it? This confuse me. I've reached bliss i kept focusing on my earth kasina but before i could fully enter the first jhana i felt my breath fading and it scared me out of my mediation. So i don't know if focusing on my object would have allowed me to reach jhana. 

keeping to violate the prohibited rules, such as denying money, denying sex activity, etc. keeping to do the procedure rules, such as memorizing bhikkhunissayamuccaka-course, go to bowl, keeping the monk robe, etc. 

Buddhism is middle way between intellectual self-affliction extreme and intellectual sensual pleasure extreme. So, buddhism is anti-intellectual self-affliction extreme and anti-intellectual sensual pleasure extreme. But buddhism is the middle way intellectualism. 

There are many types of happiness and suffering around the universe. So, there are many wisdom to gain insight about causes and effects of them (hap&suf) to avoid suffering and to take happiness. Sīla wisdom (sammādiṭṭhi that arising with sammāvācā-magga, sammākammanta-magga, sammāācīva-magga) gain insight of physical immoral acts by bad consciousnesses, that are causes of the worst kāma-suffering (4 apāya realms). Samādhi wisdom (sammādiṭṭhi that arising with sammāvāyama-magga, sammāsati-magga, sammāsamādhi-magga) gain insight of kāma-consciousnesses, that are causes of the whole kāma. Because whole 11 kāma (4 apāya realms, 1 human realm, 6 kāma-heaven realms) still having physical suffering. Sīla can not protects people from abdominal pain, physical senility, angry-consciousnesses, etc. But samādhi can do. While people gain jhāna, they never feel pain, sore, or hurt. And Next life of them, bhramma-puggala, will never have any physical suffering, too. Until their jhāna's effects will be out of stock. Vipassanā wisdom (sammādiṭṭhi that arising with sammāsaṅkappa) gain insight (3 pariññā) causes of saṅkhāra(pariññeyya)'s arising&vanishing (consciousnesses, mental factors, and matters), that are causes of life in the whole 31 realms. Samādhi can not protects people from arising and vanishing. When samādhi vanished, people can hurt again. And when jhāna's effects vanished, bhramma-puggala will die to born in the other realms such as 4 apāya, etc. Sīla give this physical happiness to sīla-observers, people around them, and the society. Samādhi give mental-happiness to jhāna-meditator. Vipassanā give nibbāna (nirodha-ariyasacca), forever happiness, to arahanta. Nibbāna is no attaching (taṇhā-samudaya-ariyasacca), so nibbāna must no arising, no people, no time, no realm, no suffering (dukkha-ariyasacca). 

Now i think what unwise and wise consideration is the things you focus on. Unwise Consideration maybe focusing on your past or your future asking question that have no really meaning pondering them. While wise is focusing on suffering and overcoming it. Is thia correct? 

The books and videos all describe it as, Looking at jhana and its factors in retrospective knowledge What does this mean exactly? Is it going over the events that happened during the jhana? there anything specific you suppose to do? 

I'm having trouble truly understanding nimattas. I use visualization for my jhana mediation. It's what focus my mind best and allowed me to almost enter jhana. But if i do visualize, will the nimatta still appear? How would i recognise it? And once it appear do i move off my object to it? Also i read this passage explaining what a nimtta means in the modern day. I wish to know does this do a great job explaining it.