Taking a slightly different viewpoint: I could easily envision that multiple companies are producing their own spaceships and 3rd party manufacturers want their devices to be on them. Today it's nearly impossible for a 3rd party to have the exact same GUI experience on multiple devices (iOS/Android/Linux/Windows). However if the app is a CLI then it's trivial for the usage to be near identical. It's also far cheaper to produce and maintain. 

Yes, war can lead to development of new technologies. However it is by no means the only, or even primary, reason that most technology has been developed. Take a simple thing like the transition from nomadic to agricultural lifestyles. There are many theories about why this occurred, none of which involve war being a motivator. Further, it is arguably one of the greatest changes that early humanity went through and whose technology is still advancing even today. If war was the only driver then we likely would never have made the switch as it's obviously more advantageous to be nomadic in that situation. It is entirely possible that a culture without war never advances beyond a nomadic existence. Generally speaking this means that something is missing from that culture. However, it is entirely possible that a culture without war would be so far advanced that they would appear as gods to us. One thing to consider is that peace is what helped get the renaissance period started. Any period of relaxation for a naturally inquisitive species will lead to testing new concepts and ideas. Examples of drivers include: a population explosion would lead to new ways for collection and distribution of food; while a period of depopulation might lead to innovating ways of keeping entities alive (exa: soap, clean water). Either of those could also lead to inventing written communication - in order to preserve knowledge and transfer knowledge. Eventually this would lead to long distance communication would rise if the need were great enough. So, in the end, war isn't necessary for the advancement of the species. If you look at history, war actually sets all parties back as it causes depopulation of the prime members of the participants, results in upheaval of societies, stops and even destroys most industrial activities, etc. Generally speaking, the cost of large wars far outstrip the benefits received and is a reason why most reasonable leaders use this as a last resort. We can even look at specific inventions credited to war and with a bit of reflection realize that those inventions likely would have come out anyway. If for no other reason than to solve economic hardships. 

History offers some examples. Germany elected Hitler because he promised to restore Germany as an economic power. He became the Fuhrer (chief) and kaiser (Caesar / emperor) once his National Socialist Workers party held a majority. Had he not over reached into Russia, we might be seeing the third generation of the Hitler dynasty today. The Baath party in Iraq was elected, Saddam, the hired muscle (equivalent to the paid rioters in US politics), became a monarch by walking into the elected president's office one day and saying "get out of my office". Had his counter intelligence operation of exaggerating the country's progress with nuclear and biological weapons capabilities not backfired, he might still be in power today, or retiring and turning power over to his sons. On a more hypothetical note, in times of crisis it may be more desirable to have continuity of leadership than regular elections. If the leader is well liked and competent, and his/her offspring are equally so, I can see that evolving into a monarchy. In the USA, there is a tradition that presidents can serve no more than two terms, but other countries have no such rules. In Canada, Trudeau 1 governed 15 years for example. See @timb s answer for a better explanation. 

Space is easy. Weapons will need to disable your opponent without putting a hole in the vessel and causing catastrophic decompression. Otherwise there is no point in a boarding action. So, energy weapons rather than small fast ballistic makes sense. Maybe something along the lines of today's tasers. Energy weapons would need time to transfer energy to a capacitor before they can be discharged. Even using something like a bean bag gun might work against unarmored opponents and those weapons are loaded like shotguns. Ground warfare is an interesting one. We are currently developing armor that can shred bullets on impact. If your enemy hasarmor that can essentially shrug off kinetic weapons then the next step is to move to energy based ones. Which means we are back to needing to build up a charge prior pulling the trigger. Obviously in this scenario bean bag guns are unlikely to work; however an electrical shock would work very well against an enemy encased in metal. The ground warfare one would mean that most engagements are at pretty close quarters - close enough for an energy weapon to work before it's output dissipates. Of course electrical type bombs would be developed to control large areas. Also, all armor has weaknesses due to mobility. This means a blade might be able to sneak past armor joints in areas such as armpits, necks, etc. Double points if it's some type of an electro blade designed to vibrate it's way past armor... 

The blimp would have no buoyancy on Mars. Mars atmosphere would make a good attempt at a hard vacuum, at less than 1% the density of earth's. A blimp and a rock would have nearly the same flying ability. 

Karate student of 30 years - you cant. Knocking someone out requires striking the skull with sufficient force to bruise the brain. Brains have limited healing capacity. The brain is two hemispheres of fatty tissue connected by a short but thick segment of the same kind of tissue. The two hemispheres float independently in the cerebrospinal fluid, so blows from many angles will cause a shearing effect on the connecting tissue. Even injuries that have no immediate symptoms (i.e. no knockout) can express decades later because the injuries can be deep in the brain. Memory impairment, loss of self control, inability to process emotional and social cues are some of the long term symptoms. Edit: Causing unconsciousness by choking requires depriving the brain of oxygen sufficiently long for a critical percentage of the organ to shut down. The line between unconsciousness and death is very fine, and is the reason that police using "sleeper" holds usually end up in court. 

Hyperconformism leads to s stagnation People are sincere about conflicting value systems. Just because a person is honest doesn't mean he shares your value system. To the jihadi, ii am a legitimate target for execution, to me the jihadi is a legitimate target for religious conversion. Understanding our world views does not change the world view. The political class gets lynched. While this might be a good thing in the long run, there will be short term chaos as society readjusts. Understanding the"weirdo" does not mean he will be accepted more. It just opens up a new avenue for cruelty because there is no question about the intent of the victimized Some forms of "wierdo" may turn out to be contagious. 

Historically, winning a war isn't always done through stealth or even the usage of actual force. Threat of force, especially in the open, can compel participants to take certain actions. Consider a chess match. Both sides know exactly where each piece is. At the grand master levels, both sides even know a huge range of strategies and usually have researched their opponents prior games before it even starts. Yet, there is a almost always a clear winner. Winning the game comes through maneuvering. Forcing your opponent into a position in which they either cannot stop you from accomplishing your objective or you effectively stop them from completing theirs. In chess all of this is done 100% out in the open, with only the private thoughts of the participants during the match being hidden from view. In war history there have been many battles that were won without a single shot being fired simply due to both commanders recognizing the inevitability of the outcome and reverting back to standard political negotiations. Winning a war would be similar. There would be no surprise attacks, the deployment of forces would be completely out in the open. So, by necessity, both sides would employ generals that acted like chess grand masters. They would keep their thoughts private and wouldn't discuss their strategy with anyone. Rather, they would just issue deployment orders. Sometimes shots would actually be fired because no matter how many simulations you run, there is an element of chance in every endeavor. However, at some point the outcome would be obvious and the war would conclude. 

Run a set of pipes from underthe stern onto the deck and coil them to make a heat exchanger, then back into the water (Piot steam jet or Piot heat engine). You have a mage powered steam jet boat, with nothing newer than bronze age technology. Wikipedia has a good introduction to the physics that make it work. $URL$ $URL$ 

A warm front and cold front meet, and the warm mass of air is lifted by the cold mass of air. Precipitation that would normally counter the updraft is blown horizontally by shear winds, so the updraft above has nothing to limit its strength. Shear winds of different strengths start to form tubes around the updraft The Tubes formed in step 2 are absorbed into the updraft where they start a general rotation and become a supercell. The supercell tube stretches. As surrounding air moves in to replace what is lifted by the updraft, the tornado forms. 

And the crude map that sums up the hypothetical scenario ... Given this hypothetical map, you could achieve this goal: 

Yes it is possible. Take Italy, which is named in the Bible (Acts 27). There are 20,000 unpopulated ghost towns in a small heavily populated country that is over 2,000 years old. Link: $URL$ 

To take the most information possible back in time, assuming it's further than 30 years, then you can compile your information into electronic text files. Then run a compression algorithm on it. Print this information using tiny, but legible, print. Ensure that the method for decompression is in the first page. Hopefully all you have is exactly 1 book. When you arrive at your past destination, work out the decompression by hand. It might take awhile, but you get the option of picking your destination point. Also, depending on the time, you can leverage local people by employing them to do the decompression for you. 

One possibility is to have a subtle change to psychokinesis. First, in order for a psychokinetic to cause matter to move let's say they have to internalize the things weight. For example, to move a 2000 pound car I mentally transfer that weight onto myself. The car now weighs effectively 0 lbs while I now weigh 2150 pounds. Because of this a normal psychokinetic could never cause themselves to fly because transferring their own weight to themselves would result in a net change of zero... Second, let's say advanced psychokinetics know how to transfer weight both directions. So instead of just being able to take on that weight for themselves, they are able to transfer weight from themselves to something else... This leads to quite a few interesting challenges for the psychokinetics. Such as having real testable limits on their power. Sure you can move that car through the air .. but you can't do it while standing on rickety scaffolding as it wouldn't support the additional weight. 

Moved from comment to answer because I've done more research. Try the biblical account of Sodom and Gomorrah, believed to be near the coast of the Dead Sea . The cities were destroyed by means of volcanism (fire and brimstone), and 4000 years later we still don't know where they are for sure. As an argument for the effectiveness of this approach, there is even debate as to whether the cities actually ever existed. The Dead Sea region is (in)famous for its sulfur (brimstone) smell. One of its names over the centuries was "The Stink Sea" because of it. While the region has been tectonically active in the past, there are no active volcanoes in the area in recent times. Igneous rocks are the norm around the dead sea, as are old volcanic craters. To achieve your ends using this example, you are looking for a pyroclastic volcanic event that has a sudden onset, creates pyroclastic projectiles sufficient to smash stone and clay homes to rubble, but does not have an associated lava flow or leave a new crater. It must maintain a temperature high enough to cremate bodies, but not so high as to fire the clay into ceramics, without deoxygenating the atmosphere for sufficient time to allow thorough cremation of the bodies. A short lived lava plume, which originally powered the eruption, sits beneath the two cities, raising their temperature for the duration of the event. This is distinctly different from pompei, where the environment was preserved by ashes and lava flow. Edit: Summary of some concerns raised in comments The veracity of the biblical account is not part of this discussion. For that, go to one of the religious (Christianity, Judaism, etc) or archaeology SE sites. This is not an attempt to prove that Sodom and Gomorrah were destroyed by volcanic activity. It is an observation of a recorded event in a real location (Dead Sea valley) that matches the OP's question, and uses the real world geology of the area to establish a plausible natural event that a deity could use in the manner that OP requested. Setting aside the questions that are bigger than this discussion and off topic for worldbuilding, this event comes to mind because: 

Another alternative, and highly Sci Fi in nature, would be to have the assassin's body changed in such a way that they excrete a highly targeted toxin (maybe through sweat?) which would only affect the target based on their DNA. Such a thing would likely be undetectable, wouldn't require more than the assassin to simply touch the target, and would allow ex-filtration at a convenient time. It could even be written that it's a slow working toxin that whose effects are irreversible after a certain number of hours. 

War isn't the primary driver for technological advancement. There are more basic ingredients that have led to innovation: 

Due to the distances involved any fleet engagement is likely to only occur at or incredibly near to an objective. You mention wormholes as the primary means of travel between 2 star systems. These would be very well defined locations. By extension, the location that a ship could emerge from one would be well known. Because of this those locations can be heavily defended with any type of weapon system you can imagine: large kinetic weapons, space "mines" designed to explode on command, a ring of lasers, etc.. By the same token if an enemy fleet manages to smash through those defenses then it's a matter of stopping them at their destination. Locating and tracking that fleet will be trivial and you'll have plenty of time to muster defenses before they arrive. Are they heading towards that mining space station orbiting a moon? The station will likely have a standing picket fleet to ensure the enemy doesn't get close. Are they heading towards a planet to bombard it? The planet will likely be ringed with defenses designed to kill bombs that are in flight... My point is: these fights will be up close and personal. It will involve not just the ships but relatively static defenses at the target location. There will be no need to chase an enemy fleet around the solar systems - which means the defenders can simply wait them out. All of this means that the likely real world attack profile will be to insert a large landing force that can take and hold the gates around the wormholes thereby establishing a beach head. Once that is done then the attacker would transfer additional personnel and ships in order to launch attacks on other target sites. Each attack would require closing on the target until you can be reasonably assured that you can land regular troops - or that you can launch enough nuclear type weapons to obliterate the target. The defenders goal would be to prevent each location from being taken. The combat would favor the defender because it should be apparent where the enemy would need to be in order to launch their attacks and therefore you could prepare for those attacks well in advance. Again, because the potential locations are known the defender can place weapons at, or very near them ahead of time - easily sidestepping the problem of distance and therefore any of the weapon systems you described are viable. 

Pragmatism - an execution is an expensive undertaking of it is attended to in anywhere near the detail that western democracies do. You can stock up on the drugs and handle them assembly line style, working through dozens for close to the same cost as a single execution. 

With a meteor of that scale, the least of your worries will be the EMP. The energy of impact will instantly vaporize the meteor itself and an equivalent mass of the earth's crust. The shockwave will be felt around the world as major earthquakes. Portions of the mantle may be exposed briefly, a large mass of sulfur will be vaporized. The heat of impact will cause fires across half the world. Molten rock fragments will rain from the sky around the world for days. In short, I feel no amount of concrete can protect you from the simple mechanical damage. Defense against EMP effects, in contrast, is simple. It requires a solid metal casing around the electrical and electronic systems. 

Poise, competency, and success. I have a 12 year old on my webcast team that looks and sounds about 10, but when he's in the technical directors chair the rest of team knows Exactly Who's In Charge. It's amusing to me to see him light into a 20 something year old that's more than twice his size for playing with their cell phone when they should be watching their camera, but he mostly commands by earned respect and rarely has to raise his voice, even in the noise levels of a live webcast production.