This landmark measure was a major step in the disfranchising of the samurai estate and vastly strengthened the regime's authority by creating a force capable of dealing with countercoups and providing internal security. Quotes and references from: James L. McClain. Japan, a modern history W.W. Norton & Co, 2002 

The Charter Oath promulgated at the enthronement of Emperor Meiji of Japan on 7 April 1868 includes several parts that identify the reasons for the radical social restructure that followed the Meiji restoration and an indication of the motivations for the dissolution of the warrior class that had been a defining characteristic of Japanese society. 

The determination to remove the "base customs" of the past drove the new government to dismantle the old Confucian based social order. This included the removal of the restrictions and privileges that had defined the samurai, peasant, artisan and merchant classes. During the summer of 1869 Tokyo formally reclassified the population as nobles, former samurai and commoners. In 1871 the Tokyo government assumed the responsibility for paying stipends to the former samurai. This immediately accounted for almost one-third of the government's expenditure. This massive financial obligation created pressure to abolish the subsidies entirely. Despite less than universal support amongst the new leaders, in 1873 the Daijō-kan (department of state) offered interest-bearing goverment bonds to former samurai who surrendered their stipends. Three years later it made that exchange obligatory. In 1876 ex-warriors were deprived the right to carry swords. These steps to dissolve the military estate coincided with the establishment of a conscript army based on the Prussian and French models. Vice minister of military affairs Yamagata had seen the efficacy of these armies first hand in Europe and in 1873 enacted a Conscription Ordinance: 

That means that the price of gold is driven by the size of the money supply, so changes in interest rates would theoretically drive real gold prices largely to the extent that they expand or contract the money supply. Exchange prices of gold internationally would be more of a measure of the relative strength of the exchanging nations' economies. 

He eventually arrived in Le Harve on June 20th, after brief layovers in Santander and La Coruña in Spain and Plymouth, England. The picture below purports to be of the Ypiranga entering the Le Harve harbor with Díaz aboard. 

I think you are forgetting that the inflation rate during WWI was staggering. The consumer price index at the end of the war was extremely high, and the deflation that you are referring to can be seen as more of a adjustment in pricing back toward pre-war levels. In fact the CPI was relatively flat through the 20s as a 10 year moving average: 

This is further echoed by Mieth and Bork, who make a strong case that evidence of agricultural activity on the Island points to a much earlier settlement date. 

Even after his death he was named in investigations into the influence of communism in American government and the military. For example, his name appears on a list of subjects for investigation in the investigation report on the Institute of Pacific Relations by Senator Pat McCarran in 1952. Its categorization is as follows (p152): 

You might like one of my local fortifications (The Portsmouth area is a fortification rich area with forts/castles dating from the 3rd to the 19th and probably 20th Century, all worth a look), Porchester castle is built on the remains of a Roman Fort of the Saxon Shore, with large parts of the Roman fortifications (including D shaped bastions) incorporated into the curtain wall. 

Plato:Republic ~220,000 words (in translation), Symposium ~25,000 words (in translation) Aristotle: Poetics ~20,000 words (in translation), Physics ~85,000 words (in translation) It is fairly easy to find the word counts for English translations of surviving works 

Edge and Williams A STUDY OF THE GERMAN ‘GOTHIC’ 15TH-CENTURY EQUESTRIAN ARMOUR (A21) IN THE WALLACE COLLECTION, LONDON, Gladius XXI, 2001, pp. 233-256 downloadable at: $URL$ 

Here is a scale diagram of Warspite in 1918 from this post on World of Warships (only minor modifications were incorporated since Jutland so in tems of rangefinder heights this is representative). 

After some more research I stand by my earlier comment in general the gun ports had minimal protection, relying on small size and being in the shadow of the gun. There is a large amount of negative evidence for this, for example in his books Warrior to Dreadnought, The Grand Fleet and Nelson to Vanguard D. K. Brown does not mention protection to turret gun ports. The positive evidence I cite the cross section of a 14" three gun turret on Eugene Solver's US Navy pages which shows no protection to the gun port. From the same site we have access to OP 769 Configuration of the Three Gun Turrets of the USS New Jersey which explains that there are upper and lower shield plates on the gun slide. These do not seal the gun port and at best provide protection from 6" projectiles and splinters. The arragements are shown in the accompanying illustration, from which their thickness can be measured which when compared to the face plate thickness is equivalent to about 3" thick. The relevant section of this document is shown below: 

In 1928, equity prices were booming due to the increase in the money supply, and the Federal Reserve feared that this was a speculative bubble driven by low interest rates. The Fed's action was intended to encourage people to move money from investing in the stock market toward bank savings in an effort to stabilize the economy, not to borrow. 

It arrived in Havana with the general on board 2 days later, again as reported by the New York Times on June 4th: 

Escape attempts at Elmira seemed to be fairly common from what I find. One account describes the punishment for prisoners caught in escape attempts, and implies that tunneling was a common way to wind up there. 

However, the preponderance of materials I could find gave his age at 15. Note that this is the youngest that I can find substantiating record of. The database at deathpenaltyusa.org lists an unnamed white male executed for arson in Suffolk County, Massachusetts in 1837 at the age of 13, but I can't find any source material that would corroborate that. EDIT: In response to the edited question, the youngest person (and certainly the youngest female) generally believed to have been legally executed in the United States is Hannah Ocuish, executed at age 12 in Connecticut in 1786. Note that the deathpenaltyusa.org site linked about records 2 other 12 year olds executed, both black slaves, a boy in Virginia by the name of Clem on 5/11/1787 and another boy named Bill on 7/30/1791. In the latter case, there seems to be a disagreement on the location. I'm guessing that the LA Times is the more accurate account.3 1 Radelet, Michael ed. Facing the Death Penalty: Essays on a Cruel and Unusual Punishment, p 52 2 Morning Examiner. (Bartlesville, Okla.), Vol. 15, No. 46, Ed. 1 Saturday, April 9, 1910, p 3 3 Los Angeles Times. Death for Juvenile Crimes : Execution, a Practice Dating to 1642, May Continue This Week, January 07, 1986 p online 

The most striking example that immediately occurs to me is the development of the Bat Bomb by the United States during World War Two. It was conceived by dental surgeon Lytle S. Adams with the premise that bats carrying timed incendiary devices would be released over Japanese cities at high altitudes, disperse over a wide area during the night (secluding themselves in buildings across the city) and then explode the next day causing widespread damage and panic. The project was approved by President Roosevelt in 1942 but was eventually overtaken by Atomic bomb development and then cancelled in 1944. 

It is easy to view the distance between Botany Bay and Port Jackson as small by today's standards, but it is actually a considerable 'trek'. Even with todays excellent roads, it takes two and a half hours to walk from Circular Quay (and the better soil around Port Jackson) to the northern edge of Botany Bay. Then consider you have to carry supplies over multiple trips and this short distance becomes a great deal longer. But the most important point is indicated in the Wikipedia article: 

I have looked through the German Propaganda Archive and haven't found any references to the British occupation of Iceland in 1940. So I would hesitantly guess that if the occupation was used by German propagandists, it was not used widely. 

This may be referring to The Magyar Struggle, from Neue Rheinische Zeitung No. 194, January 13, 1849 (emphasis mine): 

This would actually turn out to be only one of the ties that the ship would have with the Mexican revolution. In April of 1914, it was involved in what would become known as "the Ypiranga incident" when it was detained while trying to dock in Veracruz to unload a shipment of arms for the Huertistas. 

A "boat crimper" is synonymous with a "boot crimper" - a person who specializes in manufacturing and repairing boots. The process of crimping is used to make leather conform to shapes that can't be created with folding, and involves stretching wet leather over a form with clamps or pliers. You can get an idea of what is involved here. A good example of the term being used in this context is in the following excerpt from the 12/25/1890 edition of the Daily Alta California (emphasis added): 

Whether it was 2 years or 200 years, the academic consensus was that it was incredibly fast. I would likely lean more toward the longer time-frame, as the archaeological record is more consistent with a "slower" migration. Stuart Fiedel gives the mainstream account of a migration that took around 100-150 years. 

A rough estimate of the gun shield thickness in this photo (reproduced below) can be made which is very roughly ~4" (maybe a bit more?). The Yamato's gun shield appears to be similar in form to that of the German 38cm (15") gun shown. 

The Mayflower was a small-ish merchant ship (Dutch Fluyt) of the early 17th Century ~100 tons burden. With a crew of ~25-30 men and boys. Also all the models/diagrams seem to show stairs from the half deck to the upper deck and to the deck below that above the hold (and maybe down to the orlop deck or hold ) 

Probably French line infantry of the period, in which case 113 is the regiment number. Attached a couple of illustrations of Franco-Prussian War period line uniforms. 

The production rate could have been about three a month according to the transcript of the telephone conversation between Gen Hull and Col Seeman on the Nuclear Secrecy Blog 

The initial British/French mining in the channel was as an anti-submarine barrage. Later anti-invasion fields were laid. Later in the war offensive fields were laid on the other side of the channel. Details of RN mine laying in WW2 may be found here 

From: Dilley, N. E. "Development of Proximity Fuzes (VT) for Projectiles - VT Fuzes MKS 32 to 60, Inclusive (General Description)." chapter 1 of The World War II Proximity Fuze: A Compilation of Naval Ordnance Reports by the Johns Hopkins University Applied Physics Laboratory. (Silver Spring MD: The Laboratory, 1950): 1-12. [Declassified 16 Jun. 1976]. (I can't find an original copy of this, it is quoted here) 

The Lexington had been taken prize by the British on September 19th, and was put up for repairs in Dover shortly before the loss of Reprisal, as noted in The Public Advertiser (London), 3 October 17772: 

I would suggest reading Book 1 of The Gallic Wars (link has both English and Latin if you want to see the untranslated text), which is as much a political history of the conquest of Gaul as it is a military history. Julius Caesar starts the book with a description of the political landscape at the time: 

I can't find any evidence of Harald being shot in the back (other than figuratively). In fact, the only roughly contemporary account of his death that I can find in some casual searching is from the Chronicon Roskildense probably written in the 12th century. Note that the Chronicon was likely the earliest "history" as opposed to "saga", although being written over 200 years afterward the lines between the two are pretty blurry. The account of Harald's death is simply this: 

The longest running that I can find is the property dispute of Raja Rajkrishna Deb, which was started in 1833 and is as far as I can find still pending after 181 years. 

So my assumptions about Yahara signing the surrender terms soon after the collapse were unsound. Reading the interrogation report included as an appendix of his book it is clear that instead Yahara managed to evade capture for several days before being picked up by local CIC agents. He remained a prisoner until January 1946 when he was repatriated to Japan and was not involved in surrender ceremonies on the 7th of September. 

A deep, well protected harbor was incredibly valuable to a new colony that would rely on support and contact with Britain to survive and, in the long term, trade to prosper. I imagine that the proximity of such a harbor makes Phillip's decision even easier. 

The "Winged Pegasus" patch is the insignia for British Airborne Forces and was specifically the divisional patch for the 6th and 1st Airborne Divisions during WW2. The 1st Airborne Division adopted the patch in May 1942, the sixth on the 14th of May 1943. The 44th Indian Airborne Division also adopted a similar patch with the word 'INDIAN' underneath the design. 

The artwork for the patch was created by Edward Seago. The British Parachute regiment's mascot was a Shetland pony named Pegasus IV and the official magazine of the British Airborne forces is the "Pegasus": 

From this drawing we can take measurements, which gives the height of the rangefinder above the fire control top on the foremast is about 28m above the top edge of the boot topping (the black band around the hull approximately where the waterline would be). So the height above the water line in combat should have been within a meter or so of 28m. This would put the geometric horizon at about 19+ km (~21 kyd). So the maximum range at which an opponent could be seen by the range finder would be maybe something like 35 km (~ 38 kyd). But this is academic for Jutland as visibility was constrained by the weather conditions and the smoke not by the geometric horizon. (also note the refraction will result in the horizon generally being further away than the geometrical horizon) Added for information, the longest range hit by one underway warship on another is a toss up between Warspite's hit on Guilio Cesare during the Action off Calabria (the battle of Punta Stilo) July 1940 at ~26 kyds, and Scharnhorst on Glorious in June 1940 at about 26.2-26.5 kyds. The uncertainties in the figures make it difficult to say that the latter was definitely at a longer range than the former.