Yes. This is called "combined arms" and occurred all the time; providing you could afford the cost of horses and the delay of infantry. While the range and reach of pole-arms had some uses before the arrival of set-piece battles involving horses (a/k/a The Cavalry); pole-arms exploded in popularity once horses were common enough and cheap enough - especially the Halberd as you could hook the uppity noble off his horse and then stab repeatedly with a dagger. So unless you had a mass of archers (horseback or otherwise); a pre-firearm land battle would need infantry as soon as you were bottled up in terrain that limited manoeuvrability. Though one could argue that a desire to destroy the enemy head-on and an aristocrat distaste of guerrilla warfare induced more set-piece battles than would otherwise occur. Conscripted soldiers often had no say on whether to pursue asymmetric warfare, hence battles such as the "Battle of Hamburger Hill" in Vietnam or the Battle of Towton in the War of the Roses. Elaborating on the nature of cavalry*: Fighting from horseback essentially added extra manoeuvrability to combat - a way of increasing your options of engagement and decreasing the enemy's as per Sun Tzu's chapter on movement. Cultures we consider did very well without massed infantry (Mongol Golden Horde, Parthian Horse Archers, Polish Winged Hussars) made sure to avoid meat-grinding close-quarter combat. Extensive use of weapons with asymmetric reach (archery, thrown spears, really long disposable lances) plus the rider's elevated field of vision (improved battle awareness) also helped evade the enemy's projection of force and enhance your own. Infantry wasn't stupid; their aim was to either restrict the horses (selection of terrain) or kill the horse and rider at a distance (massed archery). Selection of terrain limited range of environments cavalry could fight in (swampland, mountains, cities, etc) and completely ruled out holding on to hostile territory without infantry as the local populace could re-shape/the/terrain to be unsafe for cavalry. Cultures famed for cavalry either had infantry (Poland, Parthia) or were nomads with few fixed settlements (Mongols**). * A Military Stack Exchange is still in the Area 51 staging zone. ** The Mongol "Empire" dissolved quickly. In so far as its fragments had internal cohesion, this was because they were simply the original nations under new management - with local culture, laws and infantry. 

A society that had less silver than gold was either unlucky in geographic location or simply not mining or trading for it in the first place. 

At the height of the Cold War, total extermination was considered a possibility. In which case any beloved domestic pets like dogs and cats would presumably die unless included in the civilian bunker with the family. 

Most was circulated back into the community through Church charities and hospitals (scroll down to 'History of charity in the Church'). Some was taken by the state and thus became eventually owned by people (see Dissolution of the Monasteries: Continental Precedents for example). Some was converted into buildings, icons, frescos, statues and other forms of patronage. The remainder was converted in real estate, bullion and other investments. This residual might be a modest fraction of the total money that has flowed through the church, but does add up over the centuries. The simple answer is no one quite knows how much money the Church has retained. 

Greco-Roman polytheism in Rome survived the 455 CE sacking but it is unclear at what point traditional roman paganism transformed into hybrid Christian heresies versus any retention of religious purity. Secret cults by virtue of being secret are both hard to track and likely to mutate in isolation over time. In so far as Roman beliefs fed back into the Hellenistic religion prior to the rise of Christianity, apparently there were open holdouts on the Greek islands until at least 804 CE. Claims of continuity to the present day seem unsubstantiated and derive from neopagan websites. The Greco-Roman revival has even been interpreted as form of resurgent nationalism rather than a full blown religious revival. 

The term Manifest Destiny is defined as an outlook of the United States. However, the other two major nations on the North American continent also grew from port settlements and trading posts; so I wonder if at some point in their history they also felt and articulated an explicit expansion-orientated imperative. Did Canada or Mexico have an equivalent of Manifest Destiny at some stage in their development? If so, what explicit Acts of the Canadian or Mexican legislatures were passed to that end? 

* Despite the importance of money supply statistics, no one actually has anything more than a rough estimate of global M0 or MZM. Which should scare the shit out you. * * Inflation makes a gold standard seem sexy, but deflation is far worse in our current economic paradigm of resource distribution; and at least hyperinflation is politically self limiting. * * * Speculation and debt can also expand the money supply, but they eventually have to "latch onto" someone's actual production of work if they are to have any meaning in the first place. Hence their expansion of the money supply is closely related to the available global labour pool as influenced by population growth. 

If we assume his mother Helena had no influence on his spiritual beliefs (big assumption), the major classical reason for conversion are military successes attributed to God's divine protection of Constantine, especially the Battle of the Milvian Bridge. The gradual increase of Christians in the Roman empire can't be wholly dismissed either; as the young Christian Church could be useful source of taxation revenue and political legitimacy; even before being formally acknowledged. The calculating politician answer: He gains reputation as a just and pious ruler (during his own lifetime and rule) and gains a group of fervent political advocates that offset any dissipated pagan factions of the time. Put simply, early Christian missionaries ate away at native Roman religious groups until some Emperor was going to have to acknowledge them; since the other approach (of purging Christians) clearly wasn't working. 

Source: Fallout Shelter Handbook by Chuck West, 1962. Do we know from any sources if pets were accommodated for in US, European or USSR fallout shelters? 

The Wikipedia article about the History of Western Australia mentions that the British set up a military garrison at King George Sound in 1826 and established a colony on the Swan River in 1829 in order to discourage the French from settling the west coast. If they had, Australian history would have been very different due to sharing the desert continent*. So I wonder how likely was the colonisation of Western Australia by France. Or specifically: Did France actually intend to colonise West Australia; and were any resources assigned to this objective prior to 1829? French sources one way or the other would be excellent. * A land army for one coast to conquer the other would have been suicidal due to the deadly expanse of the Nullarbor Plain. No prosaic land war in the style of 1812. 

I suggest reading the entire article to dig into the backstory. * Had to get a MyJSOR account to read it. 

Sugar is highly addictive. Bad science regarding the role of cholesterol in heart disease resulted in swapping out fat with sugar unless you wanted everything to taste like cardboard. 

International law on shipwreck salvage rights has not yet stabilised and usually requires case-by-case litigation. A common example of this is litigation between a commercial salvage company and the flag state (nation) of the recovered shipwreck. Considering that many shipwrecks with rich cargoes are from the Age of Discovery/Exploitation: Has there ever been a salvage dispute between an ex-colony and its former colonial master? For example, a shipwreck that was carrying gold and silver from Mexico to Spain being litigated by Mexico as "The stolen wealth of the Mexican people" versus Spain's "It was our ship and you were our colony when it sank". This scenario needn't be limited to colonies or shipwrecks in the Americas. 

The founders of the Pennsylvania colony (and Massachusetts, Virginia and Kentucky for that matter) were inspired by the writings of English philosophers like John Locke and Thomas Hobbes; and so emphasised that their colony's authority derived from the people by formally calling themselves a Commonwealth. This wasn't necessarily different from other states that chose call themselves Republics (like Vermont Republic) or Provinces (like Province of New Hampshire) or Colonies (like Delaware Colony) prior to the creation of the United States. 

* Ignoring more quirky lethal sweeteners like Ancient Rome's Defrutum. ** As you can tell, I was a participant of PaleoHacks Q&A before it shifted from a Stack Exchange spin-off to a commercialised crowd-sourcing siphon a la Facebook. 

Found information in this JSOR article*: Georges Clemenceau ceeded Mosul during a Sunday conversation at the French Embassy in London on December 1st 1918. Possibly for one or more of these three reasons: 

The real dichotomy is the balance between Democracy and Meritocracy. Sometimes an oligarchy is more meritocratic in a given context than a democracy, sometimes it isn't. So to answer your question (): Oligarchy: 

The Qing Dynasty had run out of steam by the 19th century. The government did try to modernise (the Self-Strengthening Movement) but the imperial government's authority was too weak and its civic infrastructure was too corrupt to embark on the systematic modernisation that Japan undertook in the Meiji era. The factions within the Qing imperial court and the vested interests of provincial governors subverted the wider social and economic reforms that underpin a modern army. The "blockage" couldn't really be resolved until the Qing dynasty was overthrown; although young Emperor Guangxu did try. Looked at from another angle: China did start modernising in the 19th century; but the sheer volume of China's internal problems at the time meant that a lot of foundational groundwork was needed. The sort of progress that isn't very visible in coal and steel production or ship deadweight tonnage. China's modernisation didn't necessarily start later but took longer and with more temporary setbacks. So, in much the same way as electron transport makes heating up metal quicker than water, the cohesiveness and economic velocity of Japanese society made their modernisation faster - but a metal teaspoon and a glass of water both heat up in the end. 

Colonial access to suitable territory to grow sugar cane in; Subjugating labourers able to survive in tropical conditions; Creating a sugar cultivar that grew in Europe; and The Industrial Revolution increasing extraction yields and transport speed into international markets. 

Considering the US government's low opinion of General MacArthur* even before he almost performed a military coup in the 1950s: Was Douglas MacArthur ever made aware of the Manhattan Project before Little Boy was dropped Hiroshima? And if so, when? * And frankly my own low opinion of the guy as possibly the most incompetent career general in a position of power that America has had this side of the Civil War. 

As the American Revolution and the Latin American Wars of Independence occurred within about 30 years of each other, presumably some people with an appetite for liberating colonies participated in both. I briefly looked the list of Founding Fathers and of Libertadores and saw no obvious overlap. So unless freedom fighting is strictly a young man's game, my question is: Were there any people of note who participated in both the American Revolution and the Latin American Wars of Independence, on the side of the colonists? 

As T.E.D. mentions, the British high command would have fallen back to their Commonwealth allies such as Canada had the invasion been successful. In counter-factual history, the involvement of the USA and USSR would have been as vital as in real history. If the invasion had gone ahead, the unused poster "Keep calm and carry on" would likely been have superseded by the planned slogan "You can always take one with you"