Hoysaleswara temple was built in Halebidu (currently in the modern state of Karnataka, India) during the rule of King Vishnuvardhana Hoysaleswara of the Hoysala Empire in the 12th century and is one of the largest temples dedicated to the Hindu God Shiva in South India. The construction was started around 1120 CE and completed in 1150 CE. Many art historians accept the theory that the Hoysala pillars were prepared on lathe. 

Brain capacity may be a limiting factor in human muscle function per a study 'Maximal Voluntary Fingertip Force Production Is Not Limited by Movement Speed in Combined Motion and Force Tasks' by Valero-Cuevas et.al. which appears in July 8, 2009, Journal of Neuroscience. "Valero-Cuevas and his collaborators, his former students Kevin G. Keenan of the University of Wisconsin/Milwaukee, Veronica J. Santos of Arizona State University, and Madhusudhan Venkadesan of Harvard University interpret the results to mean the brain is sufficiently occupied by the physical demands of combining motions and forces, so the muscle properties are not the limiting factors for how much force the fingers can create." The results of the study were, 

According to this article wearing cellphones in the front pocket can cause men lose their fertility. 

In this article and many others, I read that cows are contributing to the climate change more than cars in releasing CO2. 

If this is true humans shouldn't be blamed for the climate change. I understand we grow them for meat so it's again us. But if we would let the cows overpopulate we would end up with the same result. 

There is a claim spreading around and I'd like to know if this is correct from the astronomical side. 

I carry my smartphone in the front pocket all day long, not just one hour and this kind of information really disturb me. If phones really have these devastating effects on men, it should be prohibited and cellphone companies sued. It's like selling uranium or whatever poison. Why there isn't enough research done so this claim can be proved right or wrong for good? 

Apart from diet, moderate and regular physical activity is known to decrease both acute and chronic inflammation. 

"Chronic traumatic brain injury (CTBI) associated with boxing occurs in approximately 20% of professional boxers. Risk factors associated with CTBI include increased exposure (i.e., duration of career, age of retirement, total number of bouts), poor performance, increased sparring, and apolipoprotein (APOE) genotype." A majority of boxing-related fatalities result from traumatic brain injury. Biomechanical forces in boxing result in rotational acceleration with resultant subdural hematoma and diffuse axonal injury. There was a significant decline in mortality after 1983 which was hypothesized as the result of a reduction in exposure to repetitive head trauma (shorter careers and fewer fights), along with increased medical oversight and stricter safety regulations. Mandatory central nervous system imaging after a knockout could lead to a significant reduction in associated mortality. 

In this video it is claimed that the person who designed it was passing the statue of Virgin Mary with 12 stars and applied it to the design of the flag. How much of this claim is true? 

According to this article, the birth-control hormones were found in the rivers and even ended up in the drinking water. Amway dealers claim that only their water purifier can remove these hormones since they are too small to be extracted by a standard water purifier. Their product is much more expensive for the reason I mention. I know their products are normally overpriced and I think it's just a trick to sell it. I worry about the quality of the water now and thinking of getting a water purifier. But are my worries actually rational or should I really get a purifier? The main claims regarding a contraception hormones found in drinking water are that they affect people's fertility or general health, or even the main cause of the rise of homosexuality. 

Eggplant: Solanum melongena (egg plant) is known to contain a high amount of hydroxycinnamic acid conjugates and hydroxycinnamic acid derivatives from corn are noted to have anti-inflammatory activity. However it is not clearly known or tested whether those hydroxycinnamic acid conjugates from egg plants cause anti-inflammatory activity in humans. There are no published research studies testing the effects of eggplant on inflammation in humans. Mushrooms: The anti-inflammatory effects of edible mushrooms are well researched and the findings are present here and here. 

HIV-1 group M was found before 1960 in Leopoldville/Kinshasa which was well before the start of Special Virus Cancer Program in 1964. 

Referring to Pavitra Rastogi in 2011, systematic studies and randomized control trials are needed to find out the best probiotic strains and means of administration in different oral health conditions. 

In conclusion, it would appear that the widely held beliefs hold true - Russian do drink a lot, much more than the world average. It appears to be a huge problem for the country, and for many of countries that were part of USSR. Medvedev called Russia's drinking problem a "national disaster". 

Since the 1940's, numerous studies have been published regarding paternal discrepancy; here's a fairly comprehensive list. Also, four meta-studies ( literature surveys ) are listed. Bellis is listed as both the co-author of some of the individual studies, and a 2005 meta-study. Quote from the abstract: 

As you can see from the above, you might be hard-pressed to find a city with less rainfall than London, although other regions ( the mountainous north-west ) do have high rainfall amounts. 

A 2014 research article titled "Reconsidering the effects of blue-light installation for prevention of railway suicides" stated that "The exact proportion of nighttime suicide attempts at the ends of railway platforms was not calculable. Nonetheless, the proportion of suicide attempts that is potentially preventable by blue lights should be less than our conservative estimate." 

Brett Palmer a student of biblical inerrancy issues states in Skeptical review online that Kenyon’s original findings place the date for Jericho’s destruction at c. 1550 BCE which is too early for Joshua’s conquest as described in the Bible. 

SPYY an antifungal compound is also noted to be produced in the skin secretion of Phyllomedusa bicolor. 

Referring to analysis by Robert Engen present here, this claim was based on the numbers in the books "On Killing: The Psychological Cost of Learning to Kill in War and Society" by David Grossman; and "Men against Fire", by SLA Marshall. However, there is no research/statistical evidence to support the claimed numbers. 

Did this happen and continue happening in the skies? Can the astronomers see this event or is this just some made up story to support their correlation? 

In this video and this article skydiver attempts to jump without a parachute. I can see in the video that his front(stomach) is bigger and possibly hiding something. Did he have the parachute hidden in the front and planning to open only in case his dropping gets out of the route and misses the target? Or is there a total prove he didn't have any parachute at all? 

I come across another Indiegogo project that promises a weight loss just by carrying their device on the head. This device stimulates nerves behind the ear. They claim that these nerves send a signal to the hypothalamus, part of the brain that controls how the body store body fat. I'm very skeptical and in shock that the project already got so much funding. They don't show any people who were on the trail and didn't show any results except the founder showing his stomach. I feel like this is another scam, I'm just surprised how many people already pre-ordered something so ridiculous. It reminds me Ritot. How much of the claim is true? Can their clinical trials be found somewhere? They said they spent 5 years researching, it must be well documented. 

Meaning: As of 2016, the only thing known is that crumb rubber turf contains hazardous chemicals but it is unknown whether crumb rubber turfs can cause cancer. Future research such as the one mentioned below might measure the range of long term exposure to confirm or deny the definitive link between crumb rubber turfs and cancer. 

2. Was it injured or killed?-No The crowd nor Marilyn Manson band including Marilyn Manson did not slaughter the chicken with their bare hands. 

The oldest known representation of two snakes entwined around a rod is that of the Sumerian fertility god Ningizzida. According to Sumerian mythology, Ningizzida is the mother of Dumuzi (Tammuz) the god of spring vegetation and they both stood at the gate of heaven. Tamuz guarded the door of heaven and had the power of bestowing fertility. Source: Tower of Babel