You can use Generic Mapping Tools (GMT): $URL$ It's a command line tool for (among other things) plotting maps and geographical data. Works best on Linux/Mac but also on Windows. Here's an example. Running this code generates a map: 

tl;dr All of them. As mentioned in the other answers here, it's about economics. Extracting an element from a mineral requires energy, chemical processes, equipment, waste management, etc. This has to be done per amount of rock. The more of the element in interest you have in your rock, the more economic it is. Earth has active geology: hydrothermal processes, plate tectonics, magmatism, surface erosion and weathering. The combination of that causes some element to be concentrated in ore deposits, where the enrichment factor over the average composition can get to several orders of magnitude. That's why we mine gold from lodes and not from your average soil or rock. This is why we mine iron from BIFs and not from sea sand. None of this happens on the moon. Very few elements are enriched to economic concentrations, maybe some copper and zinc close to ancient volcanic vents. But then, you need to dig the stuff. You need to chemically extract it. You need to do something with the mining waste. Most likely, you will need more of an element than you can extract. To break some rocks you will need some vanadium or titanium tools, or maybe tungsten carbide. There is wear and tear on the tools. You will need to make new tools. For that you will need to get even more vanadium and tungsten, that are simply not available. Maybe extraction processes require organic compounds. There are no suitable organic compounds on the moon. You will end up having to ship the stuff from Earth just to be able to support a mining operating, that will not produce enough materials to support the mining operation. This would be like dumping money in the rubbish bin. So, no. Do not do it. Mining on the moon will not be a self sufficient operation. 

1 Valley, J. W., Cavosie, A. J., Ushikubo, T., Reinhard, D. A., Lawrence, D. F., Larson, D. J., … Spicuzza, M. J. (2014). Hadean age for a post-magma-ocean zircon confirmed by atom-probe tomography. Nature Geoscience, 7(3), 219–223. doi:10.1038/ngeo2075 

I'd like to elaborate of the Chemicals issue of Azzie Rogers' answer. You can divide the chemical coloring into three main parts (there may be more, but these are the important ones): Inclusions A large, solid crystal can have tiny inclusions of other solid minerals. Commonly these inclusions are too small to individually observe by the naked eye. Microscopic methods, either optic or electronic, are usually required to properly identify the inclusions. Nonetheless, when a crystal is viewed on a macroscopic scale, the inclusions give their characteristic color to the mineral. Here is one great example: 

A flatland with occasional huge rocks and abundant rivers and lakes. One possibility might be a plain that experienced glaciation, bringing in the erratic rocks and carving the landscape. 

No, it's not. The overwhelming majority of the material in the rock is clastic, not chemical. Chemical sedimentary rocks are rocks where (almost) all of the material was precipitated, such as travertine, evaporites, etc. Cementation is a chemical process. As a clastic sedimentary rock has to be cemented somehow, otherwise it would be a sediment rather than a rock, all clastic sedimentary rocks have undergone some chemical process. This does not mean that they are chemical though. As diagenesis progresses and the rock undergoes more chemical changes it may become a diagenetic clastic sedimentary rock of even a metamorphic one, but never a chemical sedimentary rock. This implies that most, if not all, of its initial mass precipitated out of solution. 

First of all, your statement implies that volcanism didn't occur in Troodos. That is not true. Troodos was even referred to as "Troodos Volcano" once in Miyashiro's 1973 article about Troodos. A geological map of Cyprus clearly shows that a large portion of the ophiolite is composed of lavas (volcanic) and dykes (sub-volcanic): 

If you're writing a realistic space game, make it somewhat realistic. Don't just throw in all elements in the periodic table because that's not realistic. 

Albite is technically not even a plagioclase, but rather an alkali feldspar. It occurs in settings which are not your usual igneous rock: low grade metamorphic rocks, metasomatic rocks, pegmatites, etc. In this case the identity of the crystal is indeed interesting, and it is rarely called "plagioclase", but rather "albite". Anorthite is extremely rare on Earth. Even the so called "anorthosites" (rocks composed almost entirely of plagioclase) contain labradorite and not true anorthite. Conversely, anorthite (as $\ce{An_{95-98}}$) is the main constituent of Lunar anorthosites. These unique rocks and minerals truly deserve to be called anorthites. 

You are correct by saying that the dip angles vary greatly depending on the contours that you pick. In contrast to artificial maps designed to teach basic structural geology to students (such as the one you added in your question), natural maps are rarely "nice and friendly" regarding dip calculation. There are several reasons for this: 

As you can see, the charges all sum to zero, given that oxygen is negative two. Let's work out an example: You have 1 moles of each: K2O, MgO, and ZrO2. You will have one mole of Mg2+, one mole of Zr4+, and two moles of K+. 

There are "jumps" in the densities and seismic velocities. From experimental work, we know that olivine changes to wadsleyite and ringwoodite at these pressures. Both wadsleyite and ringwoodite are chemically similar to olivine, their composition is also $\ce{(Mg,Fe)2SiO4}$. However, because of the high pressure, their structure changes from the olivine structure to a denser, more compact spinel structure. Note that this is not spinel the mineral ($\ce{MgAl2O4}$), but rather the olivine composition with the ions arranged the same way the ions are arranged in spinel. At 660 km, the "spinel"-olivine changes to "perovskite"-olivine, causing the second discontinuity. This perovskite is not the mineral perovskite ($\ce{CaTiO3}$), but rather a magnesium silicate with the perovskite structure ($\ce{(Mg,Fe)SiO3}$). Here's a summary of the phases (i.e. minerals) you find in the Earth's mantle: 

No. The immense pressure actually works well to hold everything together instead of fragment them. There is some fragmentation in metamorphic rocks, but it's usually manifested as faulting rather than fragmentation into pieces (also known as brecciation). Here's an example: (source) 

Not necessarily. Marble is mostly made of either calcite (CaCO3) or dolomite (CaMg(CO3)2), both of which are carbonates that do not exhibit any foliation in metamorphic rocks. But marble is rarely pure and commonly has some clays or other minerals that can contribute to any linear features. Notice that the stuff in your picture is quite big - you can have thin layers of not-pure-marble between the pure marble. 

redox melting Now, for this to happen you obviously need to have CO2 in the mantle. But CO2 is the oxidised form of carbon. In general, the deeper you go in the mantle the more reduced the conditions are. The roots of cratonic lithospheric mantle are very reduced and any carbon in there occurs in the form of reduced carbon: diamonds. Diamonds are no good in facilitating carbonated melting of mantle rocks. However, if a process of metasomatism of fluid flow causes oxidation of the diamonds, they transform to CO2 thus enabling the formation of carbonated mantle melts. 

Here you're assuming that crystals that are not worn or rounded have their original crystal shape. This is rarely the case. These crystals, known as "euhedral" are the exception, not the rule. A good example is feldspar phenocrysts in granites, or some elongated amphiboles. Maybe phenocrysts of pyroxene in basalts. More commonly, crystals are just shapeless, also known as "anhedral". A more advanced form of rock and mineral study is called petrography - this requires thin sectioning abilities and a petrographical microscope. Basic tools that exist in all geological departments at universities, but probably not accessible to amateurs. 

This is a very interesting topic that in the past several years has reached the spotlight because of the work of Robert Hazen on the concept of "mineral evolution". Minerals are basically just inorganic compounds: you take several elements, arrange them in certain ways and you get minerals. Thus, the minerals will be mostly determined by what's available to them in term of chemical elements. The solar nebula in Earth's area was composed of very few major elements: Fe, Si, Mg, Al, O, C, etc. There are not many ways you can arrange this limited number of elements, and the mineral diversity was rather small. You cite the number 60. Could be more, could be less, but it sounds about right. With time, certain processes on Earth (magmatic, metamorphic, metasomatic, hydrothermal, you name it) preferentially move certain elements relative to others. This causes redistribution of elements in space, enriching and depleting certain elements in various areas. Elements that were previously present only in trace amounts and did not form minerals of their own may be concentrated so that they do. This is a time dependent process, hence the name "mineral evolution". This is a nice figure that sums things up: 

Source: James St. John, flickr You have the black basalt and in it a rock that came from several tens of km below the surface (or more). By collecting a lot of those deep-seated rocks from volcanic rocks, we can get a good idea of what the lower crust and the upper mantle look like. 

I'll take the form of the question given by another person here and attempt to provide a different answer. So what you are asking is: "How did gold become so concentrated in certain parts of the world?" So yes, gold is all around but the concentration is too low to make extraction of it worthwhile. You need some process to take small amounts of gold from a large volume and turn it into large amounts of gold in a small volume where it is convenient to build a mining facility and get it from the Earth. One of the most common process to concentrate gold is through the action of hydrothermal fluids. This is basically heated water flowing through the Earth's crust. Heated water with certain properties such as acidity (pH) or dissolved anions (think chlorine-rich seawater is more corrosive than your tap water) can dissolve solid gold and put it into solution. Just like regular water can dissolve table-salt or sugar and put it into solution. So you have this hydrothermal fluid flowing through huge masses of rock (mountain-like, but underground) for a very long time, and when it goes up to the surface, it is channelled into thin conduits of fluid flow. During their ascent the conditions change (be it temperature or pH, etc.) and the water are not capable of carrying gold with them anymore. This results in the deposition of gold in that specific region. I made an example, that I hope will help you understand this in a clearer way: 

Mathematics and computer science are exact sciences. If something is discovered and known, it is not wrong. With time, there may be better or new ways of doing something, but the old stuff is still correct. This is why you can get a textbook from the 60s and study it. Cauchy's laws are still correct and Euler's theorem is still correct. This is not the case with earth science (which I expand from your "geophysics"). Just about every paper published in the field of earth science follows the theme of "we thought something but now we found it's actually wrong". And there are hundreds of those per year. While math textbooks teach facts, earth science textbooks present the opinion of the author at the time of writing, which is also commonly the prevailing view in the broader earth science community, but it doesn't have to. In most cases old textbooks are not going to be that bad, but there will be abundant accuracies and omissions. If you go back enough, you might finds that are completely wrong (plate tectonics was only accepted in the 60s!). But it doesn't have to be this: take subduction zones. The understanding of what happens to slabs once they subduct was only somewhat understood (at least on an undergrad textbook level) in the past 15 years. Whether the slabs themselves melt or not isn't even known today (even though textbooks will mostly say they don't: again, this is the opinion of the author). The inner structure of the earth as understood from seismicity and tomography is being refined every year. In your textbook links you gave the example of planetary science and volcanism. In the case of planetary science, every time there is a new mission we learn so much. Just example of some discoveries of extraterrestrial volcanoes: Io in 1979, Triton in 1989, and Titan in 2005. Also think of the latest understanding of minor planets, comets and asteroids obtained in the past 5 years. This is not something you will find in even moderately new textbooks. To sum it up, old earth science textbooks are not completely wrong. But they are wrong to some degree, and they most probably contain a lot of omissions (depends on the exact sub-field). Online sources are usually much better for that. Maybe start with related MOOCs? These can be good starting points. Even if you prefer reading and not watching videos, you can usually find a list of (somewhat) up to date sources there. 

CO2 in the air dissolves into rain water, making them slightly acidic. Is that enough to deplete the surrounding air out of CO2? If yes, how fast does this occur? Is it only with the first drops of rain or do you need several hours? How long does it take for the surrounding atmosphere to regain its original CO2 contents, assuming this actually happens? 

Here's a very rough sketch. You had the black stuff, which was then cross-cut by the red intrusion (grey in the original photo), and finally intruded by the blue intrusion (pink the in the original photo). This is the law of superposition. For more fun follow #SuperpositionPuzzle on Twitter! 

Again, probably not. To make the fayalite component react fully in reasonable time you are going to need to mill the olivine to very fine dust. Then, separating the silica from this fine dust in solid form is almost impossible. This will require heavy liquids (like polytungstate) which are not available on the moon. Doing this in liquid form and centrifuging will require heating, which will inevitable cause reaction of forsterite and silica to form enstatite: $\ce{SiO2 + Mg2SiO4 = 2MgSiO3}$, which is useless for glass making.