Wickham was working with Louis Joseph, Prince of Condé in seeking to restore the Bourbon monarchy and, unsurprisingly, thought Pichegru would be a big catch for the cause. It was also reported that Pichegru 

This family, at least, doesn't seem to have been in too much of a hurry to take shelter (even if the water was already boiling). Note also the use of the habitual 'would', implying predictability. London: From what I've read about the London Blitz (7 September 1940 – 11 May 1941), there is little information on how much time people had to take shelter in London. Based on what my mother has told me - she was in London (near Lord's cricket ground) during part of the Blitz - the time between the siren going off and the first bombs falling was very inconsistent. However, my mother was only 8 or 9 at the time, it was a long time ago, and she wasn't in London for the whole duration of the Blitz so she doesn't know all the details. 

Source: $URL$ Of course, there is the possibility that, for centuries, most coins did not have a face value while the occasional one did. For example, unlike the 1798 coin above, this more recent Queen Victoria 1839 coin has no face value. 

In Abbreviatio chronicorum Angliae, the chronicler Matthew Paris (d. 1259) included drawings of the Norman and Plantagenet kings up to Henry III. The image below shows from L-R, top-bottom: Henry II, Richard I (‘the Lionheart’), John I (‘Lackland’) and Henry III 

Sumerian-Akkadian lexicon. Louvre Museum [CC BY 2.5 ($URL$ via Wikimedia Commons However, as Mishan states, 

Production declined during the Peloponnesian War (431 - 404 BC) and Sparta's capture of the fort at Dekelia in 413 BC made it difficult for Athens to access the mines. Other sources / further reading: $URL$ $URL$ $URL$ $URL$ 

Source: Freda Mishan, Designing Authenticity Into Language Learning Materials Hiroshi Yonekura (pdf download), citing Renzo Titone’s Teaching foreign languages : an historical sketch, notes that “...textbooks which are considered to have been used about B.C. 2500 were discovered.” When the Sumerians were conquered by the Akkadians, what was probably the first bilingual lexicon or dictionary was created. 

source: ‘Getting Too Great A Grip’: European Shipping Lines and British West African Lighterage Services in the 1930s by Ayodeji Olukoju (pdf) Getting from the steamship to the shore could be quite dangerous due to strong currents, and bad weather could cause lengthy delays, or (if there was little business to be transacted) the ship would sail on to the next destination without stopping. Another source, this one for 1894-1895, only takes us to Sierra Leone but gives another reference for journey time: 

Source: Robert Dallek, An Unfinished Life Among the criticisms of the CIA, the Kirkpatrick report noted: 

In 1212, two groups involving children embarked on crusades to the Holy Land. They are generally lumped together and known as the Children's Cruade. They were not true crusades in the sense that the pope did not call for a crusade and nor did he sanction it (or them). One group (from Germany) was led by a shepherd called Nicholas. They had been inspired, according to History Guide, by an earlier group from France. When they arrived in Rome, they were told by Pope Innocent III to return home. The earlier group, also led by a shepherd, Stephan of Cloyes, got to Marseilles where they boarded ships under false pretenses - they were sold into slavery. They had been advised by the French King Philip II to return home. According to Brittanica.com, the participants of at least one of these groups took the Crusader's vow, and this vow was recognized as valid by the church, but it is not clear whether this recognition was at the time of the crusade or at some later point. I can't find any reference to any response of the Pope to this first group. Was there any, or did the pope just react to the second group (from Germany) because they turned up in the Papal States? Also, did the church take any action to prevent further groups of 'unofficial' crusades involving children? 

source: Ridder-Symoens & Ruegg Varied educational backgrounds (and needs) also provided an opportunity for professors to supplement their income through private tuition. Salaries were often small and, in many cases, professors / teachers had to rely on class fees. Thus, when enrollment took a downward turn, many found it hard to make ends meet and some would transfer to other areas of teaching where student demand was higher. Although there was usually no formal link, there were exceptions and grammar schools in England often served to prepare pupils for universities. Concerning curriculum, 

As European economies grew, there were increasing numbers merchants who needed a place for the night (business travellers, if you like). Pilgrims were, in some places at least, a source of profit sufficient for local authorities to target for for taxation. In Italy, for example, 

Source: Paul Cartledge – The Spartans However, it is worth noting that this tradition of cutting hair short upon getting married was far from a uniquely Spartan tradition. Barbara Goff in Citizen Bacchae notes that 

Photo source: cinemathequefroncaise.com Melies' studio in Montreuil was requisitioned by the French army in 1917 and turned into a military hospital. At the same time, about 400 of his films were melted down. The other key point to note is that films, especially ones made for entertainment, were not considered to be works of art at the time. As Barry Norman notes in Film Facts, the archives and film collections formed before the war and in the 1920s 

This is puzzling as anyone looking through a glass bottle of water cannot help but notice magnification. There is another reason for questioning the accuracy of the article: the sentence about Romans discovering glass in the 1st century AD. The Wikipedia article on the History of Glass cites several examples of glass objects pre-dating Roman times by at least a thousand years. On the other hand, I haven’t been able to find images of glass vision aids pre-dating the invention of eyeglasses (but there are plenty of images of bottles, beads e.t.c.). Is there any evidence of glass vision aids? Or did they use something else? In particular, I’m thinking of 9th to 12th century monks poring over manuscripts and writing chronicles in dodgy candlelight (or is this just a movie cliche?). Although people probably had better eyesight in earlier times, I’m thinking that many of these monks – especially the ones past 40 – would have found magnification very useful, even essential. 

There are two sides to the importance of pottery: its place in the history of technological innovation and in culture, and its role in telling us about the past. As a Technological Innovation and in Culture Before pottery, 

Source: Jones The veteran Acheson, an unofficial advisor to Kennedy, when told by the President about the plan, replied 

SHORT ANSWER Experimental archaeology has led to the belief that what is known as the ‘apron’ (hanging leather straps with studs) probably did not have any practical defensive purpose and was actually a handicap “during violent movement”. It has also been argued that straps would have been of limited use against both thrusts and slashes. Further, the 'apron' would have served no purpose against one of the most common enemies of the period, the Celts, due to their fighting style. However, in the absence of primary source evidence to confirm this, it is impossible to be certain and some sources state that a defensive purpose is possible. Finally, most sources point to the 'apron' as being both a fashion item and an indication of status. 

One of the cemeteries in Cyprus where he may be buried From Roskilde (then capital of Denmark) to Paphos is 1736 miles / 2794 km. His wife Boedil Thurgotsdatter, who was travelling with him, continued on to Jerusalem and died there in 1103 (1995 miles / 3211 km from home). 

The efficiency and availability of search & rescue. Were British vessels more likely to be sunk when no other ships were around to pick up survivors? The age (and thus construction quality?) of vessels. Were Royal Navy ships, on average, older than US ships and thus more likely to sink quickly? The way in which vessels were sunk (i.e. torpedo, aerial attack, naval gunfire, mines). 

DETAILS The issuing of patents and privileges had for long been in the hands of the king, and open to abuse and favouritism. Thus, 

Contrary to what one might think, the ancient Greeks were certainly not in the dark about physiology. For example, 

This article, which uses Compton Reeves' Pleasures and Pastimes in Medieval England and Life in a Medieval Village by Frances & Joseph Gies as sources, states: 

At the very least, it is evident that the spectacles at the Colosseum were heavily subsidized (otherwise, how could slaves have afforded it?). They were a gift from the sponsor, a means of pleasing and placating the masses (‘bread and circuses’ as TheHonRose has already noted). This sponsor was usually the emperor - restrictions were placed on other 'worthies' sponsoring games, partly out of fear that someone might rival the emperor for popularity. There is no indication in any of the sources that there were tickets or tokens for different times of the day or for different shows (see here for example). 

Other sources: Tang Kwok-Chun & Mark Bray, Colonial models and the evolution of education systems: centralization and decentralization in Hong Kong and Maca $URL$ 

WHY DID THE USSR ANNEX TUVA? The main question is probably the most difficult to answer. Described by one source as once being “among the most insular and obscure places on earth”, land-locked Tannu Tuva’s area is approximate to that of Greece but it has long been sparsely populated and has extreme temperatures. As to why the Soviet Union wanted it, there are different schools of thought on this as no conclusive evidence has yet emerged. In a recent article, Tuva’s Accession to the USSR: Alternative Opinions (2017), Ivanna V. Otroshchenko says of the annexation: 

Source: M.C. Ricklefs Further reforms followed, but not before Hoesein Djajadiningrat (from a wealthy family) became the first Indonesian to gain a doctorate in 1913 – but at Leiden University. In 1914 the First Class schools were 

Despite the invasions costs, there were at least short-term economic gains as a result of plundering and the confiscation / taking over of resources and factories. Were those benefits so evident in the longer term, though? Were they enough to cover the cost of the occupation, especially in countries such as Denmark, Belgium and Holland which had few resources other than manpower? Did the effects of sabotage, the (presumably) relatively low productivity of a reluctant workforce and the effects of a regional (later global) war significantly the affect the economic viability of the occupation?