Why are you using a helmet? If you're using it because you're doing something which involves a decent probability of you falling and hitting your head, then you should probably replace it after every serious incident. Some companies (e.g. Giro) will give you a discount if you trade in a damaged lid, so that they can learn from its demise. If you're commuting or doing something less dangerous, but which offers some scenarios where you think a lid will assist, then you might be less concerned about replacing after every ding. But the helmet is designed to work when pristene; as soon as there is damage, any damage, it won't act in the way that is was designed to, so is going to offer you a sub-optimal service. But if you're just using a helmet because you think you should, although remain generally unconvinced (peer pressure, race rules, certain state/national legal obligations, enhanced air flow around the scalp), then don't worry about it ... 

Eating shouldn't be an either/or activity, but you're right to question the items and the timings. You should be looking for something slow release before - so the fats in a muffin combined with the slow release carbs in the dough are cunning (my favourite is a jam sandwich - fast release fructose from the jam, inhibited a little by the fat in the butter, with the slow release from the bread kicking in later). It's the morning, so maybe a milky, sugary coffee could be in order! Then remember to refuel during, quick release, so gels or powder in your water bottle are great. Don't overlook the recovery mixture. Your body is in heavy replenishment mode for 20-30 minutes after a workout and will be looking for proteins to help muscle recovery as well as new sugars to boost the blood sugar for the day ahead. Interval training will strain the body more than long, slow, distance, so you'll definitely want to look at the refuelling strategies (you can buy specific post-exercise energy drinks). 

It depends on the reason for them not being true. A lack of equal tension in the spokes could mean weakness in one (or more) of them - and broken spokes are not a good thing to ignore. You can survive one or maybe two for a short while, but eventually the rim could be in danger of collapsing. If you have rim brakes then left-right could mean mismatched application of the brake blocks which could make for inconsistent pressure but also it could attempt to move the wheel from side to side, which might start to work it loose at the hub - and loose hub nuts are very dangerous. In this situation up-down is also sub-optimal as the brake blocks could be rubbing on different parts of the rim (or even the tyre). 

In Australia it is illegal to ride without a helmet - will that law also be updated? It might not concern you on a daily basis, but if you were in an accident while wearing an older model, what would the law then have to say about your liability? It's not the same at all - but this story does prove that when defendants don't see a choice, then their (public-funded) lawyers will really scrape the barrel. 

If you're buying from your LBS then I would think twice, yes they're making a profit on that shiny bike, but is a few quid/dollars/euros/pesos off the sticker worth endangering them? I frequent my LBS because the guys in there know me, they've sold me the last half dozen bikes I've bought, so when I come in, we chat, they fit my service and work in even though their diary is full, sometimes they make me coffee, and yes sometimes they'll round the bill down or throw in something for free, but no amount of discount is worth them endangering their business and them not being there in the future. But they save me money in other ways, their advice over what to buy, that I don't need to go for the next model up, that certain things last longer. There's no excuse in wasting money unnecessarily, but automatically assuming that all retailers are sleeping on beds of cash and can be fought down isn't going to help keep that friendly local store alive. Why is it overpriced? Shouldn't you be on the look out for a right-priced, once all the factors have been considered? 

In these kind of situations I use the tips that a guru taught me when I was learning the ways of triathlon. In the transition area, where you leave your bike to collect at the end of the swim, you are quite often assigned a spot for your number (otherwise everyone clamours for the ends of rows). So it's about landmarks, "3rd row, lake-side, half way down, past the second tree", and memorable things, so the the flag (or strategically placed towel) is a good idea too. Don't make the mistake of using temporary, movable landmarks. That nice Cervelo might well have come out of the water (or work) before you :) The key takeawayss here are to make them instantly and accurately memorable. If you're in the same area day after day you don't want to to get too confused about whether you're remembering yesterday's or today's position, so @neilfein's rotation of possible locations is a good feint. In triathlon you're trying to keep it simple (because your mind is inherently fuzzy when you're out of the water and trying to peel off a wetsuit), and at the end of a long day you probably haven't given much thought to your bike since about 2 minutes after you left it. My bike is in a secure area in an underground car park, so I leave my helmet on the saddle which is generally still there, un-knocked-off, at the end of the day. 

This is generally good advice and there are plenty of examples (some encoded in signage) where a quick toot on the car's horn (e.g. before a narrow bridge) is positively encouraged - this would go for bikes too. But is it excessive? I guess it's a case by case basis, but if you think that someone is coming around the blind bend and would react to your bell-ringing, then yes. If your bell-ringing is combined with your slowing down and taking an appropriately defensive position as well, then yes. If the bell-ringing is just an abnegation of your responsibility and a cover for your being able to just barrel around the corner without paying due care and attention, then almost certainly not. 

If you're commuting, will you have someone to dry your gear during the day? Having to put on wet, cold clothes to cycle home is never going to make you happy. 

I use Motion-X as my tracking app and it can certainly import GPX and then navigate from it. It supports some ANT+ (at least HRM). Additionally the OpenStreetMap wiki has a good list of iOS apps comparing their functionality. 

Make sure the frame fits well - ideally it will be perfect, but different uses require different frame sizes/geometries (time trials, road racing, training, commuting, leisure rides) so perfection means different bikes. Choose the gearings and brakes - you don't want to get into a huge Shimano vs. Campag Vs SRAM debate, though - frankly they're all much of a muchness unless you know a lot more than I do Wheels are supremely important, but also easier to change. Deeper rims are faster, having fewer spokes is generally faster, lighter is better. And you can spend as much on a pair of wheels as a second hand car. Everything else is a bonus and easier still to change (saddles, handle bars, cranks, etc.) 

In a bike that costs, new, only 150GBP, you have to ask where the savings will have been made and the easy first answer is: everywhere. 

I think it's the safety angle that would most concern me; riding in a paceline, swapping the lead duties, but mostly the riding close to the lead rider's rear wheel is tricky and not everyone can do safely at speed. An organised line will have signals and protocols borne from shared experience and these are important in avoiding obstacles and reacting to events - you'll be missing these, and you'll be in a potentially more target rich (i.e. many slower peers) environment. As to the question of expense, there are some references, e.g. $URL$ $URL$ suggesting that the lead rider could actively benefit from being drafted due to the effects of the air closing back around them. 

The extra gears on his bike just means the transition between gears is smoother - less of a leap between neighbouring cogs. 

In my experience dealing with crashes and bounces is like a lot of other aspects of, especially urban, cycling in that anticipation and prediction are the key attributes to getting away with less damage. After all, if you don't crash, you won't damage yourself (whether you're lidded or not). It's a variant on Gary Player's infamous quote, "The more I practice, the luckier I get" - the more you think about what could happen, rather than just letting the world happen to you, you'll be better at predicting dangers and avoiding them: speed into corners, visibility around bends, road surfaces, car doors, cars appearing at junctions, and so on. Learn to look a little further ahead - that red light 50 metres in front? React to it when you're 100 metres away (and more importantly, consider what others might do). My last crash was when I cycled into the back of a delivery van while looking over my shoulder to see if it was clear to move to the outside of the lane - while I was looking round, the van was slowing for some traffic lights I hadn't considered, so I piled into the back of him unawares. I know that this isn't a "what to do when you crash", but I think that there is more to crash preparation as a part urban cycling than how to fall. Cycling has a mostly undeserved reputation as being a dangerous pastime. Most accidents I hear about (definitely the handful I've had in the last few years) have been utterly avoidable and not actually that accidental. 

If you can see cloth, I'd be seriously considering replacing the tyre. While it might have lots of tread, a deep cut is going to be an area of weakness and while you might be able to back it with tape, notes or similar padding, the tyre will not cope well with high pressure - and will be much more susceptible to rupturing at that point. And make the next set of tyres you buy Kevlar-lined, it really does make a serious difference to longevity. 

I have the Exposure Toro (with rear red light, which runs off the main front lamp). It has 3 settings: bright, brighter and "wooo, that is bright". It claims 24 hours on the lowest setting and I have no cause to doubt it, although a little lower with the rear light attached. I do some mixed terrain cycling in the winter (towpaths along the river, a bit of unlit parks as well as road) and the Toro is a perfectly capable device for this. You can helmet mount it, too. It's definitely a light for seeing with, not just for being seen. 

I have a few events coming up this year which have a fair amount of climbing (one is over a hundred miles with about 6500ft of ascent - that's an average of just over 1% for the entire distance). Obviously the best training is to get out and ride hills, again and again, but what recommendations are there for gym exercises to help? I have access at work to a reasonably well equipped gym (a decent selection of weights machines and a small amount of free weight equipment). I haven't actually used it much - I used to do a sport which demanded a lot of time on the weights and since stopping regular training for that I've been enjoying not having to push any iron. So my imagination for weights is a little rusty. So what would you suggest as good exercises in the gym to improve climbing capabilities? 

Building your own anything (bike, shed, computer) is more about the "yeah, why not?" than the "why should I?" Most people wouldn't begin to think about it for a whole raft of reasons - ability, cost, quality. But if you're the kind of person to even think the question, most of the cons just evaporate after a little thought, preparation and practice. Why shouldn't I do that? - no good reason at all, apart from the facts that I know that I probably couldn't actually do it, it would be quite pricey and I'm not sure I'd want to ride the result in traffic ... 

Baffling - place it on carpet or a rug (and several towels), this will both stop vibration through the floor and catch the drips of sweat. 

Depending on the tension of the chain, you might be slightly more likely to jump, e.g. going from big to little on both front and back at the same time is increasing the slack in the chain and moving it in both directions (front to the left, back to the right). So depending on the timing, not only will the slack need to be damped out and the indexing might not be as accurate as you'd like, you're also possibly pulling the chain from one end, away from its target at the other. I don't think is damaging per se, but a jumped chain is to be avoided if you can help it. 

Cycling is a safety hazard, it's all a question of risk mitigation, reduction and awareness. A fixed-wheel certainly presents a different set of hazards, but my short response to the question is 'no'. I do over 3,000 miles a year on my fixed (almost all of my commuting) and have done so for the last 4-5 years and I've never caught anything in my chain, be it cloth, stick, lace or anything else. But then I generally cycle in shorts or tights with my velcro-strapped cycle shoes - risk avoidance, don't put anything likely to get caught in the vicinity. So I think you're over-estimating the risks on this dimension; there are risks worth worrying about out there - most of them are behind the steering wheels of metal boxes with 4 wheels - without creating needless ones! 

TL;DR - I've given up trying, just let them go. If they would pay attention to reason and logic, they wouldn't be doing it. I try to lead by example, but if you're on the lookout for it, you'll see law breaking or minor infractions everywhere. If you're directly impacted by it, then I tend to advocate a quite militant reaction, but generally I just let them at it. For instance, if I'm a pedestrian, crossing on a signal that is red for the traffic and there's a bike obviously about to transgress, I will slow down and be longer in their way. I'll certainly get in the way if they're cycling on the pavement (sidewalk) and let them know that I'm doing it deliberately. I've learned to see red traffic lights on my commute as a chance for a rest, so I'll probably just blow past the red light jumper soon enough. If they keep on getting in the way, I might have a word after the third or fourth light, but mostly there's enough to worry about with the traffic, that it's not a big thing. 

I'm not sure about that assumption, while you can ride a fixed without brakes and use solely pedal pressure, I wouldn't want to rely on it on the road. Track bikes don't have brakes and historically fixies came from the track. My fixed has both front and rear (although I don't use the rear much as it chews through pads) and while I can brake reasonably well with just the pedals, through in the front brake too and I can stop on a sixpence. Of course, in the UK to be strictly road-legal you must have at least one brake. 

Note also that, when sold, European regulations dictate that it should be left-hand rear, right-hand front. 

The roads in London aren't particularly special, they can be quite busy, they are often quite full of motorised traffic, cyclists don't always have the best reputation for adhering to all laws (e.g. one-way streets and red lights) and, as a consequence, many other road users don't always go out of their way to be overly friendly or forgiving, but it's a great place to get around by bike and, especially to an experienced rider, there's nothing particular to worry about: keep your eyes open, your ears alert and your wits about you, obey the old adage "assume they're all out to get you" and you'll be ok! London's a big city, the road network is comprehensive, and within most of inner London, e.g. within 4-5 miles of the City or Westminster, very few roads would be considered as totally unsuitable for bikes. Look out for the 'cycle superhighways' - while they aren't wonderfully designed, they attract a good amount of cycle traffic, which means you'll generally find more cyclists on those routes - definite strength in numbers. There is an increasing, if not a single bike culture, then certainly an expectation of a wide range of cyclists at all hours of the day or night: couriers, commuters, road warriors, boris bikes, fixies, lycra louts and so on. If you're used to practicing 'vehicular' cycling, you'll fit in reasonably well - there is plenty of that around. Even if you obey every traffic signal there's no reason why you can't average well over 17 or 18 mph if you're capable of such speed ... (My commute is just over 10 miles into the centre and I'm almost always able to do it in less than 40 minutes.) In terms of route planning: you could use $URL$ - they have a planner with cycling as an option. Generally though, take a look at a map, draw a line from A to B and just go. There are some canal paths and genuine bike only routes, but on the whole, what cycle routes there are are along quieter roads, which can be safer, but a lot more circuitous. There are quite a few good London blogs (e.g. $URL$ $URL$ $URL$ $URL$ amongst many others) which will help to give you a more local flavour.