People become concerned about "the meaning of life" when they have insufficient emotional involvement with their own activities. Abstracted from this context the question has no meaning itself. 

The modern concept of "particle" is that it has no properties except when "measured". The quantum fields that are used to calculate observational/experimental results cannot be thought of as "existing entities" in anything like a classical sense. (They vanish everywhere but at points of interactions so it makes no sense to think of them as something existing in space time just before the interaction which then vanishes when the "particle" or property is localized or somehow detected. We aren't really detecting "particles" but that is the terminology used out of habit. The concept of "matter" also is obsolete since any self respecting matter would never act like a quantum field. The word "substance" is , I suppose less restrictive, but one would have to have some observational account of it to see how it might fit into our theories. 

Most fundamentally and in specific response to your request.. But alas, special relativity does away with the concept of absolute simultaneity, and as a result it renders physically meaningless the idea of a metaphysical or "real" Now-somewhere-else. That's the trouble with metaphysical notions, by definition they aren't supportable by empirical results. 1) In what sense can we ask if the moon exists, if it is 1 light second away? In the same sense we always have, that we have empirical experiences such as we describe. There is no scientific or empirical problem here only worrying about something that was outside of experience to begin with which is why you referred to metaphysics. There is no philosophical problem either if you don't posit such metaphysical constructs with "metaphysical existence." 2) Is there a notable discussion of this problem in philosophy? Probably but it is unfortunate. The lesson from Special Relativity here is that such speculative notions just don't hold up and can be abandoned. 

They could say the words, but could never believe them because they have no beliefs. They could act like they believe the words but no actual belief. They could act like they have reached such a conclusion, they could act like they believe it. If by "reach a conclusion" you mean have the subjective experience of reaching the conclusion then by definition (they have no subjective experiences) they cannot reach any conclusion about anything. If by "reach a conclusion" you mean act just like a non-zombie who has had the subjective experience of reaching the conclusion then yes they can act like they have reached the conclusion. (Also by definition since zombies can act just like non-zombies.) 

I am aware of two major modes of reasoning used for justification of belief: deductive and inductive. Whereas physics relies on induction, mathematics seems to rely exclusively on deductive inference, which ensures the soundness of its conclusions. Is that correct? Are there other modes of inference used in mathematics? Also, to be precise, what I am after here are the admissible modes of inference used for justification in the final product of mathematics, not the types of inferences mathematicians use in their daily work to generate mathematics. For inductive reasoning, what I have in mind here is what is explaining in this entry of the SEP. (if there is nothing in mathematics but deduction, mathematics is an extension of logic, and there is no other way to see the situation) 

If mathematics is concerned with deductive reasoning, and relies on logic to ensure the soundness of its derivations, if on the other hand, the derivations of mathematics, at least in a philosophical and modern view of the subject, start from arbitrary axioms, can mathematics be reduced to arbitrary axioms and logic? Note: arbitrary here means that mathematicians are a priori free to choose an initial set of axioms, as in e.g. Euclidean vs non-Euclidean geometries, that they are not constrained by observations of the natural world in the choice of axioms to derive theorems from. 

Maybe we want meaning, but Nature doesn't give us meaning - it is arbitrary, uncontrollable... That would be very unsettling and anxiety provoking, and would compel us to create a meaning for ourselves in this world that doesn't offer any. So, through the experience of being in a meaningless world, we experience the need for meaning. 

So my question is why does Kant further say that Der arithmetische Satz ist also jederzeit synthetisch (Arithmetical propositions are therefore always synthetical): what is ganz außer in 5 + 7 = 12, if we see 12 as just a convenient short name for 5 + 7? 

If reducing mathematics to logic is the goal of logicism, what other conceptions of mathematics are there? 

Sometimes in physics, the mathematics leads to "un-physical solutions or terms", that are readily tossed by the physicist. For example, when deriving absorption and emission rates for via quantized light-atom interactions in quantum optics class, we toss out 2 terms from the Hamiltonian, on the grounds that they don't correspond to any observed physical process: 

There is no way to detect a particle in two locations at once, that's the whole idea. Saying that it is in two places at once is not an empirically meaningful statement. Neither is saying that the cat is alive and dead at the same time. Quantum mechanics definitely does not claim that the cat is alive and dead at the same time or that particles are in two places at once. A better statement would be that the particle doesn't actually have any location until detection. Also that the cat has no properties at all until such properties are empirically determined. That was the problem with the EPR proposal, assuming "elements of reality" in-between interactions/measurements. The conceptual construct of "dead" or "alive" is a 100% non probabilistic state (at least as conceived by an individual within his frame of reference). This 100% certainty can be seen as an 'objective reality' for the individual with that information.. This is not well put. Saying that a probabilistic statement is non-probabilistic because we are certain of the probabilities is really just a word game. Being certain that we don't know something is at best "subjective reality". 

the objective counterparts would form a world having the same structure as the phenomenal world This is just saying that if you make a true statement "about the world" it is necessarily given more or less directly in terms of our perceptions.Since the statement is true there must be something "out there" (responsible for our perceptions) that has the kind of structure given in the statement. So we have the structure indicated by our statement and some external arrangement of 'stuff' acting in the manner described by the statement. In short, every proposition having a communicable significance must be true of both worlds or of neither. So whatever we say in a statement must apply to the world of experience and the objective world and if true in the world of experience is also true for whatever 'stuff' it is describing. 

I would think that Whitehead would be what you want. From Wikipedia... Beginning in the late 1910s and early 1920s, Whitehead gradually turned his attention from mathematics to philosophy of science, and finally to metaphysics. He developed a comprehensive metaphysical system which radically departed from most of western philosophy. Whitehead argued that reality consists of processes rather than material objects, and that processes are best defined by their relations with other processes, thus rejecting the theory that reality is fundamentally constructed by bits of matter that exist independently of one another.[18] Today Whitehead's philosophical works – particularly Process and Reality – are regarded as the foundational texts of process philosophy. The notion of "process" is just another word for change. In Whitehead's view, then, concepts such as "quality", "matter", and "form" are problematic. These "classical" concepts fail to adequately account for change, and overlook the active and experiential nature of the most basic elements of the world. They are useful abstractions, but are not the world's basic building blocks.[86] What is ordinarily conceived of as a single person, for instance, is philosophically described as a continuum of overlapping events.[87] After all, people change all the time, if only because they have aged by another second and had some further experience. These occasions of experience are logically distinct, but are progressively connected in what Whitehead calls a "society" of events.[88] By assuming that enduring objects are the most real and fundamental things in the universe, materialists have mistaken the abstract for the concrete (what Whitehead calls the "fallacy of misplaced concreteness").[76][89] 

How should we understand what is going on here from an epistemological point of view? It feels a bit convenient to toss these 2 terms from the point of view of mathematics - well maybe even wrong, in the sense that the resulting Hamiltonian is no longer the result of a sound mathematical derivation? Would it be desirable for the physicist to work with maths that would not yield unphysical solutions? Isn't maths in fact unreasonably ineffective in physics? 

I'm not sure why 5 + 7 = 12 should say anything new: I take it to be a shorthand notation to give a name to 5 + 7, which anyway is nothing but 5 times the unit + 7 times the unit, so there is not really anything "new" here. Or is there? If we see it the other way around, as 12 = 5 + 7, maybe 5 + 7 is not contained in 12: we have a set of 12 objects, and we say that we can see it as a subset of 5 objects + a subset of 7 objects, so we say that that subdivision of the original set of cardinality 12 exists. But is that really "new"? Of course, 5 + 7 = 12 is cited as an example at the beginning of Kant's Critique of Pure Reason, when he explains his view of analytic and synthetic knowledge. The question here though is not meant to criticize analytic judgments, but rather to criticize synthetic a priori judgments. I believe (for the sake of argument) that mathematics is composed entirely of analytic judgments, not synthetic ones, and I am trying to understand why Kant could argue at all that mathematics was in the synthetic camp. More precisely. To define analytic and synthetic judgments, Kant writes at the beginning of the Critique of Pure reason, 2nd ed (emphasis mine): 

Here is a basic working definition of a law of physics from the point of view of a physicist. It does lead to several interesting philosophical questions, which I completely ignore (but am very well aware of). A law of physics is a provisional statement of an observed regularity in Nature. We formulate laws of physics to understand the world around us, and also to control it or act in it (not always: a good deal of astronomy for example deals with things that we will never control). A law of physics summarizes many instances of a given phenomenon in a convenient manner. For example, the law of gravitation summarizes in one formula how objects fall towards the ground as well as how planets go around the Sun. An observed regularity is something that holds in many, most or all observed instances of a phenomenon. A law is always provisional in the sense that a more encompassing or more precise statement of a regularity may have to be made later, given more observations. The laws of physics are usually numerical, holding between observable quantities that can be measured, so that the laws take a precise, mathematical form. However, there can be individual instances of measurements that do not exactly conform to the mathematical law at hand: there can be errors due to the measurement equipment or procedure, or fundamental uncertainty as in the case of quantum mechanics. This gives a statistical character to the laws of physics, and it is usually required to estimate the uncertainty in the measurements. A very basic example, but one that is IMHO worthwhile keeping in mind as a good image of a law of physics, would be the following picture, where we have observed a number of data points, and plotted the line (model/law) that bests fits these observations. It shows what the law/model is: the line, i.e. 2 coefficients a and b in a formula y = ax + b. This line summarizes the data points, it is the regularity/invariant underlying the phenomenon. It also allows interpolation and prediction to calculate unmeasured values of y for values of x. Finally, it shows the notion of error in measurement, as many actual points lie close to the line, but not exactly on it. 

All true statements about the past are facts. Actually statements are either true or false but strictly speaking are not themselves 'facts'. There are lots of facts that have never been stated and never will. The 'fact' is the set of circumstances as laid out in the statement. We can never be certain that any given statement is true so we can never be certain of the facts of whatever matter we are talking about but that doesn't change the definition/concept. 

We say that something exists based on our ability to interact with it, experience it's effects etc. Unicorns are said to not exist (on earth) because we haven't found any and we have looked around enough that we should have found them if they were here (they're pretty big). We can't see air but we don't need to, we feel and measure it's effects Gravitational fields, magnetic fields etc basically the same. Other peoples consciousness is just inferred from behavior. Existence is just a word we use when we have certain types of experiences. Worrying about "actual" existence, if that means outside of experience in principle, can't go anywhere, there's nothing to base it on. 

I don't understand why Aristotle's final cause has become controversial in modern science. Science has no place for teleological 'explanations'. Science is in the business of finding causal relationships. Science doesn't attempt to 'explain' in any other sense. An intention to do something may accompany an action but provides no mechanism in any causal sense. Intentions aren't even observable so they cannot be part of any observable description of a causal chain. 

It all depends on what you mean by 'meaningless'. Start with what you mean by 'meaning'. We say words have meanings because of their associations in conventional usage. I doubt that you mean this kind of meaning. Other things have meaning to those who know about causal relationships between the stimulus (the thing said to have meaning, say a certain pattern of a footprint)and some other points of interest (It's from a deer, made only in the last hour, and the deer went 'that a way'). The same pattern might have no such meaning to a city dweller who has no experience in such a thing. Both instances of meaning are related whereby some information/experience is said to have meaning because it can tell us more than just a random pattern. I rather doubt that this is the notion of meaning that you are concerned with as well. I think that you mean 'emotional meaning'. This refers to aspects of situations that you personally care about. It is not entirely unrelated to the earlier examples but seems much closer to your concern. People will say that their lives are meaningless when they are emotionally disconnected from their activities. They are doing things that they don't care much about. Emotional meaning is all about YOU. Figure out what you want to do/ what you think that you should do, at least try to start sorting it out. Given some time, if you think it through, try different things you'll find your own direction, a direction (or directions) that you sincerely care about pursuing. Then as you make progress and suffer failures your life will be full of meaning. I didn't intend the above as a self help talk although if it sounds like one that's incidental but fine by me."Life" is a word, if you want it to have more meaning than that you are just alienated from your own activities and confusing meaning of a word with personal purpose. I make this as a philosophical point. I believe it's called a category mistake.