If you look at a container port or a large container ship you will have a fair idea .... There is no difficulty with building accommodation modules in a factory elsewhere and connecting them rapidly on a development site. How rapid is rapidly, depends on the economic justification for hurrying. Above a certain speed the necessary logistics will cost more and disrupt the surrounding community more. Speed will also worsen any snafus. So why rush? The greater problem is the infrastructure. The building will need electricity, water, and sewerage services. Unless it is a replacement for some similar-sized former development, the visible part of the development cannot happen until infrastructures are in place. This takes longer than "foundations" (which are almost unnecessary if you are building on hard bedrock). You will also need cranes and other heavy construction equipment delivered to the site and prepared. Oh, and a workforce who know what to do. I've often heard it asked, what are the builders wasting their time on between bulldozing the grass and trees, and starting to build the houses? Infrastructure (and foundations) is the answer. (wet weather can bring such work to a complete halt. You can't build the drains you need while you really need the drains!) I have watched a modular student accommodation building grow at about a storey per week-end. Week-days, no visible work was happening. It was an inner city site and the traffic disruption caused by lorries delivering modules on weekdays would have been quite horrendous. So they didn't. 

A flippant answer. Every gravitational wave detector on earth would glitch off the scale and a lot of physicists would be thinking "WTF now??". At least until they compared notes with other gravity wave detectors and with the astronomers. The rest of the world would first not notice and then not care a jot. Setting this event in Vinge's zones of thought universe would be interesting. 

Rather than trying to explain the sun misbehaving, you might invoke some handwavium time warp that propels the Earth 7.5 Billion years into the future. Or on an even smaller scale, that just transports your people, such as a slightly misconceived time machine. I have read variants on this at least twice. In a short story (Niven?) where a hyperspace drive malfunction takes a space-liner even further into Earth's future, when the Sun has become a dwarf star. And in a Robert Charles Wilson series of novels Spin where an alien field wraps Earth and slows time down about 100-million fold for humanity compared to the universe outside. (The reason emerges later). 

It may be too glib, but maybe make the aliens egg-layers, and base your "alien" expressions of emotion on birds. Some birds are remarkably intelligent and social, yet are about as far from human as we're able to empathize with. Others are almost completely asocial: well-adjusted autists? Personally I think we underestimate birds. A small bird's brain must clock far faster than ours; flight with small flapping wings must require conscious control ten or more times faster than humans are capable of. Does a bird's four-year lifespan feel subjectively like forty or eighty to the bird? If so, a bird's day is nearly a week long, subjectively, and winter is a truly terrible thing. There's another idea: a different rate of consciousness. There's a girl who decided to feed her neighbourhood crows. The crows are reciprocating, saying thank-you as best they can. That's very advanced thinking. $URL$ 

Another answer is that as soon as your civilisation works out the nuclear physics of stars, it will be able to work out whether its place in the galaxy is a safe one or not. Here on Earth we can admire Betelgeuse from a just-about safe distance. It's a red giant well inside the last million years before it blows. We can observe that it's highly variable ie unstable. If we found ourselves just a few lightyears from Betelgeuse or its ilk, we'd know the only long term future for our cvilisation involved interstellar travel. 

Supplementary answer. Wood is made of cellulose fibers. How strong is Cellulose? Very strong. There's lots of detail here: $URL$ . Quote: "lightweight, flexible, stronger than steel, stiffer than Kevlar" ... It is, of course, produced by a tree in a structure honed by evolution (long term) and environment (during the tree's lifetime) to be of best use to the tree. We have to do a bit of work to re-form it into nanocellulose, rather than just sawing it into beams. Wood also contains a natural glue called lignin which bonds cellulose fibers together. Just as cellulose is at least as strong as our best plastics, lignin is at least as good as our best glues and resins. Until recently, it was an order of magnitude better, but our chemists have caught up, and now we can glue wood to wood as strongly as if the tree had grown the wood into the shape we wanted(*). Enter Glulam. (Horrid name: a contraction of glued laminate, I think). Anyway, google "glulam" and you'll find that people are now building small skyscrapers out of wood, and planning larger ones. It is, after all, weight for weight as strong as steel (and counter-intuitively, more fire-resistant! ) Glulam is not the same thing as simple sawed timber, so architects are still feeling their way, and building experience and confidence with smaller structures first. This is world-building, so these references tell you what is possible (using cellulose). We may be able to re-program trees to grow wood more suited to our own needs, using genetic engineering. Or on a planet with higher gravity, evolution may have done the same (otherwise, there are no trees on that planet). And it's even possible that there's a better bio-polymer out there than cellulose. (*) by the way, mediaeval builders used the shapes that the tree grew. They didn't hack the wood into arbitrarily straight but weaker timbers. They built arch-like roofs and ships containing naturally curved timber. Occasionally, they'd even tinker a bit with the shape that the tree was growing into while it was small and pliable, then wait a century to harvest timber with the curves they needed. We may now (or soon) have the biotechnology to steer the growth of a tree by more subtle means than tying a sapling to a framework. However, do we have the patience? 

1.7 billion years ago, nature assembled a natural fission reactor at a location now called Oklo. Back then, there was more U235 in natural Uranium than there is today, and so creating a high enough concentration of natural Uranium is all that was needed. $URL$ This is Worldbuilding, so you might be an intelligent humanoid alien living on a planet where progress from supernova-dust to solar system to life to people moved faster than here on Earth. In which case, your society is going to have some interesting possibilities and problems. It's also possible that evolution has made you somewhat more radiation-tolerant than us Earthlings, if there are natural nuclear-geothermal heat sources dotted around all over the place, along with shorter-lived fission fragments in your groundwater. (Note: little of Earth's crust today is 1.7 billion years or older, so the Oklo event was probably not the only such instance, just the only one that we have evidence for). 

Marble? I will immediately admit that it is not harder than granite. However it has a different advantage. Granite is made of lots of grains of different minerals. Some of thsee decompose when exposed to water and air. Granite crumbles away, given time. Marble is highly homogeneous. Also it can not oxidize. It's weakness is that it dissolves in even slightly acidic water. So on Earth water flows along faults in the marble, gradually widening them. The flow increases. Caves form. Eventually a huge collapse happens. So Granite hills and mountains last longer, but there are some pretty massive marble outcrops. Marble might do better on a world where atmospheric carbon dioxide ( and therefore rain acidity) was very low. Perhaps a world where plankton convert CO2 to carbonate and dump it on the ocean floor when they die, with a greater efficiency than on Earth? Marble is of course metamorphic limestone, created in the first instance by such plankton. 

I'm not sure if this is strictly speaking an answer, but here is a world where the setup makes sense. Take one part quantum theory and one part Norse mythology. Stir with the order and chaos axis which I always find more interesting than good and banal evil, add a touch of Cthuluesque horror. This is a universe where chaos has almost won. The earth is a small bubble of relative order held together by the gods, adrift in an unmeasurable chaotic void. It is a failing world. Soon enough even the gods will die, but us mere mortals hope enough time remains for our small lIves and our grandchildren's. We absolutely need to believe in those gods. They are our anchor against the chaos. In this world, chaos can break though the orderly fabric that we call reality at any moment, revealing things that first destroy our sanity and then rebuild us as soulless and motivelessly malign agents of chaos. At such a moment we pray to the gods. We are their chaos warning system. When we rightly raise the alarm, they hasten to repair the fabric of reality. The might even save our lives, though that is very secondary to saving the world itself. People who pray for other reasons ... at best they selfishly distract the gods and thereby imperil the world. At worst, they subconsciously want to destroy the world. The former may get a warning if there is any time to spare. The latter have to be sacrificed if this little bubble of order and sanity is to be preserved. The chaos can also hear their prayers. A dark vision. Ragnarok cannot be much delayed. The gods themselves would pray if they knew to whom or what such prayers could safely be directed. 

I think it's impossible to say. History has many places where an alt-history might have diverged dramatically from that of the world that we know. It's fiction, so just make a convincing story! My favorite is how the Chinese almost became the dominant empire, a few hundred years before England did. They had almost arrived at the industrial revolution. They had build large sailing ships, had sailed to India and Africa (and there's some suggestion they'd discovered America). Then the ruling dynasty came to an end, the new emperor was in a position of weakness, felt threatened by new technology and new ideas, and clamped down. China became isolationist. The ships were burned. New technologies were banned. China hardly advanced, until the former barbarians arrived in their own large ships bearing much-refined firearms based on a Chinese invention. Rome also came close. Maybe the fall of Rome was inevitable, but it's also possible that a single mutated microbe or virus changed the world's history. Look up "Plague of Justinian" if you don't know what I'm talking about. 

Yes and no. It's possible to develop mental tolerance of painful stimuli. Many electrical shocks cause pain by direct stimulation of nerves but are otherwise harmless or cause only minor injury at the points of contact. It's not possible to develop tolerance of one's heart ceasing to beat (fibrillation) or one's flesh and (especially) nerves being cooked. These are respectively what a smallish shock passing through your heart and a massive shock passing through any part of you will do. And it's not possible to steel youself to perform heroic acts on an electrically live conductor using your bare hands. While current is flowing through your nerves you will have no control of your muscles. Find some insulating plastic sheet and then be a hero. 

The absolute worst-case runaway global warming, leading to a re-run of the Permian mass extinction. The (non-fictional, if somewhat speculative) book that you need to read about this is titled "Under a Green Sky", or Google that phrase. If this is the case, it is not going to end well for the human race or for most other species. However, the time-scale on which it would unfold is long compared to a single human lifetime (though very short by geological standards). There will be a window during which life remains possible. You will have to choose whether the characters in your story know that they are living in the end times for the human race with no possibility of reprieve, or allow them ignorant hope that things may get better for their children while dropping a bombshell on your readers. (Yes I know you said you don't want global warming, but I don't think I have seen this worst-case scenario explored in fiction, where the atmosphere is turning toxic and the oceans will soon be ringed with dying fish trying to breathe the air because the water is even worse. Too gloomy? ) 

Where is the life in the middle of a large continent on Earth getting its salt from? The carnivores eat herbivores. The herbivores eat plants. The plants take carbon dioxide from the air, sunlight, and groundwater. That water contains all the other elements. Those elements get there by the weathering of rocks. Weathering includes active attack by plant life as well as inorganic chemistry such as oxidation of surfaces exposed to air. It takes a fair while for plants to establish a foothold on new volcanic barren rock. It starts with algae, lichen etc: tiny things lodged in tiny crevices. Gradually the rock crumbles and the crumbs become coated with humus: organic matter from dead plants. Then larger plants can establish, starting small and tough. Scrub comes later still, trees last. You can study this where a volcano or retreating glacier or earthquake fault has exposed virgin rock. Or by filling a pot with crushed sterilised rocks and seeing what can grow given just sun air and rainwater. Bottom line: plants can establish on barren rock but it takes very many human lifetimes to get to a layer of fertile soil. In river valleys where mechanically pulverised rock (silt) accumulates, the process will be faster but good fertile soil will still take a good while. BTW local shortages of certain trace minerals can be a problem. Iodine, for animal life, and Boron for plants, are well-known issues. It all depends on the rocks.