A person can choose between being a layman or a monk, but not both. Layman has to work to earn a living. Monks have to focus on the practice and uphold Buddhism. Both have complementary roles to play. Layman work to support the monks community. Monks pray for peace, harmony and success of the working community. 

Some people perceive impermanent as self, some perceive permanent as self. Both permanence and impermanence are self. The idea here is when the self perceives a permanent "impermanent" or permanent "permanent" then there is suffering when permanent "impermanent" becomes impermanent "impermanent". To be free from suffering, one must realize everything is impermanent - even have to realize that "impermanent" is impermanent. 

I am not sure if Buddha said it or not, I was flipping around some Buddha quotes pictures and found an image saying "Its better to travel well than to arrive". can anyone explain What does it mean ? Thanks 

Mind is a non living thing same as any object like a book or stone, it does not have its own existence, it is getting pran from soul. For example these trees and plants does not have soul, but there is one mind in earth. As Buddha says "Experience it, don't believe anything". So we are supposed to observe pran and chitta and then they are supposed to be mixed and become one. 

Remember the Heart Suttra. In emptiness, there is ...no eye, no nose, no ear, no mouth, ... Thus in emptiness there is no soul. The concept of man and woman are created by human beings. 

You got it somehow. True self or true nature of the mind is luminous, reflecting everything as it is. It is the buddha itself. Everyone has this true self and everyone can follow the Buddha's path to realize the true self. 

Samsara exist because there is enlightenment- free from Samara. Just like wealth exist because there are poor. Only if one is free from Samsara can one see Samsara. If everyone is in Samsara, then how can one see Samsara? That is what Buddha is here to teach 

Suppose I gave an good answer or a bad answer in both cases you do not get close to the reality because you will just believe me or not. Buddhism teaches you not to believe any thing you heard just observe yourself, Focus on sensations because higher class intellect is the only thing which differs humans from animals, So be wise and see yourself through vipassana and learn Dharma. We only ask this question when one is feeling negative sensation, Suppose you are ecstatic you would not ask this question, Why or what is life. Buddha said "when you realize the truth(how perfect is everything) you will tilt your head to the sky and laugh at it" 

To progress along the path, to realise what the Buddha did, we need a vehicle. If the vehicle uses imagination as a method, then imagination becomes the path. Imagination is not mindfulness, but is used to train mindfulness. 

Living in present is the phrase used by Buddhists to refer to mindfulness. Mindfulness can be something like "When we walk, we walk. When we eat, we eat." Mindfulness can also be non distraction, being here. 

There are many types of suffering and stress, anxiety, fear etc are mental sufferings. Thus wanting to be free from suffering is natural and knowing the path is the right view. 

In Hinduism it is said to be the place of Lord Shiva and his wife godess parvati, How is it related to Buddhist? Did Buddha himself ever said the importance of Mount Kailash? and if it is just a culture Buddhist follows how did it start? Jain's are also worshipping this sacred mountain. Buddhist Monk Milarepa have climbed Mount Kailash(is it true?) 

Lord Buddha have access to unlimited knowledge, This information can be found in old Indian scriptures as well, that human body is capable to visiting to another planets with his/her Astral body (Suksham Sharir). Is there some particular way or do i need Guru for this particular thing ? Many Buddhist monk don't teach this, i am aware that Lord buddha himself have denied not to show any super powers. These Siddhi's (powers) may lead to Ego, But going in universe have always been an interesting thing for anyone. 

Because to create something from something else means to go against the law of cause and effect. Buddhist believe that if one plants orange seed, one will reap oranges. One plants apple seed, one will reap apples and so forth. One can't plant apple seed and reap oranges - it is totally absurd and illogical. One can't have something totally unrelated create something else totally unrelated. Thus buddhist does not believe in a creator. 

No self does not mean disappearances. Acknowledging Anatta means we are mindful of others more than self. If I'm driving a bus, I'm mindful of the safety of all my passengers, not just myself. I don't disappear and let the bus drive by itself because it is reckless to the passengers. Disappearing is not Anatta. 

So your question is "" which means sacrifice, renowned and non attachment will bring Salvation. Nothing like anything is never said by Buddha. However coming back to question first of all Lord Buddha's view on salvation is a bit tricky if you are coming from a Hindu background, by that I mean you are not supposed to sacrifice anything just remain in the middle, as Lord Krishna also said remain in tranquility or there should be equanimity in life. As the question has been asked on Buddhism, So lets stick with buddha's view. So the aim to be always remain conscious, which seems to be impossible but with practice you will start realizing that you are doing better. Sit silently and start by focusing on breath, just observe your breath for 3 minutes in starting and do this at least three to six times a day, which should be easy you are android developer. Now also try to use 30 second rule multiple times a day, which in short is to try to remain in the present moment. Now lets say you feel good in meditation and at some point bad, Buddhism approach is that you will not get flown by mind in either of the above said situation, do not get excited when feeling good and do not feel depressed on feeling bad, just OBSERVE. OBSERVATION is very powerful 

Renunciation! There must be renunciation from the bottom of your heart before you can be easy on your meditation. 

Buddhism is about non-attachment. The more we are attached to bliss, the more there is no bliss. The more we look for bliss, the more bliss cannot be found. Practice renunciation. 

In some schools of Buddhism, everything is mind. Even the random effects are created by mind, which is karma. In other words, the random effects do not exist outside the mind. Which means, since the random effects exist within the mind, it does create experience.