No. Professional historians are expected to demonstrate research capabilities. And mostly in one or two narrow specialties of history. For most graduate programs, there is no "comprehensive" test or "common core" curriculum that one needs to pass. Historians do have to submit PhD dissertations, but those are "research," not "general knowledge" works. 

These terms were considered "generous" at the time, according to Wikipedia. Would they been considered so in later times by professional historians including today? Or would they be considered a form of cultural imperialism at some point? 

The Golden Horde refers to a Mongol territory, rather than a group of soldiers. It consisted of Mongol-occupied (southern) Russia and Kazakstan. The "horde," under the Mongol ruler Batu that attacked northern Russia and later invaded Europe using the Golden Horde as a base, numbered perhaps 130,000 men. 

The Great Schism of 1054 was an "official" announcement of something that had been going on for centuries: that the Latin and Orthodox churches had been "growing apart" in doctrine, language, practices, etc. driven in large part by local politics. What happened in that year was the Rome forbade churches in Italy from following certain "eastern" practices, and Constantinople likewise forbade churches in Asia Minor from following "Latin" practices. The result was a religious "divorce" because the two parties could no longer "cohabit." That was a "big deal," theologically even if it didn't seem like it from a political perspective forty years later, when the two sides "got together" to fight the common Saracen enemy and start the crusades. That would have been like a couple seeking an "amicable" divorce and agreeing to work together to sell their house to maximize value for both parties. The later, bloodier events in 1182 and 1204 made the "divorce" turn ugly, and more like a "contested," rather than an amicable divorce, and also removed all hope of reconciliation. But that doesn't change the fact that the "divorce proceedings," read "schism," began in 1054. 

In November, 1942, three months after the battle of Stalingrad began, the Soviet Union, launched Operation Uranus, a counterencirclement of the German forces in and around the city, in two prongs. The larger, northern prong debouched from the south bend of the Don heading southeast, and four days later reached the appointed rendezvous point at Kalach, 40 miles west of Stalingrad, which contained the main German line of communications. A day or so later, the smaller, southern prong of the attack was launched from the west bank of the Volga, on a northwesterly course with Kalach three days distant. About one day into the advance, it was counterattacked, and briefly halted by the German 29th Motorized Division, before this division was redeployed to resist the northern thrust. But had the Germans known what was going on, they might have reinforced the 29th Motorized, and at least stopped the southern thrust from arriving at Kalach to complete the encirclement. Suppose this had happened. Was the capture of Kalach by the northern group sufficient by itself to isolate the Germans? Is there reason to believe that the northern thrust would have been able to complete the encirclement on its own by marching past Kalach to the Volga if this were not the case? Or would the Germans have been able to escape from Stalingrad if they had managed to stop the southern thrust from reaching Kalach? 

There are TWO theories of "fire," and which one is better depends on what the battle conditions are and what the general is trying to accomplish. Admittedly, the examples below are with muskets, not archery, but you'll get the idea. One theory of fire is "fire at will" (or what a computer programmer might call "free format.") That works best in a "broken" battle on broken ground. The classic example from the American Revolution is "Lexington and Concord." At the battle of Quebec, on the other hand, Britain's General Wolfe defeated France's General Montcalm. The latter allowed his troops to fire at will, while Wolfe had his troops fire "in sync" followed by a bayonet charge. The advantage of "in sync" is the shock value, especially when followed by a bayonet charge. Without such factors, "fire at will" (aim, and use top speed), is probably better. EUROPEAN archers tended to fire "in sync." But at one notable 1754 battle in what later became the United States, a mixed force of British and "American" soldiers under Britain's General Braddock was defeated by French (with muskets) and Indians (with bow and arrow) "firing at will" from ambush. The losing and dying general, Braddock, gave the "props" to a brave and capable "rookie" officer named George Washington, who had warned that synchonized fire wouldn't work in "America"--"and the rest is history." 

One weakness of the Articles of Confederation was what I call the "nine states rule." The following (from the Articles), is typical: "The Committee of the States, or any nine of them, shall be authorized to execute, in the recess of Congress, such of the powers of Congress as the United States in Congress assembled, by the consent of the nine States," Basically, it required nine states (a two-thirds, not simple majority) to pass any legislation. And as a practical matter, the four remaining states could choose to "opt out," especially if they were the larger ones. For example, in the ratification of the Constitution and formation of the United States in 1787-1790, the "last" four states were Virginia, New York, North Carolina, and Rhode Island. As it were, Virginia and New York were "late ratifiers," with only North Carolina and Rhode Island as true "holdouts." But suppose the two larger states were also holdouts. Then, there would be a "United States" with only three New England states, separated by New York from Pennsylvania, New Jersey, Maryland and Delaware in the Mid Atlantic, and South Carolina and Georgia in the south, separated from the others by Virginia and North Carolina. Not the most powerful or creditworthy entity that could be drawn from the "Confederation" of 13 states. 

Despite the Franco-Belgian accord of 1920, the Belgians were skittish about becoming too dependent on, or becoming a protectorate of France. Basically, they wanted a "balanced" relationship with both France and Germany, barely "tilting" toward France. By 1936, Belgium "thought better" of the above accord, backed off on its provisions, declared its on neutrality, and made its own (leaky) arrangements with Germany. 

Rudyard Kipling published the poem in the United States in 1899, shortly afther the U.S. won the Spanish-American War, and became an "imperialist" power by obtaining former Spanish possessions in the Philippines, Puerto Rico, etc. In this poem Kipling was urging the United States to join the ranks of the Imperialist nations (England, France, Germany, Japan, and others) with an argument that boiled down to, that by doing good, 

When the earlier Brahmins (Namboodris) migrated to Kerala late in the first millenium, CE, they "acted as priests, counsellors, and advisers to local kings." In other words, they got to perform their "high status" roles when such opportunities were limited elsewhere. And in so doing, they introduced the caste system where none existed before. The Keraal Iyer Brahmins were recruited by local kings about half a millenium later (e.g. 13th century) to break the stranglehold of the Namboodris. These two groups differed in ideology, and tended to compete, rather than cooperate, at least at first. 

America is a country that was born in Revolution and came of age in Civil War. Like Rome, it has been accustomed to fighting and winning wars. For this reason, as much as any other, military history, including Greco-Roman history, has a greater place in American history than in other countries who have know longer periods of peace. (The longest stretch of peace in American history was the 33 years between the Civil War and Spanish American war; after that, the thirty-one years between the War of 1812 and the Mexican American War.) 

France placed a European ruler, Maximilian on the throne in Mexico for economic reasons. A united "United States" would have opposed such a move (and in fact, did, after the Civil War), under the Monroe Doctrine. France wanted the Confederacy as a "buffer state" between its protectorate in Mexico and the rest of the United States. 

One reason was that in the late 18th century, Britain was trying to define who was "British." And this, led in turn to the question of what a "colony" was and "how much" representation one should have. There were two kinds of colonies. The first kind was fundamentally empty land (America, Canada, later Australia), settled mostly by people of English descent. These colonies could be considered "transplanted" parts of England. Some, but by no means all, people on the British Isles would consider these people British. The second kind of colony was territories like India, and late Africa, that were conquests, rather than settlements where "Englishmen" established their rule over non English peoples. Few people anywhere would consider the "natives" of these lands British. Culturally, it was easier to give representation to the first group of people, who were (mostly) of English descent anyway. But the logistics of the time made this difficult; there was no air travel (only sea), and no telephones or radios to connect e.g. England and America. At best, the colonies could elect represenatives who would be seated in London. With Canada and Australia, England learned from the American example, and also benefited from the better transportation and communication of the 19th century. Perhaps in those cases, it was a matter of when, rather than whether they would gain representation. With the second group of colonies, the question was one of "who is an Englishman and who should be represented?" England was a very class conscious society at the time, and controlling for education and economic status, there were large social gaps between being a Londoner or a resident of a northern city like Liverpool or York. Within the United Kingdom, the difference between an "Englishman" and a Scots, Welshman, or "orange" Irish was significant. After that, there were major (perceived or real) differences between people in the British Isles and those "offshore" as discussed in a previous paragraph. Finally people like "Indians" never got anything like full representation; if they had, they would have "swamped" the British empire on sheer numbers. 

During the "Deluge" of 1648-1667, Poland was invaded and largely overrun by Sweden and Russia, the latter supporting dissident Ukrainian rebels. $URL$ Yet, despite the quasi partition, Poland was able to raise new armies from (occupied?) territories, and drive out both the Swedish and Russian armies. From 1772-1795, Poland was partitioned between Prussia, Austria-Hungary, and Russia. But until the third partition, Poland retained a core. The American Revolution hero Kosciusko was able to raise a Polish army, but not drive out the invaders, in 1794. Why was Poland successful in resisting partition the first time but not the second tine around? Could the Deluge have weakened Poland enough to "set up" a partition a century later? Was the rising use of the liberum veto $URL$ a culprit? And my understanding was that in the 1790s that the Polish nobility was split into pro German and pro Russian factions; was that NOT the case a century earlier, between Russians and Swedes? 

There was one other attempt. It was by South Carolina in 1833. The American President of the time was Andrew Jackson (from Tennessee). The Vice-President was John C. Calhoun of South Carolina, who was in favor of succession, and who said, "The Union, next to our Liberty, the most dear." Jackson retorted, "The Union, it must be preserved." Daniel Webster summed it up by saying, "Liberty and Union, now and forever, one and inseparable." Jackson threatened to hang Calhoun for treason if South Carolina seceded. It didn't. 

The British royal family will sometimes get salutes of 41 guns or 62 guns. These are in increments of 21- 20- and 21- guns. 

No. And the reason was that the founding of the Dutch East Indies Company was part of the fight for independence. In 1580, Portugal had become subject to the Spanish king in a so-called "personal union." (That is, Portugal and Spain were rule separately by the same ruler.) What had been a rivalry in modern Indonesia between Portuguese and Dutch became part of the war of Independence. In 1602, after one successful Dutch expedition under the nose of the Portuguese, the rebel Dutch government chartered the Dutch East India Company and sent a small flotilla to modern Indonesia to support it. There, the Dutch navy made alliances with the inhabitants of some "outlying" islands, from which they could harass the Portuguese on Java, the most populated one. In 1619, an enlarged Dutch fleet defeated the Portuguese near modern Jakarta and captured Java for the Netherlands. In fact, Dutch naval power was the driver of the Dutch War of Independence. For the first twenty years of the war, until 1588, the Spanish seemed all-powerful on land, but Dutch privateers harassed the Spanish navy with increasing success. Finally, the defeat of the Armada in 1588 greatly reduced the Spanish threat to both the Dutch rebels and England, which could then support the Dutch with fewer inhibitions. Although the war officially lasted another 60 years, a total of 80 years, even "merging" with the Thirty Years' War, the Dutch had the upper hand from this point on, even carrying the war with considerable success into modern Belgium, which preferred Spanish rule. During most of the 17th century, the Netherlands had the largest merchant fleet in the world, including a period up to 1648 when she was not technically "independent. 

Sweden cooperated with Germany in World War II. (Although the Allies did manage to "launch" Eric Ericcson, a Swedish-American spy, from Sweden, in large part because Germans felt that Sweden was a potential "safe haven" for German "flight capital" by high-ranking Nazis.) My Swedish friends tell me that Sweden allowed Germany overflights to Norway during the Norwegian invasion. And they said, "The Norwegians never forgave us for that." As mentioned by others above, Sweden was a source of iron ore for Germany. By June, 1940, Sweden was surrounded to the north and west by occupied Norway and Denmark, to the south by Germany itself, and to the east by pro-German Finland. Given Sweden's cooperation, there was no need to invade it to neutralize it. As is the case of Spain, Germany would much rather have a friendly neutral than an outright enemy. 

Changing reserve requirements. This was more honored in the breach than the observance. Raising interest rates. Not particularly effective because there wasn't much interbank lending. Open market operations. Again not really effective because there were few counterparties. Finally, "moral suasion;" that is "jawboning" people to do the right thing. Had mild impact, but less so among the people that really counted. 

There was one South government that was openly sympathetic to the Nazis DURING World War II, and that was Argentina. This arose from the fact that the country was furthest away from the U.S. and Great Britain, and also had trade friction with both BEFORE the war, while its relations with Germany was decidedly better. Futhermore, Argentina has the largest proportion of Germans (and Italians) of any South American country. The end of World War II didn't change much. Argentina remained pro-German, anti-Anglo for at least several decades afterward. As late as 1982, Argentina went to war with Britain over the Falklands, with the U.S. supporting Britain. So Argentinians regard people that we might consider "war criminals," as "political refugees." 

Yale Professor Amy Chua makes this case for Russian Jews, Yugoslav Croats, Chinese in Southeast Asia and others, in this book $URL$ Note, however, that she is also the author of "Battle Hymn of the Tiger Mother." 

This article lists a white cross on red field as one of the oldest flags of Europe. The original version was the Danish flag, but there was a Scottish version with a "Saltire" or "X"-shaped cross. I could not find any use of a red cross on a white field. Such a flag was used at the Battle of Flodden against England in 1513 by the soldiers of King James IV. Its merit was that wearing such flags (instead of the traditional white on blue) made Scottish soldiers easier to identify in battle. But the same king had begun hostilities against England (on and off) as early as 1496, so it is quite plausible that Pedro Reinel was referring to this flag in 1504. The Scottish flag on Beimel's map is distinguished from the English by the use of the saltire shape, and its red shape appears to be "shorthand," because all the crosses on the map are rendered in red.The white in the background appears to be a map color, as opposed to a flag color.