One expensive component is the cooking pot; depending on if you already have one, you might want to find a stove that is compatible with your existing pot. Trail Designs have several models that can burn both alcohol and wood. You can order their stoves for specific pot sizes. I have experience with their Sidewinder Ti-Tri which can also burn esbit. I would consider the keg version instead of the sidewinder as having the ashes inside your pot is a poor idea in hindsight. Unfortunately, they are not cheap and only 'robust' if you use and handle them properly. I believe your best option will be to find a cheap cooking pot and build your own soda can alcohol stove. Plenty of people have built theirs and used them on long hikes. Use a small plastic container for transportation. To save space, try to store items inside of the container when you are on the move. As long as your wood burning stove have support and space for placing the alcohol stove inside of it, you should be good. Although I have no experience with this specific diy, I would consider trying and adapting this Wood Burning Trail Stove to your needs. Alternatively, you could also spend part of the money on a used wood stove. You could start by looking at the gear swap on BPL. 

I walk along Del Monte Beach in Crow City, USA (Monterey, California) quite often. It is not too rare to see dolphins frolicking (so it seems to me, although they may just be going about their business, with no particular feeling of fancifulness or frivolity as they periodically arch their backs out of the water every several seconds/yards) about 60 feet (estimated) off shore. However, it seems that either I have been very unlucky lately, or this may be a seasonal occurrence. What used to be common is now "special" - I saw one again last week for the first time in at least several weeks. Is this because they would tend to be in Monterey Bay only during a certain time of the year (and not in late spring)? Is it based on a prey/predator situation, the temperature of the water, or something like that? Or is it just sort of a "random" circumstance or "happy accident" that I might happen to see them quite a bit for a stretch of time, and then an "unhappy accident" that I miss them for quite awhile (they're there, but I just don't happen to look in the right place at the right time)? 

During the fall season, fallen leaves from deciduous trees such as maple, oak, etc. can be found in abundance. Dead leaves can be gathered and placed under your sleeping system in order to sleep more comfortably and presumably warmer. How much R-value does a pile of leaves provide? This is of course dependent on the type of leaves (or composition), quantity, dampness and other factors. Considering the possible variation, what level of R-value could you expect by gathering dead leaves? 

What type of cookware you choose depends on what type of cooking you do. Titanium is certainly the lightest, and it's great if all you do in your pot is boil water to add to dehydrated foods (Lipton noodles, Mountain House, homemade boil-in-bag meals, etc.) or to make beverages. I've never seen or heard of a titanium pot shattering at low temperatures. However, any super-thin, uncoated pan will have trouble distributing heat evenly which leads to hot spots and burned food. A titanium mug works great for me, but then, I prefer to keep my meals as simple and no-cook as possible when I'm backpacking. If you enjoy backcountry cooking, you may be disappointed in ti cookware, especially considering the price point. If you plan on doing anything more involved, such as eggs or pancakes or stirfry, take a look at hard anodized aluminum cookware, such as the MSR Aplinist or GSI Pinnacle series. Hard anodized aluminum weighs only a little more than titanium, is cheaper, and offers several advantages over other aluminum pots. It is durable, offers excellent heat distribution, and is easier to clean as it possesses some nonstick properties of its own even without a Teflon coating. Some hard anodized pans are sold with a Teflon finish, so if that's an issue for you, shop around or examine them in person before buying. If you do go with nonstick cookware, be sure to use bamboo or Lexan utensils to avoid scratching the finish. I use hard-anodized aluminum pans from Calphalon for home cooking and I love them. They heat very evenly and are virtually nonstick. The material is much less reactive than plain aluminum (e.g. it doesn't turn the sulphur in your cauliflower yellow!), and leeches virtually no aluminum into your food. For perspective: there are about 50 mg of aluminum in an antacid tablet; if you do all your cooking in uncoated aluminum pans, you'll consume about 3.5 mg of aluminum per day, and with a hard anodized pan that number is even lower. Bon appetit! 

In an area near where I work in Monterey, I often walk during the noon hour and end up in a meadow that is much-beloved to red-winged blackbirds. The other day I saw something unusual, though - as I walked into the meadow, I noticed a large bird - some sort of crane, I reckon - with a large black snake half-swallowed. When it (the bird) noticed me, it flew off several dozen yards, and then landed again at the far end of the meadow, standing there again, with the snake dangling. The snake must have been already dead, because it wasn't flopping around. I walked toward it/them to get a better look. The bird then lifted its head skyward, gulped down the snake, and flew off. I didn't know cranes or crane-like birds ate snakes, and I'd never seen a big black (or dark brown) snake around here before. Is this normal behavior? What type of bird was it, probably? What type of snake was it, probably? Hopefully not a rattlesnake, because they give me the fantods, even though I've only gotten close enough to to hear one rattle once. 

Where can I find a good elevation profile of Tahoe Rim Trail? This website has an elevation profile based on GPS data points. However, it is not laid out in a very useful format. I'm looking for something similar to the Appalachian Trail AWOL handbook or pocket profile. 

Over the past 10 years Ursack have been improved. However, just as bear canisters fails, Ursack is also prone to occasional failure. 

I would say that most filters will do just fine with 20 liters of water without the recommended maintenance. If there was one I would consider it would be Sawyer Squeeze. The Squeeze is a hollow fiber filter which can be forced (squeezed). It is affordable, reliable and simple to use. The water is available immediately; you can even drink as you filter. I find it easier to use than a pump-style filter. You may also use it as part of a gravity system. The Squeeze requires back-flushing using a syringe. In my experience, this is rarely required if the water is relatively clean. You may choose to bring the syringe with you although I personally would not. Another option is to mail it to yourself for long hikes (i.e. bounce box). With clear water it repeatedly worked just fine for weeks-long stretches. When it requires back-flushing you will notice reduced flow rates. The filter is remarkably simple and does not have many moving parts. I did have problems with the O-Ring becoming misshapen, which resulted in leaks and un-usability. The problem corrected itself after a certain time. You should not tighten the bottle too hard as it may cause issues (now I know). I also owned a MSR HyperFlow but had it failed on me in the field. I would not recommend it as it is more error-prone and more costly than the Squeeze. Ceramic filters are also reliable and field maintainable. However, I personally had bad luck with those as the cartridge broke down on a trip. For non-filters, you could use a drops such as Aquamira. I would recommend transferring the contents of the bottles into a secondary container as the corners of the bottles tend to crack and leak. I've had it happen to me twice and I have met other hikers with the same problem. I believe Aquamira is aware of the problem but I do not know if they have corrected it. You could also keep them in the original plastic box which offers some extra protection for those sad cornered bottles. SteriPens are great but unreliable for multi-week trips and costly (battery usage). 

(long time passing). I walk along Del Monte beach in Crow City, USA (Monterey, California) quite often. For quite awhile, sandpipers were there in abundance - more than any other bird. I haven't seen any in a couple of months. Have they migrated away? Where? According to this, sandpipers are "year-round" residents in my area (well, "spotted" sandpipers, anyway, I don't know what subspecies these are that are common to my area). 

I often take a slice of bread to the beach when I go on my beachcombing ramblings, and throw pieces of it to the shore birds that are, like me, combing the beach but, unlike my search for "jewels" are on the scavenge for grub. For the most part, these avians are seagulls of one stripe or another. However, I notice a striking difference in their behavior: some will hover overhead and snatch the pieces of bread out of the air as I chuck them skyward, but most of them look at the bread to see where it's going to fall and then swoop down and sweep it up; or they just land on the beach in front of me and wait for a treat to come their way (I broadcast the morsels pretty equally, trying to give each bird a piece). Are the air-grabbers hungrier than the more sedate ones? Or are they just more accustomed to humans heaving them their dinner and are thus "old wings" at plucking the tidbits out of the stratosphere before one of their mates gets an opportunity to intercept their meal? 

Fixed length non-adjustable trekking poles have the advantages of being lighter, comprise of less failure points and sturdier (especially for cheap poles). On the other side of the medal, transporting them by airplane is more costly and they can be inconvenient when hitch hiking to/from a trailhead. I have used slightly longer fixed trekking poles in order to be able to use them with my shelter system. I personally did not mind adjusting my hand on the long handle depending on the inclination of the trail. In fact, if they would have been non-fixed I would seldom adjust them as it takes time. I prefered fixed length poles because of their weight and not having to adjust them every time I setup my shelter. I do not use loop handles so this wasn't a problem for me. If you prefer quick adjustment and fixed-length; an interesting compromise are the Black Diamond Z-Pole Series trekking poles. They are fixed and collapsible for the most part. The top-most section allows you to adjust it to your liking. 

In Canada, you will need a hunting license depending on the province (or territory) and type of game you wish to hunt. Typically, a safety course is also required. For example, moose requires applying for a draw which is valid for a certain zone as determined by the department of natural resources. 

Where I walk weekly (Del Monte Beach in Monterey, California), I beachcomb for shells, glass, and particularly stones. Most of what gets cast up is rather dull and uninteresting - gray and black rocks of no particular noteworthiness. However, there are always at least some gemlike little rocks of various hues: yellow, green, white, orange, caramel and chocolate brown, reddish-brown, pale blue, etc. These are often well-worn and oval. Every foray differs from the previous (quantity and "quality" of what gets thrown onto the strand by the relentless waves), yet certain stretches tend to have a consistent concentration of these gemlike stones. I reckon quantity is determined by the strength of the tide, so full moon and new moon can be expected to produce a good harvest. Storms would be another factor, obviously. I assume when certain deposits are washed up, it's because the waves are "digging deep" in certain locations on the ocean floor where these types of stones tend to be concentrated. So I can predict in a small way what portion of the beach will produce which type of stone; is it possible to predict with a greater certainty which area of the bay is going to get scooped out based on lunar phases and weather patterns? Basically I'm wondering why certain spots on the ocean floor are "reaped" on one occasion but not on another. Is it such a complicated interplay that it can't possibly be predicted? 

When at a shelter, there're usually short strings with a tuna-type can to prevent the rodent from accessing your food bag. One can use those instead of hanging the food. See picture from 'Marks AT walk' journal: 

Katahdin is the highest summit in the area and camping is not permitted. Surrounding mountains are not very high and you should be able to camp at the bottom of them with some minimal planning if you're concerned about the temperature. A 30F bag is most likely what you will end up using and I would bring that with a few extra light layers that I can use during the day and at night if needed. e.g. a light puffy & windbreaker pants. If you use lean-to's, these can something feel colder because they are fully open on one side. I have used a 40F quilt in Baxter State Park, in early July, without any trouble. 

In the article "Is that newfangled cookware safe?" no special mention is made for titanium. Titanium is not commonly found in cookware other than backpacking because it is simply terrible for any cooking tasks other than perhaps boiling water and it is expensive. Many backpackers are willing to pay the extra money for extra weight saving. According to naturalnews titanium is the safest: 

For any Dr. Doolittles out there, when a seagull makes a "cooing" sound, is it more like the "miaow" of a cat, or the purring of a cat? Specifically, when the seagulls "talk" to each other, it is oftentimes in barks or croaks; whether they mean by these sounds "watch out!" or "look at that!" or "get out of my way!" I don't know. But when I feed them bread by flinging it heavenward along the strand, whilst they swoop down and snap it with their beaks, those anticipating a tasty morsel are making sounds, not like the cawing of a crow (Monterey, where I live, should be renamed "Crow City"), but more like a dove, or the whining of a puppy. Is this sound akin to a contented sigh ("isn't this great!") or is it more of a begging sound ("Gimme summa dat bread!")? 

Last night, I had to climb a tower at work. When I reached the top platform (about 40 feet up), and turned my back to close the swinging gate behind me, I was whacked on the back of the head. Fortunately, I was wearing a hard hat and was not knocked off my feet. It did hurt, though - without the hard hat it would have been worse. What hit me? A bird. I saw it gliding away as I looked around to see "what hit me" (literally). It was probably an owl, as this was after dark. We also have seagulls in the area, and it's possible it was one of them, too. I wasn't being overly observant at the moment, obviously, as I don't know which one it was - it was a good-sized bird, though. I realized then that the other time a similar occurrence transpired it had to be a bird, too - possibly the same feathered "friend." I had thought somebody had hit me with a rock or a dirt clod (but nobody was around; I looked at the ground below me, rather than outwards, where I would have no doubt seen a bird, as I did last night). The platform is small and when the plant is in operation, very noisy and vibrates. I am almost 100% certain there is no nest up there. So why did this bird attack me? Both times it/they whacked me on the back of my head, hitting my (plain white) hard hat. They were sharp blows that hurt, even with the hard hat protecting my noggin. My question is: why would this/these bird[s] attack me? For fun? Because I was in their airspace? Or what? I have never molested them. I have shone a flashlight on them a couple of times as they sat in their tree. They have never swooped down on me as I was walking in the area, only when I'm about 40 feet above ground level. This occurred in Marina, California, a quarter mile east of Monterey Bay (between the Bay and Highway 1). Do owls (or seagulls) have something against white hard hats, or people climbing up on platforms?