I'd focus less on the falling part and more on the climbing part. Get some miles under your belt by leading climbs that you feel comfortable on. Leading is a separate skill from the purely physical act of climbing, you need to train your mental control as well as your physical. It's unreasonable to expect that you'll be leading at the same technical level as you toprope until you have many climbs under your belt. Climbing gyms have drastically accelerated the rate at which people gain physical competency in climbing, but there has been no comparable advance in training the mental aspect. Getting a "climbing head" takes time and everybody does it at a different rate. Having a lot of positive experiences at a lower technical level is much more beneficial than forcing a bad experience at a higher one. 

My 2 Cents: Winter camping requires two pads, one inflatable and one foam. The reason for this is that not having any pad at all looses a lot of heat into the ground if you are camping on snow. Even the warmest bag will be uncomfortable without a pad camping on snow. While inflatable pads are really nice, they all eventually fail, particularly in the presence of crampons. You can survive the night with any of the standard selection of foam pads. A good inflatable pad plus foam pad will extend the range of your sleeping bag and provide comfort vs survival. In my experience people underestimate how much heat gets lost into the ground. The other advantage of having a foam pad is that you can use it quickly during the day during rest stops. Being able to sit without losing heat makes a big difference as the day goes on. Managing two pads is kind of a pain, those large elastic straps with the Velcro ends help in keeping them both under you. 

I've hiked all over the USA and the general rule is that on public land, you can hike anywhere you want, unless there are specific rules for a given sensitive area. Generally these rules are posted at least at the trailhead or in any wilderness permit you get. The one place where there aren't posted signs, but that you should "STAY ON THE TRAIL" is making cuts across switchbacks. This damages both the trail and any nearby streams. It's one of the primary reasons why "Stay on the trail" rules get created. There is a real difference between making your own route, and wandering just to the side of an existing trail. The first is generally much more acceptable since it's unlikely anyone will be following your tracks. The second can cause real problems in high traffic areas. As the population grows, more and more areas are becoming high traffic areas, and the rules will have to change if we want to preserve both access and habitat. The other caveat is that it isn't always clear when you are leaving public land. Some trails only have a narrow right of way for public use and any wandering puts you on private land. Access there is up to the landowner. There are no "wander right" laws in the USA. 

This leaves us with two possible physically-possible mechanisms of action for the "full bladder makes you colder" hypothesis: 

Humans have a few intuitions about how temperature, heat, and liquids work. These intuitions lead us astray for the specific case of a bladder full of urine. "Keeping Warm" / "Cooling down" The first intuition is that things cool down on their own: If you leave a pie from the oven on your counter, it eventually cools down to room temperature. We believe things cool down (and thus must be "kept warm") because ambient temperature is nearly always colder than any object which we consider to be warm. In reality, things only cool down when their temperature is higher than the temperature of their surroundings. This is thermal equilibrium: in the absence of other processes, an object and its surroundings will eventually match temperature. Does this principle of things cool down on their own apply here? No. Urine in your bladder is already at thermal equilibrium with the rest of your body. "Cool Liquids" We also intuit that liquids are colder than normal matter, because wetting your hands results in a very high surface area-to-mass ratio, causing rapid evaporation. Evaporation is a cooling process, of course. We also think liquids are colder because they tend to have good thermal conductivity. We perceive the temperature of an object based on the rate of heat exchange with it; that rate is determined by the difference in temperature and its conductivity. Thermally conductive things feel warmer or colder than their nonconductive counterparts because they "move" heat more quickly. This is why metal objects at room temperature feel colder than e.g. cotton at the same temperature -- they are the same temperature, but the higher-conductivity object exchanges heat more quickly. It's also why you can put your hand into a 450 F oven without getting burned, but can't safely grab a metal pan at the same temperature. Do these properties of cool liquids apply here? No. Urine in your bladder cannot undergo evaporation (it's a closed system), and its high thermal conductivity is irrelevant because it's already at the same temperature as the rest of your body. Physics There are only a few factors we need to consider to determine the nighttime temperature of a camper in a sleeping bag: 

6 of one, half dozen of another. A lot comes down to how easy it is to hike in the ski boots you are using. The problem with hiking is that it only takes a short stretch of unpacked trail to lose any gain in time and you can't take advantage of any brief downhill stretches. Even with skins you can get a bit of glide. On the other hand, if the trail has been boot packed, skinning can be difficult and in hard crusty conditions, boots and crampons are generally faster. I'm not sure I buy the 1lb on the feet vs 6 on the back argument. If you're moving your skis up and down that much, you need to work on your skinning technique. Also half the time, half the weight of skis is just resting on the ground vs you having to support it. 

A lot depends on where you live and where you ski, but unless you've got solid enough skiing skills to manage ungroomed terrain at a resort, you'll struggle a lot backcountry skiing in a typical situation where AT or telemark gear would be used. There is an entire range of gear from relatively light XC touring gear to full on Alpine setups that can be used for touring in the backcountry. The trick is to pick the gear that most closely matches your current skills and the terrain you plan to ski. Without knowing more about your situation, I'd suggest spending a season focusing on improving your alpine skills and then maybe look into getting an appropriate AT setup. Learning on AT gear is not really a great idea. The release mechanisms aren't anywhere as near as reliable as regular alpine bindings and the gear is built around the idea that it's for relatively expert skiers who don't fall often. While it may seen cheaper to just get one AT setup, alpine gear is often much cheaper. New AT bindings often twice the cost of basic alpine bindings. It's also much easier to get used alpine gear that is still in good shape. If you decide to stick with it, you can later have AT bindings put on your alpine skis. Or even get a plate that will allow you to switch bindings easily. This question is almost impossible to answer without a lot more details about where and when you are skiing. It's also very important to get some appropriate Avalanche education if you are venturing into the backcountry. 

Running the numbers: A Sanity Check The original claim is that you don't have to "keep warm" the contents of your bladder. We've shown that this isn't really a thing, but what if it were? A healthy full adult bladder is about 300 mL of liquid, which would weigh about 300 grams (or half a pound). For a hiker weighing 80 kg / 175 lbs, that's about 0.3% of your total body mass. Is a 0.3% change in body mass really going to significantly change your overnight heating situation? That's implausible at best. Note that the change in surface area (assuming you expand with a full bladder, rather than simply compress other parts of your body) is going to be smaller than 0.3% because surface is a quadratic measure but volume is cubic. If this effect were actually noticeable, it should be twice as strong for taking a normal #2 (weight 1-3 lbs) right before bed, because you should have to "keep warm" your poop just as much as your urine (presumably). No one seems to comment on this. Humans are pretty good at sensing their bladder fullness but not great at sensing bowel fullness when it's within normal parameters, which suggests there's a strong psychological component going on here. What about a hot water bottle in the sleeping bag with you, a common suggestion? Does this matter? If we heat up a 1 L bottle of water (1,000 grams) to 100 C (boiling) and it eventually cools to 24 C (74 F, a rough guess at the temperature in a warm sleeping bag), we've added 76 Calories* of heat to our system. Basal sleeping metabolism is about 80 Calories per hour; nearly all of these Calories turn into heat (only the small portion stored as chemical energy, e.g. ATP, don't). So if the water bottle cools down to ambient temperature within an hour (a decent guess), it's almost as good as having another human zipped up in the sleeping bag with you for the first hour, which is definitely something. There's a throughput trade-off here; if you insulate the water bottle a bunch to make it cool down over twice the period of time, you get half the per-time energy output. 

Since you used "effective" rather than possible, my 2 cents would be that you should set the steepest skin track that allows you to climb at a consistent rate. If the track is so steep that you are stopping to rest every 10 steps, you will gain elevation slowly. There is also a school of thought that says your uptrack should be as beautiful as your tracks descending. This school tends to smooth transitions and lower climb angles. They view zig-zag kick turns as the method of last resort. A great source for tips from the Steeper is Better school is the website SteepChuter.com website The exact angle that will be 'too steep' on any given day is far too dependent on conditions and equipment to pick any numeric values. Generally it's somewhere between 20 and 30 degrees. A good rule of thumb is that if it's too steep to skin straight up, you should start thinking about avalanche hazard. As to when booting up is a more efficient means, this depends a lot snow conditions and how heavy your skis are. If the snow is hard and icy, crampons can be faster on even relatively flat slopes. I often use just crampons for early morning starts in spring corn snow ski season. Booting up is generally only used in soft snow conditions when the terrain doesn't allow a zig-zag skin track. (i.e. couloirs and narrow ridges.) And if the snow is deep enough booting up can be next to impossible. 

I have mostly commonly heard those two terms used together in skiing. Frontcountry is lift served skiing inside the resort boundaries verses backcountry skiing where you ski up the hill first before you ski down it. (i.e. the front of the mountain is where the lifts and trails are, the back is where they aren't. ) Frontcountry is a relatively new term compared to backcountry. Backcountry in general implies a more remote setting and one that you reach only on by self-propelled means. I would expect nothing in the way of facilities in a backcountry camping site. I have never heard the term frontcountry applied to camping. But I guess it makes sense as an antonym to backcountry. Backcountry camping would generally imply that you carry in everything you need on foot and there isn't anything setup for you when you get there. So in general frontcountry would imply some kind of facility or access that somehow make it "not backcountry".