Use what will be on your degree certificate and therefore your transcript, as that is what companies will use to verify your information. However, you can also indicate your specialization on your resume or CV (or LinkedIn profile, etc) because it is a specialization that will be useful when differentiating yourself during the hiring process. So, something like: 

If you are applying to internships that have restrictions on the types of students who may apply (such as full-time enrolled students in a degree program), then it's unethical to pass yourself off as a full-time enrolled student in a degree program if you are not. However, if the internships just require that you are a student of any type, and you are indeed a student of some type, then there isn't an issue. As a company digs deeper into the background of the candidates applying for internships, they'll discover (through looking at transcripts and talking to references) if the student applications they are receiving are the "right" types that match their needs. You very well may not be it, but that's an issue independent of your student ID card (which you can only get, I imagine, if you are a paying tuition and therefore are a student of some kind). 

If your place of employment is open, and you have the opportunity to work, then there is absolutely nothing rude or greedy to ask to work on those days. Now, that being said, the company could say no, but it certainly won't be a negative mark against you for asking. In fact, that you are clarifying the situation would be a good mark for you, I would imagine -- it certainly would be for me if I were your boss. The situation would be different if your place of employment were not officially open, which you've carefully noted is not the case. In my own company, we have several different types of employees -- full time salaried who are overtime-eligible, full time salaried who are not overtime-eligible, and contract workers who are also overtime eligible. We have company holidays -- days when the business is technically closed -- as well as floating company holidays -- days when parts of the business are closed but others aren't -- and we take this approach: if we are open, we work. If we are sort of open and you want to work, then work. If we are not open, but there is work to be done and you want to do it -- regardless of your status -- then say so and we'll pay you to work. For us, it comes down to communicating expectations (both sides), and I would imagine it's the same in other places, so just have that conversation with your supervisor and please don't worry you're stepping out of line, because you're not (from my perspective). 

This leads to the question you didn't actually ask, which is why do this in the first place? Understanding the "why" behind this will make these following answers to your sub-questions make more sense. 

You have submitted your resume electronically, You are in the interview stage, AND You are providing ad-hoc secondary copies when originals were not expected to be provided 

I have experience working in organizations that implemented something like "20% time" (even if it was just "10% time") and it's something that I am going to be implementing in the company I just joined. The answer to the question of how is "carefully". That's not meant to be a snarky response, but rather a true one to a broad question in which we don't know the details of your company. By "carefully" I mean: 

If you are applying for jobs in which you create something -- be it UI design, UX design, back-end programming, or anything else -- one of the first questions you'll be asked is could you show me what you've done? or something similar. In fact, the presence of an accessible portfolio of work is often one of the first stage qualifications (in other words, if you don't list something on your CV that I can go look at, I'm probably not going to spend more time with your CV, no matter how good you might be). So, yes, create a portfolio site. Your portfolio site should include whatever you want to represent your work, along with explanations of the context of its creation and any other explanatory statements you feel are necessary (e.g. technologies used). If you are not a good visual designer, then your explanations (and the jobs you are applying for) should emphasize the elements of design and development that are not visual (e.g. UX design versus graphic design, functional dynamic elements versus the template, and so on). Your portfolio should reflect your professionalism and the things you can do that might be of benefit to prospective employers; to that end, consider what information you want to provide and whether or not "cool" things are among those core features of your work (I'm as much of a fan of cool as anyone else, as long as it serves a purpose and is contextually appropriate; cool for the sake of cool can be appropriate, but can also be vapid.) 

I'm speaking here as both a hiring manager and as someone who has taught university courses in employment portfolio creation for new graduates. Yes, including university projects in lieu of professional work experience is a very good thing to do, as is being as complete as possible without being too verbose. You have several options for displaying that information -- just remember the ultimate goal should be to make it as clear to understand as possible for the reviewer. The person reviewing your resume for entry-level or junior positions should already be oriented toward reading about student or non-traditional work experience, so none of the following options (or one you make up on your own) should come as any great shock to them. Instead of a "Work Experience" section of your CV, you can just use a "Student Project Experience" section, or something similarly titled. The information you list in your question is very good information to include. You can format it something like this: 

You're right that it's hard to erase the past. Don't try. Own up to it, change whatever you need to change, and be honest about that when it comes up. I'll always hire an honest person showing attempts at growth over someone who lies and looks like the perfect employee on paper! 

Answering from the perspective of a hiring manager who hires both UX and UI designers and developers, I can tell you that I always notice when someone uses a cookie-cutter template for the overall online portfolio design. However, this does not always bother me or automatically negate a candidate in my mind. If you are marketing yourself as a UX architect and researcher, I will care less about the visual design of your own site, and will care more about whether or not the template you've chosen to showcase your work is actually architecturally sound. In other words, I wouldn't care one bit if it was out of the box Bootstrap, but would care that you've used it well and have paid attention to the architectural and rhetorical choices that a generic template allows you to make. If you are marking yourself as a visual designer of any sort, I would expect different choices to be made in your template selection -- less boilerplate, more artistry on top of a solid foundation; if you're marketing yourself as a developer then I'm going to look closely at the customization you've performed on a template, and evaluate from a technical perspective as well as a visual design perspective, and of course fundamentally from an architectural perspective. After considering all of the items above, when I look at the examples of actual work for employers/clients, I'm going to compare the examples with what I see in your own portfolio site. If I see amazing things in the work for hire, and not so amazing things in your own portfolio, I'm going to wonder just how much you actually contributed to the sites you have in your portfolio. Similarly, if your portfolio site is amazing and your work for hire is not, I'm going to ask you a lot of questions about why that's the case (and believe me, I understand customer demands vs what is "good and right", so we'll talk about that). 

When teaching students how to craft the resume and cover letter, I first remind students that when they are applying to student-level or entry-level positions, the hiring manager assumes a lack of working experience and little familiarity with the professional aspects of the career (in this case, depth of knowledge of programming languages). As a rule, first remember where you are positioning yourself, and understand the expectations at that level. Then, when you list (and do just list in bullet form) your programming language experience, list the ones that you are comfortable walking in the door and using from day one, to complete the tasks and responsibilities required of an entry-level employee. It is also not unreasonable for a student to list number of years of working in the language, to make it even more clear (e.g. "C#.Net - less than a year; JavaScript - 1 year; etc). In your cover letter, that is the place to expand upon the information in your resume; you want your cover letter and resume to work with each other to paint a complete picture of you. In your specific instance, given the information you provided, I would put the list of languages on your resume, and then in your cover letter say something along the lines of "As you can see on my resume, I am familiar with both Java and C#.Net. My coursework has focused primarily on Java, but I have also created a basic Patient Administration System using C#.Net as part of a semester-long project." That's it. As a student, you're not expected to know everything. You are expected to be truthful about what you do know, the limits to that knowledge, and craft your documents about you to reflect that. 

Note that I wouldn't list upcoming coursework beyond the next semester. What this structure allows you to do is to point out in your cover letter exactly what has & will be preparing you, as a student, for the summer internship to which you are applying. Taking off the teacher hat and putting on the hiring manager hat, this path of learning/connection to what you'd be using this knowledge for in an internship with me, is exactly what I would want your resume and cover letter to convey. 

The answer is really "it depends" (so I can see where this might be closed as company-specific). Ideally (and very generally speaking), a manager is evaluated based on the goals set forth by their manager, which hopefully are in alignment with the goals of the group/division/company/etc. For example, I just started a new job, and my 30 day goal is "get this core team to perform". I'll be evaluated on whether or not the team performs, for some value of "perform" that my manager and I worked out. If I cannot get the team to perform/meet that goal, I'm ultimately judged on that outcome. However, my 60 day goal will then be to adjust in specific ways and still try to lead the team to meet that original goal. I have longer term goals, such as 180 day goals that are "get the team to perform", "fix the deficiencies we see", "hire more engineers" and so on -- some are tactical, some are strategic, some do not map precisely to a list of actionable items, but ultimately as the manager I am evaluated on whether or not I meet those goals, which do depend on output of the team. But it's not all on me, and it's certainly not all on them, either. In the example you provide, in which a highly-functioning team inherits a bad manager but overcompensates for that manager such that the team goals (and their individual goals) are met -- yes, that's entirely possible and I've seen it many times. Eventually, something tends to happen: the team mutinies, or people start leaving, or the manager leaves either voluntarily or involuntarily when it becomes apparent that their manager is finally catching on to the situation. 

I think you get the idea. These might seem lame to some people, but the point is that everyone has a passion for something (or at least really enjoys something), and that can be leveraged in a way that gets the group together; it's definitely "a mix of 'getting to know you' and a lower pressure chance to connect across the department" (as you say). 

if you reasonably map basic, intermediate, and fluent along the same general guidelines as one of the proficiency frameworks provide. 

In general, if you have completed these projects as part of your courses, then you'd often see this info either as bullet-point annotations in your education section (as long as it does not become too unwieldy) or simply referred to in your cover letter. For example: 

If I answer "No" to the first point, and I don't ask for help from colleagues or peers, then I wouldn't want to work for me. If I answer "Why, of course!" to the second point, I really don't want to work for me. As a prospective candidate who knows only one side of a story (that a hiring manager appears not to know what he or she is looking for, and also doesn't appear to give people a chance), if the job is appealing to you on paper then you can figure out the mettle of the hiring manager when you make it to the interview portion and ask some questions: 

As a hiring manager, if I hired and fired people very quickly and in succession, and changed the job ad each time, I'd sit myself down and have a talk with myself that went something like this: 

As a hiring manager, I expect a candidate's resume to help me make a decision about the suitability of a candidate for a position. That means I look at and consider all the data points available to me. It doesn't matter to me if you're looking for a junior position or a senior position or anything in-between: if your freelance work is remotely related to the field you're going in to or are in then it's important to me. Additionally, if your freelance work isn't related to the field you're going in to or are in, but it can speak to your ability to organize, communicate, time-manage, etc, then it's important to me. 

Like others have answered, have a discussion with your boss, especially if communication is poor, and especially if you have a diagnosis of an anxiety disorder of any sort. If you have not had any official, negative performance evaluations, then your conversation can go something like "You see my productivity and value to the company and my peers? Well, I'm stressed out to the max because of X, Y, Z. Can we work together to mitigate that stress in some way?" Managers worth their salt will have been trained or at least had discussions with HR folks to address these concerns. A blocker that is all stress is no different in its need to be cleared than a blocker that is technical in nature. Your manager should work with you to clear blockers. If you have had official, negative performance evaluations, then your manager should be working with you on a performance management plan that will enable you to succeed, not punish you for having the brain that you do. Either way, that conversation is not a sign of weakness; it's a sign of maturity.