Nanobots Think about a viral pandemic in reverse: Instead of a virus killing everyone (or turning everyone into zombies) one of the research centers develops nanobots which move inside their hosts' organisms looking for signs of ageing and cancer and fixing that. They are made of proteins - so basically they're big benevolent viruses - and so they are capable of building their own copies out of elements existing in human blood. But their primary function is to keep their host healthy so they do that only to keep their population stable. It means that they are able to communicate with each other, sending simple messages and responding to them. The research was sponsored by a few very wealthy people wanting to become immortal, but the nanobots got out and spread across the Earth. In a few decades almost everyone, except for a few isolated communities, is infected. Nanobots are not able to prevent death from all causes, but people stop ageing significantly and the rate of death from cancer drops almost to zero. 

It's highly speculative about whether or not the president can do it. Some will say he can, and some will say he won't. Technically, the two man rule is in place ($URL$ where the president needs someone else to help him launch. But you can always say that the "authority of the president" forced people to launch weapons. On top of that, there is a bunker for all presidents that they can use in case of nuclear war. So to answer your question, with a few loyal deputies and pulling the strings in the right places, the president could easily launch a nuclear war and be completely fine. 

Maybe a combination of the two - audio and braille plates that are combined to form a new type of language. Or you can try something like what Avatar has with connecting your hair to tree branches that allows you to access historical records. 

Cultural domination. You can't conquer the whole world, but you can make your kingdom the center of it. It requires spending a lot of money though. 

Let's say West Coast states, Hawaii, etc., are not a part of United States. Maybe California still belongs to Mexico and Hawaii is an independent kingdom. Doesn't really matter. My question is, how much would that affect US as a world superpower? Would it be considerably weaker because of that? And would the international goals be different without easy access to the Pacific Ocean (but there's still Panama Trait)? What about Korean and Vietnam wars? (I considered asking asking about WW2 and Pearl Harbor as well but I see that there are many questions about that, so I would prefer this question to focus on other aspects) EDIT: An additional thought. Maybe this situation would not only prevent US from doing something that happened in our timeline, but it would actually force US to make a decision that was abandoned in this world? 

This depends on who they tell. Public Right now, if you try to tell the public and government that FTL is possible in the scenario above, people and governments will have an incentive to work hard and try to figure something out. Right now, all of our current theories say that FTL is impossible and so therefore it becomes a waste of time. But if we have incentive, it has a higher probability of happening. But, be careful, because this isn't always the case. You could think of the fact that the "aliens" never gave us proof of FTL technology, so it could be dismissed as "fraud." Individual If you tell an individual, this is basically impossible. First of all, they wouldn't have the means, no matter how powerful they are, and second, if they try to get someone to help them, no one will because of how absurd the theory sounds. 

With these things in place after some time the whole civilization will start to perceive your language as the medium of communication about all things worthy of talking about. They will start to teach it in schools - first, because you'll give them this idea, but later they will continue on their own. French in Europe in the early modern period and English nowadays are good examples. 

A big YES. Actually, I think it's more probable that we will find alien intelligent machines than alien intelligent organic species. Look at us, humans: we're extremely fragile and unsuited for extraterrestial travel. In order to move to another planet, or even our own Moon, we need to encapsulate ourselves in very complex and cumbersome spaceships which would carry with us a suitable atmosphere, prepared food, facilities which we need to function properly, like beds (or at least chairs) to sleep on, toilets, showers, etc. The spaceship needs to shield us from cosmic rays and for longer journeys it has to provide some sort of artificial gravity and a recycling system. In the same time, in order to send a probe to another planet we just have to build it and throw it in a given direction. (Of course I oversimplify but the difference in the amount of work needed to be done is immense). With more probes and other types of machines in the outer space, the human presence on not terraformed planets will not be necessary. Machines can dig out minerals for us from asteroids and send them back to Earth. Machines can build a system of solar panels around the Sun, providing us with energy. They can explore the Solar system and send us the results. Heck, they can even wage wars against machines from another country on Earth. The only problem is distance which makes difficult for human beings on Earth to control the machines due to the light speed limit and to fix machines broken in some accidents or assaults far from mother stations. So, we will probably want the machines to be more intelligent and able to make decisions on their own, at least in a limited way, and we will want them to be able to fix themselves and other of their kind, as well as to build new machines from materials dug out from asteroids. Scroll a thousand years into the future and you will have swarms of intelligent robots running around the Solar system, serving (or not) their organic masters who live somewhere there on a small planet (or maybe they're already extinct), but otherwise autonomous. And why would it be different with any other civilization in the universe? So, it's a no if we're talking about robots built from scratch by evolutionary processes, but YES if it means that there was a civilization of organic predecessors who built the first intelligent, replicating robots, and they took it from there. 

There's a saying I like to go by: People need religion, religion doesn't need people. Maybe in your world, humanity evolves to a point where they don't need religion at all, and end up believing that they are the gods themselves - especially if technology allows them to become extremely superior (like Interstellar with 5 dimensional beings). But for the sake of argument, let's just say that your people do believe in religion. A lot of religions have changed over time, with more and more scientific discoveries. Adding more scientific discoveries - which will no doubt happen - can possibly influence your characters into changing their religion. Another possibility is that humans meet an alien species that is much more intelligent, and tricks humans into believing it is god. Humans could also potentially meet God, and it may be different that what any current religion suggests. These humans could come back and try to tell the world what is happening, but no one believes them. There are a lot of possibilities like this, and as someone said in your comments, you can have any possible scenario, you just have to work on a convincing backstory.