Clenching your torso and butt is a common tip* in proper push-up technique. It helps keep your entire body straight and flat. Push-ups are a core exercise as much as an arm one, so it does make sense that engaging more of your core would be beneficial. The sudden ability to do two more may be because you're in a bad position to begin with and this corrects it (butt too high or too low usually). It could also be you're focusing much harder so mentally you're capable of doing more. It's always a good idea when doing push-ups, or any workout for that matter, to film yourself on a side-angle. With a push-up, you should be flat and straight from head-to-heel. While filming yourself, you may find that you suddenly correct yourself when you clench. These tips also helps with planks. *It's step 2. 

Yes, it's reasonable to buy your own equipment and bring it if the gym doesn't have one that's suitable. Most gyms do not have a problem with it unless it's destructive in some way (dip belts are pretty harmless). Buying your own dip belt can have these advantages: 

Meaning that alcohol can not be stored as fat in the body. So the body's natural reaction is to burn it all out as fast as it possibly can. This effect takes precedence over the carbs, fat, and protein already in the body, so those will be stored as fat as they are no longer being used for energy. It does not just pass through. The weight effects you're seeing are caused by a number of things. Primarily it is water fluctuations. Alcohol lowers muscle glycogen and causes dehydration. Food does the exact opposite. Lower glycogen and dehydration means lower amount of water in the body which means less weight. The less weight will offset the weight gained from the beer. On the scale it "looks like you gained nothing" when in fact you're just dehydrated. 

Short answer: In the context of the question, I believe the answer was just saying that running is far more exhaustive than walking. Thus walking will leave you less drained than running will. Long answer: There are two aspects to look at, the effects of running on your energy levels and the effects of running on your body. Regarding energy levels, the human body has various energy stores that are used to produce the exertion needed for moving. It takes more energy to move a single object over a set distance at a fast rate then it would to move the same object over the same distance at a slow rate. Then there's how running effects the rest of the body. Mainly the muscles and bones. Depending on how fast you run, the muscles are going to break down and damage a little. Then they heal and become stronger next time. This is a necessary cycle for adaption, but there is this recovery time immediately after a run where your slightly weaker than when you started. The bones during the run also act like shock absorbers taking in the impact of each stride. Likewise, bones become hardened over time, but there is still a recovery period. Walking, in contrast, isn't as intense and does not have such a recover period. All of this is relative to the fitness level of the individual though. Most people can probably walk for ten miles given the right motivation. Those that don't walk often will feel exhausted because they have not adapted to the work. Those that walk often will feel great. Likewise, an ultra-marathon runner could run ten miles and feel great afterwards. 

People always point to these extreme examples. Basically, you don't see large marathon runners because marathon runners spend most of their time marathon running. Endurance sports take a lot of energy and time. If you spend too much time doing one thing, it's going to take away from the other. Not to mention, it is to their benefit to be as light as possible as each extra pound has to be carried for miles. Finally, endurance sports promote type 1 endurance muscle fibers where-as strength sports promote type 2 fast-twitch muscle fibers. Sprinters and track-athletes tend to be much more muscular because of that. 

I think it's just based off reputation. "Empty calories" basically means just "all of the calories with none of the benefit". So in the case of simple sugars, they're more associated with candy. Pop rocks, jellybeans, gummies, rock candy, etc. are all made of pure sugar. Soda is also another source of "empty calories". They do not have any nutritional micro-nutrients which are vitamins and minerals. Yet they are a very concentrated source of calories. Pair that with the fitness industry's demonization of calories, you get the idea that you shouldn't waste your limited calorie budget on "empty calories". Complex carbs are more often found in fruits and vegetables and hence are not "empty". That's not to say there aren't simple carbs in fruits, but the concentration is considerably less. Also when people think of "sugar", they don't think of "bananas". Complex carbs do, however, increase insulin. As does protein in fact. The digestion rate is slower than simple carbs, so rather than a spike you get an elevated increase over time. One of the reasons that simple carbs are far less satiating. There are actually a lot of people who argue that carbs primarily should be avoided regardless of source. Particularly Keto community. Then the IFIYM (It Fits Your Macros) community argues that a "carb is a carb" and the source of it doesn't matter as long as you get your macros in. Though since the body doesn't run on only macros, it's best to get your carbs mainly from "non-empty" food sources. 

The easiest form I've found would be with knees bent back and crossed so one leg is essentially holding up the other. So that is basically #1, but it takes less focus and energy and your torso is in the most neutral position. It is the closest variation to a standard pull-up. Option #3 is actually called an "L-sit" pull up and it's another common variety. It's sometimes harder because it takes more core activation to perform. Likewise, you can cross one leg over the other to make it easier. You can also keep the knees bent down to lessen the leverage which makes it easier. The "criss-cross applesauce" method might even be easier as the legs would be holding each other up. An alternate approach would be find something that's not a pull-up bar but strong enough to hold a person (that last part is very, very, very important). One gym I went to had the pull up bar attached to a cable machine. The pull-up bar itself was too low, but the frame it was attached do was higher. So instead I just used the frame with a false grip (no thumbs). I have also used the frames of Smith machines and power racks. 

Whey protein and casein are actually by-products of making cheese. They are separated during the cheese making process. Cheese manufacturers will sell this excess whey to supplements companies who then turn around and process it further. They remove the remaining fats, lactose, dry it, and then flavor it. There are three types of whey that are mostly how much processing is done. The differences between them are how much lactose, fats, and carbs are in them. Whey concentrate is the cheapest and most common form. It is also the least pure protein supplement. Whey protein isolate is a more heavily processed form of whey. Almost entirely protein. Most of the fats and lactose have been removed (though some always remain). Hydrolyzed Whey protein is whey protein isolate, but the protein chains have been broken down in to smaller strands. These make it faster absorption (though the jury is still out on whether this is actually helpful). There are of course dozens of other protein powder supplements. Whey is just one of the cheapest. Casein is another popular style which is very slow absorption in comparison to whey. There is also supplements made out of peas, hemp, eggs, brown rice, mixed plants and probably more. How much do you need? Absolutely none at all if you're eating enough in your diet. The general rule of thumb is you should aim for about 0.8g - 1 gram of protein for every pound of lean body mass or 1.7g - 2.2g per kilogram. There's nothing really special about protein supplementation other than being marketed really well. It is also just really convenient. 

Though for those occasional workouts where you just need the energy. You're about to attempt a new PR, you had a long day at work, the neighbor's dog kept waking you up all night, etc. Then pop a few jellybeans and get through it. 

Personal trainers come in a wide variety of styles so some may not fit for you while others may produce wondrous results. A lot of personal trainers from commercial gyms may be best for beginners who need a good starting point. They want/need someone to teach them the basics and foundations and bring them up to a level to make progress on their own (ideally). You sound like you're beyond that stage. So, for the crux of your question. What advantage can a personal trainer give for a more intermediate level person? Experience and lots of it. A good personal trainer (assuming they haven't just started) will have quite a bit of years of experience in both themselves and their clients. They've seen it all. They know what works and what doesn't. How good is your workout plan really? Are you missing anything vital that could help in the long run? Are you doing something risky that could set you back? Are you missing anything vital for your goals? Is there anything that you should be focusing on? What do you do when you come across something unexpected? Without any feedback you're basically going off your own knowledge. Because of that, you don't know what you don't know. Hiring a coach will give a second set of eyes on both your goals and your training to fill in gaps that you may be missing. Having said that, do you need a personal trainer? Not really. It's entirely possible to get in good shape without one. Plenty of people do it. It may take longer since you'll be learning along the way, but that's also part of the fun (or maybe I have a distorted view of what's "fun").