The definition of "life" is not actually agreed upon. It's meaning is too steeped in religious implications to get 100% agreement. Even within science, the definition of "life" is not fully agreed upon. The closest agreement seen is described in the Wikipdia article on Life: 

Time travel and moral dilemmas are a common pairing in science fiction because they can take things so seriously. One of the difficulties with exploring implications of moral codes is that they always seem "right" within a narrow scope within which they were created. However, it is much harder to determine if they are right in a wider scope without challenging it. Time travel has the advantage of being just barely on the edge of possibility (for instance, we've never seen it, but it can be defined in a General Relativity universe, if need be). It pushes the limit between "what we know" versus "what physically is," and often explores infinite looping implications on one's actions. These structures are very effective for challenging a moral code of conduct. I don't know if it would be possible to find any synopses of time travel and morality issues, because each author has their own flavor of how to do it. The joy of science fiction is not everyone is expected to agree upon morals between their exotic worlds. It also helps that the many different flavors of time travel have very different implications. The moral implications of strange loops in Heinlein's books (All You Zombies is a personal favorite) are very different from the moral implications of HG Wells' The Time Machine. 

Confucius, being a Chinese philosopher, would most likely be focused on interactions. These are back and forth endeavors which occur over a protracted period. Approaches like starvation and isolation are effective in preventing the individual from being able to act upon society, thus disrupting the interaction. If that fails, exalting them, putting them on the pedestal yields the opposite effect: it prevents the society from acting up that individual. This also breaks the cycle of interaction. If your status prevents you from observing the day to day issues that arise within the community, it is hard for you to stay in touch with them. Over time, the community drifts away from this deity on the pedestal, and they are disarmed. For a more practical example, we can look to fiction. The Netflix series "The Iron Fist" portrays a character from a Marvel Comic named Danny Rand. Skipping a whole lot of setup and introduction, Danny finds himself in a position where he seeks to reinvent a company bearing his name, Rand Corp. Those in power obviously were not fans of this. Their first approach was to silence and isolate him, but his position was too strong. So they took the opposite approach: they offered him a position of power commensurate to his stock holdings. However, this vaunted position offered little room to interact with the day to day affairs of the company. He had near god-like power within the company, and exercised it, but he was kept sufficiently out of the loop to make sure he couldn't exercise that power in a way that was meaningful. This mindset is typically only held by those who are interested in the long-term solution. In the short term, a "god on a pedestal" can be disruptive, but they have less power in the long term. 

For completeness, here are the "characteristics of Chaotic systems" from Wikipedia, which openly states that they are not fully agreed upon, but these are pretty good starting points: 

Jo's named fallacy is a good response (Argument from ignorance). However, such an argument is also made as part of abduction, which is a cognative process similar to deduction and induction. In abduction, you assume the most likely hypothesis to be true. In some situations, the lack of any argument against the hypothesis may be construed as making it "most likely," so one might use abductive reasoning there. Abduction is a tricky concept in philosophical literature. It is not fully accepted as "valid" rational thought, and yet everybody does it. In fact, the step going from "the last 1,000 apples fell from the tree with an acceleration of 9.2m/s^2" to accepting "what goes up must come down" as a universal truth is abduction. Science has no way to positively confirm a theory, only ways to falsify it, so if you ever use science in the positive direction, you have actually engaged in abduction at some level (scientists would argue it to be a highly justified case of abduction). 

In science, we are more than happy to have models that appear to converge on the truth, because they seem to be useful. 

As it turns out, differentiating between these approaches is impossible with empiricism, one sub-branch of epistemology. Finally, consider that your question "So how can we call our reality real?" has the word "call" in it. You are actually asking a linguistic question about how we use the words "reality" and "real." The trivial answer is actually "because reality is defined to be that which is real." Lingustically, we use words to describe things when we need to describe things. Thus, the answer to your question may be "because we can." Hopefully the links provided here will help you expand your understanding of philosophy to better craft specific questions related to "how can we call our reality real," which is one of the larger philosophical questions of all time, and is likely not to have a singular answer any time soon. 

As an example, consider debating the ethics of killing. One ethical system may say it is unethical to kill humans, another may say that it is unethical to kill any sentient creature. We could compare them and contrast them until the cows come home, but consider: 

In such a case, we can see how easy it is to err with empiricism. Just because 100% of samples show a behavior doesn't mean that every entity shows that behavior. It looks a bit silly with 10, lets make the experiment more powerful 

I think you can make arguments both ways. Really what you are doing is defining two terms "rest" and "motion." You can define them any way you please, so long as they do not confuse. The Chinese, in particular, have a strong tendency in their philosophy to talk about relative motion, exactly as you suggest. Their philosophies appear to my Western eyes to be more about harmonies than the concrete "positions" Western thought tends to love. There is also some prior art down this debate in terms of coordinate systems. Netwonian physics works only in so called "inertial" frames. For example, we love to use a coordinate system called ECI (Earth Centered Inertial) to do satellite motion simulations. Because the earth's CG remains at a fixed point, and it is an inertial frame, the physics is actually really simple to calculate using that frame. However, the Earth is spinning. For many ground based situations, ECI isn't quite desirable because a point that we would call "fixed on the earth" is hurtling through space at quite a rapid pace in ECI terms (because that spot on the Earth is having to rotate around the Earth's CG). For such ground based simulations, we turn to relative motion and use ECEF (Earth Centered; Earth Fixed), which measures everything in terms of relative motions with respect to the ground. This lets us do lots of physics very easily (such as throwing a ball in a game of catch). However, there's a quirk. The Earth's frame of motion is a rotating one. There are funny non-Newtonian effects that show up when you try to apply Newtonian physics in a rotating (non-inertial) frame. These are things like the Coriolis Effect which can be frustratingly confusing when one begins doing fast movements. The path satellites take look absolutely wonky when viewed in ECEF, due to these effects. What I take away from theses two physics based situations is that there are situations where exploring relative motion and relative rest are very meaningful. However, there are situations where those terms do not capture reality in a way which is easy to discuss or manipulate, so in those situations such definitions for "motion" and "rest" could lead to very unusual discussions. 

Your argument can be reduced to remove the 'meta,' which makes it simpler to refute (but my answer will not directly refute it. It will simply make an easier to think about question) Metathinking, as you define it, is "thinking about thinking." So we have requirement number 1 for metathinking: 

There are many opinions of what "exists," including some theories that state the mere act of imagining something brings it into existence. I have found science does well with exacting wordings, so I would give you an alternate wording for EMF which avoids a lot of trouble: "There exists a model of the universe which includes a field known as the electromagnetic field. This model does a remarkably good job of predicting the observations we make in the world. It does so good at making such predictions that it is often phrased as 'existing in the world.'" To go much deeper, one would have to start looking at how the brain deals with information. At some point, a model can get so deeply embedded in how we think that it is indistinguishable from reality without substantial effort to discern the reality from the model. This appears to be a natural process that everyone goes through. Thus, many may believe the electromagnetic field "exists" merely because they can no longer distinguish it from reality. At such a point, it might be valid to argue that "EMF exists as a feature of our reality for them." without specifying whether it is a feature of our reality for us. 

Just from the gloss, we can see minor differences. For one, "weather and terrain" have been glossed as "Heaven and Earth." This is where we can dig into the the cultural implications of Sun Tzu's actual words. "Dào" is a fundamental Chinese concept that you can spend a lifetime exploring and never fully understand it, but it can be described as the way everything flows (somewhat analogous to our concept of the universe). "Tiān" and "dì" are literally Heaven (or Sky) and Earth, so the gloss captures them well. In The Daoist cosmology, oft represented by three horizontal lines on top of each other, heaven is above (the top line), the earth is below (the bottom line), and man is in between (the center line). The next two characters are complicated. "Jiāng" is great fun, often thought of as a symbol for "meat" and "hand," referring to nourishment. It can be translated literally as General, in the military sense, but the word is also oft translated as "will," or even "future" ("will" being an essential human trait for putting food on the table every day). "Fǎ" is another complicated word with many translations. It has been translated as "law," "discipline," as well as many others (including the glosses' translation as "Method" with a capital M). If one looks at it from this perspective, one has the way everything moves, heaven, earth, and the will and discipline of man in between. While the translation by Cleary may direct one to look at a set of things. The study into the original words suggests an alternate mindset Sun Tzu might have been inspiring: pay attention to Everything, categorized in the traditional Chinese manner of The Dao, Heaven, Earth, and ways of Men. Sun Tzu recommends a general never forget to perceive anything, never omit any detail presented before him. I spent many hours on this sentence, trying to explore its meaning in its original language. I readily admit that I probably still got it wrong (shameless plea: any who speak Chinese, please correct any inadequacies in my work!). However, I find it an excellent example of what you can get from a translation versus what you can get with an in depth study in the native tongue. 

The line is typically drawn slightly differently, mostly because the word "explain" is not precise enough for a hard-edged debate on the topic. As given in the introduction to Phyiscalism on wikipedia: 

Redness is traditionally known as a qualia. Your argument would thus be that a qualia is aspatial and atemporal, which has some merit. I would argue that a qualia is independent of the environment, so in that sense it is aspatial and atemporal. However, it is not independent of the self. If your observer spent 7 years studying the nuanced facets of the color red in paintings, and was then shown the same apple, I would expect his qualia regarding the color to have shifted, growing more subtle in meaning. Not withstanding the qualia of "redness," the actual photons hitting the eye may change from spatial location to spatial location. For example, if your observer took the apple 60ft under water with SCUBA equipment, they would still observe the qualia of redness. However, take a picture of the apple with a camera, and look at the picture in normal daylight lighting, and the qualia of what we see is more black-ish. If the camera is deemed a good measurement tool of color, and the print is a good reproduction of the colors measured, there must clearly be more than meets the eye. $URL$ 

I could see such an argument as some religions come with the attitude that the goodness of a deed is erased if you expected a return on your "investment." However, closeness to God is a difficult topic. There are many who argue that getting infinitely close, without actually reaching out to him, is no better than doing nothing at all. However, given the many interpretations of every religion, I would not call such arguments universal. 

Now we can see that the path from P to Q can be phrased as a Baysean inference. In this case, the connection between P and Q is imperfect, based on his statistical beliefs regarding that relationship. Those imperfect statistical beliefs can be sufficient to allow "Bob believes P" and "Bob believes Q" to have different truth values. Baysean inference would say they have different likelihoods of being true. A more frequentist approach would suggest that there is a cutoff for believability that P achieves but Q does not. This argument depended on rewording your question. If, in fact, "P means the same as Q" and "Bob is aware that P means the same as Q" are logical truths, then logically Bob must believe Q iff he believes P. There are predicates for which "Bob is aware" is possible. However, many rational philosophers argue that the questions of value are all such that we cannot "be aware" of their sameness. Thus, for this class of "interesting" questions your statement is true merely by trivialization: "If Bob is not aware of anything regarding this interesting class of questions, then the statement is true regardless of Bob's believe in P and Q because of the rules of logic." If the question is reworded to work around this triviality by changing "awareness" to "belief," then Baysean Inference shows a rational reason Bob may "believe P" and not "believe Q."