Such scientific medievalism runs rampant today and speaks to the propaganda of vacuous authoritarian thinking. I find such statements not only unhelpful but utterly unscientific and ideological--the height of what I call the logics of domination. Scientific "truths" are always open to further inquiry and elaboration. As Alfred North Whitehead argued, "Our conscious experience involves a baffling mixture of certainty, ignorance, and probability" (Process and Reality, 205). Does it not seem more honest to argue that truth cannot shake loose the shimmers of belief and, therefore, does not have unilateral power as is often claimed by the prophets of scientism? Truth is meant to set us free, not enslave us! 

Measurement, in the broad sense, involves useful abstractions and logical applicability that allow us to survey environmental data with extreme precision and prediction. The tools or instruments used to conduct such systematic procedures describes and projects a commensurable universe of discourse (UD). But there are “boundaries” to the scope of any UD’s validity—if we know how to include someone or something, we also know how to exclude that person or thing. In fact, as Scott Pratt argues in chapter one of Logic—Inquiry, Argument, and Order if a logical system is not aware of its limits and the incommensurable classes within the UD, it is bound to be used in the service of cultural domination. Logics work largely with an abstracted whole, as a simplification of the real. As Susanne Langer writes in An Introduction to Symbolic Logic, “Abstraction is the consideration of logical form apart from content. The reason why people distrust abstractions is simple that they do not know how to make and use them correctly, so that abstract thought leads them into error and bewilderment. Abstraction is perhaps the most powerful instrument in human understanding (Dover, 1967, 42-43).” Therefore, logical systems may be self-sufficient and complete without ever getting at the whole of all experience—a UD is posited just as much as it is depended upon as the objectified standard. To the degree we are able to analogize without consideration for differences in “content,” we often ignore those disanalogies that act as introspective reminders of the need for logical revision and entanglement. Given the problems of abstraction, division, incommensurability, and boundaries any logical UD encounters, are we to reject any logical system's UD as merely a subset of a wider UD--to see logic not as operative within any monosphere but as polyspheric? And can we conclude further that, necessarily, every logic therefore has the potential for violent and dehumanizing measurement? 

I maintain that it doesn't make sense to simply "create your own meaning in life". I have come across this view, which is generally held by most humanists, pretty often, and it doesn't seem to make much sense to me. I'll try and explain. When we talk of meaning in life, we generally mean some sense of larger purpose that we can hang on to, despite ups and down, so that our lives are lived out in some kind of harmony to our environment. Meaning can either be given to you, or it can be created. However, if it is created, we are left with a problem, and that is the problem of the choice itself. There are many problems with choosing one's own meaning (for example, how do you reason with a person whose meaning in life is to get drunk and fall into a ditch?), but the biggest problems is that if we select a meaning in life like we choose a meal at an all-you-can-eat or buffet, then the very fact that we are choosing reduces what could have been a larger purpose to something that is much smaller i.e. my whim. In summary, I conclude that meaning or purpose can be handed to you, as done in traditional cultures, or Christianity, or as possibly done in some totalitarian societies. But to say that you are creating your own meaning is a bit of a contradiction. How would a humanist answer this? 

A tautology, is a universal truth in formal logic. I found something similar in the following question: 

How can the noble get the common to be noble? He can't, because putting the demand to be noble on the common, would make him common as well, a dilemma! So the noble can only sit and wait? 

But does intelligence need free will or a conscious mind. Just have a look in the news and you'll find e.g. that AlphaGo won four 4 times against Lee Sedol! Any other conscious being would be judge pretty smart doing that. But Google is not conscious yet (to my knowledge). So we have intelligence without free will(?). Albert Einstein again is a good example for free will with intelligence. So every relation between free will and intelligence seems possible, which points towards no correlation at all. What does modern philosophy say about this issue? 

What is the relation between free will and intelligence. I'll identify free will with conscious mind and wonder what their relation is. Obviously there is free will without intelligence. Just have a look in the news and join in with Albert Einstein saying 

According to my knowledge, a main criticism to dualistic theories is that they give the mind a special characteristic in contrast to matter. But is this true, since matter is also split up in several basic (physical) families of different components, like e.g. fermions, bosons, space-time, ... So the mind and stuff related to it could also just be another family. Who else worked on this? 

Mew has given a very pragmatic answer, but doesn't raise the thorny philosophical problem. I'd like to add my two cents.. There a few problems with the genetic selection and modification of human beings. The biggest problem is the desacralizing of life. I have a small observation that I will probably develop more fully somewhere else, and that is this: With the desacralizing of life, death, sex, marriage, not only do we lose out on living meaningful lives, but we also lose out on the ability to know God, because ultimately the questions of objective meaning and purpose of life are inextricably intertwined with questions of the nature and existence of God. I think that this spiritual dulling of the senses, if I can put it that way, is already in progress across much of the "developed" world. There are other problems too. For example, suppose we were to be able to design offspring who wouldn't suffer from any adverse health conditions. Would they be as empathetic to another person's suffering? I have to be clear, I don't want to sound glib about suffering (I myself have had more than my fair share of it). But we may have to admit that the elimination of suffering of all kinds cannot be the ultimate purpose of life, because if successful, it could change the very nature of life itself. As for the article linked to above, again there are pragmatic reasons why it is unwise to screen embryos for potential personality flaws. But I'll just mention a more philosophical reason: Within the Christian view, an individual has free will. I have no doubt that people have different proclivities and weaknesses, but learning how to deal with these is a part of our human experience. It is what makes us unlike robots. In short, people who choose to turn their back on a religiously based arguments against these kinds of modifications merely because they are religiously based are showing a dangerous kind of cultural bias which is myopic and foolish. Humanity as we know it can morph into something less glorious in the blink of an eye. 

Symmetry is established since "A observes B" has a symmetric partner world where "B observes A" I admit I favor the "collapse of the wave function" interpretation, but please feel free to pick your own favorite interpretation here. 

Evil demons exist next to me I have brain swimming in a vat connected to external interfaces that feel like eyes, ears and son one. 

Is it possible to deny the existence of infinities in the real world, by philosophical means only? If it makes it easier, I'm mainly interested to deny that we can know an infinite amount of things (even if we would live forever), since (and that's what I assume) there are only finitely many? I don't want to make use of the physical finiteness of the universe. Is it then still possible? 

The chances that all this happened at the same time are pretty small. Are there any new developments since 1961 why this all happened back then? 

But is this really the end of the story? Isn't a brain not just another vat in which I "swim"? It reminds me on Popper's and Eccles' Dualistic Interaction Theory, that broke down the interface to certain quantum meta stable neurotransmitter quasi crystal in your brain (a little spooky to be honest and I hope he doesn't mind that I condensed his work), but I think the final version of a brain in a vat should look like this... How did dualists respond to brains in vats? 

It seems as if one of the primary attractions of Bitcoin is its usefulness for nefarious purposes. I'm not sure how much of its value is underpinned by these activities, but I get the feeling it is not an insignificant amount. I was thinking about speculating on Bitcoin, but the thought of enriching someone who is harming someone else in another part of the world gives me some pause. My question seems to intersect economics, technology and ethics, and I'd like to stimulate some thoughtful discussion on the ethics of Bitcoin use. 

Short answer: Philosophy is the wrong department for this. Try spiritually instead. Ask in Christianity.stackexchange is my suggestion. Long answer: You've stumbled on a question that would be answered differently by each worldview. Atheism is one such worldview. Christianity is another. Yet another is Hinduism. As a former Hindu, former atheist, and current Christian, I'll try and answer according to each of these views. Hinduism: Hinduism is a religion that broadly says that the world is an illusion, and that our desires for the impermanent things ought to be minimized. Ways to minimize this may include doing yoga, meditating, ritualistic prayers(poojas), etc. Atheism: While there may be atheistic philosophers who have advocated being in control of one's desires, I'm not sure what arguments they may have put forward for why one should do this. If the material world is all there is, then why should one way, the way of moderation and temperance, be any better than any other way, apart from appeals to pure pragmatism? Even then it is not clear why I, as an evolved creature, should not gather so much for myself as to deprive my neighbor of those same resources, so that I am better off, but he or she is worse off. Christianity: Christianity says that ever since the fall of mankind, we have a fundamental inclination towards sin, which includes idolatory and covetousness. Moreover, our hearts are darkened without knowledge of the goodness of God, which causes us to fear for our own provision. This, in turn, inclines us towards gathering and hoarding more for ourselves than we really need. The solution, according to Christianity, is that we need to trust in Christ for our salvation, which results in a new birth, which restores or redeems our fallen nature, so that we are free to live according to God's desires for us. I'll stop for want of time. I just wanted you to see that the question you have posed indeed does touch upon spirituality, and that in order to properly answer it, you need to go down one of these mutually exclusive paths. 

Think of yourself, after an accident. You're totally senseless, so you can't see, hear, feel,... Further you lost all your memories and with that, all your emotions. You can only think, but you think in a certain language, which was created by others, so it is dependant. So we take away language. Let's say there is only logical operations, like a computer. These operations follow some rules, which might be dependant, so let's take them away. When there is no operations on a computer we can switch it off as well. 

Sir Karl Popper says that products of our mind, like speech, music, math,... are things on their own. We create them. We put effort in them. I wonder where the difference of creating these things, is compared to let's say lifting a stone of mass m to height h. We also put measurable effort in there: E=mgh. Can we measure the effort to create a mathematical theory in terms of energy? EDIT From discussions in the comments, I feel the need for some clarifications. The term "mathematical theory" might be misleading. I like to measure the effort that is put into a "mathematical proof", like Wiles' proof of Fermat's Last Theorem. What comes closest to what I want is the minimum amount of energy (we neglect dissipative processes) a computer would need to proof a theorem. There are some examples of Automated theorem proving. Ok and now I'm speculating: Would it boil down to calculate the number of bits and transformations of bits that are necessary to perform every step of the proof and connect this to the amount of energy that is stored in a bit (see Information is physical)?