Feelings are like an itch. They don't mean anything, and we can accept them for what they are and continue to act. They only mean something if we make them mean something. When you are on the cushion practicing metta, don't worry about feelings. Instead, try to cultivate this same well-wishing-despite-feelings that you would when you help someone you know is hurting. Adopt a mindset like you would in the thought experiment I presented earlier. That well-wishing need not be a warm fuzzy feeling or any feeling at all. Just send them your good wishes. Compassion and the desire for all beings to be happy can be a purely logical attitude that's devoid of feelings. In fact, if you look at it, it's quite logical. If you start with the axiom that pain is bad, then you logically arrive at the conclusion that pain should be alleviated. Feelings don't enter into it anymore than feelings enter into an equation like 1+1 = 2. 

The Ghandaran Buddhist Texts which are the oldest Buddhist writings yet discovered. This doesn't mean they're the words of the Buddha, but if you go by the assumption that older is more likely to reflect the founder's intent (not necessarily true!), then this is one path. Various historical studies on Early Buddhism, including this page. These studies can get technical and may not be satisfying to a practitioner. They may also spend a fair amount of time studying the context of Buddhism. Another source (I don't know if it's early enough) is this book, freely available online. 

Whether or not Buddhism is Humanist depends on your interpretation of Buddhism. First, Buddhism is a program for humans to find happiness, and as such seems humanistic. However, it does this by a thoroughgoing program of deconstructionism, which includes the self itself, and this may seem anti-Humanistic. Second, while Buddhism is individualistic in a sense, there is the Bodhisattva ideal, which aims at the benefit of all sentient beings, and some of the attempts at transcending ego can involve serving others, so some types of Buddhism can be seen as benefiting people collectively. However, there is a movement for Engaged Buddhism, which would seem to imply that this view of Buddhism is not universal (otherwise, why make an effort to stress this)? Third, although the Four Noble Truths talks of the futility of trying to find happiness through our typical pursuits (and paints what some say is a grim picture of life), it also teaches that we have the power to transcend our situation. In this sense, it seems to value human agency. On the other hand, we're taught that we're not independent selves and (some interpretations?) even try to transcend the sense of doership as the handmaiden of the self, and as such, human agency may be devalued. Finally, some Buddhist teachings value critical thinking and/or evidence over faith (Kalama Sutra), but there's also a critique of rationality (see Madhyamaka deconstructionism, especially Nagarjuna's). In short, YMMV 

This is a common state that has nothing to do with Buddhism. In fact, some hypothesize that stories of alien abductions or succubi are distorted reports of experiences in that state. Perhaps meditation may increase the incidence of this? One reported way of entering sleep paralysis is to remain conscious while the body falls asleep, an ability aided by improved concentration which can come with meditative practice. To bring this back to Buddhism, if you are in this state, then you could try to induce a lucid dream by visualization and use that to practice Dream Yoga. You can also use the experiences you gain as insight into your daily life. With so much of life said to be illusory or dreamlike, experiences in this border state can be very illuminating. For non-Buddhist stuff, you can... 

If you're eating a grape and you are thinking about the soil and farmers and so on, then you are not eating the grape, you are thinking. This isn't mindfulness. You don't try to be interconnected. You let go of all the conceptualizing that infiltrates experience. The idea here is that your concepts are the thing that blocks interconnection; let them go, and there's interconnection. You needn't develop it, you just need to remove the barriers to it. Ironically, one of those barriers is precisely the exercise you mentioned. Your thoughts about how you are interconnected to that grape is exactly what's keeping you from really being connected to that grape. You don't connect in an ecological or social sense, but in an experiential sense. 

Ignorance is a personal thing, and Buddhism speaks of a specific kind of personal ignorance -- that of dukkha. The ignorance of others is irrelevant. Yes, one tries to help others, but transcending ignorance is a matter of transcending ONE'S OWN IGNORANCE and implies nothing about the ignorance of others. However, one might be in a better position to be patient and hence work with others. 

There's another view of Karma that's more "objective". Karma = the motivations for your actions. These motivations have nothing to do with "good" or "bad" actions, but rather whether you're acting out of attachment or non-attachment. Your actions will strengthen or loosen your attachments, and your attachments when you die govern whether you're reborn or not. If you're reborn, you're reborn with your attachments at death. Since attachments = suffering, the quality of your new life has nothing to do with your material conditions. It doesn't matter if you're born rich or poor, beautiful or ugly, healthy or diseased. Die with a lot of attachments and you'll suffer more in the next life because of those attachments, and vice versa. In short, Karma doesn't determine the quality of your birth by some decision made based on whether you were "good". Full Disclosure: I treat Buddhism as a philosophy and thus don't believe in Karma or any other metaphysics. However, I encountered this view of Karma previously and felt I could contribute it despite my beliefs. 

(1) Simply denies that we are independently existing permanent entities. Some have translated this as "soul" but I disagree with this translation. Rather, I think a better one is that sense that "you" are somewhere inside your body, directing your mind and body, pulling the strings, independent of all that goes on around you. (2) Is similar to (1), but rather than deny it, it simply says not to cling to this conception. This is neither an assertion nor a denial. (3) Is similar to (2) but it admonishes against clinging to any conception of who we are. This is particularly important, because one could develop a self-conception that may appear congruent with Buddhism (I'm one with everything, I'm a good Buddhist, I'm enlightened, I'm the thing that will gain the future benefits from this Buddhist practice, etc...). So which is it? I don't think there's a good answer, and I'm not even sure it matters. If the issue with our pain is NOT who we are, but who we are NOT, then the problem becomes one of dissolving this "wrong view"; one need not install a "right view" in its place. If so, any of the above could work. In fact, if you take the problem of the self as being the boundaries we draw, and the conflicts that arise at those boundaries, then the solution becomes dissolving those boundaries, and any of the above can do that. Even an interpretation of the self as identical with everything would do this (although whether it's taught in Buddhism may be debatable). Having said that, my favored interpretation is (3). In fact, I regard (3) as a specific instance of a much more general principle -- not to cling to anything. This in turn could be seen as one interpretation of "emptiness" (we cling to illusory essences underlying phenomena, or clinging itself has this essence-view as its substrate). Now, since the self is the root of most of our problems, it deserves special attention, and exclusive attention on it may be enough. This in turn is part of a general framework for understanding Buddhism as a way to live rather than assertions to be believed. So who attains The Truth? That question should be dropped, for to ask it may reinforce the self-conception that Buddhism tries to undermine. Simply live Buddhism, stop asking such questions and see how you fare :)