It is not possible every person to become a monk or nun. It is same as not every person become a doctor or nurse. Only few people have the faith and energy to become a monk or nun. 

The matter raised by XXXX is discussed in the following Sutta. ------------------- "What do you think of this, O monks? Is form permanent or impermanent?" "Impermanent, O Lord." "Now, that which is impermanent, is it unsatisfactory or satisfactory?" "Unsatisfactory, O Lord." "Now, that which is impermanent, unsatisfactory, subject to change, is it proper to regard that as: 'This is mine, this I am, this is my self'?" "Indeed, not that, O Lord." "What do you think of this, O monks? Is feeling permanent or impermanent?" "Impermanent, O Lord." "Now, that which is impermanent, is it unsatisfactory or satisfactory?" "Unsatisfactory, O Lord." "Now, that which is impermanent, unsatisfactory, subject to change, is it proper to regard that as: 'This is mine, this I am, this is my self'?" "Indeed, not that, O Lord." "What do you think of this, O monks? Is perception permanent or impermanent?" "Impermanent, O Lord." "Now, what is impermanent, is it unsatisfactory or satisfactory?" "Unsatisfactory, O Lord." "Now, that which is impermanent, unsatisfactory, subject to change, is it proper to regard that as: 'This is mine, this I am, this is my self'?" "Indeed, not that, O Lord." "What do you think of this, O monks? Are mental formations permanent or impermanent?" "Impermanent, O Lord." "Now, those that are impermanent, are they unsatisfactory or satisfactory?" "Unsatisfactory, O Lord." "Now, those that are impermanent, unsatisfactory, subject to change, is it proper to regard them as: 'They are mine, this I am, this is my self'?" "Indeed, not that, O Lord." "Now what do you think of this, O monks? Is consciousness permanent or impermanent?" "Impermanent, O Lord." "Now, what is impermanent, is that unsatisfactory or satisfactory?" "Unsatisfactory, O Lord." "Now, what is impermanent, unsatisfactory, subject to change, is it proper to regard it as: 'This is mine, this I am, this is my self'?" "Indeed, not that, O Lord." "Therefore, surely, O monks, whatever form, past, future or present, internal or external, coarse or fine, low or lofty, far or near, all that form must be regarded with proper wisdom, according to reality, thus: 'This is not mine, this I am not, this is not my self.' $URL$ 

Yes. Feeling and sensations are conjoined hence not easy to separate. In that case been aware of all feelings and sensation is Vipassana meditation. 

This is my standard recommendation for beginners: a)Read BuddhismCourse. (Take about 12 hours to read and give you a good idea about the teaching) $URL$ b)Print a copy of this Dhamma Chart and refer to it while studding Buddhism. $URL$ c) Read Buddha’s Teaching by Narada. Start from chapter 15. $URL$ ... gsurw6.pdf d) While you reading above texts please listen to the following Dhamma Talk by Joseph Goldstein. $URL$ e) Start reading Sutta. Good starting point would be to read Bikkhu Bodhi’s “In the Buddha’s Word” Then read Sutta Central. Start from Majjhima Nikaya. $URL$ 

This is a different facet of anger. That is what Dukkha mean. Once you eliminate Dukkha (anger), you will not have this kind of feeling. You will face the world with equanimity and enthusiasm. 

"This, Ananda, is the teaching called the Mirror of the Dhamma, whereby the noble disciple may thus know of himself: 'There is no more rebirth for me in hell, nor as an animal or ghost, nor in any realm of woe. A stream-enterer am I, safe from falling into the states of misery, assured am I and bound for Enlightenment.'" And also in Nadika, in the Brick House, the Blessed One often gave counsel to the bhikkhus thus: "Such and such is virtue; such and such is concentration; and such and such is wisdom. Great becomes the fruit, great is the gain of concentration when it is fully developed by virtuous conduct; great becomes the fruit, great is the gain of wisdom when it is fully developed by concentration; utterly freed from the taints of lust, becoming, and ignorance is the mind that is fully developed in wisdom." When the Blessed One had stayed in Nadika as long as he pleased, he spoke to the Venerable Ananda, saying: "Come, Ananda, let us go to Vesali." 

If the action is beneficial for either party or not unbeneficial for both parties it may be ok to pursue irrespective of the term you use to describe that act. (tactic etc.) 

What is called world in Buddhism is the six senses. When you meditate you experience finer senses which you can't experience via ear, nose etc. When you meditate you experience finer wholesome mental states. The logic here is for example you can see only colours from your eye. Even if you become a Deva or Brahama with your eye you only see colours. 

In Buddhism, it is taught Kiriya Citta. That is action not create kamma. ======== "And what is kamma that is neither dark nor bright with neither dark nor bright result, leading to the ending of kamma? Right view, right resolve, right speech, right action, right livelihood, right effort, right mindfulness, right concentration. This is called kamma that is neither dark nor bright with neither dark nor bright result, leading to the ending of kamma. $URL$ 

I can recall there is a Sutta where a monk reject the robes offered to hims as he had plenty of robes. 

Vyāpāda: 'ill-will', is a synonym of dosa see: mūla it is one of the 5 hindrances nīvarana and one of the 10 mental chains samyojana. $URL$ 

Generally Buddhist take refuge in Buddha, Dhamma, and Sangha. In that regard, I would say I support Sangha. Because they protect Dhamma. Which helps to attain Buddhahood. Generally, Sangha means Ariya Sangha. But here I meant any person who can guide me in the right direction. 

Eliminating self-view (first realisation of Anatta) is the pre-requisite becoming a Sotapanna. There is two type of meditation. (Samatha and Vipassana) Realisation of Anatta is not required for Samatha meditation. However, in Vipassana we contemplate on the Anatta. My personal opinion is that realisation of Anatta will help both meditations. 

Taking any thing not lawfully given is stealing. An Aboriginal leader was sued in Australia for picking up a ten cents coin from a public building for stealing. 

There is two aspect of Buddhism. The art of living and art of crossing. When you come to learning Buddhism, intellect, and creativity you should have thoughts. Because it is necessary for living. When you come to art of crossing (enlightenment) any perception and feeling including thoughts are considered stressful (Dukkha) When you develop your meditation your are inclined to subtle mental states. Perception, feeling, and thoughts are the hindrance to a higher level of experience. 

Camp fire becomes a grassfire. Grass fire becomes bushfire. Bushfire becomes a house fire. These events happened due to various type of fuel available to the fire. Consciousness is like a fire. 

In Buddhist Jataka stories you find Bodhisatva (Buddha in a previous life) sacrificing his life to feed hungry animals etc. However, in Sutta what you find is the practice of the middle path or Noble Eightfold Path. 

A good book to read. I highly recommend it for you. This is the book help me to get into Buddhism. ======== He realized that his spiritual aspirations were far higher than those under whom he chose to learn. He realized that there was none capable enough to teach him what he yearned for – the highest Truth. He also realized that the highest Truth is to be found within oneself and ceased to seek external aid. $URL$