Let's start with a small dictionary of Saussurean terminology. We have to distinguish three levels of analysis: 

Both arguments are NPs (rather than PPs), so formally you can consider it a sort of "same case" situation. Both arguments can become Subjects of a passive sentence (The book has been given to John by me vs. John has been given a book by me), which makes them equally good Direct Objects. Dative shift is a very debated construction: some scholars consider it derived from the canonical transfer construction (such as I gave a book to John), while others think that the difference in meaning between the two is relevant enough to view them as two independent constructions (see more on Wikipedia). Another interesting construction is to be found in Russian, in a particular type of sentences with a dative Subject governed by an infinitive, with a deontic meaning. In case the predicate has also a recipient semantic argument, then the dative-marked syntactic arguments become two: 

The first example that comes to my mind is the dative shift in English, i.e. the construction found in the following sentence: 

Accidental variability: no two utterance of "the same" word or sound can be ever perfectly identical, due to the fact that humans are biological organisms rather than machines. 

At the beginning, when these forms had been created, the intended function of those agglutinated pronouns was probably to encode the definitiveness (as claimed by Meillet). However, we have no certainty on that. Today these endings have simply become the adjectival endings. On the other hand, the so-called "strong declension" was attested in all the ancient Germanic languages (from Gothic to Old English, Old Norse and Old High German) and survives today just in some of them (notoriously in German). In Modern German it has to do with definiteness, but, again, we are not allowed to automatically imply the same function for the ancient languages. Whatever it might be, the Gothic declension of the adjective is vaguely similar to the modern German usage: the weak endings are used when the article is present, while the strong endings are used elsewhere. See, for example, the following line from the Lord's Prayer (note the glosses wACC "weak Accusative" vs. sACC "strong Accusative"): 

Nice question. Apparently, the original Brahmī did have conjuncts similarly to its modern descents (Devanāgarī etc). So say open sources (e.g. here). If we look at the evidence provided by the oldest inscriptions, we effectively find some examples of consonantal conjuncts, but not as many as in Sanskrit Devanāgarī. This is easily explained if you think to the fact that Aśoka's Brahmī inscriptions were in Prakrits, rather than in Sanskrit, and in Prakrits most of the old consonantal clusters were phonetically simplified into single consonants. Let us look at Aśoka's Edict at Mount Girnar. I've marked with color some examples of conjunct akṣaras: the one in orange reads tpā, the one in pink is vyaṁ, the one in blue reads mhi. Notice also that the first two are built bottom-up, while the last is built from left to right. The sign after the one I've marked with orange reads pa, while the official transcriptions renders it as a pra: this must be an archaicizing transcription of this akṣara, since most probably it was not a cluster anymore and was effectively read as [pa]. 

You can't represent a manner graphically because... it's a manner, not a thing. By the way, you better think of manner in terms of "type of obstacle". Indeed, all sounds need a stream of air to be articulated. The articulation consists in interrupting such stream in various ways. Sometimes you get a complete occlusion which prevents the air from moving at all (so, you have the stops). Some other times, you let flow some amount of air; this might be a fricative or, e.g., a lateral. In a lateral, the obstacle is incomplete because some residual air stream flows through openings between the tongue sides and the palate. Such an approach explains why lateral is a manner rather than a place, notwithstanding that the term has a "location" in it. Similarly for nasals: the air flows through the nasal cavities, so that the obstacle is not as complete as in stops. Vowels are just another type of obstacle, i.e. a null obstacle. 

Personally I find all this laryngealist madness highly unscientific. Some scholars use laryngeal phonemes as a jolly when there is something uncertain in the etymology of some word. These reconstructions are not only typologically unlikely, but also inconsistent with the initial, and brilliant, idea of "sonant coefficients" suggested by de Saussure. This usage of laryngeals is unfalsifiable, and should therefore be avoided. I think such reconstructions as *H₄eH₄ are simply wrong. Concerning the Greek verb ἰάομαι, the etymology is quite uncertain. For sure, it cannot go back to a *y-a- because antevocalic /i/ in Greek evolved into an aspiration /h/ or, perhaps, into /dz/ in such forms as ζυγόν vs. Latin iugum. Moreover, knowing some basic Greek is important in dealing with IE etymologies. As you can easily see, ἰάομαι starts with a hiatus which very likely implies some lost consonant between the two vowels, i.e. either a /s/ or a /w/. Pokorny's dictionary mentions this word under the PIE root *eis which has a very vague semantics, so the etymology cannot be considered certain. But if the root is this, then the lost consonant must be the sibilant, and therefore the reconstruction as H₄eH₄, whatever we might think of it, is disallowed. 

It is fairly possible to make an account of the anaphoric words as deictic (or indexical; I consider deixis and indicality plainly synonymous). I personally share this approach. In my formulation (published here in Italian; summed up here in English), being deictic, for a word, means that the context disambiguates it deterministically. Such words as horse, dog, table etc. are not deictic since they might denote whatever real object the speaker decides to denote thereby. This means that the hearer has also the "right" to misunderstand, or not to know, what the speaker is speaking about. There is always a bit of ambiguity in such words (what horse/dog/table was effectively intended?). On the other hand, when we use such words as I, now, yours, here etc. we don't admit any ambiguity. The hearer does not have the right not to know who is meant by an utterance of the word I (and other deictics). That is, the rules of language do not let us ignore the meaning and the reference of the deictic words, which are, therefore, completely unambiguous. Why are they unambiguous? Because they rely on the elements of the communication circuite which the speakers cannot avoid knowing. In other words, when we are engaged in a conversation, we have to know who is speaking, where and when does the conversation occur, and what was said so far (plus some other elements that I don't mention here). All the language apparently have means of referring to such obligatorily known elements. Pronouns denote the speakers, the so-called "shifters" denote space and time, and anaphoric words denote the bulk of information communicated in the preceding co-text and considered already disambiguated. To sum up, if we explain deixis as a reference to an obligatory element of the communication circuit, then anaphors are plainly deictic since they refer to something that has been said in the previous utterances, and the speakers are supposed to have assimilated, if they want to continue speaking. Therefore, when you say then you mean "at the times has been mentioned right now, and you cannot avoid remembering". The reference of this adverb is rigid, not unlike the reference of the word I, whoever utters it in a discourse. A similar approach is to be found also in a paper by Fr. Recanati. 

Now, the equivalency of Phonology with langue and of Phonetics with parole is not an idea of Saussure's, but was suggested by Trubeckoj (who obviously read Saussure's Cours but especially was friends with Karcevskij, another member of the Prague circle who, moreover, personally attended Saussure's classes some 20 years earlier). Therefore, we must consider this equivalency within Trubeckoj's framework rather than the Saussurean one. Trubeckoj strongly privileged systematic phenomena to the accidental ones. He considered linguistically relevant only the phonemes, meant as abstract entities needed for distinguishing meanings of the words. Whatever is abstract automatically belongs to the langue. Hence comes the first part of the equivalency: 

Now, such languages are effectively known to exist. Here you can see a map showing the world-wide distribution of languages where the two conjunctions coincide and of those where they do not: $URL$ Famously, many of the oldest Indo-European languages did distinguish two types of conjunction. Thus, in Latin we have the conjunction et and the clitic conjunction -que (often repeated). The former is more general, but is the only one possible with predicates (at least, to my knowledge). The latter is used preferably, perhaps exclusively, with nominals: 

(Disclaimer: I am not a specialist in Syntax) According to the X-bar Theory, Adjectives, as any other lexical category, undergo three different levels of projection. They can have Complements (which are sisters to the head), Specifiers (or Subjects, i.e. sisters to Adj′) and Adjuncts (sisters to AdjP). Semantically speaking, the complement of an adjective is usually a Prepositional Phrase that is necessarily required for completing the meaning of the adjective. Thus, if you say proud, you have to mention the reason of the pride, which constitutes the complement of this adjective. Syntactically, proud of my students is a constituent made of an adjectival head and a prepositional complement selected by the head: 

Contextual variability: some variant realisations depend on the adjacent phonemes, or context. These variants have been termed allophones by Trubeckoj. They are systematic and predictable and can be described through formal rules. 

Don't take spelling too seriously, it's often conventional and arbitrary. Language is primarily a spoken thing rather than a string of written letters. Don't confuse sounds (phonemes) with their written symbols. Letters and phonemes have their own separate lives. With this proviso, I can try to answer some of your questions. 

For Trubeckoj no variability belongs to Phonology since Phonology is an abstract construction made by the linguist in order to describe a language with the smallest means: the phonemes are effectively needed in such respect, while the allophones and the accidental variants can be dismissed. For other linguists, contextual variability and perhaps even free variability, are also part of Phonology. This approach is consistent with the view of Phonology as an attempt of representing the real linguistic knowledge of the speaker. 

Let's make a comparison between formal languages and ordinary (or natural) languages. In the former, you say exactly what you utter. In the latter your communicative intention can differ from the exact wording of your statement. So, for example, a mathematical expression like a+b consistently and predictably means "the sum of a and b", and nothing else (once the basic conventions on symbols have been fixed). In the ordinary language, on the other hand, the senses of the utterance highly depend on the speaker's intentions. Such philosophers as Strawson, Grice and others have pointed out that the so-called speaker's meaning can differ from the literal meaning of an expression. For example, when you say I think Mr. Johnson is a good administrator your intended meaning can vary a lot, ranging from literal interpretation to irony and metaphor. In case you were asked whether Mr. Johnson is a good physicist, your answer results elusive, which implies that you are ironically communicating a negative answer to the original question (to know more on this topic read something about Grice's conversational implicatures, starting from Wikipedia). The important thing is that language allows under-determinate utterances, i.e. such that you cannot determine their meaning a priori, consistently and conventionally. The meaning is, thus, the result of a sort of free negotiation between the speaker and the hearer. At the end of this negotiation an agreement is reached on how a certain referential value is assigned to certain words. Such assignment can be more or less unconventional. The more it's unconventional, the more metaphorical is your expression. But, notice, it's a matter of degree, not of kind. This amounts to say that there is no such thing as "the right/exact word to say one particular meaning"; in theory, you can use whatever word to communicate whatever meaning, provided that your hearer gets that meaning (in case s/he does not, you have to reformulate). 

English orthography is a mess, period. But what you mention is not necessarily a mess. Can you provide examples of [w] or [u] spelled with V? Some confusion regards just the sound [w] which is spelled either W or U, on historical principle. 

No relation at all. In linguistics the absence of a genetic relation is the null hypothesis. The burden of proof relies on those who claim a certain etymological relation or a common origin of two or more words. So, unless someone proves the relation between subaru and the other two words, the answer is: unrelated. P.S. Don't let phonetic similarities fool yourself: when two words sound alike this is a good hint of their unrelatedness. Genetically related words usually have different phonetic shapes, as you can witness for Russian soberu (first singular of sobrat' 'to collect', formed by the prefix so- and the root ber/bir/br, meaning 'to take' and going back to the PIE root bher 'bring') and Latin conferre (a prefixed verb with multiple meanings relating to the notion of 'bringing' and going back to the same PIE root as the aforementioned Russian verb). 

The adjective systems in Balto-Slavic and German languages are similar only from a very broad typological and historical point of view. Most Slavic languages — I can speak about Russian, but it must not be too different elsewhere — have a special morphological paradigm (i.e. a set of endings) for the adjectives when they stand in the modifier position with respect to a noun. These endings are originally of pronominal origin. Effectively, they come from a relative pronoun agglutinated to the nominal stems (see on this Meillet, Le Slave commun, 1934: §509). When the adjective is a predicate, it takes a nominal ending, which is shorter (hence they are called "short adjectives") and is only realized in the Nominative (since the predicate is always in the Nominative). In Russian the short adjectives are gradually fading out, while the adjectival endings are being used more and more also in the predicative position. Compare the following constructions. Predicative position (the nominative is marked by a zero-ending: Ø) 

In a famous paper on phonology R. Jakobson made an example of an English minimal triplet as follows: 

In the present context antiquarian seems to refer to the fact that these intellectuals were interested in some humanistic subject merely as a matter of amusement or curiosity, instead of trying to understand it in a more analytical manner. 

A colleague of mine made a claim that the phonemic length of the root morphemes in whatever language does not usually exceed 5, as an average. I have some doubts about this unsubstantiated claim, based mostly on the "linguist's intuition". Does anyone have a good reference for a paper, or some other kind of source, dealing with the topic of the average root length cross-linguistically? Notice that I am not interested in word-form length (polysynthetic languages would obviously show impressive figures), but just the length of the roots.