There are other studies which suggest that the outcome of an individual IQ test is largely dependent on the motivation of the person taking it. Or at least that individual motivation to succeed introduces a variable into the evaluation process which is not accounted for by those determining results. The theory of multiple intelligence seems to assert that there are levels of intelligence which are not measured by standardized IQ tests. Howard Garder is quoted as saying: 

The article here seems to contribute to this idea. Has this claim ever been scientifically validated? Or is all the evidence merely anecdotal? Could this be due to post-hoc rationalization, as Chris Rock noted when he said, "women don't like men with a sense of humor, they just like it when they guy they want to f@#k happens to be funny." 

So, while I typically would go a little more in depth with an answer I have too much to do today and may edit later. But it seems that this product (and its proponents) have caused at least one verifiable death. I'll leave you with a little more from the same article... At least one desperate person bet her life on these claims.....and lost 

Let me try to explain each of those ideas separately. The ice method is sometimes used as a form of VAGAL STIMULATION which can be done in a clinical setting to reduce heart rate. It is done when patients are conscious and the electrical conduction of the heart is still able to pump blood to the body. In a general sense, it works by stimulating the vagus nerve to slow down the impulse telling the heart to beat. There are other ways of performing vagal stimulation to slow the heart, such as having the patient blow through a straw, carotid sinus massage, or having the patient attempt to "bear down" as if they were having a bowel movement. Any of these things can be attempted in a clinical setting to slow heart rate before other, more invasive methods are tried (medications, cardioversion, defibrillation). While vagal stimulation may slow certain varieties of accelerated heart rates (supraventricular tachycardia for example) it is not a substitute for defibrillation. This is because defibrillation works differently, and on different electrical disturbances. Defibrillation is only used when the heart is beating in one of two specific rhythms; Ventricular Tachycardia and Ventricular Fibrillation. In both of these states, the electrical system of the heart is still sending signals which can be observed on an EKG, but they are not adequate to pump blood, so the patient has no pulse. Basically, at this state the heart is just a quivering muscle which cannot really pump blood in that condition. When the heart is in VT or VF, defibrillation is necessary. Defibrillation works by conducting electricity through the heart in order to STOP it, not to START it. It works on the principal that the heart is shocked out of the current non-perfusing rhythm with the hope that the body can start it back up again and when it does, it will be in a rhythm that is capable of pumping blood to the body. If for some reason defibrillation is unavailable, there is also another method called the PRECORDIAL THUMP. It is an absolute last ditch move, done by pounding a fist down on the patient's chest, with the hope that the energy transferred from the hit will work the same way defibrillation does. However, this rarely works. TV medicine is usually horribly wrong, for instance: you do not shock a flat line, and there is really no reason to inject "adrenalin" or anything else directly into the heart, but on tv they do it all the time for the drama. 

- Is this a case of media hype, mass delusion, or is it a real, scientifically explainable phenomenon? 

There has been some study done into how gluten metabolism affects the natural bacterial activity in the intestines, such as this 

However, some claim non-cooperation from the government mainly inspired a lack of trust in official information, which added a level of complexity to finding the cause. They do not suggest outright conspiracy. 

Which obviously laid the ground for the "Baby Signs" enterprise, and their findings do have some independent verification. source This idea seems to be validated by other sources including this from A Journal of the Association for Psychological Science: 

Some known and documented exposures (according to the US Dept. of Veteran's Affairs)considered as potential causes for these symptoms were: 

List of others found here While I have included some modern names and dates for reference, cases are cited as far back as Countess de Bandi Cesanate 1731 Case report by John Henry Cohausen to have occurred in 1673. Is there a known process at work in SHC or does it remain unexplained? Has SHC ever been scientifically studied or replicated under proper observing conditions? 

Wow. Talk about a previously solved problem. However the "controversy" seems to rage on. The debate over this is multifaceted and often crosses scientific disciplines, which can make refutation tricky. While I doubt I can add anything to the debate, other than yes, the earth is about 4.5 billion years old, I can provide links to the sites where good, kind, intelligent people have already done the heavy lifting to prove this. Also, I don't mean to poison the well, but here is a nice article regarding Kent Hovind's imprisonment. You can start here for a good overview of just about every young earth creationist argument and its proper refutation. It also gives a very good presentation of the fossil record, including the transitional fossils. Another good place to start if you would like to learn about the Earth and the science behind how we know what we know is the Unofficial Stephen Jay Gould Archive. it is an excellent place to get an idea of the science of paleontology, particularly the cambrian explosion, and theory of punctuated equilibrium. An understanding of how radiocarbon dating works is also helpful. Some independent study in geology is always helpful as well. The iron chariots wiki exists solely for the purpose of countering the glut of poor arguments touted as evidence for religious claims such as this check it out. PZ Myers routinely takes on these claims from the perspective of evolutionary biology. His site is brilliant, well written, and humorous. I have not cited any specific studies done, simply because if you follow through on the links above you will find them, regarding just about any aspect of the question. However, not everything has to be a link or a site. If you want to understand the planet you live on, the universe it's in, and the beings you share it with, then go on, read Hawking, Dawkins, Darwin, Gould, Feynman, Einstein, Watson & Crick, and definitely read Sagan, read the Bible, read the Koran, read the Bhagavad-gita, or any of the other holy books. Put in the time, do the research, ask the questions, you will probably find that if you do, you will only increase your understanding of the issue. 

What isn't shown is that in reality a person knocked unconscious is usually knocked out only for a few seconds, minutes at most. If a person is knocked out for longer than that, this may indicate severe brain damage, which could lead to loss of function, life-long debilitation, coma, and death. Essentially, a blow hard enough to knock a person unconscious is classified as a Traumatic Brain Injury (TBI). Since most guards,henchmen,etc.in movies are knocked out for extended periods of time, it quite possible that they may suffer severe brain damage. Also the force (Scientific American has one pro boxer's punch at 400kg)required to knock someone out might also break the skull or kill the person. Even wikipedia's article on boxing states that there is no clear line drawn between the force needed to knock someone out and the force needed to kill that person. So, knocking someone unconscious by hitting them in the head is clearly not as practical or consequence-free as tv and movies might lead one to believe. The most common causes of being knocked unconscious are related to either falls or vehicle crashes. However, direct trauma to the head is another cause, the CDC lists assault as accounting for 10% of reported cases. (Fact: Chuck Norris is responsible for 9.7%) What is TBI? 

Given the innumerable causes which can lead to cardiac arrest, I obviously cannot address them all, however, there may be some instances when CPR alone can be lifesaving, or appear to the lay rescuer that it is lifesaving. Recent revisions of standards by the American Heart Association no longer call for lay-people to perform a pulse check prior to initiating CPR if they find an unconscious victim who appears not to be breathing. So, the person receiving the CPR may not always be in cardiac arrest. It's possible in these situations for the painful stimuli to rouse the unconscious (usually intoxicated) person in a manner similar to what is seen on tv. To the lay person and to bystanders without medical training, this would look exactly like what is pictured on tv. Ventricular Tachycardia, Ventricular Fibrillation vs. True Asystole The human heart requires both electrical and mechanical activity to pump blood effectively. A patient who is pulseless and not breathing may not necessarily be "flat-lined" and in certain cases, the inititation of CPR immediately may have an effect similar to that of a precordial thump(which is now reccomended in certain situations), in that the force of the impact induces an electrical stimulus which jolts the heart out of a non-perfusing rhythm. In Ventricular Tachycardia, the heart's electrical activity looks like this, but the person will often not have a pulse (because although the heart has electrical activity and some mechanical activity as well, it is inadequate to pump blood properly): 

An article from Ireland dated January, 2011 shows that spontaneous human combustion (SHC)remains a hot topic among paranormalists... Spontaneous human combustion has been defined as: 

I have to admit I only stumbled upon this question due to the activity on Jeff Blaine's post. However, it did spark enough interest for me to do a little poking into the matter. Honestly, I can't say there's nothing to it, but it hasn't exactly knocked my socks off so to speak. "Plausible but not conclusive" really gets to the heart of it. Based on all I found, Baby Signs is based on some legitimate, if not terribly compelling research and seems to be another one of those "half-true" claims where a legitimate phenomena becomes exaggerated or misrepresented (either intentionally or unintentionally) in the process of marketing a product. 

This is not because of surface tension or hydrogen bonding in water, it is because electron microscopy has shown that the "pores" or "holes" mentioned in the argument are not there not there to begin with. Yet another problem with this reasoning is that Roland's information is based on a study of latex rubber gloves. From Cecil Adams: 

Q: Is CPR actually effective on someone who breathed water? A: Sometimes, but not as often as television would have you think. There is some debate about the effectiveness of rescue breathing in CPR, and in fact, lay rescuers are now taught a compressions-only method. 

As for iridology specifically... There are many conditions which can be diagnosed by looking at the eye, and for the most part, they are only conditions which affect the eye. Pupillary response can be measured to assess brain function and jaundice can be detected by looking into the eye. However, that is not the claim here. It is the sclera (white part) which becomes jaundiced, not the iris, and it is the pupil not the iris which becomes the indicator of brain function. There is also an argument which can be made, stating that since the PAX6 gene codes for the formation of the iris and also the frontal lobe, there could be a theoretical link between the iris and one's personality, but only very, very theoretically. There is absolutely no proposed link between disease in one organ and an expression in the already genetically coded external appearance of the iris. Nor is there an idea of any way in which there could be such a link. Studies.... You can check out a link here (it's only an abstract), regarding what is generally thought of having to study pseudoscientific claims. Here is one done stating iridology is ineffective. Another general abstract stating its ineffectiveness. Here is one showing it is ineffective in looking for gall bladder disease. Aside from that, I don't believe that there are many more peer-reviewed, legitimate published studies on-topic. I would suggest you look into genetics, anatomy and physiology for an understanding of why the claims of iridologists do not even begin to meet the burden of proof. Regarding pseudoscienctific claims in general.... Such claims are the reason boards like this need to exist and the skeptical community needs to keep at it. In medical and pharmaceutical research time, talent, and funding are all very limited. Simple ethics dictate that these limited resources are are allocated to the areas with the most potential for benefit. Put simply: designing, implementing and testing ideas with a valid base in science in order to do the most good. Most professionals realize that it is unethical to waste limited resources on claims which don't even merit consideration because they are simply ludicrous and based on imaginary principles. In short, if it can be disproven with only a basic knowledge of human anatomy and physiology, or doesn't have a reason to be taken seriously in the first place, it is usually (and rightly) dismissed out of hand and without comment by the professionals. As a result, it can sometimes be hard for the public to find published studies which EXPLICITLY DISPROVE pseudoscientific ideas. Sadly, people who sell these products and push these ideas exploit the knowledge and ethics of the scientific community, knowing that real scientists will not waste the time and resources to refute the claims they make. So, while it may sometimes be hard to find an accurate layman's debunking of a specific claim, this in NO WAY lgitimizes it, because the burden of proof lies on the one making the claim.