I very much disagree with this premise. He did not free the slaves that existed in states that remained in the Union. He was responsible for the single greatest power grab by the federal government in history. And he was responsible for the deaths of hundreds of thousands of Americans much of which could have been avoided had Lincoln been willing to allow reunification once it was clear that the south was defeated. Instead he chose a path of conquest. Many people who were pro-Union and anti-slavery in the south suffered and lost as a result of the land they owned being in a slave state. 

On the slavery issue: We are all slaves to some extent. We are slaves to our bodies needs for food and water, as well as its functions that are less desirable including excretory and aging. The fact that these are not truly volentary that does not mean that they must cause suffering. In fact a good meal and fine drink are among one of the ways we choose to reward ourselves for achievements. Toilet humor is among the most common, and often the action is pleasurable if only for the relief it provides. In addition while I am not condoning the slavery of the past many slaves had luxurious existances. Indeed there is also a subset of humanity that chooses slavery as a lifestyle and the gratification that they derive from it. On Suffering: Suffering likewise is a state of mind. If you do not have something to contrast then suffering is just normal life. What is suffering is also different among people. Masochists enjoy pain and abuse. Many people choose to deprive them selves of breathable air for pleasure. In order for a machine to suffer then it must also know joy or at least a condition that is the lack of suffering. It must be able to make a decision what is pleasureable and what is not. In order to suffer it must be able to choose to suffer. On what would be unethical: Humanity is likely to determine what the machine finds unpleasureable. We will likely have a subset among us who would exploit that. Some that would derive some perverse pleasure in causing the machine pain and suffering. This would be as unethical as torturing an animal or another human. And causing the termination of such a being for no reason would equally be unethical. Such an action would be equivilent to murder. It would also be unethical to deny an AI with the ability to distingish pain and sorry from joy and pleasure from experiencing both. This is not to say that it is your duty to inflict either. For Example, hiding a painful truth that the AI should know, even with the best of intentions, denies the AI the experience. 

In conclusion, I'd say that logicians and mathematicians define truth in a similar fashion, as both rely on a set of rules that they use against given circumstances in order to determine the truth. It could be valid to say that they attempt to measure it. The philosophers, on the other hand, would attempt to categorize truth according to commonness of individual beliefs, rather than directly measure it. They are also more liberal in terms of that an individual is allowed to have his own and different truth, so the real truth remains abstract and obscure. 

Considering the above, a truth for a mathematician would be something that can be verified as being correct via axioms and theorems. In computer science, which can be viewed (in regard to your question) as a subset of the discrete mathematics (especially the binary algebra), a truth is defined by two values and , respectively and . These are the basis of various mathematical and computational models which can be evaluated or used by the computer to make decisions. Most of the constructs and operations used by logicians are re-used by this area of mathematics as well as computer science. In this context, truth would probably be an expression that evaluates to , which is a quite technical definition. 

Sentience can not be aquired like a possession. It is an attribute that is either there or is absent. To be considered sentient there are several things that are required: 

The brain develops in a fairly understood manner. At an early age children begin to reason that if they do not see it, then it does not exist. By 7 they can begin understand the concepts that object can be hidden behind each other, and by 10 should understand that the world outside of what they see and hear still goes on. But until their mind is able to comprehend that, they simply are not able to understand. I am sure that there is research into when a childs brain develops to understand the inputs of their taste buds. I would guess it is around 6 months as that is when I have observed babies begin to make faces at certian foods. But untl their brain can process the input from their taste buds, they are not going to get pleasure or pain from the taste of the milk. And Freud did not understand the actual physiological part of the development of the brain. While he had many contributions to psychology, today he would be considered worse than a quack. Today we have a much better understanding of the development of the human brain. And our memory creation at an early age is not suppressed, its just that what is memorable to a 1 or 2 year old is pretty mundane in just a few years. But young children (~6months+) do recognize people they come in contact with regularly. This shows some memory retention already. 

According to mathematics, truth can be defined as the reliability of core mathematical constructs. These would be: 

In regard to your comment (I am not a mathematician, but I feel quite close to the subject), I would agree that the mathematical truth is eternal, as it would be valid as long the appropriate circumstances are present. So if you take a proven theorem, it would always evaluate true whenever its conditions are satisfied. In this case I am seeing the truth not as an always valid fact, or the fact itself, but rather as the reliability of the conclusion - the conclusion will always be valid for valid circumstances and always not for invalid ones, so it is forever trustworthy in layman's terms. 

A logician may define the truth as a fact. In logical propositions we have constructs as predicates which are evaluated against certain conditions (or circumstances) and produce a result which is either true or not true. So, we have a clear separation of both states (truth/untruth). Logical constructs such as deduction or induction represent operations that determine if certain circumstances are true, based on an existing result, or deriving the circumstances themselves knowing that a result is true or not. Logicians make use of logical operations (such as conjunction or logical AND, disjunction or logical OR), which are rules for evaluating and combining predicates in order to produce a statement that is true or untrue. 

Because nothing is a state of void being. This is an unnatural and unstable state. If you release something into a void it attempts to quickly disperse filling the void as much as possible. Similarly upon creation objects try to disperse. In a strange coincodence or maybe design things also attract each other. So while nature wants voids filled, matter wants to be together. As a result you end up with collections of particles scattered through out the universe. Space is not truely empty. There are an effectively infintite number of atoms and particles out there. They are mostly dispersed so as to have an effective pressure approaching 0 through out the majority of the universe. But there are particles there. When they get close enough together and have enough attraction they couple. Eventually that couple collects more or becomes part of a larger collection. So there is something because that is a more stable state. There are theories that there is antimatter collections in the universe that would cancel out most matter but the dispersal of matter/antimatter sometimes happens before the 2 can cancel each other out. -- Edit addressing some Ben Hockings concerns I propose that you can not sum space time. Thus there can be no totality of spacetime. That it may be infinite and immeasurable. That we indeed exist because that is a more natural state. That the universe as you have defined it expands to fill a limitless nothing because that is a more natural state than containing nothing. Limitless is not the same as being infinitely large. It is nothing thus it has no size, and is not defined by our space time. No displacement is neccessary as there is nothing to displace. The universe expands to fill something that has no volume, or capacity thus can not be filled. In some ways we agree that the void does not exist as part of our space time. But I deny that our spacetime contains the totality of all that is. The scientist in me would love to limit everything to the limits that transcribe. That would imply that the potential is there to understand everything even if the reality of that approaches the impossible. But logically that makes no sense. I can accept that we exist as statistical anomaly. But if we exist as a statisical anomoly of a cycle of creation/annialation what is the chance that that anomaly only exists once? 

This is my answer according to my fields of knowledge and personal beliefs. I hope it appears objective enough. 

And finally there are the philosophers. Unlike mathematicians or logicians, the philosophers seem to not evaluate the truth by a fixed set of commonly valid formulas. Instead, a truth is something more subjective and personal. It may conform to specific rules of the society, mathematics, physics, logic and even religion, but still it is the individual's interpretation of the facts. A truth for one may not be a truth for someone else, still both could be right as this is their own subjective belief. It could be possible for a particular person to change his beliefs, so something that s/he considered once true is now not true. One's personal experience may influence the evaluation of his/her philosophical truth. In addition, the philosophical truth is the result of the individual's attempt to explain (for himself) paradoxical or unsolvable (for him) matters. For instance, a religious person may explain many of the phenomenon s/he may witness as caused by the divine intervention of God. One with sufficient knowledge may not, as s/he could explain the same with scientific knowledge. So, both will have their truth that helps set their minds at peace and not wondering how some event or observation was possible. In regard to psychology, this is a convenient way of the consciousness to adapt to reality and not to waste an individual's energy for thinking about non-essential matters and keep attention focused on important ones (like once survival was for the early human). An aside from the above, the truth can be itself an interesting topic when regarded as a philosophical term. It is often viewed as eternal, single for all of us and fundamental for our existence (spiritual and conscious), but is yet too obscure and a subject to the individuals to reveal it according to thier understandings. 

Just because the Universe has a beginning does not mean that there had to be a god to create it. There could have been a cause that was not God. Perhaps there was a Universe that Predated our that no longer exists but was the roots of the creation of our universe. As we have no data upon which to evaluate this universe or any other competing or complementing universes there is no reason to think that the laws of this universe were identical or even similar to those of any previous universe. 

It is kind of the reverse of the norm because we are infering: because it is true of some part of the whole, it is true of the whole. But it is still a compositional fallacy. 

Well for one a being could have a non-physical existance and yet not even be in your mind. Your knowledge of that being may have no effect on it at all. Indeed even you knowledge may have no impact. Where a being that only exists in your mind relies on your mind for its existance. You have the power to completely shape and create its world. In a way you are its god. And if you do not retain a long term memory of it, or transfer that creature out of your mind in some way, then it is completely and utterly destroyed once you stop thinking about it. To the being it does not matter wether you can tell that it is real or imagined. It will either persist when you cease to think of it or it will not. This will happen wether you can tell the difference or not. Your knowledge only matters to you.