Since no one else has answered, I will provide my opinion. Let me mention that I have not seen a total eclipse since 1991, so I do not remember the diamond ring affect explicitly, and my notes do not mention it. I think the diamond ring can only be seen with the naked eye. It consists of the inner corona on one side of the moon and the last bit of photosphere on the opposite side of the moon. I believe that the inner corona is not visible in any type of filter. That is why I am speculating that the diamond ring is a naked eye phenomena only. WARNING The diamond ring occurs as the partial phase ends and totality begins, and then when totality ends and the partial phase begins. Of course you need to be extremely careful when looking at the partial eclipse with the naked eye. Essentially, you cannot look! It would be better to use a hand held filter to block the photosphere while looking at the corona without the filter. 

Question 1: Shouldn't the Sun be reaching its highest point on the longest day, i.e. on June 21st, instead of April 24th? Answer: No. The Sun (or any celestial object) is highest when its declination equals your latitude. That is when the object is at the zenith. If your latitude is between 23.4 S and 23.4 N, the Sun's declination equals your latitude on some day other than the longest day. (The Sun's declination varies between -23.4 and +23.4, approximately.) If you live outside of that range of those latitudes, then the Sun is closest to the zenith on the longest day of the year, and therefore is highest in the sky on the longest day of the year. 

In general, daylight saving time (DST) is not used in the winter. In New York, DST is used in spring, summer, and fall. (Since the start date was changed from April to March, technically DST does begin before winter ends.) If the Sun is on the meridian at noon local time (and at its highest point), that would correspond to 1 pm DST. 

It has been a long time since I did spherical trig, but I think the solution on the Physics SE is inefficient. It looks like they are calculating the sun's altitude at multiple point (multiple times of t) along the path, so the two equations two unknowns needs to be solved multiple times -- that is inefficient. It should be possible to determine the equation of the great circle through the departure and destination point. Essentially you need to calculate the longitude of where it cross the equator and the inclination. That probably needs to be solved iteratively, but it only needs to be solved once. Then for any time t, the position $λ$ and $φ$ can be calculated directly, and the sun's altitude can be calculated directly. 

According to the 2001 Astronomical Almanac (page C3), the mean position of the pole of the Solar equator is at right ascension 286.13 degrees (19.07 hours), declination 63.87 degrees. As James indicated, this puts it close to the star delta ($\delta$) Draconis. 

As a simplification, think of the length of the year as where the Earth is in its orbit. After 1 year of 365 days, the Earth has not returned to the same spot in its orbit. If we did not have leap years, then the date when seasons occur would change. Leap years keep the seasons in synch with the date. After 365+365+365+366 days (that is, 3 regular years and 1 leap year = 365.25*4), the Earth is at the same spot in its orbit. (This is approximately true because the year is not exactly 365.25 days long). On the other hand, when it gets dark is related to the length of the day, and that is independent of the length of the year. In order for it to get dark at 8 am, you would need to reset your clocks to 0 after 1 exact orbit (365.25 days). Now for a little more detail. There is a slight difference between a year measured "when the Earth returns to the same spot in its orbit" as I described above and a year measured "from one vernal equinox to the next". (The first definition is the sidereal year, and the second definition is the tropical year). The "Sidereal vs. Synodic Motions" webpage explains why the sidereal year is about 20 minutes longer than the tropical year. Our calendar is based on the tropical year. So after 1 tropical year (365.242 mean solar days), the Earth still has not returned to the same spot in its orbit! Details, details, details! 

Venus, Mars, Jupiter, and Saturn are visible with your eyes, so a telescope and magnification are not required to see them. Depending on the quality of the telescope, the magnification will show you some details. Venus - you will be able to see the phase. Mars - for several months every 26 months, you will be able to see some dark markings and a polar cap. Jupiter - you will see the cloud bands and 4 of its moons. Saturn - you will see its rings and moon Titan. Enjoy the view! 

The Moon's phase is naturally divided into 4 segments, not 8. 0 to 50% illuminated: waxing crescent 50 to 100%; waxing gibbous -100 to -50%: waning gibbous -50 to 0%: waning crescent where the negative sign is used to indicate waning phases. Likewise the 4 phases of the Moon are 0% New Moon 50% First Quarter 100% Full Moon -50% Last Quarter (or Third Quarter) Note that I did not see the values 25, 0.5, and 0.75 on the page that you referenced. 

The approach of using the midpoint of the sunrise and sunset times is reasonably accurate. I do not know what the accuracy is, but probably within 1 or 2 minutes. It would not be as accurate in polar regions where the sun is close to being visible all day. The main reason it is not precise is that the sun is moving north (December through June) or south. This changes the time of sunset with respect to sunrise if the Sun were not moving north or south. Solar noon would be earlier or later, respectively, from the midpoint. 

I think there are no deep sky objects (or extended objects) that show any color to the naked eye. They are too faint to activate the color sensors, so they appear white. I think you saw something nonastronomical. You will have a better idea the next time you see it; get a better estimate of its location so that you can find it on a star chart. Use binoculars if you have them. 

Perhaps you have heard that the altitude of the celestial pole (3 in the figure below) is equal to your latitude. In other words, angle 5 is the same as your latitude. Of course, the angle between the celestial pole (3) and the celestial equator (4) is 90 degrees (angle 6). From this, you should be able to calculate the angle of the equator (angle 7). Item 1 is the horizon, and 2 is the celestial sphere. 

Yes, the object will be 5 minutes west of the eyepiece. Since your setting circle does not update during that time, you need to position the scope 5m to the west, or to 5h 30m right ascension (not 5h 40m R.A.). Yes. Before moving to the next object, you should reset the right ascension setting circle to the coordinate of the current object. Then move to the next object. Then compensate for the time it took to move the scope. Of course, switch to a low power eyepiece just before starting the move to increase the chance that the next object will be in the field of view. Mechanical setting circles are useful for small jumps. I have used them on my scope to locate Venus near the Sun. I have also used the circles on the scope at my club's observatory to locate planets in the day. (That is slightly different that your setup since the club's scope is permanently mounted, professionally made, and has really large circles -- all of which help to reduce any errors.) If I remember correctly, the "rule of thumb" is that mechanical circles should be about the same diameter as the optics in order to be "accurate". A 200 mm reflector (the diameter of the mirror = 200 mm) should have circles that are about 200 mm in diameter. But anything should definitely get you close to the target. 

Currently, Mars is very far from the Earth, so it appears to be very small. I doubt that any amateur telescope will show any details on Mars in this condition. Perhaps when it comes to opposition and is close to Earth, you might be able to see some faint markings with your scope. Jupiter should show a sharp disk and nearly pinpoint moons with the 12.5 mm eyepiece (48 power). You should see two prominent bands on Jupiter. The 4 mm eyepiece is probably poor quality, and since it provides 150 power, is too much power for a 50 mm scope. In ideal conditions, the general rule is 100 power for a 50 mm scope (2 times the scope size in mm). The clarity of the sky is not what makes a sharp image. There is a condition named "seeing" that indicates how sharp the viewing is. On some nights, the seeing is poor, so the images will be soft (not sharp) and perhaps shimmering, as if you are viewing the object through a stream of water. (Essentially, you are, except it is miles or kilometers of air!) 

Due south if the declination of the Sun is less that your latitude. (For Brasilia, that occurs from Nov 6 to Feb 5, approximately) Directly overhead (at the zenith) if the declination of the Sun is the same as your latitude. (For Brasilia, that occurs Nov 5 and Feb 6, approximately) Due north if the declination of the Sun is more than your latitude. (For Brasilia, that occurs from Feb 7 to Nov 4, approximately) 

For most purposes, the difference between the Moon's motion across the sky and star's motion (the sidereal rate) is negligible. The Moon appears to move about 1/2 degree per hour relative to the stars, so while the stars travel 15 degrees per hour east to west, the Moon travels approximately 14.5 degrees per hour. Unless your mount is aligned accurately and has an accurate motor, you probably will not notice this difference. Some telescope drives do have a "lunar rate" so that it will track the Moon more accurately. But these approximations do not take into account the fact that the Moon is also moving north or south in declination as it orbits the Earth; the lunar rate only compensates for its west to east motion. (Maybe a goto scope will track the Moon more accurately since it theoretically could be calculating the position of the Moon and pointing to a changing position.) 

Just to be clear, the "height from sea level" (mentioned in the title) does not change what star is circumpolar. Whether the ground is at 0 units above sea level or 1500 units above sea level does not make a difference. I think what you intended to write is the height above the ground makes a difference ("angle of dip from the height" mentioned in the question). At 0 units above the ground, a circumpolar star has a declination of D1. At 1500 units above the ground, a circumpolar star has a declination that is farther from the pole, or D1-angle. (I assume that you are in the northern hemisphere.) Refraction raises the apparent altitude of an object, so you can see a circumpolar star that is farther from than the pole than is possible without refraction. Thus, a circumpolar star has declination = D1-angle-Refraction. The adopted value for refraction of an object on the horizon is 34 arcminutes (Ref 1: The Astronomical Almanac, 2001, page A12). The actual amount of refraction depends on the atmospheric pressure and temperature. An approximate formula for refraction (applicable for observed altitudes below 15 degrees) is R=P(0.1594 + 0.0196a + 0.00002a^2)/[(273+T)(1 + 0.505a + 0.0845a^2)] where T is the temperature (degrees C), P is the barometric pressure (millibars), and a is the altitude (degrees) (Ref 1: page B62)