Hyperextensions are great for endurance, take it from me... It really sucks when your lower back starts giving out after just 1km of going uphill! 

Gotten from bodybuilding.com You'll be fine if you use creatine and C4 together. Just drink water due to the added creatine levels. When I cycle on creatine I use about 5g per day even if I'm 170lbs. P.S: If you liked C4, you might love Craze. My new pre-workout. 

New training program Better sleep (if you're sleeping 6 hours, try sleeping 7-8) Shorter rest time between sets (if you were doing 90 seconds, try 30 seconds) Different tempos through your sets (2 seconds going up, 1 second hold, 3 seconds going down) New workout split (Ex: Legs on monday instead of chest, etc) Personal trainer (they will be able to narrow stuff down better than us) 

Chest Every kind of pushup will tone your chest. It will also help tone your triceps (back of the arms). Beside each exercise I'll explain which works what a little more. 

Perform 3 to 4 sets of 15-20 repititions and you will get toning results. You will be sore but ... No pain, no gain! Hope this helps, good luck with your exercises! This may seem like a lot, but please, don't try to complete everything at once! I just provided you with some ideas and links to explain the exercises you can do at home. Keep walking even if you do some of these exercises! :) 

10 v-crunches (legs elevated off the ground slightly) 10 single-leg v-crunches (legs elevated off the ground slightly) 30 seconds with legs and upper body slightly elevated (lift arms if possible) 20 crunches 15 bicycle crunches 1 minute plank 

Is 12 months too little time to train for such an event, assuming I do not drop focus on my work and social life? 12 months is plenty of time, I started doing cardio 1 month before (but don't do like I did!). Conditioning is important, you will need your shoulders for the obstacles (you need to be able to pull yourself up above obstacles, if not, prepare for burpees!). You'll need cardio to keep going after every obstacle, going uphill, crawling in mud, carrying a variety of heavy objects. 

Creatine is a natural amino acid present in the body of humans and animals. The human body has 100-115 grams of creatine in the form of creatine phosphate. No negative side effects have been noted in the research with the recommended levels of supplementation. Depending on your weight, here are the creatine intakes per day: 

Of course, if there isn't any sand, I suggest bringing a little chalk to rub on your hands before you do your chin ups. This dries up your hands and enables you to lift yourself much easier. Lifting straps will help also, but I discourage using them whenever you're doing bodyweight exercises. In the long run, they will help you do the exercise but also neglect your forearm strength. 

Workout length (45mins-1h) A successful workout shouldn't really exceed more than an hour to an hour and a half. 45 minutes is great, your body can push 100% throughout that time. Anything more and you start to slack off or give less intensity on the other exercises. Workouts > 1 hour 30 mins Personally, my trainings go from an hour and a half to two hours (stretching and abs included). Although, I eat very well and provide enough carbohydrates so that I don't feel drained. I drink intra-workout shakes (which provide BCAAs, Carbs, etc) to help me stay hydrated. Adding exercises What you can do is switch up your exercises, try something new. You need to perform things your body is not used to - that way it will adapt and change accordingly. If things get easier, yes you can definately add in some more exercises; like 15-30 burpees or plank exercises. Stronger Core If your goal is a stronger core, here are some intense abdonimal exercises I perform and suggest to my more advance clients: 

Full Body A full body workout is usually more biased towards the fitness aspect. You'll be burning more calories and generally working more muscles in your training time span. This method of training generally provides a lower injury percentage. The reason for this is because everything is split up equally throughout the body. If we compare to a split training, where you'll go all out on a targetted muscle, that muscle will be sore and weak for X days. Whereas a full body workout will never get to that point. Split Training Split training will be more on the bodybuilding side. You'll be targetting a select split of muscles throughout your week which will be completely demolished. For example, a bicep workout may consist of one compound movement followed by two isolations. This will specifically target your bicep and barely nothing else. In conclusion Full body workouts are more oriented for fitness while split training is more for bodybuilding. 

Personally, I've done both and I can really say that going to the gym is the way to go. You pay for your membership but you also get what you're paying for. You have all the training equipement you need, trainers and training programs. You even make friends, you can set goals by seeing what others are lifting. Seeing others in the same state as you're in is also motivating. Although, if you're trying to get fit and have nice endurance. Training outside can be very beneficial also. That being said, there are still many benefits to training endurance in a gym as well. All in all, yes it is worth going to the gym. The equipment, people, training programs and trainers make it worth your while. 

Push ups (chest, triceps & shoulders) 1.1. Variations of Incline / Decline push ups. Oh, and try this challenge: Bring Sally Up Video (Bring sally up = Push Up | Bring Sally Down = Stay pressed down) Chin ups (biceps & back) Pull ups (back) Chair dips (triceps) Squats (legs) Lunges (legs) Crunches (abdominals) Burpees (full body) 

I would recommend getting in contact with a personal trainer at your local gym. If your gym is in a small town with no personal trainers - go to another gym that has. Trust me, someone that knows their stuff really pays off in the long run. Also, despite you loving to run, I would suggest eliptical machines or bicycle. The reason for this is just for your knees - they'll thank you after a few weeks. The best way to slim down is to start in the kitchen. This is where the major gains will be made. You need proper fuel (food) for your machine (body). Perhaps just cutting down on soft drinks or chips or whatever it is you are keen on eating as snacks. When you get used to training and eating a little healthier, than I suggest getting a nutrition plan. Infact, depending on your motivation, I would suggest you get one now but that may impact your motives very drastically once you start craving the unhealthier sweets and snacks. Get an evaluation with a personal trainer - make him your coach. See him for questions, tips, workouts, etc. My coach loves that I go to him for everything and most of all - he loves that I'm motivated. Show him that you're motivated and he'll be motivated to help you. Good luck! 

Protein intake As for the protein, yes your body should intake more protein than the usual person. You're excerting more energy and your muscles need to rebuild. Protein will help you do that. You should take about 1.5g of protein pour kilogram of bodyweight. Knowing that you're 58 kilos, you should take approximately 87 grams of protein per day. Keep in mind, do not take all the protein at once or else you will just poop it out. Separate it throughout the day for more successful results. Your meals also have protein so try to balance it out with protein shakes if needed. 

Motivation Lack of form while performing the exercises (usually corrected by a trainer) No training program (some can be gotten by the internet, but usually it's best to get one custom made for you) Equipement 

Crossfit training Extensive leg endurance training (no more 3 sets of 8 reps, go up to 20-25+) Hyperextensions 

The difference with my kind of method is that I will gain mass and strength. I doubt there is a "better" method for everyone. What I mean by this is, everyone is different and everyone may find something works better for them. You need to figure this out on your own. As for the differences in methods, the higher reps you go to with short amount of rest - you tend to work the endurance muscle fibers. Whereas the shorter reps with longer rest periods will get you more into the strength and mass portion. 

Melatonin is known to help people with Jet Lag but I suggest not to take that if you are going to be a tested athlete. Some commissions ban the use of melatonin therefore risking you getting disqualified. Going out in the sun will help you a great deal. Here are some other helpful suggestions: 

There are many different ways to "tear" your muscles in order to make them grow during your rest periods (days off). Someone who starts high and gradually lowers their weight may work better for them. As I said, this is a subject with many different variables. The human body works in magnificiant ways and not everyone's body works in the same way. In my honest opinion, you will have to go out there, train your butt off and see what works for you. It took me 5 years to realise what worked for me - hopefully you'll figure out sooner than I did! Good luck. 

For example, my personal trainer recommends me to take a week off of training each 6-8 weeks of HIT (High intensity training) because my body will just crumble under the intensity of training. 

From experience, I've personally been in both situations and this really depends on the person. Several factors may cause them to come up with an arguement: 

I do high intensity training to build mass. I usually get muscle twitching after a hardcore training session. Usually in my Glutes, Triceps, Shoulders, Chest and Quads. I am genetically more gifted with my shoulders and back - but I have never gotten any muscle twitching in my back. My last training was a shoulder training composed of several supersets. My shoulders were so pumped it felt as if lactic acid was going to ooze out of them. About four hours after my training my anterior deltoid started twitching. It has been doing this for about 18 hours now and almost prevented me from sleeping. I don't think it's related to stretching because I stretch a lot (I'm a male and can do the splits easily). I'm extremely flexible and use great caution when stretching and lifting. I prefer quality over quantity. What makes the muscle twitch? Does it mean it is overworked? 

What I suggest Most people should start with something simple, easy & fun. A program which consists of three sets of 8 repetitions per exercise with nothing really particular (no drop sets, supersets, varying tempos, etc). The time of completion for the workout should not exceed 1 hour for the first 3-4 weeks. A three day split program will ease people into training. It will only take 3 days of their week as well as an average of 1 hour per training. 3 hours per week is easy to manage for a lot of people. 3 day split 

What are good exercises for shoulders and lower back, considering the type of wear they will face during such a race? 

Plateaus are caused by many different things. Sometimes your body is just used to the training program and other times your body just needs a break. Here's a list to help you through your plateau: 

I've been an avid Spartan Race competitor myself. By experience I can certainly say some people doing the obstacle race are not in shape. One of my buddies completed the race at 270lbs (30% bodyfat) in a couple hours. Speaking for me, I am a natural bodybuilder and doing such races are pretty rough for me. Despite having an awesome physique, my legs become gased and pumped after just a few minutes of running uphill. So here's a few tips on training for an obstacle race: 

Working out more often will make a definate difference. It is alright to start slow, get used to everything first. You don't want to be injured so take it easy when starting. If you stay stuck at 320lbs though you will need to continue adding a few more workout days to the week OR making the current days you workout, more intense. Most of all, it starts with the diet and eating habbits. Ff your diet is low in fat & carbohydrates , you will get some insane results. Good luck! 

I also suggest beginners to start with machines so that they get the sense of isolating the muscle when forcing. Doing so will help prevent injuries when moving to something more advanced such as barbells and dumbbells. As time goes and if they're still keen at working out - suggest to make it harder, more intense and slightly longer / more often. Eventually, start talking about nutrition to help them get even healthier, faster. 

It is important for you to warm up before a set. Going on heavy lifts when your muscles are "cold" raises risks of injury. The most common injury points are the rotator cuffs. Using elastic bands with your elbows to your side and moving the hand in a left to right motion (going far enough on both sides so you feel it stretch) is very good to prevent injuries. This is a very controversial subject and many people disagree but from personal experience in training, I MUST warm up before my workout session.