I am roleplaying in a lore where elemental justification is really poor. However, loving a good and strong background, I would like to explain why my character is / would be able to manipulate elements instead of using a gauntlet to do so (his class, by design, uses a gauntlet to simulate elements like fire balls or water drops. The 'how' is not explained. It is just as it is.) Which body / physiologic / evolution could allow a human being to manipulate water ? We are looking here at both scientific (if possible) and/or plausible justifications (= something else that "You can just do it, it is a fantasy magic world"). Here are the perks, considering the result we are trying to achieve: 

I am really open-minded and would be glad to discuss / answer any additional info you need to let water flow through the answers. Let the water splash ! 

Some ideas that come in my mind at the moment: The Ivory Knight Kill a shark and an elephant. Take the ivory from the elephant, carve it as a weapon (some 1-handed sword) and sword, and inlay the teeth as the blade. Take a classic handle with leather, add some peacock feathers to the guard to make it look both pretty and deadly. This way, you have a light sword who look deadly. Think about a dealdier, bigger, prettier version of this badass over here. The Ivory Berserker The same idea as above, but take more ivory to make a two-handed sword. Now we're talking. The Sea King Take a swordfish. His nose is a deadly monster about penetration. Kill two or three of them, make them into either a trident, a single spear, a sword or either of them. Reinforced its raw design with feathers and jewelry. You have there some pretty weapons from the sea. The Magic Wielder Take a simple, long staff. Take an intimidating dead animal, like a dead goat or something similar (ofter a goat or a ram). Put it at the end of your staff. Keep the skin to decorate the top of your staff, between the handle and the actual head. Get some precious stones (ruby, for fire and fury e.g) and put them inside the eyes. As always, beautiful feathers and some pieces of clothing may make everyone believe you mastered magic. The Bulky King Tahe the skin of an armadillo. Take a staff, which you will carve as a weapon, either one or two-handed. If two-handed, plan some more armadillo's skin. You're making a ball from the skin(s), and carve interesting parts of animals onto it. For example, eagle fangs, lion claws, tiger teeth. If it is a two-handed, vary between them in order to make it look even deadlier, between penetration and actual cutting through. Decoration, feather, clothing, and there you are: no one will ever want to take a hit on this weapon. 

An overview of the "Big Five" nations including ourselves and our adversaries in the coming conflict: Lettucia - Our own glorious nation. Vastly superior in almost every way to the other nations, particularly in scientific research. Our military is the largest and most advanced. Most of our vehicles and some of our elite infantry are already equipped with the new SALAD system, while some are still using dated equipment. Our military strength lies in vehicles, mostly gunships. The high mobility and armor afforded by these vehicles has seen us many victories in the past. Other nations do not accept our political ideology, but our Grand Caesar will show them the True Way in time. Our citizens are highly nationlistic and support the effort of spreading our ideology. Appeland - Island empire. Hast a vast navy and airforce, but few ground soldiers. Has been a historical center of trade due to its location and wealth of natural resources. Usually neutral in world conflicts, both political and military. Prefers instead to solidify itself as a world power economically. Burgeria - A world power now on the decline. Vast industrial base, but using aging technology. Their military is also somewhat dated, still using technology from the last world conflict 50 years prior. Their military also relies on a vast amount of infantry, which a few supporting vehicles. They are vehemently opposed to our own glorious ideology. Chizhi - Smallest of the Big Five. Relatively advanced military technology (not matching our own glorious accomplishments of course), but have a smaller military than the powers above. Particularly adept at using their limited amount of resources for industrial and military means. Very independent bordering on isolationist, trading only with the neighboring Appeland. Donnuto - Collective of smaller nations and a staunch ally of Burgeria. Largest population, though limited technology similar to Burgeria. Next to no military, instead depending on its ally. We signed an mutual agreement at the end of the last conflict to limit both of our military development. They have appeared to honor this agreement, the fools. 

1. (a/b in the diagram) Bodies can think for themselves and share information as requested. Basically you have Jack clones with a telepathic connection. Each clone could request and receive information from every other one, but it would be done on demand. Each clone also thinks "independently", though using the same process as every other clone. This could potentially be the "simplest" solution as you don't have the input overload that occurs in other scenarios. This would also be the most optimum if there any significant delay between bodies. A disadvantage would be if any body was damaged, their memories would not be recoverable by the other bodies. 

If the ships really are travelling at the speed of light, using known physics (which is possible, sort of — see below), then they cannot communicate. The reason for this is time dilation: the closer to the speed of light the ship moves, the slower its proper time passes. At the limit of a ship moving at the speed of light, no proper time passes for it — from the perspective of the passengers, they arrive at their destination immediately after embarking on their journey. Thus, there will be no time for the passengers to send or receive any messages, or to do anything else, during the journey. So, how can we make a ship travel at the speed of light using known physics? Well, according to the theory of relativity, only massless particles like photons can reach the speed of light, so we'll have to make the ship (and anything it carries) out of light (or some other massless particles, but light really is the most convenient). In practice, such a "ship" would be more like a Star Trek transporter than anything one would normally describe as a spaceship: at the departure station, using Sufficiently Advanced Science™, the passengers will be converted into a pulse of light, which is beamed at a distant receiver that reverses the process. As far as the passengers are concerned, the process resembles instantaneous teleportation, although, of course, a year of (coordinate) time will actually have passed for every light year so travelled. Of course, this process would be a lot more convenient if the "passengers" were already encoded into easily transmissible information — that is, if they were either AIs, or humans (or other originally biological creatures) somehow "uploaded" into software. In fact, if you want to transmit beings with physical bodies this way, the easiest way would be to first scan into a software emulation, transmit the software, and then, if desired, rebuild new bodies for them at the destination. (Hey, I didn't say it would be easy — just easier than the alternatives.) Or, of course, you can postulate some new physics (or exotic edge cases of current physics theories, such as stable wormholes) that allow faster-than-light travel. In that case, however, you're pretty much free to assume anything you want about how in-flight communications would work (or not work, as it might be). For the specific case of wormhole travel, a reasonably plausible assumption would be that ships travelling through the same wormhole could communicate just like in normal space (after all, a wormhole is normal space, just with a weird geometry), but any signals sent from inside one wormhole to another would have to take a detour through the wormhole mouth(s). 

This is difficult to pin down to a simple change, so I will be content with the outcome of a war, namely: France overwhelmingly defeats Prussia in the Austro-Prussian War "Now wait a minute," you say, "the Austro-Prussian War was fought between Austria and Prussia, how does France win?" A fine question. While the French remained neutral in the Austro-Prussian War in 1866, tensions between France and Prussia resulted in the Franco-Prussian War in 1870-71. Historically, Napoleon III promised Bismarck neutrality. This allowed Prussia to fight two single front wars, rather than dealing with fighting both factions at once. In our alternative timeline, this non-aggression pact of sorts will not happen (or is broken). The other aspect of the Austro-Prussian War was the Third Italian War of Independence, in which Austria was defending Venice from Italy. Due to the war against Prussia, Austria was forced to divert forces from Venice to defend Vienna. Italy took advantage of this to ally with Prussia and take Venice. In our alternate timeline, let's imagine that Austria still crumbles in the north but holds fast against Italy in the south. Enter France. During the end of the historical Austro-Prussian War, France demanded that Prussia relinquish Luxembourg and Mainz. This request was flatly denied. In our alternative timeline, the desire for expansion and the tension between France and Prussia leads to an earlier war, while Prussia is still engaged with Austria. The reduced Prussian strength allows France to make early gains. They also gain the opportunity to study Prussian tactics and organization. This knowledge and slow start to the war allows France to enact much needed reforms to their military structure. Historically, these changes came too little too late, and lead to disorganization. The slow start and high morale from early victories will ensure that these reforms are successful. To gain more strength for the Prussian front and to maintain peace with Italy, Napoleon III withdraws his forces from the Papal states, as he did historically during the Franco-Prussian War. This allows Italy to seize many of the Papal territories. Napoleon was not opposed to Italian unification, and indeed helped the Italians at times. His support for the Papacy was driven mainly by the large Catholic population in France. We can imagine that nationalism driven by a war with Prussia could override the desire to prevent Italian unification. Prussia is pushed back and settles for peace, losing their gains in southern Germany. France occupies former Swabia while Bavaria remains an Austrian ally. French unwillingness to cede their gains to former Southern German allies of Austria, combined with the French support for Italy, leads to a minor war between France and Austria, in which France makes minor gains into Bavaria. The pressure of a newly vitalized French military and perhaps a more successful Emancipation of 1861 in Russia keeps Prussian military power contained, allowing France to hold the Bavarian territories containing Munich. 

I suspect you may be overthinking this. Why not just transmit a simple geometric progression like, say: 

I'm going to take a shot at near-term technology forecasting, and say that your time traveller's near future smartphone and laptop are probably charged over some version of USB (unless they're Apple devices, in which case they'll probably use some more-or-less equivalent proprietary system). The common everyday USB port hides quite a bit of complexity, with the same wires carrying both power and data, and with a complex hardware/software protocol for negotiating communication and power delivery parameters. This makes "hotwiring" a primitive power source into a USB connector pretty difficult, and likely to risk damaging the electronics if you do it wrong. Fortunately, however, our intrepid time traveller probably won't have to do that, not unless they also forgot to bring a charger for their devices. There are several types of such chargers, each of them good for different situations: 

The first few numbers are small enough that the pattern should be easy to spot, but they increase rapidly. There's a simple one-to-one relation between successive pairs of numbers — the next one is 3 times the previous one — and the numbers in this sequence are also recognizable on their own, being the only numbers not divisible by any prime other than 3. The base of the progression can indeed be chosen more or less arbitrarily, but I would suggest that it should preferably be: 

As Mike Scott notes, we don't know yet. Our current exoplanet survey techniques are so strongly biased in favor of planets that are close to their sun (and therefore likely to be tidally locked) that they don't yet allow reliably estimating the fraction of all planets that orbit further out (and therefore probably aren't locked). That said, you hypothetical aliens probably don't care about the total ratio of tidally locked to non-locked planets, anyway. What they care about is the fraction of life-bearing planets that are tidally locked to their star. That's, of course, even harder to estimate using current data (since we haven't even detected any life-bearing planets other than Earth yet), but we do have the following suggestive observations: 

Hit it with a rock. A big rock. Something like Ceres might do, if you could somehow get it into an orbit that hits the moon with sufficient relative velocity. Alas, moving Ceres significantly from its current orbit is likely itself a non-trivial task. A stray Kuiper belt object might be more practical, if only because there are more sufficiently large bodies out there, and also because the long fall from the Kuiper belt to the inner system would naturally give the impactor a highly eccentric orbit that could intersect the Moon at a sharp angle and high velocity difference. You'd still have the problem of getting the object to the inner system in the first place, but I could buy a scenario where a collision (or a near-miss) with another KBO sends the would-be impactor on an unstable orbit leading to an eventual close encounter with Neptune, which, with some good (or bad, depending on how you look at it) luck, might send it towards the inner system and an eventual collision with the Moon. Of course, you could go further afield and have the object come in from the Oort cloud, or even from interstellar space. Most solar system formation models predict a large number of small planetesimals getting scattered out of the system when it forms, so it stands to reason that there must be a sizeable population of stray planets out there in interstellar space, and that they'll occasionally make a near pass to a star such as the Sun. Of course, such encounters are (fortunately) not that common, and most such bodies will just pass through the solar system without hitting anything anyway, but having one fall in and hit the Moon is still perfectly within the realm of possibility. As a bonus, a stray planetesimal could potentially fall in from any direction, even well away from the plane of the ecliptic, which could let you get some quite interesting orbital changes when it hits. In any case, a body smaller than the Moon, passing the Earth at the Moon's distance, isn't going to directly disrupt the Earth to any significant extent (unless you count making a lot of astronomers soil their underwear when they first spot it). Any tidal effects will, by definition, be smaller or comparable to the lunar and solar tides the Earth already experiences, and any gravitational effects on the Earth's orbit should be negligible. The bad news, however, is that anything massive hitting the Moon at high speed is going to scatter off lots of smaller rocks when it hits, some of which will likely hit the Earth. So Earth as a whole might be fine, but you'd likely be looking at some rather big meteor impacts as secondary effects, potentially disrupting the biosphere and any civilization down here. Worse yet, since the scattering from the lunar impact is likely to be rather chaotic and unpredictable, we won't be able to easily predict how many secondary impacts might hit the Earth, or when and where they would hit.