In addition to that, you would be likely to receive a yellow card for "unsporting behaviour". It's a novel strategy but it goes against the spirit of the game and you would then be in danger of having all 11 players on yellow cards. 

This can, indeed, be a factor. Although it's less likely that a manager brings on a player to earn his appearance fee, the number of caps a player has earned in a season can be important. Sometimes a club may loan a player to another team but, as a requirement, they may stipulate that the loanee player must complete a certain number of minutes or games for the agreement to go through. More often though, is that certain competitions will only give winners' medals to players who have made a certain number of caps in the said competition. One example that springs to mind is when Martin Keown needed one more cap to qualify for a EPL medal with Arsenal. Ray Parlour jokingly pretended to get ready to come on as their last substitution to frighten him (Keown) into thinking he wasn't going to play and get his medal. Another point not mentioned is that sometimes a manager will bring off a star performer in the final minutes/seconds of the game so that they get the ovation that they deserve. 

Headbands and wristbands reduce the problem of sweat and rain and remain a personal choice as to whether the player wears them. 

The key word here is "careless". When running behind a player you need to take care that you don't trip him. If you do, you will be penalised with a direct free-kick against your team. 

In the 1987 Presidents Cup, USA were beaten 3-1 by Egypt in Seoul, South Korea. In the same tournament, USA played CD Español in Masan, Thailand in Cheongju, Hungary in Daejeon and South Korea in Busan, all venues also in South Korea. More recently, in 2010, USA faced Australia in Roodeport, South Africa as a warm-up game before the World Cup. This is very similar to the preparation for the 2006 World cup, with the USA having played Poland in Kaiserslautern, Germany. Go back a little further to 1994 and you will find a match between Romania and USA that was played in the Carlsberg Cup Hong Kong. The year before, in 1993, USA played in a goalless draw against Hungary in Nagoya, Japan. 1975, in the Copa de Mexico, USA played Costa Rica in Mexico City. FIFA lists all of these games as "friendlies". 

Copyright notice: The images and quotes posted above remain the sole property of the original owners and are posted here for educational purposes only. 

In the situation you describe, that being the referee impeding a player, the referee has no obligation to stop play or provide compensation to either the attacking or defending team. Law 9 of the FIFA Laws of the Game state: 

Finally, until the judging becomes regulated, we're going to see more and more of these controversies. 

Amir Khan raised grievance withe the scoring irregularities and an IBF investigation took place. Most of the concern was regarding Judge George Hill's scoring amendments of the 7th round: 

As much as I am into sports, I really have no knowledge about basketball, perhaps due to the low-profile of the sport in the UK. However, today I've been reading up a little on the subject and have a question related to the NBA player draft. This wiki article states: 

In the event you mention (50m Rifle Prone), the 8 best qualifiers shoot in the final event. In the final event, the scoring zones are divided into tenths, with 10.9 being the maximum score per shot (ten shots are taken). 

In addition to this record, this wiki page claims that the world record is 1.9m. Now, there doesn't seem to be an official Guinness record for a vertical, running jump although there are some sites claiming jumps of around 1.55m. Now neither of these are directly comparable seeing as there is a lot of difference between how the high jump and the vertical standing or running jumps are performed. That said, with the high jump record being almost 0.5m higher than that of the standing jump I would probably maintain a hypothesis that the one foot jump would be better because of the technique involved, as well as the momentum caused through the bringing up the non-standing leg. In addition, it appears that the high-jump rules have always requried the taking off being from one foot. I did once read speculation that a gymnast could do a series of tumbles and somersaults before their final "high jump" which was higher than a one-foot launch but I'd need to see some research or historical evidence to agree with that. 

The match I saw was between two Italian sides and I believe it had an Italian name. It is similar to football, although I believe the hands were used also. It was played on a sandy surface in an enclosed pitch (waist-level fencing). The game was very violent and bloody, with punching and kicking opponents allowed. It's not the Fighting Football League. It seemed perhaps to be steeped in historical tradition. It may only be contested between two cities/teams. 

I'm a long-time watcher and a short-time player of golf. Whilst only a beginner, I am actually fairly good at getting out of greenside bunkers. I open the club face, I aim an inch behind the ball and follow right through. However, I can't seem to get any distance out of fairway bunkers. Currently, I'm adopting the same approach as when I play the greenside bunkers but with a longer iron. The problem is that I don't get any distance. I either "top" it and I come out hard and low or I get under it but all the power is lost. What should I be doing out of the sand here? 

You'll have to decide! Perhaps give the bonus for fastest qualifier instead of pole position? You can see my spreadsheet with all the pole positions since 1950 here. 

Good question. The Scottish Premier League is still technically made up of twelve teams, including the interim "Club 12". As there are twelve clubs in the league, it is mandated that the majority is 7 and above, although "Club 12" will be a no-vote as it isn't currently certain that the newco Rangers will be that club. For good reading, here's an interesting article on how the other SPL clubs might vote. 

Quite simply it's because that's when there is the most betting activity - the majority of the activity, actually. Odds start at what the bookmakers believe is an accurate representation of the outcomes. These odds then drift or come in depending on what the punters are backing. For example, a team might be 10/1 to win when betting opens. If millions are bet on that then the odds will shorten. It's not unheard of for odds to change massively in the time leading up to an event. Consider, a football match: if a lot of money is placed on team A, the odds for team A shorten; if a lot of money is placed on team B, the odds for team A lengthen. So now you ask: why does the majority of the activity happen just before the event? 1 - The big betters want to keep their cards close to their chests. Say I was a professional gambler and I had really investigated the statistics and other parameters surrounding an event. Mythical United are playing Made-up FC and Made-up FC have been set at 1/1 or evens. However, I happen to know that Mythical United are not playing four of their strongest players due to a sickness virus in the club and will be at a severe disadvantage. If I bet £1,000,000 five hours before the game then that is when the odds will change. Because of that, everyone else will see the change of odds and might think "Oh, I'm getting some of that!" It's a crude example but the sizeable bets are generally placed around 10-15 minutes before the event and that is why the market appears to "correct" itself. 2 - You get better value closer to the event. The bookmaker will have more liquidity the closer it gets to the event. For this reason, it is easier for the big boys to get large bets accepted. 3 - You're more likely to get the true odds. It does happen - bookmakers and punters will "seed" the market so that odds are more tempting. In horse racing you'll often see a horse at 30/1 come in to 12/1 in the build up but then drift massively out closer to the event. You can avoid falling victim to this manipulation by betting late. 

These are designed to alert the referee to his other officials, one of which may need to bring something to his attention. For example, a referee may have his back to one of the assistant referees and an off-the-ball incident such as a fight may be going on behind him. The referee won't notice the assistant however much flag waving he is doing so the assistant referee will alert the referee by "paging" him with his electronic flag. In making this alert, the referee's armband or transceiver unit will vibrate and possibly also make an audio alarm in his earpiece. The devices can be configured so that each official has a different audio tone so that the referee knows which assistant is paging him. This technology works alongside the open communication system also adopted by the officials. 

So, with that scoring system, there is no upper-limit to the number of points that a gymnast can accumulate on the D-score. As for gymnasts who have scored (or attempted to score) more than 7.0, I can think of the following: 

This is a great question, in fact it needs more upvotes. I was so interested in this myself that I wasn't going to stop at anything to get a good answer. Sadly, small research didn't get me the answers I was after so eventually I spent 14 hours reviewing the reports of every Grand Prix since 1950. To the date of this answer there have been 864 of them, which is why it took so long: Grand Prix in which the fastest qualifer didn't start from pole 1955 Indianapolis GP - May 30, 1955. Jack McGrath set the fastest qualifying speed but actually started in grid position 3, on the outside of the track. Jerry Hoyt started in pole as he was one of only two drivers to complete a qualifying event on "Pole Day" due to strong winds and the threat of heavy rain. Hoyt was actually only the 8th fastest in the field and his speed (140.045mph) is the record slowest ranked pole speed. 1994 Monaco GP - May 15, 1994. This was the first GP to follow the deaths of Ayrton Senna and Roland Ratzenberger at the season's previous Grand Prix at San Marino. Whilst Michael Schumacher did start at pole position and is officially documented as such, grid places 1 and 2 were left unoccupied and painted with the flags of Senna and Ratzenberger's respective nations as a mark of respect. 1996 French GP - June 30, 1996 Michael Schumacher qualified with the fastest lap, earning him pole position for this race. However, Schumacher's engine failed during the formation lap at Magny Cours and did not take his place on the grid. 1998 Japanese GP - November 1, 1998 Schumacher was involved again here, this time stalling from his hard-earned (1/10th of a second faster) pole position. As a result of this he was sent to the back of the grid. The race started successfully on this, the third, attempt after Jarno Trulli had stalled his car on the first attempt. 2001 Monaco GP - May 27, 2001 David Coulthard was sitting happily in pole position but his McLaren failed to pull away for the formation lap. His team managed to get him moving eventually but by this time he was resigned to starting from the back of the grid. 2005 US GP - June 19, 2005 This is the one they called "IndyGate". Jarno Trulli was fastest qualifier and therefore in pole position. However, due to safety concerns regarding the Michelin tyres, all drivers of vehicles with these tyres retired to the pits during the formation lap. Only six cars started the race with drivers in grid places 5, 7, 17, 19, 18 & 20. 

As already stated, Law 4 of the "Laws of the Game" states that shorts are compulsory. However, FIFA's supplemental document "Equipment Regulations" elaborates on Law 4 stating: 

As you correctly state, the world record for the high jump is 2.45 metres. A quick search of the Guinness World Records show us that: 

Well, to an extent, yes. But don't worry too much about achieving silence. A thud sound whilst running generally indicates that the heel is striking the ground on the downstep more than it should. However, rather than focus on reducing the sound or feel of the thud, you should improves the mechanics of your running and the thud will reduce as a result. The thud is caused because the impact shock is not absorbed by the flesh of the foot arch or the muscles in the calf. Instead, the force travels up through the bone at the front and can lead to shin splints in the muscles there. To counter this, you need to spend as much of your time running on the balls of your feet as you can. Try rolling your foot landing rather than coming down at an angle. You can reduce your stride to achieve this. Watch a video of a long-distance runner to see how they run without much impact against the ground. 

I wouldn't be too surprised if they made it four at the 2014 World Cup. Prestige All in all, what may matter more than any financial or statistical benefit is that the team can say they are the best. 

Correct. According to Rule 182 of the IAFF's 2012/2013 Competition Rules, the athlete must take off on one foot: 

Well, they can, but they shouldn't. Unfortunately there is a high degree of suspicion surrounding the integrity of boxing. Like other multi-million dollar sports, corruption is probably going on. Do famous boxers often receive bias from judges over little-known fighters? Yes. Have any outside influences ever affected the scores? Yes: In the Amir Khan vs. Lamont Peterson fight there was a then-unknown character clearly instructing a judge on how to score the fight: 

So, if you shoot in the final, you could hit a perfect 600 (in qualification) and then your final ten could be anything up to 109, meaning a maximum possible of 709. You note the 704.8 but actually, in the London 2012 games just now, Sergei Martynov won gold with 705.5. I'll add also that, once someone shoots 709, that will be the maximum world record (and it will be shared by anyone else shooting 709) unless the scoring changes. For clarity, this is how the shooting is scored: Qualification 

Shot power, which can be likened to the punch of a boxer, is predominantly dependent upon one's ability to create "explosive power". Explosiveness is the amount of kinetic energy that can be generated by the relevant muscles in a short space of time. In kicking a football, the main muscles used are the quads, glutes, hamstrings and calves. To improve your power you need strong quadriceps but also the ability to generate speed and energy when straightening your leg and bringing your foot down. If you want to kick harder you want to do be doing a lot of squats and jumps. Not only will you strengthen the muscles but you'll also increase your ability to generate swing speed with your legs. Also, don't neglect working your core. Everything from your shoulder, abs and hips are used in stabilising your body whilst kicking too. Here's a google search for "Explosive Power Drills". 

My question is: Has a team actually done this (lost on purpose) before? Surely there'd be disadvantages to this that far outweigh the advantage gained in getting the best draftees? 

They are called blinkers or blinders. Just as horses sometimes wear them to narrow their field of vision, shooters do the same. Having blinders on the side of the eyewear helps the shooter maintain down-range vision. As well as the side blinders, some shooters also have a blinder over their non-dominant eye. Note that the size of blinders is governed by rules. 

The rule regarding caps was brought in to afford goalkeepers better visibility in sunny conditions, with the cap shading the eyes from the glare of the sun. The rule includes the line "irrespective of the prevailing conditions" so that goalkeepers can also where a cap even if there is no sun. Some goalkeepers will wear a cap in the rain so that their vision is not impaired by rainwater in their eyes. Regarding headbands (and wristbands), section 24 states: 

It is not uncommon for professional sportsmen to switch from one football code to another. Specifically considering the move from Rugby League to Rugby Union and vice-versa, what have been the most prominent factors in athletes making this switch? I can speculate that the financial benefits may be one of the key motivators but I'd like to learn of any hard statistics or research into this matter.