I can't think of a specific term, but the closest one that I remember is called the fallacy fallacy: dismissing an opponent's conclusion as false/unworthy of consideration merely because fallacies were present in their argument. 

Recently, I've realized that I've grown so enamored with the typical famous thinkers (Kant, Berkeley, Quine, Mill; the usual crew) that I forgot academic philosophy still exists. Unfortunately, I hardly know of any credible or quality sites to get quality contemporary news, articles, or papers on philosophy. Could any of you provide me with some suggestions? 

After reading Kant's Idea For a Universal History, I've become intrigued by Kant's notion of Nature guiding the dealings of men towards a "perfectly rightful civil constitution." Although the relationship between man and Nature remains clear, what would Kant say is the meaning for any human existence independent of Nature? Perhaps there is some overlap between the meaning of human life simpliciter and the meaning of human life in relation with Nature? 

One of my favorite answers to the brain-in-a-vat hypothesis is not a direct refutation, but rather the argument that even if we are brains in vats, it doesn't mean that all our beliefs are false, or that the reality we know is "a lie." Specifically, it frames the hypothesis as a metaphysical one, on par with (and, in fact, related to) the questions of mind-body dualism, creationism, and empiricism. See the full argument here: $URL$ 

As described in this excellent essay, every ethical situation has three elements: an agent making a decision, the actions taken (or not) by that agent, and the outcome of those actions (or inactions). Thus, there are actually three different possible perspectives on ethics: 

It seems intuitive to me to think that if there is a basic substance or building block of nature (e.g. fermions and leptons, etc.), then all facts regarding entities comprised of that substance are reducible into facts about instances of said substance. For example, the term "water" is reducible, on a chemical level, to "two hydrogen atoms combined with an oxygen atom via covalent bonds." In turn, this chemical equivalent of "water" is reducible to something like "two sets of identical combinations of subatomic particles combined with another unique combination of subatomic particles via [insert some atomic description of covalent bonds] (I'm no physicist)." I like to think that this process can proceed until we reach the most basic of substances, at which point we would arrive at the most primal description of a phenomena. I think topics of the social sciences are subject to this as well. For instance, "a language" can be reduced to "particular sets of certain reverberations used in certain groups of massive collections of subatomic particles (people) who engage in brain states that correlate both/either artifacts of physical substance and/or brain states with some of those particular reverberations of sound." Obviously, you could go "deeper" in the analysis, but for the sake of time and my sanity, I won't try to do any better; you probably get the idea. That was just my understanding of a typical reductionist project, but I have a feeling that I might have just conflated reductionism with physicalism. My question still stands, regardless: What are some of the problems with reducing natural and social phenomena into facts about the primary substance of which they are all ultimately made of? 

Again, I feel that this is simply not true. If you interpret their standards strictly, then much of philosophy is not genuinely philosophical. I am aware that he gives a couple of examples before about how Locke, Berkeley and of course Hume are not predominantly metaphysicians, but that does not at all demonstrate that much of the philosophical tradition meets their criteria. My question is: why did Ayer mention this? Was he simply trying not to come across as being too radical (which would surprise me) by not rejecting too much? Or did he genuinely see value in much of traditional philosophy and/or did he interpret a lot of it in a 'non-metaphysical' sense? 

I could make this a discussion about semantics or I could refer to a dictionary, but I think none of that would be very helpful. A wide array of people The group of people that identify themselves as atheists is not homogeneous at all, just like the group of theists (there are non-theistic religions, so I did not say 'religious people' here) is not homogeneous, and if you ask a number of them about why they identify themselves as atheists, you find that they might all have very different answers. Some people just don't care. They haven't really thought about it, but they just don't see much reason to believe in one or multiple gods. These people would be called apatheists (etymology: apathy and theism). In this case, it could probably be defined as lack of belief in one or multiple gods (this is a passive position). This view is often equated to pragmatic atheism, although I have found that pragmatic atheists often care about the question, but for pragmatic reasons (rather than epistemological ones); they might simply think that they're better off without religion (for whatever reason). What unites these two kinds of atheists, is that they are not overly concerned with truth claims. They may and probably will think that it is unlikely that there is a god, but it's not their main concern. These people are often called weak atheists. Positive or strong atheism is the explicit view that no deities exist. It is the rejection of belief in one or multiple gods and thus an active position. This does not mean that the positive atheist is 100% certain that no God exist (see Bertrand Russell's quote below), but that he thinks it's at least highly unlikely, sees no evidence to the contrary and therefore explicitly thinks that there is no god. These people are, in contrast to weak atheist, very concerned with the question: "does God exist?". They may have other reasons for their explicit non-belief, but the truth about the existence of god is definitely of primary importance for them. So not every non-theist (=someone who is not a theist; i.e. someone who does not believe in at least one god) is a positive atheist. What some atheists find problematic about positive atheism, is that it grants the special consideration to one claim (God exists) over a whole range of other, according to them, nonsensical claims (see Sam Harris' quote). Even stronger is the view of the New Atheists. They not only reject a belief in God, they reject religion in society and think it should be actively countered. They are antitheist: they think theism is harmful to society. Note that atheism is not a necessary condition for antitheism: you might believe in God, but still think that this belief or at least organised religion is detrimental to society. Defining atheism There are very few atheists who are absolutely certain that God (or multiple gods) does not exist, but many of them think it's is highly unlikely. As Bertrand Russell said: 

From what I've collected, Quine seemed to have solved the problem of non-being by using Russell's theory of definite descriptions through the negation of the x having certain properties/descriptions. However, I hear Kripke rejected Russell's definite descriptions. How did Kripke solve the problem of non-being with his theory of reference? 

It seems to me that the rejection of the validity of induction would cause a deep skepticism in pretty much everything but most prominently in perception. If we can never assume uniformity of nature, then every inference about the future and the future based on the past is invalid. Thus wouldn't the rejection of induction restrict us to only be able to talk validly about our present phenomenal experiences or whatever is directly present in the mind? What are the practical ramifications of rejecting induction? It seems that it would throw us all into intense skepticism. 

Let's look at an example you may be familiar with: say there's a train car with a dozen passengers headed off a cliff. You can redirect the car to a safe rail, but there's a person tied to the tracks. The question is, should you switch the car to the other tracks, or let it be? An outcome-focused agent would decide what to do based on the consequences of their decision (how many lives will be saved?) A rights-focused agent would decide what to do based on a set of personal moral guidelines ("thou shalt not kill," the Golden Rule). A virtue-focused agent would base their decision on the kind of person they hold as an ideal (what would Jesus do?) Note that which perspective you take can influence your decision, depending on the circumstances, but doesn't necessarily determine it. It should also be apparent that these three approaches are complimentary, not competing: since you can't have an ethical problem without an agent, actions, and consequences, all three perspectives play a role. Certain perspectives can be more useful in some situations than in others, but in general which perspective you choose to base your decisions on is largely a matter of preference.