Arthur Prior's temporal logic studies the relation of time to logic, a question that even Aristotle studied (future contingents). Thus, your question could be rephrased: "What are statements in temporal logic that are true for all time?" 

These things can be predicated of any changeable being (ens mobile). Extension One can distinguish subject and predicate by looking at the extension of the terms. Subjects are of greater extension than that which is predicated of them. Take "ball" and "red" as an example. The extension of "ball" is much less that that of "red [things]." Thus, "ball" could never be predicated of "[all] red [things]" as in 

The real distinction between essence (essentia) and existence (esse) (as well as between potentiality and actuality) is fundamental to Thomistic thought. It is the subject of St. Thomas's first key philosophical work, De Ente et Essentia. Benedict Ashley explains, in The Way toward Wisdom: An Interdisciplinary and Intercultural Introduction to Metaphysics, "Chapter IV: The Culminating Foundational Theorem of Natural Science," § "2). Proof that a First Immaterial Cause Exists": 

Before 350 years ago, published academic works derived from lectures, repetitions, or disputations (source): 

Cf. Stanley L. Jaki's "The Physicist and the Metaphysician" regarding projectile motion, quid quid movetur ab alio movetur ("whatever is moved is moved by another"), and the Principles of Inertia and Conservation of Energy. For more on a metaphysician's perspective on the principles of modern physics, see Garrigou-Lagrange's letters to Pierre Duhem (PDF pp. 14-29). Modern physics is a "scientia media" ("intermediate science"), halfway between the first (physical) and second (mathematical) degrees of abstraction—i.e., modern physics, like ancient astronomy, has "a closer affinity to mathematics, because in its thinking that which is physical is, as it were, material, whereas that which is mathematical is, as it were, formal." (St. Thomas Aquinas's Division and methods of the sciences q. 5 a. 3 ad 6). Now, 

Réginald Garrigou-Lagrange's Reality: A Sythesis of Thomistic Thought ch. 5 art. 3, § "The Idea of Being," explains "analogy of being": 

The principle of least action was founded on the principle of the law of the lever. For example, Lagrange in his Analytical Mechanics (cf. its introduction), decided to base his entire physics off the principle. Least action and virtual velocities/forces were consequences of it. 

Here is how St. Thomas Aquinas, in his De principiis naturæ §§6-7, explains generation and corruption: 

As far as I know, Aristotelianism and Thomism state that a material being is always potentially sensible. For example, there are microorganisms that we cannot see with the naked eye. But if we use a microscope, we can sense them. There seems to exist an identity between ens materiale and ens sensible. However, why is a material being always potentially sensible? Aristotelianism or Thomism probably deny the existence of a material being that is not sensible, even potentially, as incoherent. What is the reason of such incoherency? What is there in material beings that make them always sensible, at least potentially? 

Aristotle alludes to the order in which one must learn in his discussion of prudence in Ethics 1142a11-19: 

What philosophers have argued that "knowledge is power"? What sort of arguments did they put forward? 

cf. these other articles by McLaughlin, who is an expert on Aristotelian motion and the principle of inertia. 

The full quote from Feser is here. Feser says "Causal series ordered per accidens are linear in character and extend through time" and "Causal series ordered per se are paradigmatically hierarchical with their members acting simultaneously". It seems you only think St. Thomas is speaking of "Causal series ordered per se." See also William Wallace's "Aquinas on the Temporal Relation Between Cause and Effect." 

{English translation from p. 219 of The Thomist article "The Notion of Equivocal Causality in St. Thomas" The Thomist 79 (2015):213-63.} How could a lack of a dam cause the gushing of water? Clearly, the river causes the gushing water, but the lack of a dam is somehow an instrumental cause. Exactly how is it? 

There must be indemonstrable truths because if everything were demonstrable, there would be an infinite regress (cf. the regress problem). Aristotle's Posterior Analytics bk. 1 ch. 3-4 (72b5) says: 

Those who uphold it must, to avoid contradiction, hold fallibalism as dogma. Pascal said it well in his Pensées: 

Here's Aristotle's famous reductio ad absurdum of those who do not follow the principle of non-contradiction (Metaphysics IV 1007b19): 

Oliver Wendell Holmes, Jr., in his 1897 The Path of Law, argues that law does not relate to objective reality but is created by whatever judges decide. Thus, according to him, all law is positive law, a manmade convention. This is diametrically opposed to natural law theory, which says that there are laws built into nature, e.g., laws of physics, laws of human nature, etc. (cf. St. Thomas Aquinas's Treatise on Law). The OED distinguishes positive and natural law when defining "positive law" 

What were Thales's views on marriage and sexuality? Allegedly, when someone asked him why he didn't have children, he replied "Because I am fond of children." 

*St. Thomas's example here is exactly that of Chaos: A Mathematical Adventure, ch. 2 "Vector Fields", 9:10ff.; see also ibid. ch. 7 "Strange Attractors & the Butterfly Effect". 

How did Aristotle or St. Thomas Aquinas (such as in one of his commentaries on Aristotle) resolve the liar's paradox? 

(source) Note: Some of his commentaries are only partial (e.g., he didn't commentate on Books 13—Μ & 14—Ν of Aristotle's Metaphysics). 

simple conversion conversion per accidens metathesis (interchanging the premises) obversion convertio syllogism (indirect conversion) 

Heath, the famous translator of the Elements, concludes in his introduction to vol. 1 of his translation of the Elements, §"3. First Principles: Definitions, Postulates, and Axioms", that Euclid's usage of these terms aligns most closely to Aristotle's. Heath begins that § by quoting in extenso from Aristotle's Posterior Analytics 1.10 (76a5) ("Difference between principles and non-principles, common and proper principles") and commenting upon it. Here's Heath's translation with his useful parenthetical remarks relating what Aristotle is saying to geometry: 

He proves "that everything that is moved is moved by another" (quidquid movetur ab alio movetur) and "that in movers and things moved one cannot proceed to infinity" more at length in Summa Contra Gentiles I cap. 13 than he does in Summa Theologica I q. 2 a. 3. Here are his proofs of quidquid movetur ab alio movetur from Summa Contra Gentiles I cap. 13 [5]-[10]: 

cf. Hilbert's 6th problem: "Can physics be axiomized?" of his Mathematics Problems lecture delivered before the International Congress of Mathematicians at Paris in 1900: 

Go to Thomas! He's the great commentator on Aristotle. Here's what he says on that passage (Sententia Metaphysicæ lib. 1 l. 3 n. 66-68): 

This gives the reason for Meyerson's quote above. Modern physics is "formally mathematical," and mathematics does not "treat of motion, although mathematical principles can be applied to motion." Leibniz discussed questions regarding causality and force; he, unlike Newton, was not afraid to give metaphysical reasons for Newtonian concepts. (cf. Pierre Duhem's Evolution of Mechanics pp. 16-19f.) Further reading (from here): 

Boethius, following Aristotle, said the "Speculative sciences may be divided into three kinds: physics, mathematics, and metaphysics.": 

See also Part II of his Essence & Topicality of Thomism for more on Parmenides vs. Heraclitus and analogy of being. A good introductory book on Aquinas's doctrine of analogy of being is: 

Orderliness and proper proportion are characteristics of everything that is beautiful. Since math deals with order and proportion, it is no coincidence that music,* can be beautiful. *(Music was a branch of mathematics in the Middle Ages; cf. the Quadrivium: 

Aristotle says artifacts have no intrinsic impulse to change; he does not say artifacts cannot have an intrinsic principle of "stationariness." Artifacts are certainly able to do this, else the Mona Lisa wouldn't still be in the Louve after centuries. But, the matter of the Mona Lisa (the organic canvas, paints, etc.) certainly does tend toward corruption. 

Edward Feser—most well-known for his The Last Superstition: A Refutation of the New Atheism, Aquinas: A Beginner's Guide, and Scholastic Metaphysics: A Contemporary Introduction*—is one of the most prominent contemporary Thomist philosophers. See also his excellent blog. *This last book is an excellent confrontation of Thomistic thought with modern, analytic philosophy. 

How does Aristotle or a medieval scholastic commentator like St. Thomas Aquinas explain how one cause can impede the action of another cause? Or, conversely, how does the removal of an impeding cause generate an effect? For example, consider a dam, which impedes a river's flow of water. Once a gate in the dame is opened, an impediment to the flow of water is removed, and the water gushes through. However, there is nothing in the cause (in this example: "opening a gate" or "lack of gate"*) that is in the effect (in this example: "water gushing through").(*This latter description makes it explicit that it's a privation, and privations are non-beings and thus cannot be causes; cf. De Principiis Naturæ's discussion on privation.) I'm assuming a standard description of the relation between cause and effect which St. Thomas Aquinas frequently expresses like this (Super Sent. lib. 4 d. 1 q. 1 a. 4 qc. 4 co.): 

cf.Smith, Wolfgang. The Quantum Enigma: Finding the Hidden Key. Hillsdale, NY: Sophia Perennis, 2005.and the resources here 

What is "mathematical logic"? Is it the logic of mathematical reasoning, or is it the claim that mathematics and logic are identical? Also, is "quantificational logic" a particular type of "mathematical logic"? (cf. "What is the philosophical ground for distinguishing logic and mathematics?") 

Physics [i.e., natural philosophy] deals with that which is in motion and material.[ens mobile or "mobile/changeable being"] Mathematics deals with that which is material and not in motion.[∵ mathematical objects, "mathematicals," do not move or change] Metaphysics* deals with that which is not in motion nor material.*in the Aristotelian sense: the study of "being qua being;" more properly called "metascience," it is what today is called the "philosophy of science" because metascience/metaphysics studies being in general, whereas the particular sciences study specific beings (e.g., biology studies living beings, etc.). 

Scholars of C. S. Peirce have invented the term "categoriology" to describe the study of classification. Peirce gives the following definitions of class[ification]: 

That 3rd vol. is on Galileo's precursors and is standalone. The question you ask was hotly debated in the 13th centuries onward, preceding Galileo. An English translation of it is coming out in Springer's Boston Studies in the Philosophy and History of Science in circa 2018. A more popular, but still scholarly overview of the medievals' interpretations of Aristotle's physics is: 

C. S. Peirce* defines nominalism vs. realism (which I think you mean by "universalist") very well (CP 1.27 fn): 

St. Thomas Aquinas, considered one of the greatest commentators on Aristotle, describes in his Sententia Ethic., lib. 6 l. 7 n. 17 [1211.] which subjects and in what order boys must learn: