Environment : AlwaysOn HA group, 2 nodes, 1 database, SQL2012, Server2012R2. Here is my .NET C# code : 

I just get a problem with a customer's SQLServer. I'm reading articles related to schema, owners and permissions, but I can't get it out. I have two DB : DB1 and DB2. I have a schema, which has the same name of it's owner (user1, which has "user1" as default schema). This schema exists on both databases, user1 is mapped as owner on both databases. So, some of my tables are in this format : user1.table1, user1.table2, dbo.table3... DB1 is not used anymore : I turned it offline. Just after that, the tables [user1].[tableXX] from DB2 were not usable... Turning back DB1 online solved the problem. How can this happens? How can I turn DB1 offline without blocking DB2? Thanks in advance! 

Ok, got it. I had to force the TCP1433 port in SQL Configuration manager... That was only that. I found it when trying to connect with a wrong password : SQLServer denied connection because of this wrong pass. So, the mistake was between the listener and the server supposed to accept the connection... which was the second one, because of the read-only intent. And this second one, even if it was listening on TCP1433, wasn't responding without explicitely configuring it in Configuration Manager. Sorry! 

When a transaction is commited (COMMIT), the transaction is written to the transaction log in RAM. When a CHECKPOINT occurs (after some time and/or some transactions and other criterias), the transactions between the last CHECKPOINT and the current are written to disk. When a BACKUP LOG happens, the datas are written to the MDF file. 

Am I correct? Some of my collegues says I'm wrong, and it's hard to find the correct answer, even with the BOL. Thanks! 

It works perfectly. "ecouteuralwayso.xppocsql.local" accepts connections on TCP1435, I can read my database, no matter which node is the primary. I want to use Read-Only redirection ($URL$ so I configured read-only urls as described in the KB. Here are the results: 

I just had a problem : days ago, on one of my client's databases, the LDF file suddenly grew up to 100% of the disk capacity. .TRN backups are correctly done every 15min (I don't think reducing this time will help, because this database is rarely used). I created this database from a backup, two months ago. Everything was OK. What I didn't understood, is why the "initial size" of the LDF file was... 512GB, which is the size of the disk... If the initial size had been like that since the first restore, i would have noticed it. So I'm certain that it was not the case. What I did : backup, simple mode, reducing initial size (it reduced the file size without shrink), full mode, backup. It's OK now, but i'd like to understand if the "initial size" can change automatically, and if yes, how to prevent it. Thanks! 

So yes as you have mentioned about SQL injection the other advantage is what you guessed. Quoting from documentation: 

So if you're setting 6 servers, you can set them as: auto_increment_offset=1,2,3,4,5,6 auto_increment_increment=6 so on each servers insertion series will be like: 1,7,13... 2,8,14... 3,9,15... 4,10,16... 5,11,17... 6,12,18... Idea here is just to generate unique auto-increment numbers. BUT WAIT!!!!! Before you begin, when you say 6 servers it will be pair of 3 master-master or are they slaves of original master? If they're slaves, are they going to accept writes (not good!)? Are you going to write on all nodes (in case of master-master? The architecture isn't clear enough and hence your solution of auto-increments might not be right / required as well. Anyways... I hope we fixed the confusion of auto-increment. Trust the documentation and don't get confused by too many articles. 

MySQL Installer provides an easy to use, wizard-based installation experience for all your MySQL software needs. Included in the product are the latest versions of: 

Looks like in the name of alises you also seem to ignoring the join ! So my guess is non-existence of index is causing the delay, but you can confirm by posting explain plan and/or table definitions. 

So there's tuner's logic, if the (Created_tmp_disk_tables/Created_tmp_tables)*100 is more than 25(%) then increase your tmp-table size (upto max 256M). Again, mysqltuner is for reference, if you don't see performance issues you don't need to blindly follow the suggestions. Also note that tmp table has nothing to do with InnoDB vs MyISAM (if you mean that in your last line). You might want to read about internal temporary tables. 

Yes, if your mysqldump is backing up all databases! If not, for future make sure you use with mysqldump. Alert but this will take your system to the state what it was earlier... If you know what your java programs are connecting using (user-name and host) then you can choose to fix the permissions for that!! 

MySQL Server master-master replication is possible for max 2 nodes. You might want to use Galera Cluster (Percona Xtradb Cluster or Mariadb Galera cluster) Or Oracle's NDB Cluster to achieve HA as a better solution than master-master. 

It is obvious to have better performance for the value of innodb_flush_log_at_trx_commit as 2 than 1. As commit operations are fairly dependent on underlying system even fooling-by-OS is an extra step one takes for every commit. For value of 1 flushing to disk operations are bound to happen every transaction while for 2 it happens once a second (depending on OS scheduling) 

You would need the 32-bit CSDK or Informix Connect (effectively the CSDK Runtime) on the 64-bit system (as well as a 64-bit CSDK or I-Connect for 64-bit applications). Apart from that, I believe that it should work. If it runs into problems, it is because of the Windows registry and the need for separate INFORMIXDIRs. On 64-bit Unix systems, it was common to have both 32-bit and 64-bit versions of Informix CSDK or I-Connect on a single machine in separate INFORMIXDIRs. These days, there is less 32-bit code — there are no longer any 32-bit servers on 64-bit Unix systems, and usually there isn't a 32-bit CSDK either. 

How familiar are you with Informix? MySQL? Unix tools (like Perl, Python, etc)? You can get the database schema and the data in Informix's UNLOAD format using Informix's DB-Export () command: 

There's no need to update statistics on a view in an Informix database. Indeed, AFAIK, there's no way to do so; statistics are not stored for views. 

And so on. By default, (you can also use for that, and for ) will batch the loading into sub-transactions of 1024 rows, but you can configure that, of course. 

One is to try downloading the ILS — International Language Supplement. This has many extra locales in it; it might have (but no promises). Another is to try copying an existing locale (maybe or to . You'd probably want to edit the LANGUAGE and TERRITORY lines. However, be aware that the French and German locales are different; it will matter which you choose. Report a problem to IBM Informix Tech Support, requesting the file for . 

This is a mismatch between the list of column names and the list of values in one or the other of the two insert statements. I've tracked that down using careful layout so that I could see that each variable matches each column name. In the first INSERT, you list column in the list of columns but don't pass a value for . In fact, you don't accept a as a parameter, so it is easiest to remove the name. This code 'works' — you'll have to experiment from here: 

— the key column. — the flag column, containing or (with a check constraint). — a proxy for the unidentified set of columns containing the other data. Primary key on and .