In the poem The Three-Decker, by Rudyard Kipling, there is one line where the meter is slightly different from all the other lines. I Googled that line, not expecting to find anything, and Google Books came up with this quote from the magazine The Academy (1896). 

I noticed something remarkable about one of Baudelaire's poems that I can't find any mention of on the web. My question is whether anybody has noticed this before, and whether there's some reason why it isn't known better. The poem is Chant d'automne. In part I, the poet hears the sound of firewood being tossed onto a paved courtyard, and this noise develops in his mind into a scaffold being built, a tower being assaulted by a battering ram, and finally to a coffin being nailed shut. What I noticed was that the rhythm of this bruit mystérieux, as Baudelaire calls it, can be heard fading in and out of the meter of the poem, taking the form of sequences of anapests, punctuated by triple iambs, and culminating in a whole line in iambic hexameter. Here is part I of the poem, with the syllables stressed by the rhythm marked in bold. 

This only applies to some of the translations, but there's actually a very simple reason: chemist does not rhyme with Trismegist, while alchemist does. The word chemist has the stress on the first syllable, and would require a double (or feminine) rhyme like menaced—which is still only a very good near-rhyme (I actually can't think of any perfect rhymes for chemist). On the other hand, alchemist has secondary stress on the third syllable and can be rhymed with Trismegist and resist (both of which are used for rhymes in at least one of the translations on this website). A different translation uses the word scientist, which avoids both the inaccuracy of alchemist and the fact that there are no perfect rhymes for chemist. And also note that an unrhymed translation on that website does use the word chemist. 

Jaworski seems to connect this to Buddhist philosophy. Another answer shows that similar things are discussed in the Talmud. And this also seems very similar to the Sapir-Whorf theory of linguistic relativity. I have no idea whether Descartes ever said anything resembling this. 

You should first ask who cares "in this heat whose flushed lips he kissed, whose head made damp the pajama pocket over his heart!" Who could the narrator know cares? The only person the narrator could know this about is the narrator himself. And if the narrator is talking about himself, it's a rhetorical statement; he is really reminding himself that he shouldn't be attracted to the conductor. If we accept this interpretation, it's a subtle signal that Nick Carraway is gay or bisexual. There are other signals of this in the book, some less subtle. See this essay: Gay Implications in The Great Gatsby's Nick Carraway. At the time that Fitzgerald wrote, it was difficult or impossible to get a novel published if it discussed homosexuality in more direct terms, so clues like this were the only way to convey this information to the reader. 

But this essay also shows that Orwell had read at least some of Kipling's poetry. I couldn't help noticing some similarities between two of the three party slogans in George Orwell's book 1984 and Kipling's poem The White Man's Burden. 

In fact, there are even some poems that need to be read with long and short syllables as well. Consider John Masefield's Sea Fever: 

The quote (which has been altered slightly from the original) seems to have first appeared in Joseph Jaworski's book Synchonicity: The Inner Path of Leadership, whose first edition was published in 1996. It is explained better by quoting the whole paragraph it is contained in: 

The Magician's Nephew is set a generation before The Lion, the Witch, and the Wardrobe, specifically 1900 (see Wikipedia). The latter book is set during World War II. Thus, in the time frame of The Magician's Nephew, nuclear weapons had not yet been discovered. Thus, at the time the book is set, the nuclear weapon is still a hypothetical future invention, and the text is consistent with Aslan referring to nuclear weapons. As for the "great nations of your world will be ruled by tyrants," both Hitler and Stalin would seem to qualify. Neither had risen to power yet, but both would within 35 years, which fits very well with the time frame "before you are an old man and an old woman." On a related note, C.S. Lewis wrote the essay On Living in an Atomic Age, where he doesn't really address the question as to whether atomic bombs are evil. He does say that civilization would end eventually, with or without the invention of the atomic bomb, and all the atomic bomb could do is bring that end earlier. Thus, according to Lewis, all the pools in the Wood between the Worlds are eventually destined to dry up. 

There are two parts to this question: why does English use iambic meter while French doesn't, and why does English have 10 syllables in each line of iambic pentameter, while French has 12 syllables per line in an alexandrine. To answer the second question first, it may be pure chance that French settled on 12 syllables per line, while English settled on 10. There are lots of English poems in iambic meter with 8, 10, or 14 syllables per line, and they all work fine. And the dominant meter in French was the decasyllable before it was displaced by the alexandrine in the 17th century. The reason that French doesn't use iambic meters is because it's almost impossible to write iambic poetry in French. Before I can explain any further, I need to say something about stress patterns in English and French and some of the rules that govern alexandrines. In English, every word has some accented syllables, and poetry has to accommodate these. You can emphasize words by using stress, but these emphases fall on top of the phonemic stress patterns already present within the words. In French, there is no stress pattern associated with the words; the stress accents are associated with phrases, and always fall on the last syllable of every phrase. (Except for mute e's, which are never accented. Most of these are pronounced in songs and poems, but not in usual speech.) So if a word is pronounced alone, its last syllable always has an accent, but if it's in the middle of a phrase, it probably won't. The alexandrine has 12 or 13 syllables in every line, depending on whether they end with a mute e. The lines are divided into two halves (hemistiches) of 6 syllables each. There is always an accent on the 6th and 12th syllables of each line, and there usually is one other accented syllable in each hemistich. To give an example, from Baudelaire's Chant d'automne (Autumn Song), the first two lines are: 

The rhythm reappears in part II, in lines 4–7, where it seems to represent mortality; although note that in part II, the rhythm requires that one has to read line 6 with stresses on pour and not on même, which might be a more natural reading. It seems impossible that in 150 years of scholarly study of Baudelaire, one of the most famous French poets, nobody would have noticed this rhythm. On the other hand, none of the readings of this poem that I found on the internet seem to take any notice of this rhythm; I can find no mention of it whatsoever on the web (although maybe my French googling skills are lacking); and I found one scholar who said that parts I and II of the poem are related only by the themes of mortality and autumn. I can personally testify that it's actually quite hard to notice this rhythm. Even after I discovered it in part I, it took me quite a long time to realize that it reappears in part II. And maybe somebody who is used to reading English poetry has an easier time hearing the rhythm, as iambic and anapestic meters are common in English poetry and virtually never occur in French. Another possible reason that this might not be better known is that there may be no good way to read this poem so that the meter gives the impression of falling logs for native French speakers. (I can't really tell; I'd like to hear a native French speaker's opinion on this.) Baudelaire experimented in his poetry a certain amount, and maybe this is one of his experiments that didn't work. But certainly, if you set this poem to music, you could emphasize the rhythm quite easily. And neither of the two musical settings of this poem I found on the internet do so. 

Note that this last line would be iambic hexameter if you put stress on the words fare and was. But you probably wouldn't do it in an alexandrine. When reading alexandrine poetry, there is a strong tendency to parse it so exactly two syllables are stressed in each hemastich (although this isn't always possible). Similarly, when reading iambic poetry, there is a strong tendency to put some stress on every other syllable, even those (like was in the example above) that wouldn't be stressed ordinarily. And again, this isn't always possible. So to get a line of iambic verse in French, it needs to consist entirely of two-syllable phrases. This is quite a bit shorter than French phrases usually are. I have only ever stumbled across one line of iambic hexameter in French poetry, and I am sure there are not many more. It's the penultimate line of part I of the above poem, Chant d'automne. Baudelaire quite deliberately wrote it as iambic hexameter, and I am sure it took some effort his part: 

So that answered my question about the discrepancy in the meter: Kipling did it for the sake of the pun. But what is the pun? 

where I'm using commas everywhere, because I can't tell Blake's commas from his periods in his punctuation. It seems to me that the colon after voice requires that there is a comma at the end of the first stanza, i.e., after woe. And then, the first 2½ lines of the second stanza are all describing where the poet hears marks of weakness, marks of woe. In this case, the mind-forged manacles are mainly connected to the bans. That is, when people are forbidden from doing something. I would thus interpret the mind-forged manacles as being forged by the people themselves, and forcing them to follow the bans. I would interpret the next stanza as the Church (the building, not the institution) feeling guilty when the oppressed chimney-sweepers clean it, and the Palace (again the building) feeling guilty when the soldiers guard it. And I think you should look at Blake's poem The Garden of Love for help in interpreting the last stanza, but I haven't reached a satisfactory interpretation of it yet. 

Here I've tried to choose words that have the same number of syllables to translate the French, and I've bolded the accented syllables in French and the corresponding syllables in English. For an entirely English illustration, here is Roy Campbell's translation of the first two lines into iambic pentameter, followed by my translation of the first two lines into an English version of the French alexandrine. 

I believe it also means the same thing in French. We generally use the French phrase in English because there's no good equivalent English word. 

Would Perkins have had the presumption to come up with a title of a book that he knew very little about? I suspect not. Further, if he was proposing the title for the first time in this letter, wouldn't he have been more likely to use the wording "I think ..." and not "I always thought ...". It seems much more likely to me that Fitzgerald first suggested the title in a conversation with Perkins, but later decided he didn't like it. 

The last stanza, by mentioning the bed of a bridegroom, and immediately following it by mentioning sheets "to perfume the sleep of the dead," conveys the message that life is short. (Even though the flower-girls are not in fact weaving the chaplets and the sheets for the same person.) This message is further emphasized by the phrase "aeons to come" immediately before this stanza. 

The kettle is (metaphorically) the thing that's been tied to the dog's tail, probably by a mischievous child, and is now dragging behind its rear heels. Why is it battered? If it's been tied to the dog's tail all day, of course it's battered. 

Here is the poet reading it. Note how, for example, white, sail's, grey, dawn are much longer than most of the other syllables. Again, if you try to read it and keep all the syllables the same length, it doesn't sound anywhere near as good. Having said that, many songs are essentially poems set to music, and sound perfectly fine if all syllables are the same length. Furthermore, rap has some of the most complicated syncopations in English song lyrics and poetry, so I suspect that rap songs are quite a bit more likely to require long and short syllables than any other kind of English verse. 

The beginning is the beginning of the chain of events related in the novel Dying of the Light. The end is the end of the relationship with the woman he gave the whisperjewel to. To me, it's not clear at all whether Martin intends you to understand this passage completely at this point in the novel. 

Yes, rap lyrics require feet with long and short syllables. However, this isn't true just for rap; many other song lyrics require long and short syllables as well. Consider Yesterday, by the Beatles. If you read it and keep all the syllables the same length, it loses a lot: 

Where did Fitzgerald come up with the title? Some people have a theory that Fitzgerald borrowed his title from a French novel by Alain-Fournier called Le Grand Meaulnes, a literal translation of which might be The Great Meaulnes. This book was quite celebrated at the time, and Fitzgerald is likely to have read it. (Le Grand Meaulnes is an untranslatable title, as it can mean either Meaulnes the Tall or The Great Meaulnes, and the author clearly intended both meanings to be significant.) While the plots of the books are not that close, there are a number of interesting similarities. Both are narrated in first person, and the narrators of both books have a remarkable degree of admiration, possibly unwarranted, for the title characters. (This might help explain the titles.) The plot of both books revolves around the title character's love for a woman: in both books, the title character meets her when she is quite young; they are separated for a number of years; and then they are reunited, with not entirely favorable results. Did Fitzgerald himself come up with the title. I believe so. I would like to disagree with the other answer, that claims it is likely that Maxwell Perkins, Fitzgerald's editor, came up with the title. We have the correspondence between Perkins and Fitzgerald, and it's clear from this correspondence that Fitzgerald was unhappy with the title. Also, Perkins is certainly the first person to bring it up in the correspondence between them. But was Fitzgerald and Perkins' only communication through letters? It seems highly unlikely. When Fitzgerald started writing The Great Gatsby, he lived in Great Neck (West Egg) on Long Island, only a short train ride from New York City and his editor's office. So it's entirely possible that Fitzgerald first proposed the title to Perkins in a face-to-face conversation. In his letter, Maxwell Perkins says 

Is there any evidence as to whether Orwell's slogans were inspired in part by Kipling's poem? (And please, let's not get into an argument about whether Kipling was entirely pro-imperialism when he wrote these lines—this question has been hashed out altogether too often.)