Don't worry about it. I have never been asked to prove my coding skills with a sample. Nor have I ever asked for a sample of code. In too many situations there is no opportunity to show your previous work because the customer or the employer owns the code, and has no reason to let others see it. The company you ran into feels that they can reject anybody who can't provide examples. If they still get enough quality candidates then that is fine. If they don't get enough good candidates they will adjust. I would just move on to other potential employers. 

When you work for a company and are applying for an internal job change or promotion the HR person, the hiring manager, and people doing the interview might all know you. When you are trying to find a job, leveraging who you know to get an interview it is a important job search strategy. In your case they would be responsible for letting people know that they have meet you socially. If they even remember you. They might not. their opinion about you could neutral, or it could be good, or bad. there is no way we can know. Sometimes these relationships aren't discovered to the day of the interview. Rarely would I told the names of all the people who would be interviewing me before I arrived. I might be given one or two names, but that would be it. I have also not been given the resumes of the candidates until the night before an interview, or just a few hours before I was to call a candidate as part of a phone screen. I wouldn't worry about it. If you are concerned you might be able to bring it up during the introductions. You could say, "by the way we have met, our brothers are friends." 

Depending on where you are this isn't an ethical issue, but it may be a legal issue. Ethics has to do with actions that are not covered by laws. Even in a US state with at-will employment they can't fire you for discriminatory reasons. Once you signed and returned the offer letter, if they want to fire you or cancel the offer they needed to make sure there was no discrimination involved. I am surprised that they would put in writing that: 

If the particular language or technology you are missing is from the must have list that is harder to overcome. You risk that the initial filtering by either the computer or HR will reject the application/resume. They want to see those words. It is easier if you have some experience but not as many years as they describe. If a skill they desire but don't require is missing from your resume that is much more easily overcome. They realize that applicants resume and experience is shaped by the jobs that they have had. If you worked for a company that only used R you might not have the expertise in SAS. They will usually list a bunch of statistical packages to allow as many applicants to qualify. They expect that every applicant is missing some of the list. The more items of the list you do have the better candidate on paper you are. The new company will generally give you time to come up to speed on the desired items. They might train you or send you to training. On the other hand items on the required skill list you are expected to know before you walk in the door. Use your cover letter to overcome the deficiencies, by expanding on the related experience. Though realize that the more you are missing from the required list the more likely your application will be rejected long before the interview. Most of this concern is moot if you can get a recommendation from somebody on the project, they can more personally vouch that your long experience in the field will overcome some minor deficiencies in the specific technology. 

what you should negotiate depends on what you are trying to replace. For singles I have seen them negotiate extra days off. That way they can take advantage of tacking on site seeing to the end of the business trips. I have also seen them negotiate the actual travel days so that the company pays for the hotel over the weekend so they can do tourist things without having to take a day of vacation. When money is the issue or when more vacation doesn't solve the issue I have seen them negotiate bonus pay while at the customer site. I have also seen employees negotiate a higher per-diem so that they can pocket more each day. The employee looks at this as an extreme case of overtime. But for those situations where what is lost is not replaceable by vacation or money, you may want to negotiate flexibility. Does it have to be 2 weeks there, and two weeks at home? Can you pick out a couple of events that they will fly you back for? Or can you shift the weeks to avoid missing some big events? 

Always err on disclosing too much. If they ask for everything that falls into this category, and you disclose those that occupy a gray area then they with tither use that to determine if you have a clean enough background, or they will ignore it. If you don't disclose them, and they find it, they may assume that you tried to hide them. If they think it was a gray area they may not penalize you for not reporting it, but they could still be concerned that you didn't report it. 

This depends on what requirements the two companies have put on the internship. Some companies expect that you are getting college credit, others have no such requirement. Others expect that you will be a half time or full time student in addition to your internship. Working 32 hours on internships doesn't leave much time for school. These types of requirements are not unusual. They usually also require a specific grade point average, and a number of credits completed prior to the internship. The two companies will need to be approached, and you might want the college to help with this. Their insistence that you try to do both is adding to the pressure of the situation. Also keep in mind that the second company may drop you from consideration once to approach them with your dilemma. They might actually be upset with the college if they pick you, then you have to refuse becasue you can't accept two college coordinated internships. 

The fact that the email/letter seems to be computer generated doesn't mean that your application was rejected by a computer or by HR. At the places I have worked the system sends out these computer generated notices based on a human making a decision and entering it into the system. 

Any activity that you have to pay for, or takes place outside of normal work hours is by definition optional. When it falls into both categories, the organizers should realize the many will decide not to go. In your question you give two valid reasons: It is out of your budget, and your ill Mom takes up your free time. Don't talk about being forced to attend, this is not the time to talk about that. The biggest issue about declining is the fact that it is only a few days away, and some of those costs may be locked in, and the share of everybody may have been announced. By deciding now to cancel, the locked in costs have to be covered by somebody. You have to determine who you should communicate this to, and the best way to approach them. Is it by email, phone, or was there a electronic invitation? Also your approach you use is determine by did originally say yes, or were you a maybe. The approach is to be polite, and apologize. Explain that you will not be able to spare the time this weekend, and that it is outside your budget. Apologize again. Remember the person you are talking to may not be the one who made the decision regarding costs, their only role may have been to process the RSVPs. 

Some companies require their employees to be present as a condition of employment. Though present can also count time working from home. You admit that you have two tasks that require you to be reachable: the interns and the overseas developers. You are providing technical support for them. I have been in situations where there were some hours that I was in the office just because I might be needed to answer questions from management, or from customers, or from the testers. Sitting there ready to help was the service I was providing. Their reaction to your request could be surprising: They may decide that they should take tasks away from you; or they may decide that you can never say oops I didn't get that done because I ran out of time. If they do decide to grant your request: Be prepared for them to reduce their overall compensation to you. They could decide that here is no need for you to be an full time employee, they could transition you to part time status or want to bring you in only as a contractor. 

In most cases the purpose of a credit check is to see if there is evidence of character problems. A thin credit file is not the same as demonstrating an inability to handle credit. There are some positions where having credit could be important, but that is not the case for most jobs. If you want to get a job working in bank as a loan officer, then not having any experience with credit could be an issue. In some cases the employer will use your credit file to get a credit card for travel, but that might not be the case for most positions. Most employers hiring young people expect that you would have a thin file. 

what is an unrelated field? I am a computer programmer. But if I write code for a satellite program... I can recommend an engineer. If that satellite goes to Mars...I can recommend a biologist or a chemist. But if that satellite goes to Pluto.. I can recommend a member of the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame 

If the application or background investigation asks to list all employers. You have to list them. If you are discovered then you will risk not getting the job or can even be terminated at a later date. If they ask about the employment gap in the interview, and they are caught in a lie that can also end with the same results. How you can get caught?: 

Wait, you have offer letters from places you turned down. So are you prepared to give up whatever pay, and benefits made your current employer the better choice as a trade for more vacation? You rejected company X because why? When you show them the other offer you have told them that you are soon to leave, even if they give you this benefit. They may do something like tell you they will work on getting it started for next calendar or fiscal year, but expect you to be gone by then. They won't fire you for this tactic, but they will decide that you are not somebody with a long term vision. That next promotion or cool project is probably going to somebody else. That expensive training or conference will be assigned to a loyal employee. Bring it up at the next review. Talk in a non threatening environment. Wonder with management why some recent interviewees didn't pick the company. 

Some companies have the concept of core hours, like 9am to 3pm, where everybody is to be onsite unless they are at an external meeting. If you have had a recent review, and the hours you are in the office have not been discussed, and you haven't changed your hours worked, then you are probably OK. The best measure is are you productive, and getting your work done. You say that you are, and as long as your boss/customer is happy with your production then you are OK. Setting exact work hours is acceptable. Some workers have to meet a carpool, or ride a commuter train, which can limit the opportunities to leave or arrive. Stay 10 extra minutes, will delay you by an hour. This can be a topic of discussion with your boss to make sure they are OK with your hours in the office. I have known some companies that would allow en employee to claim some work time on the train if they did emails on the smartphone.