Cloning With cloning you can preserve life, but it might require more advanced technology than you had in mind for your world. First it needs to be possible to make a backup of a pilot's brain and mind. Once you've got that, it needs to be possible to clone a pilot and accelerate the growth of the clone so that the clone quickly reaches the age of the pilot. And finally it needs to be possible to place the backup of the pilot's brain and mind into the pilot's clone after the pilot died. Luckily for the pilot, the backup will be made prior to a fight, so he/she won't remember dying. This approach however doesn't take the preservation of equipment in mind. Though if a pilot can get bonus points for taking out an opponent quickly, then you might also preserve a lot of equipment in most fights. But then again that depends on the pilot's personality. For example, some pilots might be more brutal and cruel, enjoying it to kill their opponents slowly. 

In other words, however numerous and skilled the hounds, they never see the world as a fox. Starting with a precept that criminals will cleverly hack and subvert a system, using the Man's technology against Him is a rather academic view of people whom generally aren't. Practicality rules. And using tech in any way would tend to give an edge to law enforcement, not the other way around. The creator of technology always knows it better than a user, even a smart one. The Man makes/funds tech, criminals will almost always just be users who found a crack in the wall. And anyway, technology aside, as I understand it, according to Mitnick, the best hacks have always been via social engineering, not device exploitation, though it helps sometimes. For reference on your subject, check out the original Stainless Steel Rat trilogy by Harry Harrison. The series explores the topic of future criminals. 

If it's stupid but works, it isn't stupid. Professional are predictable, the world is filled with dangerous amateurs. 

Indiscriminate slaughter is counter productive(Youtube Lyrics Video). Maybe life itself is sacred, and taking of it without reason is against what the gods desire. Maybe we have a Rev Bem scenario where a normally bloodthirsty monster ends up being a pacifist. 

CROM Have people believe the gods frown upon weakness. And that strength is pleasing to the gods. Only through struggle and suffering can one truely get the blessing of the gods. That valor and endurance are the best form of prayers. And the gods do not do parlor tricks. Imagine responses to prayer like this... If you tie up your camel, its less likely to wander off. Got 2000 people to feed? I'm a god, not a caterer. Walk on water? Meh, get a boat, you showoff. Damned boatman's got 20 kids to feed. Piss me off badly, and I might decide you're not worth dropping a rock on. So, divine gifts? Hope that one can endure, strength to do all one can, and hopefully a sharpened piece of steel that does not break at the wrong moment. What else does one need? or to borrow that wonderfully pithy line from Conan the Barbarian. 

Option 1: Magic In a world where Santa is real, magic is real. NSA needs to find other magic-users (it wouldn't make sense if only one person could use magic in a world of magic, so it's safe to assume there are other people capable of magic in the world). NSA needs to recruit these magic-users and use them to do either: 

Capture Santa when he's home or even better: go to Santa's home when he's out delivering presents and wait for him to return to capture him. Steal Santa's intelligence collection system (assuming it can be moved). Capture Santa's home and turn it into an NSA-controlled base. They will also have control over the intelligence collection system this way. What they do with Santa doesn't really matter now, they could either keep him as prisoner, dispose of him or just kick him and keep him out of his former home. Steal the plans and designs of Santa's intelligence collection system (assuming Santa still has those in an archive of some sort) so NSA can build a copy of the intelligence collection system. 

Vertical wind turbines would be a start - something capable of producing power from any wind, and low pressure pneumatic technology built around animal hides. With higher pressures and gear-tech you could build primitive azimuth thrusters and and maybe even water jets. Next level of technology would be better - wind powered hydrofoils for example. Most of your construction would be wood , with copper and bronze traded with other cultures. You'd need it for cladding, unless you had magic, or some other way to protect wood. 

Its an intentional anachronism. Our antihero considers himself a puckish rogue, or is obsessed with early 20th century noir cinema. Smoking isn't an affection in its own right - its part of the image our gunslinger has, maybe he wears a cowboy hat and has a sixshooter in an era of high capacity, caseless ammunition, or wears a suit. He knows those deathsticks can kill him, but so can his lifestyle. He knows its not the bullet with his name on it that'll get him, its the one that is addressed "To who it may concern". A good example of this in fiction would be Lester Tourville, whose tendancy to smoke cigars (under the air intake!) was seen as an eccentricity which was part of his wider public persona. As part of charecter building - its something for other charecters to remark on (and possibly could be part of a plot - where does he get those damned cancersticks?). 

"It takes a thief to catch a thief." I don't know who coined it, but the saying seems generally accepted as true, and highlights a commonly perceived obstacle in law enforcement, that a law abiding officer -- which, I must assume, is one reason to have a robot police force, so ideally human sin and error are minimized -- however skilled, simply does have a criminal mindset. Professional criminals perceive the entire world differently, so adaption will likely be in unexpected, criminally brilliant ways. However, there are also criminals who inadvertently outwit the law, and by unconscious heuristics subvert the system, and not by being very intelligent, but intuitively or by plain luck. For example, if robot/people cops only use the newest and best technology, and the fortunate criminal keeps using his or her legacy system for communication, either by chance or some belief that it's 'lucky,' such a criminal would be very difficult to catch, especially in an advanced society. So long as no major blunders were made at least. Another way of saying this is, what if it never occurs to cops in a future society to read snail mail? I think two things from Murphy's Law of Combat are parallel to the criminal mindset which cause untold trouble to law enforcement, which make criminals difficult to handle, regardless of technology: 

Much likely the same as it does now. Its worth considering that that fundamentally revolutionary technologies are relatively rare - Many things are merely enhancements and clever usage and synthesis rather than something that's ground breakingly new. So, technology gets refined. There's a lot we can still do with existing technology being refined. We don't have any new magic materials? We try doing more with what we have, and at worst, build things bigger and uglier. People die at 80-90? Plenty more people are on the way. Computers stagnate? We have computers that people 30 years ago would likely have given their left body part of choice for. In terms of history, I suspect the last 2-3 centuries has been an outlier rather than a trend in terms of rapid technical growth. Eventually things will settle down at an equilibrium, or we (or our children's children) would find themselves in a overcrowded trash heap and die. More likely though, we do more with what we have - modern PCs are ridiculously powerful and we just adapt society to technological stagnation. That said, this might actually be a good thing - we might go to a repair/refurbish culture, since a new machine is no better than an old one. You'd likely have no obsolence, with machines getting repaired rather than replaced. Basically things get run till they fall apart. Then stuck back together. Would mess with modern consumption patterns but meh. 

A crash landing would cause irreparable damage to the ship. Additionally, some people might actually want to leave the ship and seek a new life. (This is the purpose of returning to earth anyway.) With out some logistics and trade, maintaining advanced tech could become incredibly difficult and impractical. As far as other aspects, rather than post an extended answer, I think I will simply that that just because humans lack iPads doesn't mean they can't survive brilliantly. Being human also entails a knack for surviving and adapting. Now those links contain stories where humans live on despite a scarcity of natural resources, although with great suffering. But if a ship crash landed in a fertile area, humans would have a distinct advantage over local fauna, who would be adjusted yet because their natural predator or prey instincts wouldn't yet be adapted to a human presence after such an extended absence. Meaning that human wouldn't be looked at as prey by predators, nor as predators by prey. A hunter-gatherer society would do quite well for itself so long as it ranged far to avoid depleting nearby resources. Humanity could in fact thrive. 

There's been a few examples of planned cities coming up out of nowhere. Assuming you have all the resources you need The current capital of Myanmar took 10 years to build from nothing Brasilia took 48 months to build So the city core is easy. The hard part is convincing people to move. If you had enough support, you could build 'close enough' to a major urban center to attract business and jobs away from it, but many newly rich nations like china often have entire towns or cities that are empty. So the process of building a community is somewhat tricky. You need to start with attracting business and jobs, and then people. But if you had the right backing, you could certainly get a metropolis up in under a decade. 

Assuming its voluntary, don't transform - have the monster and 'host' symbiotic. Both of them will die if they're separate too long - ala venom. The 'monster' need not have a fixed form and part of might be attached to the host all the time. That handles the mass issue, and the energy issue. The human side might have some internal changes, tho nothing drastic enough to make them not look like a baseline. The monster part would be semi inert and re-integrate with the 'human' part of the symbiotic organisms to transform At other times, this would be stored somewhere, like a closet, or say wandering around sewers eating alligators or something