Actually, human ADN comes from 3 sources: - Haploid male cell (sperm) - Haploid female cell (egg) - Mitochondrion ADN The mitochondria is usually seen as mother's material, but it's not. We twist the complex reality to fit the traditional thinking "1 mother + 1 father" 

Human powered ekranoplans In 1979, with what we would call low tech material, Paul B. MacCready crossed the channel with a kind of flying bycicle. Higher pressure improve efficiency of wings and propeller. With 4 atmospheres, similar gravity and magically enhance muscle, any granny would ride similar "bike". Also, a higher pressure would mean more erosion. You could expect this world to be rather flat. Combine with high pressure, it means that ekranoplans (ground effect vehicule) could be common. Ekranoplans need less energy than planes. The only drawback is that they need flat ground and, obviously, you are less likely to hit a tree at 12000 feets. If your super earth have great plains and dedicated road, let's slide!!! In case you don't know this technology, here is a video. Note that this is NOT an hydrofoil. It doesn't need to touch the water and would work fine on a highway. As Tim B suggest, lighter than air would also be efficient, but it would rather be the lorry of this world. About the propulsion, it's up to you. Magic rocket, human powered propeller. You can also tow it like a kite. Land sailing With standard sail or with kite. Higher pressure mean higher wind. Feel free to mix this with the ekranoplane idea. 

Why bother with dust? -10F (-30C) air would damage your lungs pretty fast.Especially with thicker atmosphere. A simple mask nullify the problem by letting the air warm up before inhaled. Simply by being in the same space as you skin. 

Sure enough, there will be war. Will they make it an holy war? Maybe yes, maybe no. Anyway, it will help your scheme all the same 

I think you failed to realize something: human once was a wild animal and they evolved to outfight animals. And guess which animal we are especially designed for? That's right. Hyena, Wild Dogs, Wolves as early Homo were scavengers competing for carcasses. If you stay firm on your feet, those can't really kill you. If you have a stick, you're a Terminator. But their still is hope. As you engineered dogs, I guess it should be easy to engineer a bacteria. Modify Yersinia pestis so that they adapt to dog and human fleas. Spread infected dogs. Wait. It will take several days for human to understand what hit them. And a rather natural reaction will be to run away. 

Jupiter is a huge gravity well, so the only logical thing will be to mine gravity If you want to get helium or hydrogen to earth, it need less energy to get it from Uranus (as getting off Jupiter is horribly hard). But with exotic or more conventional technology, you could convert gravity into something of value. Currently we use centrifuge to create local higher gravity. Up to 20% (I lost the source. In fact it can be arbitrary high if you want really depleted tail or super-rich fuel) of the output of a nuclear plant is used to separate uranium isotope with centrifuge. So, simply throw a bag of uranium in the core and get it back up with a balloon could make sense. To justify batch large enough to require doing it on Jupiter, computer industry could have unlimited use for 28Si 

Deadly animals are not always predators. Especially in Africa, some animals (hippo, rhino, somewhat elephant) tend to charge any potential threat. It is their way to teach lions or humans "Don't even think of approaching us". But zombies are slow learner. They would be trampled by the million. 

Mostly useless If such a field would exist, you simply need ammunition made of a ferromagnetic sabot with non-ferromagnetic projectile. That is a steel shotgun shell with lead pellet or slug. 19th century technology makes your super high tech force field obsolete. 

Vinegar aka acetic acid. You'd have to imagine a bio-phenomena for it to occur in massive quantities, but it's reasonable. Pure vinegar freeze at 60.8°F (16°C) so it would definitely be solid in your world... and turn into liquid in your lungs 

I depends widely on the battle ground. My general feeling is that mammals are more versatile. Savanna/ plains Other contributor seems to see this as the default scenario. I'd say that a brachisorus with a human brain and agressivity is almost imposible to stop. Especially flanked with 2 T-rex and a protected by few bird to intercept eye-targetting bats. DINO WINS. dominance factor: 68.5% Somalia As annalysed above, I don't think mammal stand a chance. So I take a bunch of naked mole-rats and stay underground until they get tired DRAW GAME Shame factor: 0% Forest/urban environment Mammals can ensure a draw game. There is no way the dinnos will get my orangutan squad if I don't send them to combat. By throwing stones (or standard fight if dino are crazy enough to get in the trees), Orang would wipe out any medium sized dino. A big stone from a giant sequoilla would kill anything, but the dino commander would not fall in the trap. Giant dino would have mobility problems. African forest elephant and their tusk could take advantage of this. MAMMAL WINS. dominance factor: 62.2% Artic EDIT: More search needed Mountains Biggest animal would be nothing but sitting duck, here. Some raptor-like dino could give a fight, but I can't see them win agains a mix of bear, Jaguar, or mountain goat Above all, on very steep ground, 10 Homo-Sapiens with spears would genocide any herd of anything. MAMMAL WINS. dominance factor: 72.2% (four legged mammal only) 92% (If humans are allowed) Open air A tricky one. Birds are dinosaurs. And I am sure that no bats could outfight a modern bird. But cretacean birds? I just can't find example of big cretacean birds. And it seems that, compared to modern birds, they where poor flyers. Yet, the body of small birds is something rather bulky. I am sure that many primitive birds could reach a 60km/h speed. 2 or 3 of such bird ramming a Pteropus vampyrus would bring him down. Bird may even survive the collision. DINO WINS. dominance factor: 84.0% Open ocean I summon 1 sea cow. As there has never been any fully aquatic dinosaur, I win! Spinosaurus can swim, but 3 orcas would tear him apart in minute. MAMMAL WIN dominance factor: 100% Swamps sand dessert rivers and lakes small tropical island Corridors 

Given enough time, totally. The first (bad) reflex would be to claim "Hey! It never happened in 3 billion year, why would it happen now?" Well... Even in terrestrial animal, there is only one branch that ever grown (real) hand. So if one given proto-lemur accidentally died instead of accidentally survive some 80 million years ago, there would never have terrestrial animal with hands. But we know it can occur. Many amphibious or aquatic animal have organ that fulfill the role of a hand (such as the whole body of a starfish or tail of seahorse ) so there is a need. Many amphibious animal have limbs that are close enough from a hand. Look at the frog photo that Chris J posted. You have the (almost) formed organ and you have a use for it... This will or will not happen, but it's definitely not impossible. 

Because, for whatever reason, this civilization is forbiden to reach orbit and going at the center is the only way to reach zero G Well... parabolic flight is another way to get zero G but come on.... let's make a tunnel 

Nothing would append as there is nothing cultural about it. There are perfectly valid hallucinogen mushroom in every european forest. Do european eat hallucinogen mushrooms? They certainly do. They work all year long, take holiday in Mexico, get high on mushrooms then go back home and get high on beer. No one will be interested in a new drug until you create some buzz about it. Like a tale about "Banana head" owling at the full moon. 

Use atomic battery instead To reach 1 kW of power, you can use an atomic battery instead of a atomic reactor. Atomic battery work by having any quantity of radioactive material (238Pt or 90Sr are popular choices ) in one point, then transform the radioactive energy into electricity (usually,radioactivity -> heat -> electricity ) You can make an atomic battery as small as you want by using Seebeck generator. To reach 1kw, it's probably better to use a small Stirling engine. The contraption would be the size of a Mr.Fusion Note that the amount of reacting material can be as small as you want. You only need to take something with a smaller half-life. This, of course, can easily become unpractical Atomic battery has one major drawback compared to reactor: they get depleted at the same rate, whether you use it or not. An atomic battery with a Seebeck generator has no moving part and therefore could operate for centuries (with a large enough amount of, say, 202Pb) 

Yes but not separated by altitude I agree with Tim B that mammal in general and humans in particular are very versatile. But one exception would be water. In an appropriate environment it probably wouldn't take long for human to evolve as marine animal.Not to the same level as Dolphin, of course, but to the same level than sea otter, why not. To help the process, you could make this specie specific to the Caspian sea. With a water salinity merely matching human biology. To give you an idea, the polar bear (Ursus maritimus)"diverged" from brown bear about 150 000 years ago (quote/unquote "diverged" because they can interbreed. They don't do it much because they are socially isolated) Now, it wouldn't be really socially isolating. Normal human can not live this way, but they can ride a boat and Homo Maritimus can walk on firm ground. EDIT2: polar and brown bear diverged about 150 000 years ago 

A bit far fetch, but if you swallow a large quantity of dry ice (solid state CO2), you would probably suffocate. An autopsy would show a suffocation due to excess of CO2, but not that it came from the stomach 

It depends what you mean by 2000+ people If you want to save humanity (but not many humans) the easier is to sent a ship with a few women and 2000+ frozen embryo. You just need to send enough people to maintain the base. One key reason is that you will be travelling quite close from the sun. To make a lead protection for a small fridge is no big deal. Most passengers may die of cancer a few year after arrival but they will breed sound children before that (hence the point of sending only women). Note this paradox: The first colonist will have no descendants. Unless some of the embryo are theirs. The way you describe the situation: send as much resources as you can on the moon, then take needed time to send to Venus. The plan I describe probably allow to send a first ship before the 6 year deadline, but as o.m. suggest, send several ship is safer By the way, a big problem in the Venus plan is: if links with earth are severed, where can you mine material to expand/maintain your floating colony? There is no way a few people entrapped in some balloon with few tools and no material could build shuttle and miner robot. If you still can access the Moon, then OK. If not, Mars is a better plan. But if the Moon is accessible, there is no real emergency to reach for Venus. 

As mentionned earlier, the best way is to be an healthy western european adult. I also hope you were wearing some valuable jewelery as poverty is the meanest killer around Other important things: FLEAS, FLEAS, FLEAS !!! Forget generic hygenic rule for a minute and focus on FLEAS (mostly from rats, secondary from human). Most likely, the only guilty flea at this time was Xenopsylla cheopis. You can not (easilly) avoid occasional flee byte, but you can avoid to have them permanently dwelling on you. - Wash you clothes daily. Doesn't matter if it is filthy cold water. Flees drown easily, period. - Wash you body twice a day. As a naked monkey, you only need a sponge and a bucket. Those 2 rules are the reason we don't usually have fleas nowadays despite those still beeing around everywhere. Somebody sugested high leather boots. Sound sensible, but awfully expensive. Generic hygiena Somehow, you landed in a world where bacteria and viruses evolved 700 years backward. Most likely, you immune system will not reconize any of those. So, chances are you will die of a bad cold or gut infection. Or smallpox. I can't recomand to much reading $URL$ And if those don't immediatly kill you, they will make you weak enough to become a potential target for Yersinia pestis. Boil your water, wash your hand before you eat and... well... avoid human if possible. Or try to meet them outdoor (UV is not germs best friends) healthy food Easier said than done. Whole wheat bread (cheap) and fruit (expensive off season) plus a bit of protein (don't be picky; just avoid dead rats) is what you need. Wheat bread is enough protein for basic survival. Guess what: commoner were not having bad diet by choice. If you don't have a source of income, even bread is expensive. And remember: This is pre-columbus world. Most beans (protein source) aren't available in Europa. You will find peas, mostly in winter. Cats Somebody sugested to avoid ANY animal. This is nonsense. Yersinia pestis is a bacteria specific to a few species of fleas. And while not being totally specific, thoses flea prefer rodents. And rodent hate cats. More specifically, modern rats and mices are know to be repelled by cat urin. Cats pee where they live, so have cats living with you. Problem is we can't be 100% sure this behaviour was already true in late middle age. Oh! And feed him well as you don't want him to bring dead rats at home