Freezing a dying person can definitely help: as the saying goes, "they're not dead until they're warm and dead". The problem is that this causes serious tissue damage (in the present at least). If you just throw Bob into a vat of liquid nitrogen, water will freeze inside his cells and cause them to lyse. So you'll have to be a bit more careful. If he's frozen slowly, the water will leave the cells through osmosis as the ice forms, so you won't have that problem. However, this means you end up with a lot of ice in the space between cells. As this ice expands it will push the cells apart and cause damage to the structure of the tissue, and when the cells thaw they will have lost a lot of water. Also, most chemicals dissolved in the water will not be incorporated into the ice, so the concentration will increase as the amount of liquid water goes down. Not optimal. A small number of animals can survive freezing by replacing some of the water in their body with cryoprotectant (antifreeze) chemicals: waterbears use trehalose, wood frogs use urea and glucose. If you fill Bob's body with cryoprotectants the water will vitrify instead of freezing as it gets colder, avoiding most of these problems. The difficulty now is that most cryoprotectants either don't go through cell membranes, or are toxic in high concentrations. New cryoprotectants are always being developed, so it's not much of a stretch to assume we've found something less toxic by the time we're fighting full-on space battles. Bob's comrades could fill his bloodstream with our fictional new preservative, then freeze him very quickly in a tank of liquid nitrogen. The water in his body would go into a glassy state (hopefully) without causing further damage. Then when they got back to the hospital he could be revived and treated for his injuries. This probably wouldn't be very pleasant for Bob, since it would effectively kill him for a time, but at least he would get better in the end. 

The ability to use their weapons. Assuming these intelligent apes are anatomically the same as real-world ones, they don't have opposable thumbs. They can grip things precisely, but their thumbs are "pseudo-opposable" or "apposable": they don't rotate in quite the same way as a human's, and thus can't press the pad of their thumb flat against the pad of another finger. Using a weapon such as a sniper rifle requires great precision in aiming, and human weapons are designed for human hands. Without opposable thumbs, the apes would have to grip the weapon differently, making it difficult to pull the trigger without moving the barrel and disrupting their aim. As far as tanks go, if the apes have really had access to them for only six months, it's unlikely they could use them effectively. Consider how long it takes for a human to learn to drive, even having been exposed to cars for their whole life. And that leaves aside the issue of shooting. 

A very intriguing thought experiment. Star and points for that. JDLugosz has already made some fine points about this, his main pont the world is a simulation makes a very good premise. Physics and events would match up to a (bad) computer game. In fact games use a LOT of these shortcuts: 

YES WE DO... forwards or backwards, in order to cover up his thievery, he has to be in the same place twice (or hire his brother, Jeff). Also this presents either a paradox of changed history OR item duplication. Lastly, Santa WOULD need to go to the same house at least twice (forwards and backwards) Actually, if you count in different traditions across the world, Christmas is comparatively like a busy work day for Santa 

How does that explain how I got my Gameboy Color when it was just released? (it came out late november 1998) 

I may reiterate some previous answers, but i'm also going to distinguish the reproducability of the technology. Firearms Provided they are well-maintained, any firearm can be kept in working order for many hundreds (or thousands) of years. This is theoretically also true, provided they are stored in an air- and dust-sealed manner. However, finer mechanics and technology will degrade faster, and will be harder to reporoduce. The more reliable and simple the parts are, the simpler they will be to exchange. In a post-spocalyptic world, you wouldn't go for the first, best, strongest laser rifle out there, but rather rely on a relatively simple AK-47. There are much simpler weapons than this, like cannons used before the 1800s. They are basically just shaped cans of metal with a hole for the projectile to come out of, and a hole for the fuse. Even though such a cannon is not well maintained, it would still work for at least 500-1000 years. Most aspects of, say, a modern assault rifle could still be reproduced (by reverse engineering) provided the finder(s) have the right eqipment for it, even in quite a degraded state. Ammunition Self-contained bullets and grenades (any type of modern ammo with included propellant) is unlikely to survive in working order for more than 100 years, as AndreiROM has mentioned. The various chemicals used in gunpowder and more advanced alternatives break down over time, and may react in an undesired way, making the propellant not work, or very unstable. Aditionally, modern ammunition is produced with precision in mind, you can't put just any ammo out there in a 9 mm gun without risking damage to the firearm (or the user). On the other hand, an old Civil War era front loading musket with included ammo (lead or steel balls) can be perfectly stored away (again, in a sealed manner) and be usable hundreds or thousands of years later (provided the user knows how to make gunpowder) Engines You can have something like a combustion engine work for hundreds of years, but again, simpler things last longer. A relatively simple engine from a moped or small motorcycle can survive for hundreds of years of storage (and even somewhat averagely-maintained use), another good example is an engine from a car like a Citroen 2CV, which were built to be easily repairable and basically unkillable... On the other hand, a modern car engine (with arrays of sensors and other electronics) will not likely remain in proper calibration for long (maybe 5-10 years) and will likely fail completely shortly after that. modern-ish Engines are relatively easy to reproduce, provided your people know how to make electricity (namely spark plugs) Electrical utilities and tools This again depends on the reliability of the parts used in the appliance. Any mechanical part will most likely degrade over time (unless protected against corrosion) and might need a bit of re-oiling. Simple electronics (especially resistive electronics, like toasters or boiler elements) can last for many hundreds of years, even in somewhat bad storage conditions. The survivability of the different electrical components vary wildly, however, and the most susceptible parts are parts that rely on chemistry (batteries, electrolytic capacitors) and mechanics (servos and motors). the reproducibility will vary based on the device. Most motors work on basic magnetics, while it'll be hard to reverse-engineer an SMD resistor. Computers, smartphones etc. Most modern (post-2005) computers could potentially work in a few hundred years (acceptable storage conditions provided), apart from mostly mechanical parts (fans, and HDDs usually get "sticky heads" after 5-10 years of storage). However, any solid-state component (basically everything on a modern PC component) will probably last indefinitely. The reason why I mention PCs post-2005, is that the stable of using solid-state capacitors on compnents started around this time on enthusiast hardware. Smartphones are basically ONLY solid-state components, so there's nothing preventing you from having someone find a smartphone in 400 years, rigging up a makeshift battery or 5v power supply and being able to use it. 

Oxytocin analogues Oxytocin is a complicated hormone, and we still don't fully understand how it works. It's commonly called the "love hormone" because of its role in bonding, but it has many other functions as well; its scientific name, for instance, comes from its role in childbirth, and it's been found to affect everything from dishonesty to drug addiction. But it does have one function which is fairly well understood. After using a nasal spray including oxytocin, subjects showed significantly less amygdala activity when shown frightening images. The amygdala tend to be involved in fear responses; if they're damaged, people tend to show no fear whatsoever. So inhaling airborne oxytocin can certainly reduce fear responses. Almost all vertebrates have oxytocin, or a hormone very similar to it. So if your predator hunts vertebrates, releasing large amounts of oxytocin into the air (or water, depending on habitat) would help prevent immediate panic. 

Prepare for a lot of collateral damage While it might seem like it's easy to aim your eyes, it's actually very difficult to keep them perfectly still. Only a small amount of the retina gets a clear and perfectly focused image, so your eyes are constantly flicking around to take in the details of a scene. These flicks are called "saccades", French for "jerks". Even when you're staring at something, your eye position isn't continuously controlled by the brain. Rather, your brain notices when the eye has started to drift off target, and jerks it back into correct position. This process isn't consciously controlled, or even noticed, because your brain processes them out to give a steady and continuous image. But if you're firing a laser at any significant range, a flicker of just a few degrees would be a real problem. 

The Gods Themselves by Isaac Asimov This is one of the most complete examples of "different physical laws" I've seen. In the book's parallel universe, the strong force is significantly more powerful than in ours; this means that solid matter can interpenetrate, and life has evolved to take advantage of this. Stars are also smaller and shorter-lived, which is what drives the main plot of the book: the inhabitants of the parallel universe are seeking an alternate source of energy for when their star dies. They end up trading matter back and forth with our own universe, using the difference in the laws to gain energy on both sides: stable isotopes in our universe are radioactive in theirs, and vice-versa, so they can be made to decay back and forth. 

First, a physics note. If you compress or expand something in this way, its linear momentum and kinetic energy won't change (as you've rightly gathered). But the moment of inertia depends on how spread out the mass is. So if a spinning object is expanded, it will spin slower; if it's compressed, it will spin faster. The classic demo of this is a twirling figure-skater, who speeds up when she pulls her arms close to her body. This could violate conservation of energy depending on how much energy it takes to compress things; if spinning objects "resist" being compressed (and thus take more energy), conservation won't be a problem. For non-combat uses, the scientific potential is tremendous. Forget microscopes: just scale up your samples until you can see the details you want. Want a more powerful phone? Take a high-end processor and scale it down. Depending how far this expansion and compression can go, the possibilities are endless! But of course, the military would probably get their hands on it first. As far as combat usage, your metal slab could be enormously effective, but also enormously difficult to use. Let's say the slab is one centimeter thick. Wolfram|Alpha says that steel alloy is about 7.859 g/cm³; your 19x5x0.01 slab would weigh almost 7.5 metric tons. The heaviest .50 BMG bullet I can find is only 52 grams. So your railgun will need quite a lot of power to even push it out the barrel. It would probably be more effective to fire a larger object at the beginning: a cannonball, for instance. Use a proper artillery cannon to get it moving. Then compress it into a bullet in midair. It'll still have all the kinetic energy of a flying cannonball, but now that energy is focused on an area smaller than a quarter; that will tear through pretty much anything. If your enemies return fire, you'll want to do the opposite. Bullets hurt because they're so small, so their force is focused onto a small area. Scale them up a few orders of magnitude, and you're effectively being hit with a styrofoam ball; it might leave a bruise if it's moving fast enough, but it won't kill you. (Plus, as John pointed out, air resistance will stop it dead fairly quickly.) Confirming this experimentally is left as an exercise for the reader. 

Use naturally occurring gun chambers Your planet is sparse with metals suitable for forging swords, and, as other answers have pointed out, wood and bone may also need to be made rare, but it would be OK for guns to occur in nature, so long as engineers are unable to work the material. Other answers say to use ceramics. Your planet could be home to a crustacean with a ceramic shell that's conveniently shaped like a gun chamber. Your people are unaware that they can craft ceramics, so they can't make other ceramic weapons. As indicated in the comments below, an animal that needs to evolve a shell capable of withstanding explosions probably lives in a high pressure environment such as at the bottom of the Mariana Trench. This leaves the problem of retrieving it using Medieval technology. Perhaps the animal floats to the surface when it dies. If it's possible for a creature to have metallic organs, then you could have naturally occurring metal guns without ever discovering metallurgy. (I have no idea how feasible this is. Maybe they build up mineral deposits on the outside of their livers rather than excreting them?) Numerous problems have been pointed out with the above approach, so this answer probably isn't good for a hard-science setting. 

Make the connection get stronger over time At first, the connection is just a deep bonding with no other clear advantages, but with time, the creatures become gradually accustomed to each other's pheromones, subtle body language, ect. These things are unique for each member of the species and are able to quickly convey complex ideas. The bonding attunes the partners to learning to communicate with each other non-verbally, but the learning takes long enough that it's prohibitively expensive to start over with another partner. Their minds are only complex enough to extensively catalog one other person's idiosyncrasies, so polygamy is out of the question. Partners who have been together long enough might be indistinguishable from mind-readers. This amounts to huge productivity gains. Partners often have the same job and go to work together. Losing your teammate confers a feeling of nakedness/emptiness and makes you much less productive. Societies evolve to have disdain for people not in an effective partnership. External pressure for this evolutionary path might be that the species engages in a lot of activities where verbal communication isn't possible. If the species spends a lot of effort hunting highly-intelligent prey, having a mind-reader to flank with would be very valuable. Diving would be another example (are they amphibious?). 

Fire Accelerates the Zombie Mutation In the movie Evolution, alien microbes from a meteor quickly evolve into threatening creatures. The scientists later discover that fire dramatically increases the growth of the creatures rather than killing them. I doubt there could be a hard science explanation for this; but if you don't mind, your zombies could be like the aliens, using the fire's energy to become stronger. If you want a slightly more plausible explanation, the zombies have fire-retardant skin. The government doesn't want civilians using flamethrowers for the same reason they tell people not to use hand sanitizer all the time. Each time a group of zombies gets torched, there's a chance that some of the zombie virus will survive and infect more humans to make an even thicker-skinned generation of zombies. It's kinda hard to chop their heads off when their necks are made of alligator hide.