Because spokes stretch a little and settle in after you start riding, be prepared to true the wheel after the first couple rides. If you are not interested in making your own wheel, I recommend just buying a new wheel with the hub you want. It may be cheaper than getting your lbs to rebuild your wheel with your new hub. 

I think if you are willing to spend a few hours, it's worth doing yourself. Depending on the flange size of the new hub, though, you may need to buy new spokes. You can determine the length of the spokes you will need using a spoke length calculator. You will need a spoke wrench, a flat-head screwdriver, some vaseline, and the use of a truing stand. Here's what you'll have to do: 

I have had SPDs and eggbeaters, and I love the Crank Bros eggbeater pedals. I've found them to be way better than SPDs. You can clip in on four sides rather than two, and in my experience, they're easier to clip out of in emergency situations than SPDs are. Also, unlike SPDs, eggbeaters don't have flat surfaces, so you're less likely to slip off if you're trying to get back on after hike-a-bike sections of muddy trails. 

Always be careful about carbon fiber and collisions. Carbon fiber is light and strong, but it's very fragile and can break unexpectedly because you can't always see the cracks. In one of my collegiate mtb short track races, a guy snapped his carbon fiber handlebar at the stem after a 1' drop because the handlebar took abuse over time. When it lost all strength, the effect on the equipment was catastrophic. So in your case, if the crash was strong enough to throw you over the hood of the car to the other side, it probably messed up the carbon fork, even if you can't see it. When riding bikes, I've found the fork to be particularly useful, so certainly have the fork checked out, but be prepared to junk it for your own safety. 

I strongly recommend socks that can breathe easily and that absorb and wick away sweat. That means probably not cotton athletic socks you'd get in bulk at a warehouse store. Personal preference determines the coloration and logos, and if you're worried about style, get socks that match your kit and your shoes. Also if your alma mater has a cycling team, contact them and see if you can buy team socks. You'll be able to show school pride wherever you're riding, and they'll be quality. 

The 2000 miles is an estimate of when the chain will stretch. Your chain may last longer than that. As far as replacing it goes, I think it depends on your financial situation. If you can easily afford a new chain, I recommend buying one. A replaced chain means that you don't have to worry about your current chain stretching beyond the limit and damaging your bike. If your budget makes buying a new chain difficult, you'll be all right to keep riding. Just check the chain stretch every so often to determine when it's getting near absolutely necessary to buy a chain. 

An optional extra that would come in handy and for future work on the bike would be a bike workshop stand I spent 100$ on mine and it has been excellent for regular maintenance and upgrading parts. 

This would be a great problem to have for most of us roadies. Simply eat more if you find yourself losing more weight than you care to lose. You can alternatively balance with more strength based exercises like lifts, pulls, rows at the gym or elsewhere. Or cake. 

64 watts is well within the margin of error of 60w target. Don't be afraid of going to your lowest gear on the trainer. You should be working up to your target cadence, if you can't hold 90 without bouncing then you should aim for something lower. It will take time to get up there. 60w is relatively low for most people, it may become easier for you to hold a higher cadence at more watts. Trainerroad philosophy is to focus on the power, especially in your intervals. Bouncing and poor form won't help you get faster. 

The new Shimano Ultegra R8000 Cassette 11-34 fits the 11spd MTB freehub spacing. If you have the medium cage 5800 derailluer it will work as is. If not then you can upgrade to the R8000 medium cage and it will work with your 5800 shifters. 

According to Slowtwitch Shimano needs one junction A in the system otherwise it won't work. You can skip junction B. It may cause some interesting wiring. The 6700 series (EW6770) junction may make things smaller/easier. This is the same answer for all current e-tube di2 systems. (6700,6800,9000) 

Hang your buttocks off the back of the saddle is the only appropriate answer. You can see great evidence of this in cyclocross races when racers go from climbing to steep descents (in some cases) and go straight to the drops and hang their rear end off the back of the bike. Here is a downhill rider doing an extreme example of exactly this: 

I had a (improperly tightened) bolt drop out of a SPD cleat while riding which left me in the same predicament (also ended up eating asphalt), I ended up being able to wedge my shoe against the frame to get the appropriate leverage to kick the shoe/cleat combo out of the pedal. I would try attaching the pedal to a bike (and foot in shoe) and attempting the same move. You can always unscrew the pedal and take off the shoe to get back to where you are today. 

There is no video editing software from Shimano. The CSV is present, you should see it if you paired your sensors in the mobile app. I have used DashWare with success with my Shimano action camera, others have reported Garmin VIRB edit software works but I have not tried. 

I know you can use a junction port (ie: SM-JC41 Internal Junction Box B) for this, but are there any Male to Female extension cables? Root Cause: R600 to 5 port junction for a TT setup near the base lever (Magura's so can't use the standard integrated TT brake/shifter) 

The ANT+ lights standard allows for "0" switches to turn on/off bike lights. (Besides the initial power on of the head unit) I run a bontrager flare rt with my edge 820 and it works great. Completely wireless, it automatically adjusts brightness, and even has a "brake light mode". 

There is one other aspect that has not yet been addressed: shifters. Shimano and SRAM use different technologies for the rear derailleur. Most SRAM has a 1:1 actuation ratio, which means that the length of cable moved by the shifters is identical to the horizontal movement of the derailleur. However, all Shimano uses a 2:1 actuation ratio, which means that twice as much cable has to be moved as horizontal movement of the derailleur. If you have Shimano shifters, you must get a Shimano rear derailleur. But if you have SRAM shifters that are X-series (X-4, X-5, X-7, X-9, X-0), you must get a SRAM rear derailleur. This is a concern only for the rear derailleur and not for the front derailleur. 

I have found grip shifts to have more problems over time than trigger shifters. If you plan on riding this particular bike for several years, I recommend swapping out the revoshift in favor of comparably priced shimano trigger shifters. Since you are even considering taking apart the shifter, I believe you will be able to install new shifters, cables and housing. Remember that new cables will stretch quickly, so if you choose to change shifters, be prepared to adjust the cable lengths after the first couple rides. If you would like to fix the shifter you have, make sure to take a picture of the shifter mechanism when you open it up before starting to work on it. Then make an outline of what you see on a piece of paper and tape to it the screws you remove in their respective locations. Make new such outlines for each level of shifter as you remove more pieces. This way you can avoid losing tiny screws and springs and other pieces and you will know what goes where when you try to reassemble the shifter. 

Remove the tire, innertube, and rim tape from the wheel. Using a spoke wrench, loosen and remove the nipples. If you are using the same spokes, remove the spokes from the old hub. Lace the wheel, making ABSOLUTELY CERTAIN that the valve will be in the right place. Check out Sheldon Brown's step-by-step wheelbuilding page for the procedure of lacing a 3x (three-cross) wheel. You will want to use a little bit of vaseline on the threads of each spoke so you can tighten the nipples more easily. Go to a nearby bicycle cooperative (you can google bicycle co-op near nameofyourtown) to use a truing stand, and use the truing stand to adjust the wheel. Make sure the wheel is dished properly and that you have proper tension on the spokes. 

My grandpa gave me his old 1974 Raleigh International (all original Campy) as a graduation present. Since the stock wheels are for tubular tires, and I do want to ride it around town, I want to get wheels for clincher tires so I can change the inner tube when I flat rather than having to mess with glue jobs. A new rear wheel means that I can have an option of getting a rear wheel with shimano hyperglide so I can choose modern cassettes. Because the shifters are friction shifters rather than indexed shifters, does it matter how many cogs are in the cassette? Do I have to stick with 5 or could I even go to 10? I stand corrected that the frame is steel and not alumninum. I was mistaken because the bike is significantly lighter than other steel-framed bikes I have dealt with. I apologize for this error.