I don't think it is wise for me to blindly say "yes" to a job offer, and potentially close myself off to other, better job opportunities which may arise between now and graduation. The drive is about 2 hours every day, so I'd ideally like to find something closer to home. I'm not necessarily looking to relocate right away after college. 

The question: Given my above-mentioned thoughts, and if I am offered a full time job, how should I say "Yes, I'm intertested. Please hold a spot for me, but I'm going to keep my eyes open for other jobs, as well." Maybe that last part isn't necessary... 

I am a rising Computer Science senior who will be finishing an internship at a software company at the end of this week. From what I understand, if this company is happy with the performance of a particular intern, it is customary for them to offer the intern a full time job, upon graduation, during or shortly after the exit interview. I have been very happy at this company, as I have learned very much, and have found this internship to be very rewarding. I could certainly see myself enjoying the opportunity to come back to this job after I graduate. I am looking for a balanced way to respond to such an invitation, since I have two thoughts: 

I am currently a senior in college in the job hunting phase. I have a rather significant online presence with an upcoming website, LinkedIn profile, StackOverflow Careers profile, etc... I also have an (shameless plug) impressive resume which almost always attracts attention whenever I distribute it. However, in an effort to always improve, is writing a Wikipedia article on myself a good idea, should someone look up my name? Would that be a good place to elaborate on details, awards, background, etc... which I would not normally put on a resume? Since Wikipedia is an online encyclopedia, basically, people would more likely go there to actually read about me. This is not quite the same on a resume where real estate is precious, and on a profile website where less words and more pictures are what people expect. I understand the wiki-style editing of any entry on Wikipedia is open for anyone to edit, so that is something to consider. Thank you for your time. 

You could follow this up by discussing with him the video Dan Pink on motivation – mastery, autonomy, and purpose. Talk about those things, then forward him the link. Explain that having autonomy and being allowed to practice your mastery are crucial to your motivation at the company, and that you'd like him to grant you those things so you can be the best employee possible. You might ask him to watch Greatness by ship captain David Marquet or a longer version (there are other versions as well, look at the related videos). You might even get him to watch Great Leaders Serve Others. It's not enough to sit back and let your boss manage you at his whim, however he wants. To be successful you have to manage him, too. Help him learn how to provide what you need to make it easiest to do a top notch job. 

You could further take the opportunity to discuss the kind of relationship you and your boss plan to have going forward: 

I don't see why you can't just put a very bland face on it. It's not a feather in your cap of course, and likely can't be used to promote your skills, but there's no reason it has to be a big hole or even all that mysterious. Select some of the elements of your work that were harmless, and make them the whole job. You had to have done, at least a few times, simple things, or things that can have a good face put on them. You were an office assistant. A driver. You sent faxes. You delivered communications to clients. You were a personal attendant. And so on. The business name can be very bland, too. Something like "Private Construction Company" or "Family Business". You can be honest that it was a family business and they're peculiar about the details of their exact identity not being broadcast. There are many such kinds of operations that are perfectly legitimate. I once worked legitimately for a company for 18 months or so, where half the employees (3 or 4 of them) reported for work daily to the CEO's own apartment, and sat at desks in her living room! Just discuss it in general terms, as honestly as you can, and don't let on that there was anything unusual about it. For someone with as little experience as you, this will not be such a bad thing. 

Well, in general, I can tell you that if I had a problem with another employee in the area of professionalism, I certainly would not be trying to "negotiate" with the other employee; I would just report to my boss. I am not going to go to some random employee and start demanding they clean up after themselves. I am not their mom. I am just going to report it. Your co-worker is not your nanny. If you are conducting yourself in an unprofessional manner in terms of cleanliness, you can expect complaints will be made. As far as leaving early, however, that borders on snitching because really it is none of your co-worker's business what time you leave (as long as your leaving does not affect them in some way). If I had a co-worker who was shirking, I would definitely not report it, because it is not my business, and I am not going to rat somebody out. Unfortunately, you have no control over whether somebody is a snitch or not. Getting hostile with a snitch is not a good idea. Just mind your own business. Snitches always get their come-uppance eventually. 

Don't get too emotionally invested in HR BS. It's really rude of companies to ask you to "measure yourself". The only measurement that is important is how THEY measure you, and my guess is, they don't tell you that. Trying to get you to work harder by giving you some kind of self-induced guilt trip is really sleazy and you have zero obligation to participate in being bullied and victimized by that kind of psychological warfare. To deal with the form, just ask your boss what to put there and do whatever he/she says and be done with it. 

I think that you could have done better, but I disagree with answers that say you completely failed and should have done X or Y instead. It's important to understand that a CEO needs to delegate: this is how she uses her time for the right thing. Being executive implies commanding, not doing! I can see why your CEO was irritated at being brought in after believing he'd handed the task off. He has better things to do. This does put you in a difficult position when you feel like you don't have the required resources to do the task. However, without seeing the exact list of basic phone requirements you were given, it's hard to say whether your questions were warranted or not—just maybe going straight back to the CEO with them may not be the best strategy. Here are some suggestions for the future. When given a task that you feel isn't in your area of expertise, or you don't think you have enough information to carry it out, you can do several things: 

I would not even mention your perception that you were told not to do it (a fact which is debatable based on your report of what he actually said). I wouldn’t apologize unless sorely pressed to it (though then genuinely for having done something injurious that you didn't intend), and I definitely wouldn’t say I’d done it on my own time, as if you’re salaried then all the energy you spend in work belongs to your company, and if you’re paid hourly then it was illegal to not report the hours. I'd play it like this: 

If you were fired/dismissed, then you should indicate that in the system. If you misrepresent your reason for leaving a previous position, it is grounds for your employer to fire you instantly if they discover it later. Also, it is unlikely you will be able to hide the fact that you were fired. Any new employer will verify your employment and whether you were fired or not. Look at it from the prospective employers perspective, which is worse: somebody who got fired, or somebody who lied to you? Personally, I will definitely hire people who have been fired (depending on the reason). I have been fired from jobs. I will never hire somebody who lies to me, though, or tries to fraudulently depict their work history. 

When I view my connections on LinkedIn dozens of random recruiters and other miscellaneous people I have never heard of show up at the head of the list as "contacts". Why is this? How do I stop it from happening? 

Exam finals? Are you an intern? First of all, if you are a wage earner you have to be on the premises every hour, no question. If you are salaried ("exempt"), then there are, as I see it, no standards beyond what the company sets as an explicit policy. For example, at my company employees are supposed to be in the office 10-4 minimum but can work from home given exigent circumstances in which case they are supposed to email anyone that depends on their work or who might need to meet with them. Personally, the way I feel about the subject is I could care less where the person is if they get a lot done. You will find that most people are not like that. The average person is a control freak who psychologically equates control over your body as a stepping stone to getting you to do what they want. In the environment you are in, it kind of sounds like you are working for a bunch of non-programming pricks probably in a financial industry. Did I guess wrong? If so, working 9-5 minimum comes with the white shirt territory. If your goal is to flourish in that world, your only option is to robotically show up and work your ass off in their presence every day. Unfortunately, no matter how hard you work, you will have no upside because you are not a banker/financial analyst or whatever the hell your bosses are. To someone who is not a programmer you are just a gump. So, how you deal with this is not an easy problem. What I did is get an advanced degree in computer science and go to work for software development companies that appreciate my talents. 

The next time it happens, I recommend that with a concerned/worried look on your face, you say in a slightly-lowered tone—like you don't want anyone to overhear—"Hey man, I'm worried that you could get in trouble for saying jokes like that. I'd hate to see some kind of consequence if someone were to overhear you making that kind of joke." You can reaffirm the relationship as well if desired, "I like working with you and don't want anything to happen that would prevent that." Notice that the focus of your concern is on him. There are very particular reasons for this exact style: 

I would have a heart-to-heart with each of them, privately, in a frank and serious but not stern tone, something like this: 

These options should help you find the middle ground between doing it all yourself and getting the CEO's direct help. Think about this answer to your question compared with other answers you were given. Which ones were the most helpful? Being given a short list of options to choose from is a great way to give your requesters most of what they wanted, while still pushing some of the responsibility back to them when you can't do it all yourself. 

This suggests, find some friends who think the guy is a jerk and can commiserate with you about it. You'll feel supported, won't be as bothered by him, and this alone will make him want to do it less. 

Transferring code from A to B is theft of trade secrets if the code is of a proprietary nature, which is a criminal offense. This type of theft is not often prosecuted, but when it is the employee may face a jail sentence and the receiving company may be sued for a lot of money. It depends how big the companies are and how valuable the source code is. If you are transferring completely generic code, like, say a sorting algorithm, then it is OK, because that is considered "tools of the trade" which are your own property. But if there is anything that is specific, then it belongs 100% to company A and it is crime to transfer it elsewhere or reveal it to a third party. 

Your behavior is completely logical. You want to understand in detail the exact way everything should work so that there is no ambiguity about what needs to be done. Unfortunately, the average person is a moron who does not believe in understanding things before they do them. The average person thinks the way to accomplish tasks is just to dive in and try something and if something bad happens, correct it later. Such people (who are 90% of the population) do not appreciate scientific thinkers who want to get it right the first time. Another problem is that the morons you are working with are not certain how to answer some of your more technical questions and that makes them feel embarrassed and angry. That's why they are complaining. Your only option is to stop relying on other people for information and try to figure out what to do solely on your own. If something bad happens, just say "I was never told how to do X." Another way to look at it, is that asking ANY question is an imposition on another person, so at a certain level interrogating someone is rude. So, look at it as an etiquette thing. Polite people don't ask questions. 

Change your mind about the bullying from "a thing that distresses you and violates your personal rights" to "a puzzle to be solved." 

If your former employer tells any objective lies about you, you have an opportunity to set this right with a civil court lawsuit. At a company I used to work for, after my coworker (a contractor) left, her former manager called various temp agencies in town and told them "don't hire [the coworker] because she is a thief and a liar." The coworker took the manager to court for slander and won a settlement based on the potential lost work caused by the slander. If I recall correctly, the judgment was $2500 a month paid directly to the victim for 20 years, and the manager's two personal houses were attached (so if she failed to pay, the houses would be seized). All it took was a few people at the temp agencies being willing to testify in court as to the slanderous statements the manager made. 

If the interns says he's just there to screw around, then speak with management to end his internship. You're wasting your time. If he says he's there to learn, then say something like this: 

Giving the "out" of the intern saying "oh, yeah, I meant no disrespect" lets him save face and repair the relationship in the most painless way possible. There is no need to extract a confession that he did mean it disrespectfully or to garner some huge apology. The point here is not power-over but successful internship. If after all this, the negative behavior continues, you can address it more head-on. There is no reason you can't give a performance goal to an intern just like you would to a problem employee, or use any other strategy you would use with a regular employee. But remember that the interns are NOT experienced in the work world and should be given a break or two while you gently, but firmly, accustom them to the standards of the professional work world. 

It's a bad idea to be talking about your non-work related interests in a job interview. Personally, if I even suspect a person considers work to be a second or third priority, I recommend against them. Of course, bear in mind the people I am assessing are highly-paid professionals. If you are a janitor or something, then its fine to have outside interests. What an employer does not want is to need 110% from an employee and the employee is giving 50%. Hopefully, the company will not ask you BS psychological questions like "what is your dream job". If they do, dodge the question, it's not legimate. If it were me I would say, "This one" or "a masseuse at the Miss America pageant" or something like that. Anything that I think might make the guy laugh and move on to the next question which will hopefull be a real question. 

Well, I can tell you that I definitely prefer candidates that show me examples of their code. If a candidate does not have a code sample, I assume the worst. Nowadays, standards are such that virtually anybody with any talent at all has a public code repository. If your primary job is not programming, then presumably the company will take that it into account when they evaluate your code. At the end of the day, it is probably better to have bad code than no code, at least in my book. If I see somebody with bad code, at least I know that they wrote it. Better to have a bad coder who actually writes code, than somebody with great code that is plagiarized from somebody else. Believe it or not, I have to quiz people carefully about their code to make sure they actually wrote it. Half the time, their code is plagiarized and I ask them a question about it and they can't answer the question because they didn't actually write the code.