The easiest way to complete this would probably be to direct the MX record at the Linux server and have it forward the mail for the users in question onto the Exchange server. This can be done either using an .forward in the user's home, or in /etc/aliases if the user doesn't need to exist on the system. For this to work, you need to have the Exchange server listening for an alternative domain, for example user@exchange.company.com or user@company.local. There's other ways to do it was well, for example putting a smart smtp proxy server in front of both, but that will just add to the complexity. 

This means that anyone who has an account on the system is able to read the contents of . You need to run something like the following: 

This should be possibly to do with ssh keys. Unfortunately, I have no idea exactly what you'd need to put after the key, you'd need to find out what does when you do the push. For example, with rsync, you can do something like: 

If you RAID is hot swap it will rebuild. Before pulling the drive check in the HP management agent and check it says that "HOT Swap" is enabled. Also what is the RAID Version? As pulling a drive that isn’t in a HOT Swap RAID will cause you more issues than it’s worth. 

Vendors produce SAN equipment with their hardware because it works. Trying to build your own “SAN” is going to be a disaster waiting to happen. The reason HP, EMC, Dell etc have such a high price tag on there SAN hardware is because it is thoroughly tested, you get warranty (Normally 4 Hour Return to Service) You could never GURENTEE RTS if you used off the shelf hardware. I would persuade any person that tries to skimp on this and get the product that is proven. I know this isn’t always the best option for a business but can you cope with the downtime when you can’t fix it? 

I run a little 1&1 web server with quite a few sites all powered by SQL Express Db's and have never allowed connections to SQL Express from an external resource (Anything not on the server), as I am paranoid of the databases getting hacked if I allow external access. What is the most secure way for me to allow a local program on my computer here to connect to my SQL Server on my 1&1 server? A step by step guide would be excellent :| 

I installed UrlScan a few days ago and it seemed to be working fine, however in the log I saw it was blocking lots of files from websites that I didn't want (Explanation here) It's blocking files with Dots in the URL (Especially assets like .js files and .css files). So it broke a lot of sites. So I changed the following as per the docs and that blog post. 

Network performance can be degrated during the snapshot process. But in my opinion a little bit of a perofrmance hit is better than losing data. Depending on how critical the data is I would maybe do one during the night. Unless your data is that critical that you must do Hourly etc. Only you can decied how much data you can lose should you need to restore. If you can live with a snapshot 24 hours old stick with it. But if you need your data no less than an hour old from a restore do that. We run snapshots hourly for our main database server as this changes hourly. But our Exchange Server is snapshotted every 12 hours. 

This has to be rectified very soon! Those spade connectors are not designed for the amperage that could potently be drawn should all of the connected devices require full load. Also the earth will not be sufficient should there be an issue. Please please please plan urgent downtime NOW! Isolate the power to the PDU and replace with the correct cable. This is a huge safety issue and needs sorting, sod downtime. The cost of a law suit will be more. 

I'm not very familiar with pfsense/FreeBSD, but check to see if there's any netflow options available. NFZen and nfcapd should definitely work on BSD, but I don't know what you use to capture the actual samples! These tools only capture a sample of the traffic and then let you see not only what ips and bandwidth are involved, but what ports as well. 

Plesk doesn't touch the root user. When it's installed it creates the admin user for it's own user. You might be able to run as admin or another user and reset the root password that way. Otherwise, you'll have to use a recovery CD and reset the root password that way. 

You will need a MX record pointing at the postfix server, for example: host.example.com IN MX postfixserver.example.com Then you can set up forwarding to forward to address@host.example.com where address is the alias on the postfix server that's piping to the script. Also, be aware, only system aliases in /etc/aliases can be piped to scripts in Postfix, virtual aliases can't be setup to use a pipe. 

Does anyone know if it's possible to automate the creation of EBS snapshots from the online EC2 Management console (Say every day or every hour) and then tell it how long to keep them (Pruning them)? I don't use the command line tools, so would hope there is an option (That I can't currently see!) to automate snapshots? I know you can do it via third party applications and sites like Ylastic - But was hoping this would be built in by now? 

And restarted IIS, but nothing changed. It's still blocking Dots in paths. And then I restarted the entire server... And guess what. It's still blocking dots in path? I have no idea what to do next, apart from un-install it? Anyone else this issue? 

However, it's trying to append to the querystring d=9 on that page. But I have double checked that code for that site, and if has a numeric check and cast. And if it fails that (Which it does for the above query), it just returns nothing - Which is what the site is doing, and that SQL would not have been executed. So even more stumped now! Any other pointers appreciated. 

In Short your cant. :( Looking thought the Google Documentation, this is one of the features not available. There may be a 3rd Party add-on that Syncs the entries. However I cant see that there is. 

But when logging onto the clients this isn’t applying. I have Run RSOP and the output isn’t showing that this has applied as well. Any comments would be appreciated 

ESXi is a bare metal hypervisor. It is designed for headless use, and is more of an enterprise environment product. For the example you have given it would be more suitable to use VMware Workstation VMware Product Website You can then use dual monitors, and it is OS agnostic. 

The Cisco 877 only has a single WAN port. You would need Router with 2 WAN ports and 2 Termination modems (depending on your connection method) to achieve load balancing. So yes your ISP is right. But it is best to go with a device that is designed for a load-balancing application. 

UDP packets don't establish a connection, they're literally fire and forget! A simple should be all that's required. 

What happens when someone commits a quick broken change or commits with debugging still left on? You're better off tagging commits as "production" or something similar if you want a commit deployed. Then have a deploy script that periodically checks for a new production release, strips out any debug files/options, and puts the files in the right place. 

Apache's mod_roxy is for proxying HTTP traffic, you're not going to get VPN traffic over it. If you need to set up a VPN to an external VPN server, you're going to have to setup a gateway to route the traffic out from the private network to the external world. It might be possible to get the box that's doing the proxying to also act as a gateway. 

Squid is a HTTP/HTTPS proxy, it doesn't have anything to do with SMTP or other mail protocols. Do the people running the network have a mail relay or smarthost you can use to relay the mail out through? Then all you'll have to do is add a line like to Postfix's main.cf which will tell Postfix to relay mail through that host. However, this will be a mail relay, not a proxy. 

I’m thinking that this is more a problem with the physical disk. Have you checked for Disk Fragmentation? Also have you run a checkdisk? This might shed some light any on physical problems. You say the website isn’t responding. Does it do this when you access the website locally? Or just external from this server? Sorry to ask more questions in an answer. 

Yes and no. You can increase the thresholds before SOIC will be active or other wise you will need to disable it. I recently had the pleasure of meeting Duncan Epping (Tech architect at VMware for SOIC). He has an excellent blog post on SOIC here and there is a known KB about this here I would have a read of these and this should give you the information to be able to decide if you should or shouldn’t disable SOIC. An Extract from the KB shows the No part of my Yes and No. 

I am looking at creating backups of our C: drive in case we have a major HD or OS failure... This is a web server, so I want the fastest way of restoring IIS with all the settings and all the program files (SQL Server etc.) and read the built in 'Windows Server 2008 Backup' is what I should be using. So I basically want the C drive backed up so I can restore it to how it was before a failure... 

I have been doing an audit of my SQL Server log, as I 'thought' it was locked down but appeared to be open and we were getting a lot of password attempts on the SA account. After sorting that, I have noticed throughout the day in the ErrorLog I have entries like this 

For all the databases on the server. Its doing this more or less every hour? Is that right? I assumed once the database had started thats it unless I restart the SQL service or shut down the server? Any advice appreciated - Thanks.