Make up your mind what the definition is. Then write your argument. A history person I was listening to once said that the best argument is like this: 

You might be pleased to learn that this was the subject of the most popular allegory by Socrates recorded by Plato: the allegory of the cave. Socrates describes people imprisoned in a cave, separated from the opening by a big rock which nevertheless admits some light inside. The light shows shadows on the inside of the cave, like a camera obscura. The people can't leave, and they can't turn around. Everything they see is shadows. According to Plato, this is what real life is like: everything we see gives us in impression of real things (or what he calls "forms"), but we really don't see forms. 

I'll try! Free will is when you, the YOU that isn't anything else and isn't any property or sum of your parts... free will is when you are the cause of your actions. We believe that you cause your actions because of moral praise and blame. If you did it, and it was great, then you should get some praise for that. If you did it and it was bad, then you should be blamed for that. But if you didn't do it, that is, if your doing it was not caused by YOU, then why would anybody blame you for what happened, or praise you either? Just for fun, here are some people who had/have free will: Abraham Lincoln, Charles Darwin, Chris Hitchens, Jane Goodall, Martin Luther King Jr., Barack Obama, Copernicus, Leonardo da Vinci, Winston Churchill, Steve Jobs, Pol Pot, Ghengis Khan, Benito Mussolini, Josef Stalin, and Harvey Weinstein. 

As for your thought experiment, I don't find it particularly motivating. By asking me to "assume that math cannot be fully understood without external input", you're assuming the conclusion to your argument that mathematical knowledge is not necessarily a prior. Once you've sat down with a pencil and paper and actually proved the theorem yourself there's nothing else that can "deepen" your understanding: you already know it through and through. Maybe your understanding can be "broadened" by interpretation or visualization, but even then, these graphs are just visual representations of the logic contained in the math, not akin to how experiments relate to science. 

I'll give the Utilitarian response, out of my own interest. I'm tempted to say it won't end with a lot of great conclusions but lets see where it goes! Lets assume that P is much higher than in the host country, just for the sake of the argument. If we want a host country (and source country, for that matter) with the greatest net happiness, there are several questions that ought to be answered: 

The Bolshevik revolution was due to the public's dissatisfaction with emperor Donald Trump's controversial one-child-per-family rule. The Bolshevik revolution was due to the public's dissatisfaction with Tsarism and the government's inability to adequately handle rebellion. 

The USA is already very religious. A lot more religious than most of western Europe, at least (the fact that less laws are deeply influenced by religion doesn't matter!). Also, the fact that most people in the USA are religious doesn't make it surprising that most scientists are 'believing'. Furthermore, there is a clear difference with 'believing in a super-natural power' and being a Christian. Being a Christian is met with arguments against religion, but believing in, for example, that there is some thinking entity that subtly influences humans for the good, doesn't directly link to a religion and hence such arguments cannot be made. Finally, personal belief and even personal support of a religion doesn't hinder science, usually. The influence of religion at large, however, can. So, it isn't strange that some individuals can perform science and still keep their religious connections. 

The question whether we could have a logical system that can be represented with complex numbers raise an interesting point: Are the logical systems where multiple dimensions are useful? The answer turns out to be yes. Consider the multidimensional logic of Carlos Gershenson. Here, each logical variable is a pair from the 'square' [0,1] x [0,1]. The reason that a 2-dimensional representation is chosen is such that we can assign a truth value to even paradoxical statements such as "This phrase is false." The basic idea is that if for the pair (x,y) we have x+y=1, then this is considered a non-paradoxical value within fuzzy logic1. Otherwise, the truth value is paradoxical, but can still be represented and computed with. (for more information, see the link provided) 

Real world situations usually display an amazing degree of complexity, unlike basic statements of arithmetic. Unfortunately, most attempts to extend Gödel's theorems outside of math end up mired in these types of problems. Because these theorems were developed particular to say something about number theory (more broadly, formal systems), it's often difficult for theorists to explain how ethics or other fields might constitute a formal system analogous to mathematics. Not saying it's impossible but it is unlikely that these kinds of theories work out, mainly because of how specific Gödel's work is to the philosophy of mathematics. 

It might help to think of it like this: A: I am a qualified chef B: I have great knife skills I pick this example because it's absolutely impossible to be a decent chef, much less a qualified one, if you can't properly use a knife. You'll chop ingredients too slowly, cut yourself (or others) and not know when your knife is dull. I don't like your example because cooking well & being a qualified chef are less distinct from each other than knife skills and how good a chef one is. Lets say , as you did. In the absence of , it still may be true that . It's not hard to imagine an assassin or samurai who is an awful chef yet still has amazing knife skills (i.e. ). We also know that (there's a technical name for this that escapes me). In my case, where I exhibit both (i.e. I'm both awful with knives and a poor chef) it is still true that - it's just that in this case the operator is picking out instead of either one being a possible option. Since is still true, the material conditional itself is also true because of this equality. Hopefully this clears things up for you. 

My favorite source of philosophical and Christian quotes, William Lane Craig, has this to say about J.P. Moreland: 

Well, your question might be more appropriate for a theology Q&A site, since it relates directly to God. Pretending that that's OK for PSE, here are a few thoughts from my own perspective. 1) High is a matter of degrees, and consciousness is as well. Are you high when asleep? When just waking up? After a run? After a concussion? During the last moments before death? When full of turkey and mashed potatoes? 2) The Bible acknowledges state of mind and euphoria. Perhaps the best example in the Bible of a high is King David's dance in 2 Samuel chapter 6. The straight interpretation (i.e. David wasn't doing anything wrong) is that his high served a religious purpose, being an ecstatic form of worship. 3) The Bible acknowledges alcohol and controlling substances. Deuteronomy 14:22-29 specifies a time for religious practitioners to celebrate by having a barbecue (i.e. sacrificed sheep and cattle, roasted on an altar) and also by purchasing "wine or other fermented drink, or anything you wish. Then you and your household shall eat there in the presence of the Lord your God and rejoice." This, too, was regarded as an appropriate form of worship. 4) There are numerous examples in the Bible of bad drunken behavior, starting with Noah himself. But it may be useful to point out that controlling substances are a likely component of another banned practice, "witchcraft". 

Exactly how bad is attribute A? Is it the case that these people are petty theives, serial rapists, or merely snobby or judgmental? We all agree that qualities like these are bad, but in different levels: while I might complain but ultimately cave to my friend's request to attend a dinner with a bunch of people who are snobby and judgmental, I surely would not cave to a request to go to dinner with a group of serial rapists. There ought to be some notion of how bad A actually is for society (i.e. its consequences) in order for Utilitarianism to effectively solve this problem. Assuming A has highly negative consequences for other people, then we're left at a crossroads. Say we're looking at a group of people who are awful and dangerous drivers - something that is decidedly worse than snobbishness. Lets say that in the source country, thousands of people die each year because of poor driving combined with no safety features in automobiles and poor policing that allows bad drivers to continue running people over. Utilitarianism would say that if we took these people out of this environment, let them harm a few people in our country, which is more well-policed and safety-oriented, and then locked them up for being bad drivers, we'd actually be doing the world a favor. This seems to clash with our intuition about what the "right" thing to do is: many would say that we have no obligation to import these people if many of them will kill our own citizens with automobiles upon coming here. Assuming A has few negative consequences (snobby people don't kill people) then, if coming to the host country will benefit them greatly (say they were starving in their home country), we ought to suck it up and import them. Our discomfort about them being snobby is surely less than what they stand to benefit from coming here. This seems more reasonable than the above but might still rub us the wrong way - are you obligated to help a materially poor yet incredibly rude and obnoxious person? A lot of people would say that you're justified in walking away from a visibly intoxicated homeless person that shouts slurs at you despite the fact that your discomfort about his bad breath and lack of social etiquette is much less uncomfortable than his alcoholism and lack of reliable food and shelter. 

But let me answer your actual question. One of the main reasons that most of mathematics uses a two-valued logical system is that most of mathematics is concerned with proving something either true or false. Nothing else. Hence, as mathematicians only wish to speak about two logical values for their statements, a two-valued logical system is the simplest system that allows them to do that. 1: Here we see a parallel with the 'imaginary numbers', they were introduced in Cardano's formula as an 'algebraic trick' to have some 'nonsense' in the middle of a derivation, but a correct result at the end) 

is clearly an ad-hominem, perhaps even a straw-man (ha, if you believe that, then surely you must believe all sorts of scientific nonsense as well!). In other words, that argument is clearly fallacious and therefore can be ignored. (the fact that one side claims the debate is over only highlights the logical fallacy, although this is powerful rhetoric, of course. But it is empty rhetoric , without substance.) Why would faith be bad for science? But, for your question, why would Hitchens be so disapproving in the first place? Well, I think the main bone of Hitchens is with religion and not nessecarily belief. In history (and today still!), there have been many cases of religion hindering scientific progress. Take book burnings, enforcing dogma such as geocentrism or creationism (This is an important case. Darwin wasn't the first with the idea of evolution, merely the first to publish. The earlier discoverer simply feared that going against current religious belief would lead to too much trouble.), resistance against medical intervention due to "interfering with God's will on deciding on the living and the dead", etc. Is this an honest view on the relation of religion and science? Of course, religion also has had positive influences on science. Monks transcribed and preserved many scientific texts from the ancient Greeks and the Arabs. Some theologians have become important philosophers as well, take Thomas from Aquinas, for example. For some, the desire to understand God better has lead to careful study of nature, so religion can even provide motivation to do science! However, partially due to the renaissance, the 'dark ages' have been demonized and the atrocities of the church during that time highlighted and exaggerated. This continues to this day. So, it is likely that all negatives overshadow the positives in the minds of most atheists even if religion were a net positive on science (who can tell? Can you even imagine the middle ages without religion?), as our culture has highlighted these negative points for eons. Can we blame belief for religion? So, is all this talk about religion relevant for the question of belief? Yes. I cannot meaningfully criticize you for having a certain belief. However, I can criticize you for expressing a belief (i.e. claiming faith in some statement). The expression of faith is a social activity that is so heavily interlinked that I think it isn't a problem to use arguments against religion to people expressing faith belonging to a religion, unless they explicitly state that they have nothing to do with said religion. So, is the fact that many scientist 'believe' a contradiction? First of all, 

All I can conclude here is that Utilitarianism does a "just ok" job of solving this problem. Basically, the conclusion is that from this perspective, we can't just concern ourselves with how our host country will fare - we must also consider how our actions affect those in the source country as well. In some cases, it may be that despite A being very prevalent and very bad, we're actually helping the world by importing them to a society that will hold them responsible for their evil actions. It's possible that another ethical framework provides a more satisfactory answer (I'd expect deontologists to have an interesting response). I'm not sure if this is the example you were looking for, but it does provide an ethics-based reasoning as to what the best thing to do is. Part of my problem with this question is in handling all the variables - maybe my treatment of some of the variables leads me to this conclusion. Maybe we ought to consider what percent of the migrants would make of the host country upon moving as well? 

In addition to fallibilism, which skepticism and anti-realism both provide stances on "facts" and what we can be certain of. Both of these traditions have a rich history and are worth looking into. While these positions are certainly worthy of debate, it's not particularly philosophical to say "Well since I'm a skeptic/anti-realist there's no point in having discussions about anything because no one can ever know for certain". It's also important to distinguish the concept of "truth" from "fact": if you're committed to logic (which is a main tool of philosophy), you must accept distinction between and , even if you believe that we can never know which category a statement belongs to. To say "it is true that there are no truths" is a contradiction in terms - to say "it is true that there are no known facts" is another matter entirely. 

Where with 'positive belief' I mean 'something I believe to be true'. Atheism is a statement of negative belief, the firm rejection of belief in God or Gods and the Divine (often, let's just assume this for now). Why does that mean that you cannot have the same values of Christian dogma, if you rationally think those are good things to have value in? I mean, if God isn't real, then perhaps there is a more down-to-earth reason this stuff has lasted about 2 millennia, other than evil demagogues and dreadful dogma! A major 'issue' of 'modern atheism' is that is pretending to be a religion of its own. (I blame Dawkins, internet, America and the weird obsession to constantly 'debate' against religion, while 'atheism' is a statement of faith, not of religion (on likely implies the other in the denial, but this is only modern, really)) But really, you are free. Figure out what you want. Forget Dawkins and his lot. This is a good time to think what differs from your religious life and what is better and what is worse. This would be a nice time to learn about different religions (Perhaps you merely had the wrong religion. 'swapping faith' is a fine thing to do once carefully considered) or other philosophy (yes, religion is often a kind of philosophy, hidden in praises of God. As an atheist, you can observe philosophy of religions as you aren't fooled by religious promises) (but please, skip the 'atheism philosophy core'. Start with the classics. Look around this site) Also, don't be ashamed to return. Most religions have forgiveness and will likely force you to admit that this was stupid (is 'soul searching' stupid? I think it is a learning experience) and just come back. Do not think you cannot return. What you believe is truly your own, and none can take it away.