For a young company entering the world of off-the-shelf software, I don't think benchmarking and auditing would be a primary focus. Instead, consider hiring someone (probably permanently) with the requisite experience to lead your transition. Someone with depth in the type of software you are planning to build, and with experience sourcing and hiring consultants and employees. 

Yes. Absent anything in your contract (non-compete clauses, solicitation of clients clauses, etc) it's perfectly ethical to seek a job anywhere you like. The consulting company may have issues with hiring you (they may not want to risk burning any bridges with your current company, and may even have an agreement in place not to hire anyone from your company). If you are particularly friendly with any of the consultants, you might ask them privately about their company's policies in this regard. Still, it's smart to have these folks in your professional network either way. I once worked at a company where we brought in some automation software. I was part of the Beta program with the software vendor, and got to know a bit about them. When things started to go south in my company, I called this vendor, got an interview, and ended up landing the best job I ever held. 

No matter what Job Title you claim, be prepared to explain it during interviews down the road. I suspect you'll raise fewer eyebrows if you aren't misleading in your CV. I'd worry that claiming a Job Title when you don't have a job will come across as odd or sneaky. It's not something I would do, but your mileage may vary. 

You handle it by assuming that while your boss may be blunt and a poor communicator, particularly with this sort of feedback, there is likely some constructive criticism in there. You work with him to understand specifically what is meant by "coding style is bad" "silly mistakes" and "hurry up". Then you work with him to find ways to do better. 

That depends on how honest you wish to be. If you wanted to be honest, you'd at least indicate in your initial conversations before the interview that you "have this inkling [you] might be happier somewhere (physically) else and get payed more (including cost of living changes). It would take a fairly large amount to get [you] to leave where [you are] now". Even better would be to let prospective employers know your real motivations for interviews. If you don't wish to be very honest, then you don't have to say anything regarding your motivations, other than something like "I'm looking for career advancement that I can't get in my current company". 

I know that is as much a rant as it is an actionable question, but I'll try to answer anyway. There's no real "reason" other than lack of laws, lack of unions, and lack of competitive practice. It's incorrect to say that "no one offers benefits for part-time employees". A few employers do offer some (usually reduced) benefits to part-time workers. And a few locales do require that some "benefits" be extended to some part-time workers. Consider specifically seeking employers who provide a range of benefits for part-time workers. A quick Google search will find them. For example: $URL$ Also consider that some companies still consider less than 40 hours to be "full-time". I know some companies that require only 32 hours to be considered full-time. Benefits change with the economy, with the locale, with the domain, and with the times. In the not too distant past, many employers offered pensions. Now, outside of the public sector and academia, few do. On the other hand, employers might be getting more creative with their benefits these days - pet insurance, eye care, group legal, group purchasing power, etc. are being offered by more employers. Some are even offering education assistance and English language lessons. It's all in the name of attracting and retaining a desirable workforce. When an industry must compete harder for a smaller pool of workers, they may choose to offer more benefits and/or better pay. If the desired workforce is plentiful, or the competition is offering less, than an employer may offer less as well. If you are looking for full-time benefits in a part-time job, I suspect you'll have a hard time finding that. Maybe this will change in the "gig economy", maybe not. 

No, don't bother disclosing anything now, unless your employer requires such a disclosure during your onboarding. You'll know this by the specifics of the paperwork you fill out in your first few days of employment. Look for paperwork indicating ownership of outside work, or intellectual property developed outside of work. Read all documents carefully before signing - consult an attorney before signing a document if necessary. You have chosen to hide this fact so far, what purpose can be served by disclosing your side job now? You have already concluded that this fact is worth hiding. You hope, but don't know when (or if) you'll actually be leaving. Wait until you actually have solid plans to leave. Give the required (or professionally appropriate) notice period, then just leave. (BTW, anyone working seriously toward launching a startup should have a company attorney, who can help answer these sorts of questions.) 

There's no way to tell for sure if this is a positive, negative, or neutral sign. When I hire, I narrow the field down to a few candidates, conduct final interviews, make my decision, and then extend an offer to the top candidate. While I'm waiting for an answer from my top candidate, I try to keep the other finalists on hold. That way, if the top candidate declines, I can move on to the next candidate, make an offer, and I haven't hurt anyone's feelings. I suspect that's what is happening here - you are in the running, but are not the top candidate. If the candidate(s) above you decline, you'll get an offer. Otherwise, you won't. But there's no way to know for sure. It's also possible that you are the top candidate, but that this is a difficult decision, that holidays and vacations are slowing things down, etc, etc. Ultimately, you should continue to interview elsewhere until you get an actual offer, while trying to keep this possibility alive. If you get an offer somewhere else, contact this company and take them up on their offer to "let [them] know if you are in a hurry to have an earlier response." 

In most circumstances, the people you hire work where you work, and you can see when they arrive and when they leave. You can also periodically check in with them to see how things are going. I'm guessing you are talking about hiring a remote worker. In that case, you need to be able to trust that the worker is actually working during the hours that are reported. You can find a worker you trust by personally knowing them, by having someone you trust recommend them, or by otherwise depending on their reputation. You can still ask for and receive a detailed weekly status report indicating what they have worked on, as a sanity check. And ultimately, you will depend on their work products to tell you that they are actually making progress and putting in time on the project. 

I got my Master's degree while I had two young children. And I've spent a lot of time keeping up with my profession since. What worked (and continues to work) for me was: 

I'm sure this is true in some cases. I know of hiring managers who liked to brag that they went to the "school of hard knocks". Perhaps that's just rationalization. I also know of a hiring manager who graduated from a prestigious school. He didn't need to rationalize his choice, but he sure liked to brag about it. 

[major edit based on your new information] I've never heard of a company who decided initial salary based solely on the new employee's prior salary. Very odd in my experience. Based on this, I would go back to your new company with your new information. Let them know of your recent pay raise and ask if they would revise their offer accordingly. Don't treat it like a renegotiation (it isn't), but rather as new information you think they'd like to know. You never know, there may be a clause in their policy that deals with this situation. Or they may feel it is equitable to give you more. Worst case you'll just end up where you are. 

Worry is human. When something seems a bit off, we worry. When the interview doesn't go the way we expected (even when it's better than expected), we worry. Normal stuff. 

No. Reqs aren't the result of magic. They are the result of a written request that makes its way up from the hiring manager to the next level up, out to Accounting and HR, and up again to the higher pay grades. They are the result of a budget, and approvals - not hocus pocus. You could be CEO, President, and Chief Bottle Washer at your company and you wouldn't shake out a req that hasn't gone through the proper approval and isn't fulfilled by the preferred staffing agencies. Sorry, your idea about becoming an "incorporated" developer as a way to snag more contracting dollars wouldn't work in any shop where I was ever employed. Perhaps there are companies out there who might see value in your proposal, but I haven't met them.