As the Nazis invaded the Soviet Union, incorporated conquered territories into Reichskommisariat Ostland, Reichskommissariat Ukraine, and military administration, they went on to implement the Holocaust and exterminate most of the Jews in Belarus, Lithuania, and elsewhere. Already during the Soviet invasion of Poland, many Jews reportedly welcomed the invading troops, apparently expecting to be better off under the Soviet Union than under Nazi Germany. Despite Stalinist oppression and antisemitism, Jews must have been less bad off under Stalin than under Hitler. In Western European countries, there was little time for Jews to flee to neutral or Allied countries; it took the Nazis only five days to occupy The Netherlands, for example; and the logistics of fleeing to the United Kingdom were complicated by the North Sea. But in the Soviet Union, it took the Nazis three months to take over the Baltic States, Belarus, and part of Ukraine. There would have been enough time to flee east. Why was there no massive wave of Jewish refugees, fleeing the advancing Nazi army by retreating deeper into the Soviet Union? Apparently, around 300,000 Polish Jews escaped to Soviet-occupied territories at the beginning of World War II. 

In the Dutch General Election, 1948, the largest party was KVP with 32 seats. Second was PvdA with 27 seats. Normally the largest party provides the prime minister. Yet in the folowing KVP-PvdA-CHU-VVD coalition government, the prime minister was Drees (PvdA) rather than Van Schaik (KVP). Why did the second largest party rather than the largest party provide the prime minister between 1948 and 1951? 

here, Randall Munroe refers to minute-by-minute — or even second-by-second — timelines / reconstructions that one can find in newspapers or on websites, such as Wikipedia. Have there been any big events that happened during DST changeover? By big event, I mean any event big enough such that it was covered with a detailed timeline (at least down to the minute) in major news media. 

From 1885 to 1929, the Irish Parliamentary Party held the seat Liverpool Scotland in England. Why did the Irish Parliamentary Party choose to contest a seat in England, and what factors contributed to their win? Did this constituency house a large Irish population? Did they ever contest any other seats? I found this article but it focusses more on the biography of the MP than on the background of how an Irish nationalist represented an English seat. 

My late father commanded a B-47 bomb squadron from 1955-1964. The B-47 was a medium range bomber that was frequently forward deployed for weeks at a time at bases in Spain, Turkey and Libya, and kept there armed and on alert. After reading that the Air Force had declassified the list of Soviet and Warsaw Pact targets developed by the Strategic Air Command, I saw my father's former navigator and asked him whether it was true that after their mission they would fly to Turkey and eject, then walk home. He said, only, that "bailing out was definitely part of the plan." 

My great-grandfather was a POW held first at Point Lookout and transferred to Elmira. Family legend has it that he attempted an escape digging a tunnel with a spoon. I know that there were seventeen successful escapes from Elmira, but I can't find anything on attempted escapes. Were escape attempts documented? If so where can these records be found? 

The direct motivation of Nebuchadnezzar in sparing King Jeconiah is not known. However, we can discern his motivation from subsequent events that suggest that keeping an heir of David alive, but under the thumb of the Babylonian king would make it easier to manage the large number of Jews in exile in Babylon. In or about the year 597 BCE, Jeconiah, the young king of the defeated kingdom of Judah, joins the first wave of Jewish deportees to Babylonia. II Kings 25:12. There, he and his family were cared for by King Nebuchadnezzar. James B. Pritchard, ed., Ancient Near Eastern Texts Relating to the Old Testament (Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press, 1969) 308. In Babylon, Jeconiah became the first exilarch (aka the Raish Galusa) (my transliterations follow ashkenaz practice; you will also find this term spelled Raish Galuta) -- a position of power over the Jewish people in exile that was held only by direct descendants of King David. Among the exilarchs were Judah the Prince, who was the editor of the Mishna and one of the greatest Torah scholars in Jewish history. The position of exilarch with Davidic geneology continued into the 11th century. One of the last exilarchs was Rav Sherira Gaon (ca 900-1000 CE), the author of the history of the Oral Law in Judaism, the Igerres Rav Sherira Gaon, and one of the last leaders of the ancient yeshiva in Pumpedisa, Babylon (believed to have been a neighborhood in what is now Baghdad). Through the position of exilarch, and by granting wealth and privilege to the exilarch, the Babylonians maintained effective control of their Jewish population in exile. Igerres Rav Sherira Gaon, Ch. 9 (Rav Sherira, at p. 113, states that the underwriting of the office continued until the 8th or 9th Century CE). An argument could be made that the existence of the institution also inhibited the efforts of Ezra, Nehemiah and Zechariah to repopulate Israel when Babylon agreed to make that possible 70 years after the 1st Temple's destruction. 

The Allied Liberation of The Netherlands lasted from 12 September 1944 (when the first villages were liberated) to 5 May 1945, when the German capitulation took force (not counting a few German remnants on some islands). However, the Dutch government-in-exile did not return until the war was over. How was the administration of the liberated part organised? Was it under allied military administration? Did parts of the Dutch government return to be in charge? Did the Dutch government govern remotely? 

According to Russian scientist Sergey Zimov, the disappearance of grasslands in Siberia was not due to Climate Change, but due to overhunting in prehistoric times. The theory is that humans killed the large grazers. This led to the older steppe-like landscape to be replaced by the less productive and less biodiverse dense forests that we associate with Siberia today. Those forests are so much darker than the previous landscape, that it has a significant impact on global average temperature. According to this theory, not only did pre-industrial civilisations engage in unsustainable practices, but they actually engaged in anthropogenic climate change. Note that there is currently no scientific consensus on this theory, but I find it a very intriguing thought. 

Yesterday I learned of the (somewhat obscure) Centrocaspian Dictatorship, an unrecognised state that existed for less than 2 months in 1918. Are there any other (less obscure) states that have called themselves a dictatorship? It seems more common dictatorships call themselves the free democratic people's worker's utopia and so on. 

I recall hearing that in the past in Britain and Ireland, some workers (perhaps miners?) got their weekly wages paid out in the pub, much to the dismay of their wives. I don't remember where I heard or read it, and I can't find a reference to it now. Was there any era / branch / area where such was common practice? 

(If you ever get the chance to listen to Sergey Zimov speaking in person, I strongly recommend you do. His are most memorable lectures I've ever attended.) 

The administration was carried out by the Militair Gezag, literally the Military Authority. This authority was initially based in Brussels (Belgium), later in Breda and finally in The Hague. They had lower authority than the Supreme Allied Commander Allied Forces (General Dwight D. Eisenhower) leading the Supreme Headquarters Allied Expeditionary Forces (SHAEF), Mission to the Netherlands. From Wikipedia: 

Although the article on the Cuban missile crisis at Wikipedia cites John T. Correll's article from the August 2005 issue of Air Force Magazine as saying that the Soviets had possibly only 4 operational ICBMs in October 1962, the record has changed as more and more documents come to be declassified. According to Robert S. Norris' presentation at the Wilson Center, the Soviet Union had about 42 operational ICBMs in October 1962. Norris, Robert S., "The Cuban Missile Crisis: A Nuclear Order of Battle" (Oct. 24, 2012). Soviet Gen. Dmitri Volkogonov in 1989, however, stated that the Soviets only had 20 ICBMs ready in October 1962, and "most analysts" accept Volkogonov's estimate than the higher US estimate. Bernstein, Barton J. "Reconsidering the Perilous Cuban Missile Crisis 50 Years Later," Arms Control Today (Oct. 2012). All-in-all, Norris' full count of all available nuclear weapons concludes: 

After a 44-day bloody civil war in 1948, the rebel fighters of Costa Rica banned the country from having a standing army. Other than conquered nations under the dominion of another, is there any self-ruling nation that has ever fully disbanded its armed forces? 

Many foreign navies have commissioned foreign shipyards to build warships and submarines for them. Most recently, Russia purchased to amphibious dock landing ships from France (that sale is currently suspended due to Russia's invasion of the Crimea). Also, it was reported this week that Australia is looking to foreign shipyards to build it a new class of submarines under the assumption that the Defense Ministry "wouldn't trust [Australian shipyards} to build a canoe." While it is true that the U.S. Navy has, from time to time, commissioned into the fleet captured war prizes (e.g. some gunboats captured in the Spanish-American War). Also, the U.S. Army, during World War I, purchased tanks and aircraft from Europoean manufacturers. But unlike its sister services, I am unaware that the U.S. Navy has ever requisitioned a foreign shipyard to build it a warship of any class. Is that correct? One period I'm uncertain about is the naval expansion preceding the Spanish-American War. 

The American surrender of Wainwright's and Sharp's forces in the Philippines, during World War II, was the largest surrender of troops under the US flag in the history of the country. Reports at the time stated that US and Filipino troops were fighting hunger and illness in addition to the Japanese, and that there was no chance that the US could get supplies to them, given Japan's command of the seas at that point. However, American troops who refused to surrender, such as Col. Wendell Fertig, working with other American soldiers, organized Filipino resistence fighters into an effective insurgency of approximately 36,000 troops. By doing so, he caused the Japanese to divert 60,000 troops to Mindano in an unsuccessful attempt to crush the insurgency. Moreover, Fertig's insurgency force became one of the most effective intelligence sources available to MacArthur in that area. The supply problems that led Wainwright to surrender were largely solved by Fertig, an engineer, who creatively used native crops and materials, and salvaged allied and enemy stores and weapons, to supply, equip, and feed his forces. See John Keats, They Fought Alone: Wendell Fertig and the World War II Guerrilla Campaign in the Philippines, (J. B. Lippincott Company) (1963). Given that the US Army had relatively recent experience fighting against insurgencies in Central America (i.e. the Banana Wars), did it occur to MacArthur or his staff that Wainwright's and Sharp's forces would have been better off heading for the hills and fighting a guerrilla war, rather than surrendering? If not, what factors made MacArthur and his staff choose surrender instead?