If you want to detach completely from non-universal measurements of time, you could measure things in intervals of the plank length. According to the wikipedia page: 

Start a campaign to sprinkle soot I've briefly covered this in my answer here. Essentially, you should have a concerted effort to make the ice caps less reflective. This is easily done by sprinkling a layer of something dark on top of them. In places where there is permafrost, this will start releasing trapped methane and CO2, and, in some cases, will cause peat/coal seam fires, which will release still more CO2 and methane, and also sprinkle more soot on surrounding ice. If you go out and start actually setting coal/peat fires you'll have even better results. 

So actually, let's not use a transmitter inside our bubble at all! I posted this answer too soon, and I've just thought of a fairly novel way to approach this. As I mentioned earlier in the post, the bubble is creating a great deal of radiation. Maybe we can harness that! Let's turn our entire ship into an AM transmitter! I'll be the first to admit I haven't slogged through the math on this one, but I'd put some money on the fact that increasing the speed of your bubble will increase the amount of radiation being emitted from the bubble. So if you can effectively modulate the speed of the ship, you can modulate the energy of the radiation! Now once your message reaches the other ship, the problem posed by the bubble actually becomes a benefit! I can't speak to the actual shape of the bubble, but I'm betting it's roughly spherical (in the front that is). The back is under negative pressure, so that's going to mess with things, but if you can use the front of the bubble to refract the signal back in towards the ship, you may actually get some gain. Beware that if you're looking for hard science, this last paragraph is rampant speculation, and I'd recommend you move over to the physics stack exchange to get some answers there. 

The important part about a singularity is that it has infinite density, not the amount of mass. According to wikipedia you can have a black hole at any size above the plank mass. Which means that it would exert the exact same amount of gravitational influence as any other mass of the same size. Like the other answer suggests, the main difficulty would be in sustaining it, not in keeping everything from being sucked in. A visit to WolframAlpha using a statistic from the above wikipedia page shows us that in regular 3 dimensional gravity the minimum mass of a black hole would be 18 µg, which is certainly not about to suck the moon out of orbit. Furthermore, the Schwartzschild radius of this black hole is only 2.673×10^-35 meters. This would be pretty easy to maintain as long as we can keep it in a vacuum. Indeed, we're probably even safe outside a vacuum, as air molecules at STP [are more than 10 orders of magnitude farther apart than the Schwarzschild radius. Additionally, I think it's important to think about conservation of mass and energy. If we're going to create a black hole big enough to pull the moon in to the earth, that energy has to come from somewhere, and that somewhere will have to be on earth for at least a short period. That energy will already cause the moon to be pulled in because, again, the only difference between a 5kg black hole and a 5kg bowling ball is that one is smaller in radius than the other. Outside the Schwartzschild radius there's really no physical difference. 

So how much energy are you going to need? For this we need the weight of the craft. You said we need to be able to perform an orbital injection, so the rocket equation is coming into the picture! (YAY!) WolframAlpha has a nice tool built-in for the rocket equation, so I'm going to give all the numbers to it here.. I assume a (very light) dry mass of 1,000 kg and shoot to do nothing more but get the craft below escape velocity of Mars. These are the initial masses we get: 

b.Lorenz sniped in a comment (shame on you, you know the rules ;) ), but I'll go ahead and explain how he got there. You worked with percentages in your post, but it's a bit easier (for me at least) to switch to proportions. Proportions work on the following principle: $\frac{x_1}{y_1}=\frac{x_2}{y_2}$, where $x_1$ and $x_2$ are comparable, as are $y_1$ and $y_2$. In the case of your question, we have several comparable values. The lifespan of an elf to the lifespan of a human and the age of a particular elf and the age of particular human. So your equation will be: $\frac{age_{human}}{lifespan_{human}}=\frac{age_{elf}}{lifespan_{elf}}$ $\frac{age_{human}}{100}=\frac{440}{750}$ Multiplying each side by both the denominators gives us: $age_{human}*750=100*440$ Finally divide through by 750 to get $age_{human}$ by itself: $age_{human} = \frac{100*440}{750}=58.666...$ Does this sound reasonable? Maybe... It makes sense to me that elves would have much longer fertile years before their bodies start to fail. Maybe their menopause lasts just as long as humans, but starts at the age of 730. 

Have some numbers! Okay, so I don't know how to make numbers look pretty, so I'll be using code blocks :( Also, for the sake of having some real numbers to work with, I'm going to assume a nice simple trip from Earth to Mars at the point when they are closest together. All numbers are taken from NASA. 

If you're talking about wind strong enough to move a land ship, moving through a desert covered in dunes, there's going to be a MASSIVE amount of sand in the air. If your ships aren't very fast moving, they'll quickly be buried. Also, as someone who loves to sail, I'm trying to imagine what it would be like to sail through dunes. The wind would be so impossibly unpredictable I'm not sure it would be navigable unless your sails were extremely high up. I would suggest that your ships include a spinnaker and have it fly quite high above the dunes. This could have the added benefit of adding lift to your ship, making it less heavy and less likely to sink into the sand. 

So first of all, how long is this gun going to have to be? You said about a minute, so I'll give numbers for 60 and 120 seconds. For the rest of this answer I will continue calculations for each of these numbers, the first being the craft accelerated for 60 seconds and the second being the craft accelerated for 120 seconds. 

I find the Rates graph interesting, as you can see a significant fluctuation in fertility in 18 year increments, giving some significant generational effects! 

What is a Water Snake? A water snake is a flexible membrane shaped into a torroid and filled with a liquid. The upshot is that, because the membrane is flexible, it can turn itself inside out by rotating around the center. Imagine a two gears meshing, and then revolve that around the point where the gears mesh to get a 3d object. The entire outer surface moves one direction while the inner surface moves the other direction. 

This breaks the "like tank armor" rule, but... Shoot the incoming projectiles This is very, very hard to do, but you said not to worry about that ;) When two projectiles collide at these kinds of speeds, they will tend to behave much more like liquids than solids. Imagine shooting an egg that was being thrown at you. The egg will still reach you, but it will be broken up and the pieces distributed over a large area. The same sort of thing would happen to an incoming slug, completely negating its effectiveness. High explosive rounds would behave a little differently, and, depending on the type of explosive used, would maybe explode prematurely. If the incoming round is made of something very hard like tungsten, it might shatter rather than (for lack of a better word) splat, but the effect will still be the same. This is a real-world technology for larger, slower moving projectiles such as missiles. A quick google search found me this German armament that seems to attempt this for incoming artillery, mortars and missiles. This might be easier if you can use a high-power laser to superheat the projectile as it flies towards you, but it would have to be a very powerful laser. The time the projectile spends in the air is very short, and convection will be working against you. 

I can't know for certain how much of an effect this will have, because you haven't specified the mass of the material, but by adding all this material in a shell around the earth you will be increasing its moment of inertia by enough to change its rotational period. Depending on the amount of change, this could affect global wind patterns caused by the Coriolis Effect. Regardless, if this is modern earth, it would easily be enough to be measurable by atomic clocks, so humans would notice. 

I think rather than transistors, you're looking for a mechanical nand gate. There's a related question here. Nand gates are a logic gate that allows you to build complete computing systems, including adders and memory. Combine these mechanical gates with some sort of mechanical clock (water wheel?) and you've got the capability to perform real computing. 

At some point they wouldn't. Making better hardware is essentially an optimization problem, and it turns out computers are getting VERY good at that. Additionally, we are reaching the end of the line when it comes to silicone chips; we can't make transistors much smaller, and that's a physics barrier, not a manufacturing barrier. Writing code for specific hardware is already abstracted away from programmers with compilers. As soon as computers start engineering the hardware, it's not really all that difficult to have them generate the compiler as well. This all sounds like serious science fiction, but it's actually closer for real humans than you might think. Many experts say we'll see computers become better than humans at coding within the next 50 years, and as someone who works in machine learning, I honestly think it might be quicker. The trend for programming languages today is to make them more "readable". That is, you shouldn't have to worry about how you write your code, only what you're trying to accomplish. The computer will take it from there. There are already great strides being made in this area, frameworks like Spark build intricate data structures describing how a program will run and then immediately optimize them so that you're (nearly) guaranteed to have the most efficient program at the end of it. The logical next step is to remove the programming aspect altogether. In the future we'll likely program the same way people make their own webpages with things like weebly. The important thing will not be how the program is run, but what we want it to do. This change will make the process incredibly simple and within the reach of pretty much everyone. And this is all within the next century. What the next few centuries will bring, I can hardly guess, but likely computers will take over the entire job end-to-end. People won't need to know how the computers work behind the scenes, and it will likely be too complicated for us to even understand.