I think there are two ways of looking at your question, and I feel like I have read discussion on this topic before, but sadly I can't find the references again right now. If your question is primarily technological, then I agree with all the other answers here – given all other variables being held essentially the same, death by drone vs. death by mustard gas vs. death by catapult are probably essentially equivalent. As others have mentioned, post traumatic stress is a response to trauma, which can be caused by essentially any event involving extreme stress – so you should find "PTSD" resulting from medieval combat. The alternative perspective, which again I was unable to find academic discussion about, is to look at whether a different society would experience post traumatic stress in the same way. Since we don't have experimental evidence on hand, we can only do thought experiments here, but would the experience of mass death in warfare (regardless of the weapons involved) be different for people with a radically different psychological makeup? It's often said that in earlier eras "life was cheaper" – average lifespans were much shorter and random death was much more common: through unchecked violent crime, rape and pillage raids, constant epidemics, starvation, industrial accidents, animal attacks, and so on. In such an environment, is there any sense in which the terror of combat would be less terrifying comparable to the baseline level of terror experienced in daily life? You could argue that in such a case everyone would be traumatised, but that would mean that veterans (and their PTSD) might not "stand out" enough to be recognised as experiencing a specific category of psychological harm? So that's our hypothesis one: a society could exist where the PTSD experienced by combatants was not noticeable/remarkable in the context of broader society. For hypothesis two, consider a hypothetical society with a "martial culture". Many of the problems we face in integrating veterans into modern society involve issues specific to re-integration into civilian life: e.g. how to teach a person not to be in a constant state of readiness (which in civilian society is not normal), or how to teach a person not to respond to potential threats with violence, or how to teach a person new skills that will get them a civilian career. Here on worldbuilding we could posit a society where the is no reintegration into civilian life – a warrior culture, to lean on a cliche. In such a situation, an individual might still be traumatised by our definition, but they remain in the military context where the symptoms of this trauma may be normal, and less likely to interfere with their ability to lead a meaningful life. This kind of society could view the psychological changes wrought by combat experience to be a natural progression in an individual's life – the example of this attitude that comes immediately to mind is in Kubrick's Full Metal Jacket: 

I don't think it's possible to operationalise an answer to this, but one thing that leaps out at me is that certain "legendary species" might take years to find just in themselves — I can't find any sources to support this right now, but anecdotally I feel like I've heard of people spending months or years just trying to catch a glimpse of particularly elusive animals with very low populations in difficult habitats, like snow leopards, or tiny marsupial mice, et cetera. There's also the question of what goes on the list; this is maybe a nitpick, but does Billy have to "catch" every animal which is currently not extinct, whether we know for sure or not? One example from Australia is the thylacine or Tasmanian tiger; the scientific consensus is that the last one died in captivity in 1936, and no sightings have been confirmed for 50 years, which is apparently the official criterion for extinction. Nevertheless, if the species has survived, unbeknownst to biologists (but apparently "beknownst" by the "Centre for Fortean Zoology"), does Billy have to find one to complete his biodex? There are a number of "unconfirmable" extinction cases of this kind, I would imagine, even moreso in the sea. Gray whales are quite probably extinct, but the ocean is a pretty big place — and the absence of evidence is not technically the evidence of absence, as they say. I feel like the closest analogue to what Billy needs to do is the career of David Attenborough, who has personally photographed an enormous variety of animals all over the world — I wonder what percentage of the world's total species count he has covered in his lifetime? 

This may be a little "out there" but what if you had a society with some kind of marx-inspired conception of work-as-value? This isn't tangible, though – it only works if at an individual level it was accepted that a 'coin' could be earned via and exchanged for useful labour. 'Work' is a fuzzy concept. People would probably agree that an hour of designing a fusion reactor was more difficult (and useful to society) than an hour spent serving up fast food, so you don't map the currency to units of time or anything. But in a sufficiently organised society (it would have to be fairly authoritarian, most probably) it might be possible to systematise the pay of each person - a little like how workers unions sometimes decide on set rates for various roles, you might say that unskilled work is valued at 10 units per hour, while highly skilled or dangerous work was worth 100 units. I figure the economics of this would be that I take my pay (whatever it is) into a restaurant, and I pay a price based on how much work goes into preparing my food - say 10 mins of the short order cook's time, 5 mins of the server's time, plus some inevitable mystery amount representing the minute fractional effort put into the transaction by the manager, the franchisee, the parent company, etc etc etc. My pay itself comes out of the account of my employer, who accrues the 'credits' of customers or whatever, takes a cut for the time taken to manage affairs, and then passes on the share afforded to me based on my pay-rate. I get the feeling there's probably a lot wrong with this concept on some level, but at the very least it's divisible enough, and its value is easily understood and concrete if enforced within society - maybe if I can't quite make the bill at that restaurant, I can wash their dishes; and the economy is structured so that we all know exactly how much dishwashing I owe. 

You might consider this a very conservative/slow timeframe. If FTL followed this path, and we discovered the key principle in the very near future, people wouldn't be flitting around between stars until about the year 4000. Keep in mind though that we might have progressed a lot faster if we didn't keep destroying civilisation as we knew it, burning all our libraries, murdering our scientists and philosophers, and starting again... Computers Before I start here, keep in mind that computers as we know them are dependant also on the invention of electricity, and more fundamentally, the invention of mathematics and logic. Let's leave those out, and for the sake of argument let's also leave out the first single use mechanical calculators like the Antikythera mechanism, and focus on what we might as well call Turing machines.