The major reason against it is possible loss of privacy. You need to weigh the pros and cons for yourself. 

To me, your first paragraph describes a toxic work environment - where people vie for "power" and protect their little corners - without thinking of the larger picture - what's best for the company as a whole. I see this mind set as very short sighted and ultimately destructive. 

It doesn't really matter if the recruiter believes you have another offer or not - as far as they are concerned, you are negotiating. That should be enough. 

First and foremost this is done for branding and marketing. Most companies have a logo and mandate its usage when corresponding in an official capacity. Why? Because it is part of the company brand - making it recognizable. 

My point of view is also that of a consultant, so do take that in mind when reading my answer. There is nothing wrong with working on such a date. If the company is open for business on this day (formally so) and it is an optional day off for the salaried personnel, then this is a working day like all others, as far as you are concerned. Of course it is in your interest to work in such a day, which doesn't really have much meaning to you - consider that as far as the salaries personnel are concerned, they are getting a free day off, so it is in their interest to take it. In the same vein, it is fine to work the days between Christmas and the New Year if the company is officially open on those days, even if all your salaried colleagues have taken these days off. 

If this is established custom in a workplace, you can't expect to decline and have no social consequence. Whatever reason you give for declining to participate, people will see you as an outsider, at least on this specific issue. If you are part of other social activities, it may just be chalked up to a personal quirk of yours. How you politely decline will depend very much on your relationship with whomever does the collections and with the group that the collections are done for - you could use humour (I already gave at the office/home), you can explain your objections in a polite way (I already bought a present / I really don't know x yet). It is up to you to judge what approach will work best without marking you out as an outsider. 

If writing down things is something that helps you remember important details, you should keep doing so. Having a written record is valuable later on if you do forget things and need to review. I don't know why your colleagues are saying this is unprofessional, one possibility being that it makes them look bad (as they are not writing things down and it may seem, in comparison to yourself, that they are not paying attention), so they don't want you to continue. In short - keep doing what you are doing. If it helps you and hurts no one, I don't see the harm in it. 

You are under no obligation to disclose this at any point until you have accepted either the permanent position or the new contract. The fact is, if you do disclose the possibility and it costs you a possible position and then you don't get the permanent position you are currently contracting at (for whatever reason), you have just closed a door that could have remained open. Keep your options open. It may feel unethical to you, but we can't tell the future and the unexpected can always happen - in particular in the contracting arena, though also in the permanent arena, to a lesser degree. Most employers looking for employees know that the "market" is volatile and people who are available one day are gone the next. If asked, do not lie - you should explain your position and that if the offer from your current employer does not represent your true value that you will not accept. 

The first two approaches mean there is no confrontation at this time - you can continue working, knowing there is a light at the end of the tunnel (your notice period or the formal review). The last two may cause bad feelings - I would suggest taking the HR route over the manager route, as you have already discussed matters with your manager (your manager may not know the details of your contract - unless you have pointed them out). 

Yes to both points. You should not be interviewing for a new job while doing your current one. If you must, take some time off for this. This should be done off the clock. 

If firing is not an option, getting him out of the office on forced leave may still be possible. Someone who has shown every intention to leave and is not contributing can do that away from the office where everyone is seeing them. 

There is no need or requirement to indicate the reasons for ending an employment. There are many reasons against it: 

Company email signatures are no different - they show the company brand and are a marketing tool. Having a unified signature across the organization is the professional thing to do. Some companies are more aware than others in regards to fonts, pitch, color selection and such. 

A bird at hand and all that. Meaning - job C is pending and is not certain, while job B is certain. You don't want to compromise it in case job C falls through, in which case you will end up with no job B or job C. I understand that this is a bit of a moral dilemma, in that you don't want to lead job B on and have them waste resources, but you do need to consider the worst case scenario with job C (for some reason something either goes wrong with the physical and background check or they get delayed). 

In a new job I believe one should expect to be shown the ropes. What that means, however, is different in each company and depends on the position itself and the experience the new comer has as well. The best introductions to a new job would indeed include all that the asker you have quoted expected, but as experience shows, many employers are not the best at many things, including inductions. Many companies do not have induction plans at all. Some that do are the ones conducted by HR regarding company policies and procedures and a work related induction never happens. In many ways, the induction is up to the manager of the new person - and managers certainly vary in their approaches and care for employees... 

It means - if you have applied in the past, please do not apply again. Normally this would mean that as one was not found suitable in the past, the company believes they will not be found suitable in the present. They are trying to save time and effort. It doesn't make much sense that previous (unsuccessful) applicants would be automatically considered - after all, they were unsuccessful (why do I say that? Well... if they got the job, they would have been successful). Personally, I find this kind of phrasing to be short sighted - people change and learn. If one had acquired new skills or experience that would make them more suitable to this job at this time, they should be fine to apply again, regardless of this phrase. 

Time differences. You will not be working with your colleagues at the same time normally (unless they are willing to work in unusual hours) - you may have several hours of overlap in times, when you can communicate in real time (phone, skype, IM, for instance). This greatly inhibits quick communication - something that could take 5 minutes on the phone can easily stretch to 2 days of emailing. Language barrier. In particular if your colleagues are in a country where the native language is not yours (or the chosen language for the project). It will take extra time and effort to ensure your communication is clear (avoid abbreviations, slang and culture specific references, for example). There will still be places where meaning will not transfer well (lost in translation...). You will need to use explicit documentation and add detail that you wouldn't normally add when communicating with people in the same office. 

Recruiters have to think about their commission as well, though, some commission is better than none. This normally means that even if their client can't budge, they can, to a limited extent. If you make it clear to the recruiter that "given a tiny bump in the offer rate" you will accept the offer, it will be a good incentive for them to get that bump (you don't have to specify how small the bump need be, though being clear about figures may help them figure out if they can make the difference). It will not hurt to mention you expect "offers that compete with this one, with way less responsibilities" to explain why you believe a higher rate is fair. 

Unfortunately we don't have details and when you say "they have done nearly everything wrong" all I can take away from that is that you believe they had done things incorrectly. You may or may not be right - it could just be you, you know... And your PM may not be in the position to be able to tell the right way from the wrong way. Instead of going to the PM, you should be talking to your colleagues. If you don't understand why something has been done a certain way, ask. If you consistently get evasive answers or answers that clearly show that the person is out of their depth, then you have an opportunity to educate. Show them a better way - educate them and help them learn. I understand this will not help with current projects, but going forward it should help. 

There is no specific timing that is unprofessional - you can always look for other work. Yes, it may be awkward to look for new work just after accepting a new job/salary increase/promotion/whatever, but in this case, having been denied a salary increase, there is nothing that should stop you. The fact is, dissatisfaction in a job is the primary reason for leaving it - having been denied a salary increase is definitely grounds for dissatisfaction and frankly, if you do leave for a better paying job soon, they should have seen it coming. Now, in terms of how future prospective employers will see this - that entirely depends on the rest of your CV/Resume. A single job like this will not, by itself, raise any alarm bells. The whole document would tell the story - if you have many such jobs, then there could be an impact. It also depends on your industry and what is considered usual - 10 years ago, programmers could jump jobs every year without any negative impact, for example. Things are somewhat different in this industry these days (recessions do that), but many people will move jobs every two-three years. 

It is possible that this is a scam where the "recruitment agency" is selling resume services (i.e. teaching you how to improve you resume - for a fee). Just be aware this is a possibility. 

Frankly, if you know this is someone who is leaving and who is no longer doing his job (and is distracting and demoralizing the rest of the workforce with his actions), why is he still coming into the office? How do you handle this? You give him his pink slip and send him to gardening leave. That is - you fire him and have his spend his notice period at home. He is already not doing his job - it is better for the rest of the work force if he isn't around. 

Saying "no" to a second interview is not burning bridges. She can simply say that her salary expectations were higher than what was offered and that the work did not match what she is looking for. This can be done politely and on the note that if the company, in the future, will again be looking for someone with her skill, they should contact her. This actually avoids wasting the time of the company as well - they will not want to continue interviewing someone who is not going to accept and it is better for this information to come out early. Don't forget that this works both ways - a company can also say no after the first interview, and your friend would rather know sooner rather than later (as for listing why - a company has more of a legal issue in this regard and may not be able to divulge the information). 

No, of course not. The opposite is true - you got promoted within the company, that shows that you have what it takes, that others valued you enough to promote you (and probably over others in the same position). In fact, this is something to highlight. 

Since you were specifically told that they dress code is relaxed and jeans were mentioned, then that's what you should wear. In regards to the shirt - by all means, dress smart-casual - in this regards, there will be no harm in dressing up and you will be able to see what others are wearing and adjust accordingly. If you are still unsure - by all means go into work in a suit on the first day. This will certainly give the right message - I have done this in the past and had the COO come over to tell me that's the last day I come in to work in a suit. 

You are not bargaining for your friend. What you are doing is called blackmail - that is certainly unethical and in some countries may be illegal. Even if not quite blackmail, it certainly is not a professional thing to have done. Your career is yours, and your friends career is theirs. Your friend has made a stand and got fired - this has nothing to do with your career. I can understand wanting to look out for someone you have mentored and befriended, but this is not helping anyone. Helping your friend to find a new job would have been much more productive. I'd expect that you will be getting your notice soon and if you and your friend are to remain, chances are good that you will both be gone fairly quickly. I don't see how the company would have any interest in keeping you after this. 

If you play on your own time (as you say, during lunch time and after work), there shouldn't be a problem. After all, the ping pong table was supplied by the company with the intent that it will be played. So long as playing doesn't interfere with working hours and the productivity of you and your colleagues, you shouldn't worry about it. Of course, if someone does mention it as an issue, at that point you need to think about it, but not before.