I am sort-of on the side of your boss. Technical proficiency is only a part of the total package needed to carry through a project. Projects can succeed perfectly smoothly even if the team is not well-versed in every aspect of the technology platform that is being used. There are other aspects of the project in areas such as requirements capture, support and overall customer-vendor relationship that can trump deficiencies in "trivia" related to the technology. And anyway if you look hard enough, it is always possible to find deficiencies in knowledge, skill, and experience in any team that is about to start a project. For this reason, it is better to NOT free-associate these deficiencies when asked casually. If the project is even remotely possible for your team to handle, then you should do everything possible to keep opportunities open-- at least until you can fully evaluate the request for proposal. What happened here, I think, is that your boss felt you may have cut-off the opportunity for further dialog with the customer and perhaps even a bid. 

"SNAFU" is a common and informal word-choice. Although the origin of the word is vulgar, the current usage is not interpreted as vulgar. In your case, the usage doesn't necessarily imply that it is routine for HR to make mistakes, but rather that circumstances and complexities which are beyond control might cause some mistakes to have been made. I think that using "SNAFU" is definitely OK for internal and informal communication and probably even fine for wider usage. 

Do NOTHING differently. Work as though you are NOT going to be "hit by a bus" tomorrow. The "hit-by-a-bus" problem is an organizational problem and not something that needs to be explicitly addressed in your own work-objectives. Your co-workers and management should be thinking about it, but I think it is too much to expect individual contributors to work as though they might literally be gone tomorrow. If management is oblivious to the potential problems here, it means they're totally out of touch or maybe you're not as indispensable as you thought. At best, if you're generous, you might want to remind key people and leads about having back-up in case of emergency. But in an era where corporations throw careers "under the bus" at a whim for the sake of short-term profit, how much should you really care? Diligent engineering practices resolve many of the issues of the "hit by a bus" dilemma. Going above and beyond that to the point of being ready for immediate and permanent disappearence will create a lot of overhead for the individual contributor. It sounds like the environment described by the OP could benefit by simply better practices and staffing, there is no need for him to work as though he might vaporize at any minute. 

IANAL, but if it is an interesting idea that no one else seems to care about you should just pursue it-- at least to the point where you can see if it amounts to something. No one can stop you from discretely experimenting with it or developing it. Ideas by themselves are cheap, implementation is what counts. There are already a million ways a good idea can fail during before/during/after implementation. Sometimes the concept changes into something completely different than was was started. Asking a lawyer "for permission" as a first-step will all but ensure the thing never sees reality. And anyway, if it is really successful, somebody will eventually try to sue whether the idea is purely original or not. 

It is not enough to make a staffing decision based strictly on current productivity/capability differences (assuming one can even measure that accurately). There are other things to consider, in particular: 

The exit interview is not the place to give effective feedback. In the best situation employers would listen to their people while they are still working rather than when they are going out the door. Admittedly, that doesn't happen much in places where people are apt to leave. It seems that you have already voiced your concerns well in advance of announcing your departure. That's good. The people who were in a position to actually make changes had an opportunity to help you (and themselves) out and did not. At least they know why you're really leaving and that is what is important. Any interaction with HR other than a quick and friendly signing of forms and checking of boxes will amount to nothing good. Just tell them you're moving on to a new opportunity and wish everyone the best. 

I think the best thing to do is to describe in convincing and appropriately detailed terms what benefit you provided to the project. However, using "metrics" like percentages and cost reduction in dollars or time or LOC can be really hard to do right. These things are not necessarily measured accurately (or even valid-- in the case of LOC) and they are rarely the result of the singular efforts of one person. I know that career advice these days says to cite "metrics" to quantify job experiences, but they're dubious figures unless you can back them up and make a strong case for why they're valid and true. 

There is absolutely nothing wrong with working for free if you want to help out an organization you believe in. You should however keep track of your hours and expenses. The expenses are tax-deductable if the org has 501c3 status and you get a tax receipt from them (assuming USA here). In general, the org should know the actual value of what they are receiving. It is good for them because it can help them to get matching contributions. It might be good for you as well if subsequent work you do for this non-profit can be paid for by a sponsor (and that might be tax-deductable for sponsor, I think). As for expectations, why should it be different than work for any other client? Agree to expectations (timeline, deliverables, etc) in advance and do your best to stick to the agreement. It really is no different. 

As I indicated in the comments to the question, "anonymous" job postings often have multiple listings with different recruiters. Before doing anything try googling characteristic phrases from the job description and see what you get. Some listings might contain more information or identify the employer. If not then at the very least you can choose which recruiter to deal with. I have even gone as far as searching google maps for office parks in the geographic location mentioned in the description. Many office parks have the tenants listed. If you're able to rule out dentist's offices, accountants, and car-dealerships , etc, it is not that hard to end up with a manageable short list of possible employers. LinkedIn can often generate clues. Hiring managers who have a decent relationship with a recruiter are likely joined on linkedIn. I forget if linked in lets you see "third connections" in some of the premium memberships. Once you get 100+ connections, you have an amazing number of 2nd/3rd order connections. Finally, local business publications, blogs, chamber of commerce newsletters often have articles blabbing about "growing" employers who are on a hiring binge (and thus generate many "anonymous" listings). Again, it may be possible to "connect the dots." 

The best way to answer a question like that is to provide some type of short narrative of a past situation. If you're asked "Do you consider yourself a hard worker?" you can't just answer with "Yes, very hard, ask my boss!" You should provide a real example from your past work to illustrate that and then be ready for follow-up questions. When preparing for an interview, put yourself in the shoes of the interviewer and try to imagine how your answers will sound. If the answers seems boastful and arrogant, that's because they are. If the answers seem meek and hapless, that's because they really are. You have to walk a fine line between being humility and bragging. The best way to do this is to back up what you say with real history. People (your interviewers) relate best to narratives. Its OK if the narratives aren't spectacular. What is most important is that you're authentic with your answers. 

The scientific staff, over time, will develop a stronger and more realistic appreciation of where their work ends and your work begins. As you bring them into your world, even on a temporary basis, you gain permanent allies in that department which can help you as they advance in the organization. Software development is not as specialized as it once was. Domain experts are increasingly doing more of their own work when it comes computation and data processing. Having a domain expert in a software development team is always an advantage. 

You sort of have the answer in front of you. You indicated yourself that the scientific staff doesn't "know what you do" yet you want more respect from them and don't want to be take for granted. I think the way that you can gain their respect is to SHOW THEM what you do by cultivating a culture of cooperation and direct involvement across both teams. Your manager had suggested having a junior scientist apply for a senior developer position. Perhaps that was not a good idea exactly as stated, but what about having some scientists work with your team in a capacity at which they can contribute? There are two really profound benefits to this: