Hail is a result of the same type of instability that causes thunderstorms. Not all thunderstorms have hail, but most hail is part of a thunderstorm. Therefore, all the same warnings for thunderstorms apply. You generally assume these kinds of storms can cause hail, even if many don't. The usual warnings of thunderstorms are distant rumble, obvious building tall clouds upwind, crackle from AM radios, and or course weather reports. Previous history in a particular area is also a good indicator. For example in Flagstaff Arizona in August, there's probably a 70% chance of a thunderstorm by 13:00 even if the sky is perfectly clear in the morning. These types of storms are usually relatively short-lived in any one particular place. Typically, all the nasty weather is within a 30 minute window or so. Heavy rain without the lightning and hail can persist longer. 

Where: North-central Massachusetts When: 8 April 2017 Whenever I'm out and about, I look at wetlands as I go by to see their general state, how much the invasive phragmites is pushing out the native cattails, etc. A few days ago I saw something unusual, at least in my experience. I was looking down into a kettle hole from a local road and saw this: 

This tent is held up with two bows of fiberglass rods that fit into each other. A small bow of 4 rods makes the arch at the foot end, and 6 rods are used at the head end. Unfortunately, one of the rods has just broken: 

Make the end objective not finding you, but some object. Then you can follow around and watch how the other guy solves the puzzle. 

Alberta is a big place with quite varied climates. In particular, you can divide the province into the Rocky mountains at the southwestern edge, and the plains in the east and north that cover most of the place. There is also a large difference between the nearly arctic conditions in the north and the more continental conditions in the south. 

You don't, or at least shouldn't. As you say, it's public property, not yours. What you are asking is no different from how to leave garbage around your campsite so that casual observers won't see it. It's just plain irresponsible, and probably illegal. A good test is what would happen if lots of people did the same thing you are considering. Picking one flower or making one chalk mark isn't a big deal. But we can't have 100s of people doing that, so the only way to be fair is to say nobody gets to do it. Unless you own the land or have explicit permission from the land owner, don't do it. I do trail maintenance work around town regularly (with permission of the land owners, which includes the public authority on public lands). I sometimes see little markers and the like on trees, and always make a point in removing them. They don't belong there. People do not have the right to put up their own markers and otherwise deface public property. Public property doesn't mean you get to do what you want. It's basically shared ownership with lots of other people, many of whom might object to what you are trying to do. That's why we create authorities to manage and make rules about what is allowed on public property. You can't set up your lawn chair and have a beer in the middle of a public road intersection either, for example. 

First, make sure it is allowed. I'll assume you are talking about the Mt Agassiz in Arizona north of Flagstaff in the Kachina Peaks Wilderness of the Coconino National Forest. While backcountry camping is generally permitted in this region, there may be some restrictions above tree line, and possible additional restrictions within the Wilderness Area. Don't assume. Check. As for thunderstorms, those tend to occur mostly in the afternoon in summer in that area. You can still get dumped on during the night, but generally with less chance of lightning. Usually the mornings are clear regardless of what the weather will be in the afternoon. Then on some days, clouds start rolling in by 11:00, and you can be in serious weather by 12:00 or 13:00. On other days, it stays clear. Check the weather forecast and wait for a suitable period where thunderstorms are less likely. I haven't been to the top of Agassiz, so don't know what the micro-terrain up there looks like. Finding a place to put a tent among the rocks may be difficult. The nearby (and slightly higher) Mt Humphreys has a circle of rocks at top that you might be able to pitch a tent in. The rocks would also be a minor wind break. Keep in mind that due to this being in a Wilderness Area, re-arranging of rocks significant enough to build a windbreak may be frowned upon. You really should have a conversation with the rangers about your plans, and then listen carefully to their recommendations, if what you want to do is allowed at all. 

GPS is simply not a good way to measure trail distance. This is because the raw GPS fixes have a lot of noise on them. If you take them literally, then you get a much longer distance than you actually moved. If you low pass filter them too much, you cut off corners and get a shorter distance. The usual algorithm is to apply some low pass filtering, but also not create a new point until it is some minimum distance from the previous point, after filtering. That distance is often a few meters. How you hold the GPS and what kind of vegetation cover is between you and the sky also matter a lot. For best tracks, put the GPS unit or its antenna on your hat. That way your body doesn't get in the way of the very weak signals from the satellites. If you're really serious about this, get a GPS unit with optional antenna input. Mount the antenna on the top of your hat, then run the wire to where the GPS unit is in your pocket or pack wherever. A leafy canopy is definitely worse than a nice open sky. I try to do most of my trail mapping from fall to spring when the leaves are down. That helps, but I can still see noticeable difference between the noise on a trail in the woods and walking along a road thru corn fields. I always take at least two tracks for mapping, one in each direction. That gives me some idea of the error level. In the woods, I can see differences of up to 50 feet (15 meters) sometimes. In one case I walked along a small dirt road thru wide open fields, and I could tell which side of the road I walked on each direction. The maximum error between the two tracks was more like 10 feet. I use BackCountry Navigator for capturing GPS tracks with a Android tablet. This works surprisingly well. This app allows some tweaking of the GPS filtering. I set it to the minimum distance for a new point that it allows. The GPS distance are usually close enough for casual use, but certainly not as good as real physical measurements. After capturing GPS tracks with BackCountry Navigator, I import them into the OpenStreeMap editor. There I eyeball-filter them and draw plausible tracks to put the trails on the map. This is where having at least two tracks, one in each direction, helps a lot. After this process, the track lengths as reported by OpenStreetMap are usually not too bad, typically around ±10% from hard-measured. To really get good trail length measurements, use a measuring wheel. I have a 19 inch wheel that I've added a holder for the GPS to. That helps keep the GPS away from my body, resulting in better tracks than if it were in my pocket or pack. The wheel is consistant to within less than a percent. It's not unusual to have a difference of maybe 4 feet between out and back along 1000 foot trail. Here is me demonstrating the measuring wheel and tablet capturing a GPS track: 

This is really up to you, but I think if postholing is enough of a issue it would be good to wear snowshoes. If nothing else, it just makes things easier. One problem of postholing can be sometimes difficulty in getting out. You're not likely to actually get hurt, because "falling" onto the snow isn't a problem when it's deep and soft enough for your foot to punch thru enough to call it postholing. I was on a hike once in the Green Mountains of Vermont where I had intended to take snowshoes but they accidentally got left behind. Things were OK for a while, but then the terrain changed and drifts were getting deeper. I got into a major posthole where there would have been a small stream crossing the trail in the summer. The stream was completely covered up, so the only clue was the depression in the topography. This somehow created air spaces or made for looser snow so that I ended up with my right leg sunk all the way into the snow up to my hips. At that point my left leg was sortof kneeling, except partially sunk in the snow too. Getting out of that was more difficult than I would ever have imagined if someone had only told me about it. I was by myself, so nobody to throw a stick or grab my shoulders or something. Trying to lean forwards to get more horizontal didn't work well because my whole body sank into the very loose snow, but my right foot was still stuck in something more dense down there. I eventually got out of that trap, but it probably took a few minutes. This would have been far less of a problem with snowshoes on.