"Liberation" is a bit misleading. The German occupation of Denmark ended as part of the May 4 surrender of German troops in Denmark, Netherlands, and northwestern Germany. No actual combat or invasion was involved; troops under Field Marshal Montgomery walked in essentially unopposed. 

Historically, there weren't multiple Portuguese colonies in South America. There was just one. The Portuguese governed Brazil as a single unit since 1549, when the failed Captaincies were merged. This became the Viceroyalty of Brazil (1775), the Kingdom of Brazil (1815, still ruled by the Portuguese Crown), the independent Empire of Brazil (1822, when Pedro I rebelled against his father, the King of Portugal), and finally the current republic (1889). In contrast, the Spanish colonies were governed as multiple independent areas. 

If the photograph is from 1905, then the ship is one of USS Pennsylvania, USS West Virginia, USS Colorado, or USS Maryland, as the other ships of those two classes were commissioned in the 1906-1908 timeframe. There's a decent chance that it's the USS West Virginia, since that ship served with the New York Naval Militia. 

When triggered, a bounding mine propels itself into the air, then explodes, spraying shrapnel over a large area. To maximize the effectiveness, the shrapnel pattern is largely horizontal (shrapnel thrown upwards into the air or blown into the ground at the base of the mine is wasted). This means that, in general, the best way to survive a bounding mine is to throw yourself flat on the ground, face down. If you're close enough, most of the shrapnel will pass over you. The best-known bounding mines, the German S-Mine class, had a four-second time delay on the fuse. This gave a person or vehicle triggering the mine time to move away so they wouldn't prevent the mine from rising into the air, but it also gave them time to take evasive action if they realized they'd triggered it. 

First of all, starting a violent rebellion and winning an election is two completely different things. A party that does one thing is not in any way guaranteed to do the other, especially if they are perceived to have lost the fight, or been fighting without cause. As such, the question is a bit strange in the first place. Secondly, you ask if people lost faith in the Communist Party, but looking at the State elections in 1952, they got 20% in Hyderabad and that doesn't seem like a party who people have lost faith in at all, and I see no real indications that the party was significantly more popular earlier. So I don't think the CPI declined in any way. Rather the opposite. They supported and instigated a violent rebellion in 1946, and this rebellion seems to have been so popular that in 1952 they gained 20% in a state election, even though the rebellion only took place in one of the three regions of the state, and despite the fact that the party was anti-democratic and violent only two weeks before the elections started. 

Either a new law would be passed that makes the current monarch (or a descendant) the lawful monarch, or whoever is next in the line would become monarch, or the monarchy will be abolished. 

It's a classic question of why the industrial revolution happened when and where it did. And answers range to everything from "Good Cannon makers" to "Because the British drank tea!" It's likely that the question is impossible to answer conclusively. But what I would like to do is to set up a number of prerequisites for an industrial revolution. It's not certain that an industrial revolution will happen when these prerequisites are met, but I do think they are required, and I also think the 18th century Britain is the first time in history where they all have been fulfilled at the same time. 1. High agricultural yield, leading to cheap labour This is what Steven Drennon talks about in his answer. The British Agricultural revolution led to farms being able to produce more food and feed more people. As a result, the population in cities increase, and there is a lot of labour available. 2. Technological ability The ancient Greeks invented steam-powered toys. Why didn't they invent a steam engine? Because they didn't have the technology. The first attempts at steam engines in Britain and France failed, because the materials weren't up to the job of handling steam pressure. Also Watt could not have invented the condenser, and made the steam engine a much more economical alternative, unless he had understood boiling and condensing and how related to the different temperatures in the machine. 3. A capitalist economic system In addition to a work force, you also need inventors who invent, industrialists who run things and investors that provide the money. Point 1 and 2 in turn has a common prerequisite: 4. A scientific method You can't get high crop yields if you think the most important part of the crop yield is praying to gods or making fertilizer by burying rams horns by the full moon. You will not learn the laws of thermodynamics if you think that converting water to steam is a form of magic. And all of the above have a last prerequisite: Liberty 1. and 3. needs economic liberty; private ownership of land and other means of production, and the right to do what you think is best to make money and invest that money. 2. and 4. needs liberty in ideology and thinking. The liberty to say that earth may not be in the centre of a theological universe, but zip around all by itself in a universe ruled by mechanics. 3. Also has a final prerequisite: 5. A big trading network So there are people that can accumulate wealth that can be invested in industry. There is also an argument that you need a good source of energy, ie coal. And that aragument is that late medieval and renaissance Netherlands had pretty much all of the liberty requirements fullfilled, but still did not get an agricultural revolution. But perhaps it was missing the natural resources needed. On the other hand I have also seen the argument that it simply was too early, the science and technology wasn't there yet, when the Netherlands had liberty and money. 

The basic premise of your question is faulty: the American defenses weren't wiped out. Look at the list of what the Japanese hit (from Wikipedia): 

"Latino" or "Hispanic" refers to an American with a cultural heritage from Spain as filtered through Latin America, and says nothing about their genetic ancestry. "Taino" refers to someone with a genetic and cultural heritage from the Taino peoples of the Caribbean. A resident of Puerto Rico could be either, or neither, or both. 

When reading through Wikipedia's articles on naval battles of World War II, you'll often encounter sentences like the following: 

The term you're looking for is chronology (Wikipedia's article on the subject is rather sub-par). In general, there are two major ways of synchronizing dates. 

Wikipedia has an example Bill of Mortality from 1665, listing the causes of death for the London area. Many of the terms in it are unfamiliar, though, eg. "Kings Evill", "Rupture", "Livergrown". In modern terms, what are these people recorded as dying of? 

From the standpoint of the ancient Greeks, the aeolipile is a technological dead end. As an engine in its own right, it's useless for more than toys/temple wonders: it produces negligible torque, and does so in a horribly inefficient manner -- the slave you've got stoking the fire to run your aeolipile-powered device would be far more productive if he let the fire go out and did the task himself. As a predecessor to other steam technologies, it's also a dead end. There's no obvious transition from it to the steam piston, which the Greeks might have been able to build. If you turn the aeolipile inside-out, you get the steam turbine, but making turbines efficient enough to be worth using requires a knowledge of metallurgy, precision machining, and aerodynamics far beyond what the ancient Greeks had. 

With regards to Finland, it was the second country that the USSR invaded after signing the Molotov-Ribbentrop Pact, where Finland was one of the countries that had been assigned to the Soviet "Sphere of influence" together with Estonia, Latvia, Bessarabia and half of Poland. (The first country invaded was of course Poland). However, there is a dispute amongst historians of what the aim of the war with Finland was, and there seems to be no papers in the Soviet archives providing a definite answer. Officially the cause of conflict between Finland and USSR was a dispute over Karelia, which the Soviet Union wanted to provide a buffer for Leningrad. The USSR shelled one of their own border posts and blamed it on Finland as an excuse to invade. Stalin seem to have thought that Finland was going to be a soft target and that they would be able to just walk in and take over. Just as in the cases with the Baltic States the Soviet Union declared a communist republic with a puppet government. In the cases of the Baltic States these puppet governments were quickly included in the USSR, but as Finland never surrendered this wasn't an option with the short-lived Finnish Democratic Republic. So we do know that the USSR intended to create a puppet state, because they actually did so. The remaining question is if they intended to annex that puppet state into the the USSR or let it stay a nominally independent state, like Poland and East Germany. The arguments for annexation into the USSR are: 

Were there any instances where high-altitude bombing of ships had a significant impact, or even managed to hit the intended target? 

What you describe are skirmisher tactics, not guerrilla fighting, though guerrillas do usually use them. Skirmisher tactics are highly effective against a linear infantry formation if you don't intend to hold the field. Taking aimed shots from a distance and reloading from cover lets the skirmishers inflict disproportionately high casualties. Success depends on being able to move out of the way of the advancing army, though: if they ever manage to close in on the skirmishers, the superior numbers and volume of fire from the linear formation will tear the skirmishers to shreds. This means that if a linear formation is willing to absorb the casualties, skirmishers can't stop them. Skirmishers are also highly vulnerable to cavalry charges. Until the development of quick-loading weapons, only compact infantry formations had the volume of fire or the density of bayonets/pikes to keep cavalry away. A skirmisher can't move fast enough to get out of the way, can only fire one or maybe two shots before the cavalry arrives, and is at a distinct disadvantage in a close-range fight. 

Certain targets were ruled out for various reasons. The Emperor's Palace in Tokyo was ruled out for having essentially no strategic value (despite having high psychological value). Kyoto was ruled out at the request of the Secretary of War, Henry L. Stimson. This produced a final list of five targets: Kokura, Hiroshima, Yokohama, Niigata, and Nagasaki (as a substitute for Kyoto). The final choice of Hiroshima was for entirely mundane reasons: on August 6, it was expected to have the best weather of the five targets. 

To have widespread corruption you need to have a big state so that you have a lot of politicians and bureaucrats that can be corrupt, or you have to have valuable natural resources, so there is a big incentive for corruption. The newly created USA did not have any of these. Hence there was not really that many people to corrupt, nor that much reason to be corrupted. 

The WWI reparations were set in gold marks, and the level of the reparations therefore was actually equivalent to a fixed amount of gold. It wasn't payable in paper marks, the actual currency at the time. It was only payable in currencies that had a fixed exchange rate to gold. The reason for the hyperinflation is that Germany decided to start printing money to buy foreign currency to pay the reparations with. Essentially, they attempted to buy gold from foreign countries with worthless paper and then give the gold back. This, of course, did not work, but only resulted in hyperinflation and a slow-down of the German economy, therefore making it harder for them to pay the reparations. Therefore, it is not the reparations that cause the inflation, but the Wiemar republics decision to try and get money for nothing. 

"The Man Who Laughs" is set in England during the 17th century (not 18th). It was a time of religious conflict, with for example James II being Roman Catholic and taking steps towards religious freedom. The church did not have a strong grip on peoples religions at this time. Heresy was indeed illegal, but it is not automatically heretical to have your own religious group and meetings. Heresy was more strict than that. So there was definitely several religious groups in England at this time. Some of them were persecuted, and this in fact was a strong incentive for some people to move to the American colonies. But not all groups were persecuted, because not all non-conformism was heretical. 

It's a stern view of a Pennsylvania-class or Tennessee-class armored cruiser, photographed sometime prior to 1912. Distinguishing features: 

In short, politics. The Flensburg Government (Doenitz's German government) wanted to surrender to the Western allies (the United States and United Kingdom) rather than the Allies as a whole, primarily because of the Soviet reputation for how they (mis)treated prisoners. To this end, Admiral Friedeburg was sent to Field Marshal Montgomery's headquarters. Montgomery was unwilling to accept such a surrender, but Friedeburg was able to negotiate a partial surrender, of forces in Denmark, the Netherlands, and northwestern Germany, including the U-Boat forces. This had the effect of being a surrender to the Western allies, since they were the ones who controlled or were adjacent to these areas. Between the May 4 partial surrender and the May 8 total surrender, German refugees and troops frantically tried to reach Western allied lines to surrender; this included several breakout attempts by forces encircled by the Soviets. On May 7, General Eisenhower informed the Flensberg Government that further attempted surrenders by German troops to the Western forces would not be accepted, which lead to the May 8 unconditional surrender of all forces to the Allies as a whole. 

Although the two formations look similar, the pike square was developed in a very different tactical environment than the phalanx. The phalanx and the maniple were developed in an environment where the primary weapons were swords, spears, and occasionally slings. Cavalry was rare, and was typically light cavalry used as skirmishers or to protect an army's flanks. Infantry was the supreme fighting force, and the maniple and phalanx were both developed as a counter to infantry. The phalanx and the maniple were both employed offensively: to push against the enemy's formation and break it. The Renaissance, on the other hand, was the tail end of a period when heavy cavalry was the dominant force. Ranged weapons such as bows, cannon, and early handheld firearms were common, and infantry were considered a "yes, we've also got some of them" force by many commanders. Tactically, the job of a pike square is to provide a defensive formation: to keep enemy cavalry away from your artillery and to keep enemy cavalry and infantry away from your arquebusiers (see: pike and shot). The job of breaking the enemy formation was given to the other elements of the army.