From that linked site, "Hunting" just seems to be a marketing term, since most of the boots appear in multiple categories. Here in New Zealand, professional hunters usually wear rubber lace-ups. When you spend weeks in the bush at a time, a leather boot will rot and fall apart. People who hunt for a day or a weekend wear the same boots as pretty much everyone else in the bush. About the only distinction a New Zealand store would make in marketing boots is "Non-Alpine" and "Alpine" - the difference being that alpine boots have full-length shanks and mounting points for crampons. For example, Torpedo7 has "Hiking Boots" and "Snow Boots". 

I asked my fitness instructor this question a few years ago. She had several things to say. Electrolyte replacement is for when you have been in a high cardio, sweating mode continually for an hour or more. Endurance runners and cyclists, yes. Gym bunnies, trampers, walkers, no. Very few things on the market are actually true electrolyte replacement. Almost all the things in the fridge at your local store with things like "vitamin water" on the label are just soft drinks, full of sugar and caffeine. She said that in New Zealand there were only two proper electrolyte replacement products you could buy without going to a specialty sports shop. As an aside, you can usually tell a decent one by the fact they taste metallic and "slimy". :-) For long distance hiking (6 hours or more) she suggested that if I suffered from headaches on the drive home then perhaps I could put a bottle of electrolyte replacement in the car and drink it at the end of the trip. Otherwise, I should stick to water and the usual hiking snacks of peanuts, crackers, dried fruit and so on. In the gym, she said there should be nothing but water in my bottle and I should replace water lost exactly. I should stand on the scales with my full water bottle at the beginning of the workout and stand on the scales with my empty water bottle at the end of the workout and the two weights should be the same. 

I got a fairly bad cut on my leg, not quite bad enough for stitches but will probably leave a scar. I have a camping trip planned this weekend at a lake where we will go swimming and kayaking. I expect the cut to be partially healed by then, but not to the point where I feel safe leaving it exposed. (I'm also a little nervous given a couple recent news reports about "flesh-eating bacteria", even though I know it's rare, and the incidents didn't happen near where we'll be!). At home I have been wearing a fabric bandage, which allows air flow but only keeps it safe from "dry" contaminants. I did read How should you treat an open wound in the backcountry?, but it's about immediate first aid treatment for when the wound happens in the wild, and doesn't discuss what to do about water. What precautions should I take to protect the wound before, during, and after going into lake water? What first-aid items should I pack? Of course, simply not swimming and kayaking is an option for this situation (although it would be a bummer), but this could also be a concern if you got a cut on a canoeing trip or a hike with water crossings. 

If you are roped up for glacier travel and the person in front of you has just fallen in then you can hammer a snow stake in to provide an anchor. Note that in this case you probably won't have your ice axe available since it will be stuck in the ground with your knee bracing it, holding up your mate. I've not seen the shorter stakes (the snow flukes) in the photo in action. 

If the tent fly can be pitched without the inner then your winter tent becomes a summer tent by leaving the inner at home. 

I'm a lurker on two knife-related forums (Bladeforums.com and Knifeforums.com). On both of them, "what knife should I buy" or "what is the best knife for X" are either closed quickly or become very hot topics because there is no right answer, only lots and lots and lots of opinions. See this thread for a recent discussion of the topic (including some nice pictures). That said, there are some general guidelines. First of all, make sure it is legal! Carrying an illegal knife on the Appalachian Trail will get you in the same trouble as carrying an illegal knife on the streets of New York. A LEO might cut you some slack in the wilderness, but they don't have to. Fixed blade vs folding blade. Fixed blades are tougher, which is great if you are going to be splitting firewood or cutting branches or digging holes. Size Bigger blades (both length and thickness) are better at chopping wood but are far worse at small tasks like skinning small game and slicing food and cutting rope. Serrations Serrated blades are better at cutting fibrous materials like rope but suck at cutting soft food like cheese and tomatoes. Typical bushcraft tasks are usually better with a straight edge (though a serrated edge makes pretty good feather sticks for firelighting). Metal Harder steels hold an edge longer but are harder to sharpen in the field. Softer steels might roll over the edge when chopping. Some types of steel are better than others at making sparks from your fire rod. There is no such thing as rustproof. Stainless steel is just steel that takes a bit longer to rust. :-) All knives need good care. Unless you are spending a lot of money on a titanium blade. Shape Straight edge blades (like the "american tanto" design) suck at cutting food. The curve, or "belly", of the edge is what helps cutting through the entire draw of the knife. Saws on the back of the blade mean you can't use the blade for batonning very well and you will hurt your hand in some knife grips. A lot of military knives with saw backs are for ripping through aircraft skin. Leave the sawblades to Rambo. What do I carry? I carry a Victorinox Outrider Swiss Army lockable folding knife. The long blade is for food prep (it is long enough to cut through an apple in one go). The sawblade on it is long enough to deal with firewood and track maintenance. The scissors probably get used more than anything else on the blade. I've used the can opener a few times and the corkscrew only once (wine bottles and tins don't go hiking often as they are heavy). If I am going somewhere camping I also carry a CRKT Stiff KISS MDP. It is small, light, strong enough for me to whack it through wood with a baton and cheap enouygh that if I break it I don't care. It is a bushcraft knife and does not go near food. The Victorinox is legal carry in New Zealand. The CRKT is not, so I have to make sure it stays in my backpack when driving to and from the trip. Final Thoughts You are not Rambo. Don't carry a massive piece of movie-madness cutlery (termed "tacticLOL" on the forums above). If you are Rambo, then disregard all of this. You can do whatever the heck you want - I'm certainly not going to argue. Edit: Thanks Ben. 

I'm planning an overnight hiking trip and want to try cooking fish. We will be camping at an established backcountry site on the trail, which has a spot for a tent near a fire ring. However, this is in an area with black bears. I know to hang all my food and other scented items in a bear bag, and not to eat in the tent. Beyond that, what additional precautions should I take for smelly foods? Typically I just bring less smelly things like trail mix and energy bars, and nothing has ever bothered my site or bear bag (as far as I know!), but I'm worried that fish scent would be way more attractive. For instance: 

This one is based on an actual experience - One summer I went on a trail through waist-high grass with a friend. We were both wearing shorts, but my friend had hairy legs, while mine were shaved. After the walk, he discovered probably half a dozen ticks on his legs, while I had none (much to my relief!). Maybe my smooth legs kept ticks from sticking, maybe it was just a coincidence... I tried to search but just found internet forum discussions - some for and some against, but no studies or official guidance. So I am asking here! Does shaving help prevent you from getting ticks? An authoritative source would be great. 

Let me turn the question around: Is it ethical to use a portable stove to burn irreplaceable fossil fuels? Is it ethical to carry that fossil fuel in a pressurised can (for gas fuel stoves) or metal bottle (for liquid fuel stoves) that can't be easily recycled and so ends up in landfill? However, note Shem's comment below - Aluminium bottles are almost infinitely recyclable. I think the answer lies in the scale. Using a few twigs in a twig burner is fine. Using all the dead trees in a half-kilometer radius to build a bonfire the size of your tent is not. Most of the outdoor places where I go in New Zealand are under fire bans and most of the huts have had their open fires replaced with potbelly stoves which aren't that good for cooking, so I have no choice but to carry a portable cooker. 

Ray Mears has produced videos on sharpening knives. In particular, sharpening them in camp and in the field. The teqhnique is pretty much as @WedaPashi explains it, but it's good to see a video of the correct approach. 

It is not. The lowest-impact solution is to use a poo-pot. These are compulsory in alpine areas here in New Zealand. Pack it out - Poo pots