After looking at this list of players who have switched nationalities in football I saw that Mathias Fernadez represented Chile despite being Argentinian. In a game in 2011 he scored vs Argentina. He does however consider himself Chilean having left Argentina aged 4. 

Italy used to use a playoff for league winners, european spots, relegation if two teams were level on points for the same position. This was before the 05/06 season, since then they have used head to head records to decide league standings between teams on level points. 

I don't think it is any definite measure of success though as some players do play purely from instinct, they may not be even able to describe how or why they make the right decision. I guess for quarterbacks this test makes sense though as there are a lot of plays to understand and memorise. There has been a 2009 study by Brian D. Lyons, Brian J. Hoffman, and John W. Michel that found that Wonderlic scores failed to positively and significantly predict future NFL performance for any position (wikipedia) 

I know that on the Barclays premier league site there is a fantasy football game and they award points for an assist on corners and that is the official site for the Premier League. I always see this on sites like Goal.com as well where assists are awarded for corners. 

Goal.com had a table on how much refs get paid in the top leagues in Europe from around 2011. How Much Officials Earn Per Domestic League Game (€) England 1,170* (Referee) 375 (Referee Assistant) Spain 6,000 (Referee) 2,000 (Referee Assistant) Germany 3,600 (Referee) 1,800 (Referee Assistant) Italy 3,400 (Referee) 1,700 (Referee Assistant) France 2,751 (Referee) - Portugal 1,188 (Referee) 594 (Referee Assistant) *EPL referees are paid a retainer of €38,500 per season which explains why their fee per game is lower than some of the other leagues. On average top tennis umpires can expect to earn £50-£60,000 per annum, but it takes a long time to get there! Most earn around £30,000. On average a line judge can expect to earn £20,000 (BBC Sport). In cricket; ELITE PANEL OF ICC UMPIRES 1 Aleem Dar (Umpire) $45,000 (Basic Yearly Salary) $3,000 (Test Match Fee) $850 (ODI Match Fee) 2 Steve Davis (Umpire) $45,000 $3,000 $1000 3 Tony Hill (Umpire) $30,000 $3,000 $850 4 Ian Gould (Umpire) $45,000 $3,000 $1000 5 Rod Tucker (Umpire) $45,000 $3,000 $1000 6 Marais Erasmus (Umpire) $35,000 $3,000 $850 7 Kumar Dharmasena (Umpire) $30,000 $3,000 $850 

Short Answer: Something with a twin-tip and standard camber, but I'd spend the real money on your bindings. Twin tip feels a little more natural than a directional, and the rentals you've been using are most likely conventional camber. The camber on things like Skate Bananas are AWESOME but might be an extra learning curve you don't need when you're just building confidence. Get a couple ideas of what you like style/characteristic wise, then go cruise some rental places and see if they have any of them you can ride. I hated on Burton Customs HARD back in the day when they had the block stripe design and they were coming out with the rail binding system. Resisted buying one for a long time but once I rode it, it felt great and couldn't fight it anymore. Definitely focus on your bindings though. Good one's make you feel like the board just grew out of your heels, bad one's will make it feel like you super-glued a 2x4 to your shoes. 

Whenever you go to buy boots, bring two of your thickest pairs of wool socks. Throw them on, get your foot inside the boot and shift around. I've found that if they fit me really well with that, they wind up fitting really well with a nicer snowboard sock or just wool socks. Enough room not to rub or be uncomfortable in a hard toe-side turn, but not so much room that you're sloshing around in them. 

Gymnasts are also usually quite small, there is actually some debate over whether gymnastics can affect growth (but I don't think there is much evidence behind this). According to this website American gold medalist Gabrielle Douglas is 

I was watching the two big games in the Champions League this week and both of the games were spoiled by the red cards (the card in the City-Barca game was a clear red as it was a clear clear goal scoring opportunity whereas the Arsenal-Bayern game was not so clear cut). It got me thinking; 1: when was the rule around clear goal scoring opportunities introduced and 2: was there a case that made them introduce it? I'm thinking something like when they clamped down on tackles from behind because it was this kind of tackle that forced Marco Van Basten into early retirement or Lampard's goal in the 2010 World Cup which got a debate on goal line technology going. 

From what I have read and heard he was released because his knee made him a liability. On this forum the fans talk about it said that Paule Le Guen deemed he was surplus to requirements at Rangers and that Andrews was afraid to take a medical at Reading in case he failed it as it would look bad when he was trying to find a new club. I didn't see any interview where he gave a reason behind his release but the amount of injuries he suffered must have made up Rangers' mind about releasing him in 2006. 

The reason it exists is the third strike has to be caught when its a foul tip so it has to be caught when its not a foul tip too. Also the Catcher gets the PO on a strikeout so he is duty bound to actually catch it. 

There are no league presidents. It was discontinued more than 10 years ago. All baseballs are now embossed with Commissioner. So it does go to commissioners office. History of Officials 

It works very well for the players. Not sure where you are getting your information from. A little history: Owners put it in place, then they were quite surprised when Bruce Sutter was awarded 700,000 dollars. They quickly traded him and promoted Lee Smith. To put 700,000 into perspective. The Yankees sold for $10,000,000 only 7 years prior History of Arbitration and what it did for Team salaries The arbiters use what ever stats are put forth by the two parties so only old metrics if that is what is presented. Arbitration players get their market value. Greg Maddux got 14.75 million in 2002. The whole point of one dollar value or the other is so that the two parties work hard to get the deal done without arbitration. 

In English. All base runners that need beat a force play need to reach their base for the run to score. The last time that the Cubs won a world series came down to this rule. Fred Merkle did not run from 1st to 2nd and what looked like the winning run scored but because he ran to the dugout instead the ball was retrieved and he was called out. Its forever known as Merkle's boner. That game was won by the Cubs who won the League by a game and went on to win the World Series 

There is a good answer on yahoo for it. Basically it varies from country to country because of the co-efficient system UEFA uses, England, Spain and Germany all have clubs entering into Europe because of how their teams have performed over the last few years in Europe. UEFA did introduce the rule about winners of the cups going to the Europa League to give teams more incentive in the domestic cups. Regarding Man Utd in 2008, they beat Spurs in the final and spurs would have already qualified through their league position so in that case it goes to the 7th placed team. Stoke were entered into the UEFA cup when they finished runners up because they were outside the top 6 in the league that year. 

Essentially it hasn't been introduced by UEFA because the top brass don't support it because of the financial cost. Platini says: 

Diego Costa is making his debut for Spain tonight and he will almost certainly go to Brazil as their main striker considering his form this year. You could imagine the reception he would get playing over there but if he lined up vs Brazil or even scored against them then I'm not sure he could ever go back! Does anyone know of any cases where nationalised players have played or even scored against their country of birth? 

Thats according to fox. It's used to measure cognitive intelligence, I'm not an expert in NFL but quarterbacks are essentially the same as playmakers in football (soccer), some playmakers have even been described as quarterbacks. One of the most important attributes for a playmaker is the ability to read and analyse situations and make the best decision in a matter of seconds. The wonderlic test is designed to test these types of attributes so for certain positions it does make sense for teams to test these abilities. 

I'd go with the biggest one you can find so you can jam a ton of extra stuff in there, which winds up being incredibly helpful come travel-time. Plus, I've stitched a second grab handle onto the bottom of some of my wheelie bags, right at the level where my board would end inside of the bag. That lets me roll up the extra length if I don't need it and still have a smaller wheelie. 

I'm 6'4", 250. Get a wide board, that's a few inches longer than you normally would. The wide board is most important (size 14's have this tendency to hang over the edges a little, imagine that). I just don't like having to turn my bindings way far out to feel confident that things aren't going to get sketchy for me no a toe-side turn (or heel-side for that matter). I've also opted for boards with a stiffer flex, only because with more weight on top of it, it will wind up feeling like what a standard flex feels like to lighter guys. More pop! Otherwise, you should be pretty much fine. Just enjoy. 

I've wondered the same thing but I think it might be in order to verify press later. That is to say, have a way of confirming or denying what a driver may have said during a post-race interview. It seems similar to what some politicians have used in past. 

Work your way into tight areas. Go find some trees with a good bit of space between them, where you can start getting used to the flow of picking a side and how hard to cut into each one. Gradually move into areas where the trees are tighter together. If things get hairy, don't try and come to a stand-still, you'll wind up hitting something anyway while you're out of position, which winds up being even worse. Instead, focus on going left or right of every tree (whichever you're more confident with or whichever works with the flow you're in). If you just focus on doing that you'll eventually wind up bleeding off enough speed to regroup or come to a stand still. And definitely wear a helmet!