You've mistyped the domain name. It should be , but you entered . Correct this in your Postfix file. 

This only "works" if the processes are in the same host, VM or container, because it tries to make a connection to the same machine. When they are in different containers, it does not work. You need to alter your nginx configuration so that it uses the internal IP address of the uwsgi container. How you do this depends on how you are creating your containers, which you didn't specify. Check the relevant documentation. 

Think very carefully about what you're asking for, and strongly consider not doing it. RFC 2616 specifies that the entity bodies you want to remove should be present. 

Go to eBay. Search for . Buy one, preferably one that includes a battery. This is an actual hardware RAID controller which is compatible with VMware vSphere. Do not get a 6/iR card. If the card didn't come with a drive cable, then search for and buy one of the cables listed. This cable allows you to connect up to four SAS or SATA drives to the 6/i. When they all arrive, install the 6/i in one of your computer's PCI Express slots and connect the drives to the 6/i with the cable. Use the 6/i RAID BIOS to create your RAID array. Install VMware vSphere Hypervisor. 

Your must be set to the directory of your Rails app. For instance (it seems you're trying out the demo from the Rails book): 

This drive has had a large number of recoverable read errors. Which means it successfully reconstructed the data using error correction. However, it's getting to the point where it is most likely it will soon have an unrecoverable read error, where it cannot successfully reconstruct data on a damaged or failing section of the disk. At that point there's nothing you can do and you'll have to replace the drive. If your rebuild keeps stopping, at the same place, it's entirely possible the drive has already failed at that point on the platters, and isn't reporting it. Desktop class drives will stop and try for minutes or even hours to read a particular sector if they fail the first time, which leads to this sort of thing. And you probably have such a drive in this "server"... At this point you should have that drive proactively replaced, since it is going to fail soon, if not already. 

That's because your configuration seems to be telling it not to do so for any file with a digit 0-9 in the name. Delete this entire section; it's mostly redundant anyway, and almost certainly isn't doing anything that you might want. 

Suppose somebody got your password from you by swiping the Post-it Note from under your keyboard? Or by using a rubber hose. It would be mostly useless if password authentication is disabled. 

Maybe that will fix everything. But you still have enough going on there that you should have a maintenance period and reinstall the system. 

Your site may be blocked because its IP address was flagged by various online services as containing malware. When I tried to access the site, for instance, Malwarebytes came up and stopped it from being loaded. Google doesn't have your site flagged for malware, though. Looking at my Malwarebytes logs, it specifically matched on the IP address. That makes me think that your site is on shared web hosting, and likely some other site on that same IP address is distributing malware. 

Apache isn't doing anything wrong: You have two timeouts because you called PHP twice. The first time was your attempt to load the web page itself, which timed out. The second time was Apache's attempt to load the which, because it doesn't exist, was passed to PHP for processing. To resolve the issue, set to a static HTML page that exists. 

You've replaced the standard EL5 kernel with a newer custom kernel, in which the programming interfaces (ABI/API) are different. To quote from the you should have received along with the source RPM: 

Comment this by adding a sign in front of it. Further down in the comments you will see the following explanation: 

As for the WordPress menu, you shouldn't add blank pages to add entries to it. Instead, just create custom menu entries with the desired URLs to your static pages. Click on Custom Links in the menu editor and add the desired information. 

You can't match on a query string at all in a . So you'll need to check the argument directly. For instance: 

The package is in the repository, but you disabled it. You need to enable the repository to install packages from it. 

Your domain gets added to the end of each of these, if you haven't terminated them with a period. To get it working, change them to: 

The variable must be set on both the client and the server. If the server's value is lower than the client's value, this error occurs. You will need to set in the section of to complete the operation. For more information, see the MySQL documentation. 

In most installations, openssh-server should be installed by default. Windows doesn't include any ssh clients. To connect to the machine using ssh, try a program such as PuTTY. On the Mac, you can just use ssh from Terminal, just as you would from any other Unix box. 

You get a web designer to produce a document which looks like you want it to look. Then you configure the load balancer to serve this document for HTTP 500, 502, 503 and 504 errors. Exactly how you do that varies; check your documentation. Some load balancers are just "dumb" TCP balancers which forward TCP connections and do nothing at layer 7. Others can act as full reverse proxies (e.g. nginx) and these are capable of doing what you need. From a quick scan of the Brocade ServerIron ADX documentation, it doesn't seem capable of serving error documents on HTTP requests. While it's definitely smarter than your typical "dumb" TCP forwarder, it's probably not going to do what you want here. A reverse proxy such as nginx would be capable of this, though if you set that up, you may as well just replace the load balancer (since nginx can do HTTP/HTTPS load balancing as well). 

Whether you can successfully use a Xeon processor in a desktop motherboard depends on BIOS support for it. The CPU support list for this board lists the Xeon E3-1230 as compatible, with BIOS version P2.10 or later. You may need to use a different processor to update the BIOS before installing the Xeon. 

Note that you can't guess in advance whether someone has a specific Apache version; it's up to the sysadmin to make sure that the correct modules are being loaded. As the developer all you really need to worry about is that you are providing the correct directives, depending on what modules are available. As a sysadmin you will have to maintain differing configurations for Apache 2.2 and 2.4; there is no way around this. Fortunately every configuration management system makes this relatively easy, and if you aren't already using such a system, you should be. 

It's not really designed or intended for you to install the pieces separately and "roll your own" as it were. (And, saying FreeBSD isn't a real operating system is not only inaccurate, but insulting.) 

Since you're creating a new RAID 10, you can begin using the array immediately. The initial resync will continue in the background. You only need to wait for it to complete if building a RAID 5 array (and it's a good idea for a RAID 6, too). See Initial Array Creation in the Linux RAID Wiki for further details. 

After you restart, go to Device Manager, select the Microsoft Basic Display Adapter and Update Driver. Point it at the latest QXL WDDM driver. Though installing the driver will reset your resolution to 1024x768, you can then change your resolution and use the full Desktop Experience at any resolution you wish, up to 2560x1600. 

OK, so the reason none of your Windows clients can talk to the domain is that you are serving them the wrong DNS server address from your DHCP server. You need to provide the DNS addresses of the DNS server(s) in your AD domain. Which, in an installation this small, is almost certainly running on your domain controller. In particular, you should not hand out any DNS server address that isn't a DNS server in the domain.