Because the wavelength ratio of the lines remains constant despite any Doppler shift. For example, if the redshift is $z$, all the lines are shifted redward in wavelength by a factor $(1+z)$. This means that a pattern of lines can still be recognisable. We also have a pretty good idea of what the spectra should look like, which chemical elements will produce visible absorption features with what relative strengths and so on (see below). This usually makes identification of line features straightforward. Of course if there were just a single line visible in the spectrum (it does happen, usually in high redshift quasars) it can be difficult to pinpoint the redshift. In terms of analysing what's in a Galaxy, well usually the light is dominated by the mixed spectrum of billions of stars. This spectrum is interpreted and modelled using galaxy evolution models and population synthesis models that predict a spectrum from a given ensemble. If a Galaxy is near enough, the chemical abundances of its interstellar medium can be estimated from resolved spectra of emission nebulae. In comparison, interpreting spectra from an individual star is trivial. Hundreds if not thousands of absorption lines can easily be identified and matched with the predictions of very detailed stellar atmosphere models to estimate chemical abundances. These models contain up to millions of possible radiative transitions as well as the various line strengths and broadening processes that affect the spectrum. 

What, like this? Resolved astrophysical jets are not unusual. In this example, showing the region near the centre of the active galactic nucleus of M87, relativistic particles are emitted in a collimated beam from bear the central black hole. The particles both produce radiation and interact with material to produce more radiation. Whilst originating from a jet of particles, there is certainly an intense beam of radiation emitted along the path you can see. 

A typical neutron star of $1.5M_{\odot}$ is thought to have a radius of around 8-10 km. This is only a factor of 2 larger than the Schwarzschild radius for a similar mass black hole. We know that more massive neutron stars do exist. The current record holder is around $2M_{\odot}$. Most equations of state (the adopted relationship between pressure and density) for dense nuclear matter suggest that more massive neutron stars are smaller and therefore must be even closer in radius to the Schwarzschild radius. So the premise of you question is basically correct. It is certainly true that when you deal with neutron star spectra you do have to apply significant general relativistic corrections to measured temperatures and the same corrections would need to be applied to any temporal variations. Thus a time-variable signal from a neutron star surface will appear slower to an observer on Earth. For the last part, I suspect that the scenario you propose is extremely unlikely. Rhoades & Ruffini (1974) first established that there must be a maximum mass for a neutron star under GR conditions, even if we allow the equation of state to harden to the point where the speed of sound is the speed of light. This maximum mass is around $3.2M_{\odot}$. This sets an upper limit to the possible value of $GM/Rc^{2} \leq 0.405$ (see p.261 of Shapiro & Teukolsky, Black holes, white dwarfs and neutron stars). This in turn sets an upper limit the possible gravitational redshift (and time dilation factor) of 2.29. Beyond this point the neutron star is unstable and will collapse to become a black hole. In reality the limit is probably a bit tighter than that because most proposed equations of state result in neutron stars becoming unstable at finite densities and at masses quite a bit lower than $3.2M_{\odot}$. So I think the most time dilation you are ever going to see from a neutron star surface is a factor of $\sim 2$. 

I think all this means is that up to some critical rotation rate, the equilibrium shape of a rotating, self-gravitating fluid is an oblate spheroid. That is, this shape defines a unique global minimum of energy. Above this threshold there are two possible equilibrium solutions. Apparently one is an oblate spheroid, whereas the other is a triaxial ellipsoid. These will define local energy minima, but the triaxial ellipsoid is the global minimum. The gory mathematical details are no doubt contained in Chandrasekhar's textbook on equilibrium ellipsoidal figures. Pages 3-5 of Iurato (2014) appear to summarise the historical development of this bifurcation in the equilibrium solutions. 

The Sun is a big ball of relatively dense gas. At most points within the Sun, if a photon is emitted, it will be re-absorbed or scattered on a relatively short length scale. The photosphere of the Sun (what we can actually see) is simply defined as that surface at which a photon that is emitted outwards will most likely escape. This is also the definition of transparency! In other words, what lies above the photosphere is transparent to the radiation emitted at the photosphere. This definition is inexact in the sense that one can only define a probability that a photon will escape. By convention, the photosphere is usually defined to be where the optical depth is approximately 2/3 and a photon has about a 50% chance of escaping. This in turn is wavelength dependent (since the absorption coefficient of the gas in the Sun's atmosphere varies with wavelength) and this is why we see features and absorption lines in the solar spectrum - we are viewing to different depths (and hence temperatures) into the Sun. The reason that the photosphere is at this particular density/temperature, is that the opacity at the photosphere and just below is dominated by H$^{-}$ ions. These are formed from the copious H atoms combining with free electrons from easily-ionised heavier elements like Na, Fe, Mg etc. These H$^{-}$ ions can then easily be disintegrated by any photon with energy more than about 0.75 eV leading to opaqueness to light with $\lambda < 2.2\,\mu$m. However, as the density/temperature decreases with height it becomes increasingly difficult to form H$^{-}$ ions because the supply of free electrons dries up, collisonal timescales increase, and the gas becomes transparent to visible light, except at distinct wavelengths corresponding to absorption lines of various chemical species. If you like you can turn this around and ask yourself - if I fired a photon at the Sun, at what position in the Sun's atmosphere would it most likely be absorbed? The answer is the photosphere, the depth at which the Sun ceases to be transparent. NB: The chromosphere and corona lie above the photosphere, are hotter but much less dense, and are transparent to visible light of almost all wavelengths. They too emit light, mostly in the form of narrow emission lines with very little continuum. The light from the photosphere below usually swamps our view of the chromosphere, however it can be seen above the limb of the Sun during a solar eclipse and high resolution spectroscopy can detect the chromospheric emission lines, especially in the ultra-violet and EUV regions where it dominates.