where denotes the square root. If this formula is not simple enough we can approximate further: If is close to then is close to (second order taylor approximation*), so we can simplify the formula to: 

That means the (muzzle-) speed of the new arrow will be about 7% greater than the one of the old arrow. Using the "correct" formula In this case we get: 

The strength is dependent mainly on the angle between the two ropes form, on which the hammock is hung, and the weight you want the hammock to support. For a traditional hammock the angles of the ropes (measured to the horizontal) are about (just an estimate). Lets assume we want to design the system for a person weighing . Then we can derive a formula for the force ( acting on the ropes using trigonometry: 

In addition to the other answer I'd like to add that ropes are way safer than webbing in a scenarion where it actually comes in contact with rock. This is the case in top rope anchors when you have to tie the rope back over the edge of a cliff. Ropes are designed with a protective layer (mantle) and a load bearing inner part, also when moving, they only touch the rock with s amall part and they can 'roll' over the rock while webbing under tension gets severed easily. Regarding knotting webbing: For nylon webbing this is ok and accepted quite everywhere, but dyneema is too slippery to be safely knoted. PS: These do not answer your question but provide intersting insights into using knots with webbing /slings: $URL$ $URL$ 

Sure you can use anything as a bait really. Think of a crushed up can as a funky spinner (it's going to spin no matter what you do to it). It's shiny, flashy and moves erratically like an injured fish. I have also seen lures made by folding bottle caps around a hook shank. 

It honestly depends on conditions and what you are trying to accomplish. If you have nice whittled shavings to start with, the make a log cabin of those, and slowly increase the size of kindling and finally logs added to the fire. If you have branches that are roughly 1 inch, then a teepee is better. Don't forget the star configuration. That 5 logs laid out radially, with a fire started in the center. As they burn you push the logs in closer to each other. It's perfect for cooking because you can control the heat, and it can maximize the lifetime of your fuel. There are lots of configurations depending on conditions like the dryness of your firewood, how big it is, is it split or solid, what are you going to use the fire for. Do you want smoke or smokeless, do you want lots of heat or do you just want light to keep animals away, etc etc etc. It's really too broad a question without knowing what you want to accomplish and under what conditions. 

In addition to @Mike's excellent answer I'd like to suggest replacing the barrel knots of the double fisherman's with blake hitches. If properly dressed and set this will prevent the loop from sliding back to full length when under load, whereas the double fishermans slides a lot quicker. 

Even this approximation of the coefficient is quite nonlinear so it is not possible to make a statement x grains equal y fps. In the following graph you can see the relationship between the ratio of the two velocities and the ratio of the masses. 

If we swap the top pulley and the carabiner, we actually get a better MA of about 4.92:1 with the same gear (but we obviously lose the progress capturing). 

(First of all: I'm not used to the english words here.) I think tillering trees refere to the contraptiosn you do mount on walls / something standing upright, using a string and a pulley. But you can easily do the same with just a tillering stick which is quite easy to fabricate, I think following images say more than I can say in words. All you need is a little piece of lumber, at preferably longer than your draw length, and cut some notches in it. That way you can put the bow into the top notch and continuously pull the string back step by step, lean in on a wall, take some steps back in order to observe the shape. This is important as you usually cannot observe it that well when you're still having it in you hands. The procedure is exactly the same as when using a tillering tree. As far as I'm aware this is the standard tool. 

When they are tight enough to prevent movement within the shoe/boot but not so tight that it causes discomfort. A little too loose is actually worse than a lot too loose. A little too loose will guarantee a blister, while a lot too loose will reduce your ankle support. 

Climbing a coconut palm is actually pretty easy, though you do need to be fit in order to do it. You grab Around the trunk with you hands, and push off wish your feet and walk up the trunk. It's easier if you can find a live Palm tree that has fallen over some but in this case you want to have good balance because it will be more like a balance beam then a trunk. If you can find a stick or hook like a boat hook that can reach the coconuts, you can hook the stem of the nut and give a good yank, but be prepared to jump back so it or they don't land on your head. 

(Note that the Force gets extremely high, the closer to horizontal the ropes are / the close is at ) With the assumptions from above we get , but this is just static loading, as soon as you "dynamically" sit down in it the forces can be higher. I'd go with a safety factor of about 5 to be on the absolute safe (that means 5 times the static weight it absolutely needs to support, consider that any knots weaken the rope, a knot can reduce the strength by up to ), so that results in about strength. I have no experience using parachord, but this site also suggests to use rope of at least . Another reference I just found is this online hammock anchor calculator. 

That would again mean the new arrow is about 7% faster than the old one. By the numbers you could guess that the approximation is about 3% off the "exact" value, as predicted. Bottom line Again looking at the graph above, we can conclude that if the weights are close enough, I suggest the rule of thumb the relative difference in velocity is going to be about half the relative difference in mass. What do I mean by that: If you have a weight difference of 10% (as long as the weights are close enough, it does not matter which one you consider as 100%) then the difference in velocity is going to be about 5%. Again checking with the "exact" formula (considering ) 

.30 cal is about where big game hunting starts. You could get away with .223 with smaller white tail deer, but you'll increase how often you need to track your deer and that's less humane. For mule deer, I would stick to .30 or higher. I prefer Springfield 30-06, but that's just my preference. You could really use any .30 or higher. 

Yes there is. Soak the rope, then hang one end of the rope from a high point, and put a plumb bob on the other end. A plumb bob is just a fancy weight, you can use anything with some weight to pull the rope straight. Let the rope hang until it's dry. It will be mostly straight at that point, but it will never be perfect. 

Ice water will not kill any fish quickly. Some fish even live in ice or icy water. A tropical fish may go into shock, but it won't die right for a long time. I think people may believe the fish is dead because the body has stiffened, but that's just a function of the cold and doesn't indicate a dead fish. The fastest way to kill a fish would really be to behead it, but that assumes you are cleaning it immediately, but it can also make filleting a little more difficult. An alternative is to pour distilled grain alcohol over the fish's gills. That will also kill it quickly as well. The best way my opinion is to cut the gills out at the bottom of the gill covers. This bleeds the fish out, helping it to die and also has the benefit of improving the fish for eating. Because they are cold blooded a fish will live a long time, even if it can't be resuscitated. So all you can do is the best you can. Place a folded wet towel over the fish's head so it's in the darkness and it will calm down significantly. Anecdotally, it may help the fish as much as it helps you. 

Now after I got some answers I'd like to post my own observations: The most 'efficient' method I found so far with out using foot ascenders is using two conventional ascenders/(or prussiks/tibloc etc) with each a footloop. (And both obviously also connected to your harness for safety.) That way you can use your leggs to push yourself up. But it still can be relatively tiring compare to using foot ascenders as you have balance your body such that you keep the feet directly under your body. So I think the crucial thing is keeping the rope close to your body. Comparision to rope access techs/ arborists Arborists who are using foot ascenders do this by having their friction device permanently on the rope. The special thing about their devices is that they can be used for ascending or decending on a tensioned rope, unlike the grigri/tubers/other belaying devices in climbing. Here images of foot ascenders and a typical "rope wrench system": Source Source You can also observe this idea in rope access. Rope access technicians do have full body harnesses that quite often a built in chest ascender, that is that way kept close to the body. 

I am really surprised I haven't seen this answer yet, so I'll go ahead and toss this one in the mix. Cow lips are a very common and durable crab bait...especially if you do a lot of crabbing. If you keep them in brine, you can use them for a whole season and will continuously attract the crabs. This is especially attractive to crabbers who use trot lines. 

First things first. You need a sailboat in order to sail. A raft isn't navigated. It drifts and is blown around. If you have a sailboat you already have the navigation tools you need or at least most of them. Any tools that you can make on an island with a pocket knife will be no better than just looking up and recognizing the stars. The level of accuracy you would get from knife crafted tools would probably be less accurate that naked eye rough reckoning of the sun, moon and stars. Next comes knowing your latitudes and what weather to expect at those latitudes such as the doldrums and horse latitudes. Longitude is out of the question for this. You can't know your longitude without an accurate clock. So the best thing to do is follow the prevailing winds. And avoid going north or south too much. There generally speaking is no land to the north or to the south if you are in the Atlantic or pacific. If you are in the Indian Ocean then you pretty much in that case want to travel more northerly if you can manage it.