Now to the question of insurance. Premiums for sports players can be very high, as much as "10% of the annual value of the contract." But may be worth it in the case of very high value players. They also typically do not cover areas of previous injury. So suffice to say that yes, major sports teams do take out insurance for high value players, but those policies are very expensive and can be of limited use if a player aggravates an old injury. And players with extensive injury histories are basically uncoverable. 

So suffice to say, if there is a runner on, it's almost always better to pinch hit in this circumstance. No matter who pitches the 7/8/9 the odds are good you are going to need another run to keep pace and two to win. So it's a good idea to pinch hit for your pitcher if you even have a chance to score. 

NO, 3 teams can't go 16-0 in a conference. Each division in a conference plays all of the teams in their own division twice, another division in their conference, and the other two teams that finished in the same spot as them the prior year. This means that at maximum the highest number of teams that can go 16-0 in a conference is 2. Say you have four teams that win all of their games except games head to head against another team in the group. Each is a team from the East, West, North and South, they manage some good luck and none of them play each other as their same position game. Say for this year the East plays the West and the North plays the South. Only two of the teams in this group will be 16-0 at years end as there will be 2 head to head games among the 4 teams that only lose to teams in the group. 

So with all the above, LBW is considered at the point of first strike of the body without the bat. If that is not LBW, he is only given out if he swipes at the ball to prevent the ball touching the wicket with his hand unless it is to avoid injury. Using the bat to prevent the ball striking the wickets after the shot has been played (and already made contact with either the body or bat) is considered not out. If any other part of the body including and it is deliberate then it should be out. I have seen this happen in matches and have not seen anyone given out 

Note that the Rugby world cup and Commonwealth games features almost the same nations as the cricket world cup. As you can see the "even" years are pretty jam packed so making it the "odd" makes sense, though they are the same years as the cricket world cup which could make planning harder so they don't happen at the same time. Remember, all these tournaments take a lot of money to host and the TV rights, sponsor money and getting the people in are all important. Having the lesser sport of cricket not competing with the likes of the Summer Olympics would work in their favour. 

Now if you are attempting to run out the batsman a fielder wants to hit the stumps. A ball that bounces actually takes longer to get to the wickets since the bounce slows the ball and the trajectory is slightly further. However a bouncing ball has more accuracy than one on the full. It is harder to hit the stumps on the full than a bouncing ball. This decision is a split second decision. Now as far as a returning the ball just to reset the game (no run out) a fielder should throw the ball on the full, and not hard either. A bouncing ball may make it more difficult for the wicketkeeper to catch and may risk overthrows. As for damaging the ball Law 42 (FAIR AND UNFAIR PLAY) has a clause: 

This was actually a fairly tough on to dig up. As you mention in your question, the East and West swapped back and forth, and until 1985 the AL and NL were in sync. However something happened in 1985. Change came to the playoffs. The LCS were changed from 5 games to 7 and in addition the commissioner decided that the AL and NL would go to opposite divisions hosting each year. So in 1985 it was declared that the West would get home field as scheduled and that in the AL the East would get home field for a second year in a row. After that they returned to their regular schedules with the AL East hosting in odd years and the AL west hosting in even ones, and the NL east hosting in even years and the NL west hosting in odd years. This was tough to track down, the best source I found was this mailbag from a Mets blog about the following year's NLCS. 

Overall, this strategy can pay, especially on very late set piece opportunities, but in general, it just doesn't seem worth it. 

This chart shows that most often the winner was in the 7th position. However I would not take the results as conclusive one way or the other. But I would say that there is not a strong correlation between draft position and overall results in a fantasy league. 

No. Runs only count if they are plated before a tagged 3rd out (and never count on a forced 3rd out). MLB rules section 4.09 (a) 

Wins and losses are based on the score, not on whether or not the runs are earned or not. If the pitcher's team loses the game they cannot get a win, even if they gave up fewer earned runs than their team scored. The pitcher at the time the winning team gains a lead they keep through the rest of the game is the winning pitcher. There is only one exception to this rule. If the starting pitchers does not pitch 5 innings and his team gets the lead while he is still in the game the official scorer is to award the win to the "most effective pitcher for the winning team" 

As can be seen that the 1992 world cup was 4 years 3 months after the 1987 world cup. In Australia and NZ the best cricket weather is after the new year, so that is probablty why it appeared as 1992 and not late 1991. Exactly 4 years later Sri Lanka held the world cup in 1996. If this was readjusted, again leaving only 3 years for them to host, which could have been too short EDIT ADDED: Thinking a bit more Sri Lanka's turn was correctly set at 1996 since it was held in February possibly for the same reasons as it was held in 1992 for Australia and NZ. They could have chosen October/November 1995 (as was the 1987 World Cup in India/Pakistan) but perhaps the weather was better in February 1996. Of course in western Europe mid year is the best time so May/June 1999 was logically the next time it would be held. The 2003, 2011, 2015 World cups were in February but were correct and not offset by a year. The "heads up" of when these cups would start would give these hosts time to prepare and separate itself from the dates of the ICC Champions Trophies END EDIT Perhaps the change was down, not to the 1999 world cup, but the 1992 world cup. They probably wanted it to be 1991 but that would have meant February 1991 and not late 1991, which could have had issues with both NZ and Australia having enough time to get ready for the world cup. This was the first world cup that featured colored clothing and day-night matches. They probably always wanted to get back on the orginal 4 year pattern laid out by the original first 4 world cups. and in fact they kinda did with those 2 being only 2 months into the following year. Other possible factors Another consideration was how close the ICC Trophy was to the World cup. It started out every 2 years, but later changed to every 4 years, ideally not the same year as the World cup: wikipedia link 

Vosberg is the actual answer here, his LL team played in the championship game and his college and pro teams won it all. As far as the first half. I suspect there is far more overlap in these two data sets. I'm going to CW this and see if we can build a comprehensive list. 

There are some flaws with this system, but it allows for asynchronous play, and does not unduly penalize people for not playing as often. Basically set a start date and an end date and use the final results of the rankings as either your final, or as the brackets for a single day tournament play event. Alternatively you could use something like ELO from chess, but ladder is much simpler as it does not require math. 

So if you miss a bag on your home run trot, you not only have to hit that bag, but you need to go back to each one and re round the bases. IIRC it is still a dead ball so there is no harm in doing so. However, generally if you miss a bag you're going to end up out because you won't know it until the appeal is made. An appeal is made by either tagging the runner or the missed bag. The pitcher will throw the ball to the fielder and the fielder will tag the base. If there is confusion the fielder will need to verbally tell the umpire they are making an appeal. However, I've never seen a case where verbal communication is required. If the fielder knows to ask for the ball, the umpire has also seen the miss. Also related to this is MLB rule 7.12 

I did not see the coverage so cannot comment on their disagreement however when fielding within closer proximity there are considerations the fielder must make. 

As can be seen, the first was in 1998, 2 years 6 months after the previous cricket world cup. The hosting of the 1999 world cup would have been determined by then (and the date) so having it every 2 yrs since would not have caused any clash. You can also see they adjusted in 2009 (3 yr gap) which was caused by concern over pakistan security hosting the 2008 trophy. After that it became every 4 years and would fall right in the middle of the world cup cycle, which worked out quite well. Another consideration perhaps is down to the 5 other major global sporting events and their dates (Summer and Winter olympics, Rugby World cup, Football (Soccer) World cup, Commonwealth Games), all of which are in 4 year cycles. 

If you look at the time of year these world cups took place the time between them are almost comparible. wikipedia list 

Which means throwing the ball down at the wicket (which is much harder than the grass) could damage the ball. The umpire may warn the player (and captain) of such behaviour according to this rule. 

It does come down to the specific organisation running the game but generally the rules are consistent. Injury is more detailed and depends on its severity, but I would not call that so much as a 'break' 

So, regardless if it hits the side or back wall, the ball can only bounce at most once to keep the rally going. The rules only mention the requirement of hitting the front wall above the tin. the ball can strike any other wall at anytime provided the ball only has at most bounced once.