So, Grout wrote Zulu affixes as separate words, Colenso as affixes (something Callaway disagreed with). And (I assume!) Colenso also came up with the camel-case orthography, since he was in effect joining up what Grout had written as two words (u Davida, n Kosi, isi Zulu) into single words (uDavida, nKosi, isiZulu). 

As @user6726 points out, IPA can be used for phonemes, and in fact is. The IPA guidelines (at least the 1948 version) suggests that if you're using IPA for a broad transcription (and a phonemic analysis is broad), you should prefer the more familiar-looking, Roman glyph over the less familiar. So if you have a choice of <e> or <ɛ> for a phoneme, use <e>. 

Yes. The Value Added Tax is /fipia/ (foros prostiθemenis aksias). The Communist Party of Greece is /kukue/ (komunistiko koma elaðas). Notably, initialisms in Greek often use the "informal" alphabet used in early schooling for spelling out words, where vowel letters are pronounced as phonemes, and letters as the letter followed by /u/ or /i/, rather than the official letter names: /fipia/, not /fi pi alfa/, /kukue/ alongside /kapa kapa epsilon/. Greek does not pronounce initialisms for proper names (that I know of), although initials do show up; ΓΑΠ for George (son of) Andreas Papandreou. 

Ancient Greek does have οὐδενία "worthlessness" (in Plato) and οὐδενόσωρος "nobody's concern = worthless" (in Homer). 

Interestingly, you can actually hold those sounds, in a way. The nose is a second air channel. Try holding 'nnn' for a while. You'll find that what you're doing is putting your tongue where you make 'd', and letting air pass through the nose. These "nasal" sounds are almost as loud as vowels. 

Many languages have such an ambiguity built in. It's very common that you can't tell the morphosyntactic properties of a word or even its phonological interactions just from its form, even given certain generalizations. 

Thoughts on inter- vs. intralinguistic patterns My own thoughts: I find the subject interesting as regards sounds' perceptual value. I always think of an anecdote of my mother's. She spent some time in India in her youth, and one day asked a man what he thought was the most beautiful word in Hindi. He immediately answered: "The word for 'lady': begum!" Savouring the word, he repeated: "Begum!" The usual response to this story is laughter. Why? Because to a North American English speaker, no word that sounds like begum could mean "lady". This tells us two things: One, that intuitions about which sounds have which meanings are not universally shared interlinguistically. Two, that there is nevertheless some intralinguistic consistency. To poke more holes in the interlinguistic hypothesis: Find someone who doesn't speak a language that you do. Ask them to guess the approximate meanings of ten words (not cognates of ones they know). The study on synesthesia I quoted mentions that people guess word meanings correctly at above-chance rates. My own anecdotal evidence suggests that they don't have a chance when the question is open-ended, testing between the utterly unrelated Hebrew and English. But I do believe in the effects within a language. Even if people don't have intuitions about the meanings of digraphs like gl- or sn- (at least I don't), speakers of the same language do share vague affective perceptions like those about begum — or about bouba and kiki, for that matter. And you can create new words with fairly reliable categorizations, at least if you make the categories as extreme as opposites. How many English speakers would fail to categorize Galadriel and Mordor correctly into good and evil?2 The Wikipedia article mentions that phonesthetic phenomena may be due to priming, which makes sense to me. Even if there's no reason why a woman should be called a begum or a lady, once a language settles on one or the other, speakers may make similar judgements about other words using the same sound configurations. The first connection is arbitrary, but later words can be derived from or influenced by it. Over time, perhaps that could even account for a tendency — far from a scientifically predictable rule — for phonological clusters to form semantic patterns. 2 When the categories are arbitrary, opinions become unreliable. I wonder how many of us would disagree with Monty Python's sorting into "tinny" and "woody" of gone, newspaper, litterbin, sausage, antelope, seemly, prodding, vacuum, caribou, leap, and bound? 

The place to look is Herodotus. The only unaugmented, contracted imperfects forms I see there are ἑσσοῦντο, ἑσσοῦτο 'defeat'; Herodotus did not contract normally. 

This is properly the domain of $URL$ , but at least one actor in Discovery (the one who played T'Kuvma) made a point of saying that he wanted his Klingon to sound African ($URL$ citing $URL$ ). Different prosthetics are likely in play as well. 

Ancient Greek nouns could be definite or indefinite in the absence of an explicit definite article: the definite article develops only gradually in ancient Greek, and even in Koine there are contexts where Greek does not use a definite article and English would. But without a definite article, the default assumption would be indefinite. 

The Good Morning/Good Day formula is pervasive in European languages, but is presumably not universal, and presumably it has not always been around. Do we have any evidence of when and where it first originated? 

The answer from @hippietrail's correspondent is pretty much on point, but the specifics have not quite been dealt with fully. So: Sabbat-ismos "sabbathism, sabbathisation, sabbathising" is indeed a deverbal noun, arising from the verb sabbatizo "to act in a way associated with the/a Sabbath", i.e. "to observe the Sabbath". 

The earliest such proposal was Ioannis Vilaras' in 1814, proposing eta (not iota) for all /i/ sounds, and omicron for /o/: $URL$ The most successful such proposal was in the Soviet Union in the 30s, when all Greek (including Demotic, Pontic, and Mariupolitan) was written phonetically in the Greek alphabet (with upsilon for /u/ and universal final sigma)—the latter two variants with new digraphs like ςς for /ʃ/. Those digraphs have been revived in the Pontic Wikipedia's orthography. The digraphs for voiced/(optionally) prenasalised stops are arguably awkward, and transcription of dialect can dodge them; I'm not aware of orthographic reform proposals taking issue with them, though. 

Let say to make the long sound then the front of the tongue need to be as front as possible in the mouth and as close as possible to the roof of the mouth. The mouth is almost closed when making . See the following picture: 

Wikipedia Now, here is quite confusing? Some websites interpret how the vowel chart is positioned inside our mouth like the following (Interpretation 1): Source Other websites interpret how the vowel chart is positioned inside our mouth like the following (Interpretation 2): Source However, other websites interpret like this (Interpretation 3): Source So, which Interpretation is accurate (Interpretation 1, 2 or 3)? I think the Interpretation 1 is the most accurate because it is pretty close the X-rays of Daniel Jones. But I am not sure about that. In the Interpretation 2, it seems that the author implies the position of the tongue of /i/ & /a/ is way too close to the front of the mouth. However, in the X-rays of Daniel Jones, the position of /i/ & /a/ is a bit retracted & is not too lose to the front of the mouth Seem there is a lack of standard of how to depict how the vowel chart is positioned inside our mouth. That is causing a lot of confusing, right? 

This is a sign with a straightforward relationship between signifier and signified. The arrangement of the hands is the signifier and the signified is that it's 3 o'clock. Signs like this, as the author says, are much more limited than language. The clock has a couple of possible meanings: perhaps it's 3 a.m. and not 3 p.m., and perhaps it's that time in Seoul rather than Los Angeles. But it can't do anything but tell you the time. Whereas (it is argued) language is a system of signs allowing you to express essentially any meaning. 

The paradox is how a word that means "head" came to mean "subdivision". We have to switch our point of view: Looking at a book, the chapters are subdivisions. But looking at the mass of words, each chapter heads a group of them. The chapters of an organization are branches of the whole, but in terms of the members a chapter collects them under a single head(ing). And again, the world has any number of things that are grouped into the "categories" of definition 2. And not just any sections, but the "main" sections of definition 1c. To start with, anyway. So a chapter is a "head" not looking from the top down, but from the bottom up. 

The work on this question is recent and has potentially plausible mechanisms underlying it, so watch this space. 1 Though one could imagine that other factors are involved. For example, in English the shapes of the letters that make up these words could bias round/spiky associations. A person could visualize the letters even without seeing the word written. 

Yes. The "ideology" meaning is already around in ancient Greek (because the underlying verb suffix means "act in a matter associated with", and can mean "be a partisan of"). But the point of the noun suffix is to make the verb into an action noun. 

The fact that the perfective simplex δω is not discussed separately from the perfective past είδα and the perfective imperative δες is... regrettable. But yes, Triantafyllides does give principal parts. 

Proto-languages are indeed theories, the way that Evolution or Gravity is a theory. Confirmation of theories comes through their fit of the data, as @sumelic argues. As theoretical constructs, they are unstable, and subject to refinement—as the iterations of $URL$ illustrate. They are best guesses, and they are driven by trying to account for modern data, rather than as exercises in time travel. That's why the fact that they aren't always particularly pronounceable or typologically plausible is not really the point. They are not meant to be real languages; they are meant to be short-hand accounts of how a bunch of modern languages are related. An added problem with the historical accuracy of proto-languages is that they only reconstruct what has survived in all the daughter languages; if a feature has died out in all daughter languages, you're unlikely to posit it for their ancestor, because you simply won't know it was ever there (and because you're following Occam's Razor in your modelling exercise.) Now, because proto-languages are posited to have a historical reality, they could potentially be verified objectively through a time machine—comparing how close a fit the reconstructed proto-language is to what was actually spoken on say the steppes of Ukraine 5000 years ago. Unlike gravity. But like evolution, which would (and does) get confirmed through "missing link" fossils. And the proto-Indo-European spoken on the steppes of Ukraine 5000 years ago (maybe) might not look all that close to our reconstruction, for reasons @sumelic mentions in passing. The history of IE may be explained by the Wave model more than we'd prefer, with Trubetzkoy proposing the extreme account that there may not even have been a single proto-Indo-European language. Trees are neater models than waves, and that's why we use them; they're not necessarily more historically accurate. But again, the point of proto-reconstruction is to explain regular relations between modern languages; it's not time travel. So, has there been confirmation? Not a lot, but some. A standard exercise is to reconstruct Vulgar Latin from Modern Romance languages, and to see how close it comes to what little Vulgar Latin we have. Sardinian is pretty critical in any reconstruction, because it preserves stuff from Latin that no other daughter does (which proves how fragile the reconstructions are.) From what I recall, the reconstruction is close, although we have so little Vulgar Latin attested, we rely on reconstruction to make sense of it anyway. And in fact that circularity gets in the way of the few "confirmations" of proto-languages there have been. You could argue that the deciphering of Linear B confirms the reconstruction of kw in Proto-Greek, for example. But Linear B is such a poor transcription of Proto-Greek, that it would be impossible to decipher without the reconstruction of Proto-Greek in place to begin with. The deciphering of Linear B is so contingent on the reconstruction of Proto-Greek, that it'd be misleading to say it confirms that reconstruction. Same goes for the one laryngeal that turned up in Hittite: it confirmed that Saussure wasn't just doing silly algebra when he came up with the laryngeals for Hittite, but it really is just one out of three laryngeals, and people embraced the other two laryngeals because they made sense as a reconstruction—whether or not they left any consonantal relics in Hittite. 

Notice that the last one requires a few qualifying predicates; I can't even say Catholic or identify a single country they went to, at least by name. And it might still not be enough for you to realize that I mean the Jesuits. Even worse, we may not know the same things about them. You might think I mean some other set of missionaries because you don't happen to know how many continents the Jesuits have been to or in which century the society was founded. Moreover, we might not even agree on a predicate. You and I could talk about "the greatest English writer" and I could be talking about Shakespeare when you mean Ian McEwan. Those are the cases that would be harder to write. Incidentally, even proper nouns aren't always enough to do this job. If you address "Luke" now, we know you mean me. But if there are two people named Luke in the room, you have to say "Luke S." or "Luke A." But what if a person's full name isn't unique? Say there are two people named Luke Sawczak. Now you have to fall back to the same strategies shown above: "The Luke Sawczak who was born in Canada" or "That one there"... and in sentences like those, the name looks awfully like a common noun, not a proper noun. 

Ok, we all know that the vowel chart diagram is drawn like this Wikipedia Ok, that is the model, but how the vowel chart is positioned inside our mouth or how the tongue in the reality is placed according to the diagram? We got the X-rays of Daniel Jones of 4 extreme point [i, u, a, ɑ] as showed in the following diagram: 

I keep asking this question over and over again. For example, it seems that the word "Internet" (the specific global system of interconnected Internet Protocol (IP) networks) was coined in 1960s or or earlier. Ok, now we know that people nowadays use the phrase "on the Internet" to say something that is on the Internet, for example "there are a lot of things on the internet". My question is that why people don't say "in the Internet"? Now, look at the Ngram Viewer of "on the Internet" & "in the Internet", it seems that "in the Internet" was used since 1800, but the "on the Internet" only was used since 1960s. This is my theory. I think, in 1960s, a certain person A wrote an article relating to Internet & he used a sentence, which contains the phrase "on the Internet", such as "there are a lot of things on the internet". Then, many other magazines & newspapers narrate this article & suddenly thousands or millions of people read this article & thus remembered this phrase "on the Internet". People then start to imitate the person A and say "on the Internet". Gradually, everyone use the phrase "on the Internet". Let say, what if the person A, the father of the phrase "on the Internet", used the phrase "in the Internet" for the first time in his article? Then, if that is the case, Will people today say "in the internet" instead of "on the Internet"? Other example is the expression "listen to the music", why not just "listen the music" & why we have to as "to" after "listen"? This Ngram of "listens to the music" and "listens the music". Finally, Is the development of an English phrase such as "on the internet" a process of natural selection? Is there any research mentioning that?