The phrase "You can only get out as much as you put in" means different things to different people. For example, I'm a member of some "influencer" programs at Microsoft, and in that context, we use that phrase all the time, meaning that we'll get some opportunities and invitations, but it's up to us to attend things, learn things, and make a difference. If I don't bother attending something, no-one will remind me, it's up to me how much I want to be involved. This is a typical use of the phrase for a volunteer activity. I think it carries a different meaning in the sense of employment and especially an internship. Interns vary wildly in their abilities and enthusiasm. I think your boss means something like 

Yes, the joke was inappropriate. You know that because you saw that it made someone uncomfortable. It's a shame that nobody else on the team ever objected to this juvenile "humor" because now some people will say things like "we used to have such fun before we got stuck with a woman on the team." The response "how else would you put it?" is classic bully behavior. I would probably respond like this: 

The CRA uses a multi-question test to determine whether you are an independent contractor or an employee. (There are special rules for Quebec: scroll down.) Nothing in these rules mentions being incorporated, having a separate bank account for the business, having a business phone that is different from your personal phone and is listed in the phone book, having business cards or getting letterhead printed, yet I have heard people urge others to incur these expenses in order not to be considered an employee. Here is an example in real life that is happening now. I have a client who has employees. The manager tells the employees what to work on, and tells them they have to come in Saturday for the deploy. They ask him if they want a day off. In contrast, he asks me if it's possible for me to come in on a particular day, and he asks me if I would like to be part of a particular meeting or project, or take on a task. I tell him I can't be in next week because I have something else planned. My customer provides laptops to their developers; I bring my own. The relationship is clearly different. (And yes, I have an office, letterhead, a business phone, a business bank account and credit cards, plus other employees and other clients, but these things don't appear on the CRA list other than a mention of exclusivity and the vague phrases "advertises and actively markets his or her services" and "has established a business presence".) The cost to the company if you are deemed an employee is significant: they have to pay everything they should have remitted for you plus everything they should have deducted from you. The cost to you of incorporating is non trivial. If you have several clients and legitimate business expenses, thank them for their interest in helping you and assure them you have it all under control. If this will be your only client, for months or years at a time, take a good hard look at the list on the CRA site. If the situation they want you to enter is "iffy" against that list, explore whether there are ways to make it more securely obvious that you are not an employee. When we first started our business we did not incorporate. One of us had employment income and being a partnership (like a sole proprietorship but more than one person, no incorporation, simple form to fill out) allowed us to deduct the company losses from our personal income at tax time. Once the company was consistently profitable, we incorporated it and retained both a lawyer (many over the years) and an accountant. 

There are a number of set phrases you can learn that are softer and sweeter versions of what you may first plan to say. For example: 

They may tell you that the next step is offers, or making a short list and having a second round of interviews. They may not want to get into that detail. But they are likely to give you something arm wavy like whether they will be in touch in a few days or a few weeks or what. For example, I scheduled interviews (never mind the decision period) over a period of two weeks. So whoever I interviewed first was going to get no information at all for at least two weeks, no matter how quickly I decided. I would tell an interviewee that, especially if they asked. If they are too vague "we'll be in touch..." it is less rude to ask now "do you think it will be next week, or within a month, or ...?" than to say nothing now and then send "just following up on our interview" emails repeatedly in the weeks after the interview. Having missed this chance to ask, I would suggest two things to do: 

Feelings matter. The exact same words delivered between two different people can evoke different feelings. If the person hearing it is vulnerable and has been harassed before, the words can bring up fear and worry, reminding them of a previous experience that started similarly. Since there's no business need for comments like these, they are best avoided. If the person hearing it is privileged and doesn't believe they would ever be harassed, the words don't bring up those kinds of feelings and the person hearing them knows they can safely be ignored. This isn't a double standard. It is the HR people caring about the impact of the words on the hearer more than the actual words. You have said to us and to them that you didn't care, weren't hurt, had forgotten, and so on. I wouldn't expect anyone to pursue action in that case. Your colleague did care, was hurt, and went to the HR people for help. I hope her boss learns how not to hurt her, or others, in the future. In the meantime please avoid strutting around saying "I don't get it. My boss says all that to me and it doesn't bother me at all, and nobody tells her not to." That will only upset your colleague, your boss, and your colleagues boss as well. 

Your goal in an interview is to show them that you are CS. Trying to downplay your strengths because you believe everyone is either CG or NS, and companies would rather hire NS, is just foolish. Show them your strengths. And tell them you're looking for a place where you can grow while staying with the same company and building up your expertise. 

For an email, finish with an expression of how much you have enjoyed working there, want to continue working there, and want to be the very best you can be, along with some gratitude that he even told you anything about what's going on as far as the perception of your performance is concerned. If you're going to do this in person, practice the sentences a little so you get them reasonably smooth. If Bob doesn't have time to help you or replies that he's not really your manager, you will have to approach either Andy (who has expressed a problem with you, but not in a way you understood) or Charlie and ask them what you need to do to get your performance where they want it. You should not tell either one that Bob filled you in. To Andy I would avoid email, and find a moment without no-one else around and probably say: 

It's pretty hard to know which question your boss is really asking. If it's the first, you might get away with "yes, we got the project finished on schedule and it was a success, and I think I did my part well" even if in fact you weren't fantastic. But if it's the second, that answer will sink you. So my advice is don't think so hard. Tell the truth. And to make that easy, figure out the truth yourself before you're asked. On every project you should ask yourself: "did I do that job well?" And when the answer is no, you should ask why 5 times (search that phrase if you haven't heard it before) to learn more about what happened. This is actually less work than trying to figure out how not to blame yourself or how to phrase your answer in a way that doesn't make you look bad. When your boss asks you, you can then reply something like "The end result was good, but there were some times when I had to work late to recover from a mistake" or "The end result was good, but the client wanted more communication from me" and show that you understand where you can improve. After you deliver this impression, sit still and listen. Your boss may elaborate, telling you another shortcoming you didn't notice about yourself, or explaining your team's priorities. This is really vital information that is not always discussed, so pay close attention.