You need to look at this from two perspectives...or maybe three. Lets see how the answer develops as I write. Roles: As with modern computer programs you need to develop roles. As we use them today you often have roles, for example: 

This lizard uses a combination of light weight, large fast feet, feet hair, and air bubble pockets to run on water. How does this help our human? Well, it doesn't really, but it does give you a formula for what it takes to walk on water. For humans to do this technologically unaided our feet would have to be massive, hairy and able to be propelled at an amazing rate... In the end, to do this you are going to have to find a way to manipulate the water currents to push you up...or remodel your water folks' feet, I suppose both would work too... Keep in mind that if your person is manipulating currents upward they are not going to be walking on a smooth surface, the water under their feet would be rolling and bubbling...they definitely are not going to be staying dry when they do this. 

So I am working on a concept for a location, wherein a sort of oracle will exist. This oracle will in no way be super natural rather the strange behavior of the oracle (a human for the sake of the question) will be the result of interaction with some naturally occurring chemical/compound. 

What's it all mean? Well look at it this way. Games simplify the complexities of reality, because lets be honest, no one wants to take their half orc barbarian to the latrine after he had to cook his dinner of roast squirrel. If you want to apply an overall level gain idea to real life you have to take into account the complexities of real life. So what we need is an added layer on top of what we already do today, my suggestion would be a system of proficiency points. 

Welcome to the site Theocles. First, no. While there are some examples of colonial organisms working together, creating modern tech requires significantly more specialization than your microbial colony would be capable of. Each and every one of your microbes still have to worry about and deal with the day to day requirements of...you know, staying alive. In the human body on the other hand we have cells whose sole function is to support other cells so they can focus on making us think, move, etc. So cell specialization is what at the base makes intelligence possible, and while colonies of single celled organisms have been know to specialize to a degree (after all how do you think we came to be) remaining in that state would preclude the possibility of intelligence. The organisms certainly can work together, but not in a human, intentional, "Hey let's go build a house" kind of way. 

I am working on developing the cultural framework for my world and I have a singular religion in mind that plays a role in both the story and more relevantly the state of the world. To provide the appropriate level of depth I am trying to define what the religion is, which begs the question: What makes up an organized religion: This is difficult to differentiate, but I am not asking what all belief systems have in common. I am specifically looking at structure and organization. This is not about the beliefs or philosophies nor how people react to it but rather the Organized Religion itself. Think of the religion as a business. When compared to other 'businesses' what do the larger, global, organized ones have in common? Setting: 

Yes, but...or No, but ...its weird I just realized those mean virtually the same thing... So there are questions that need answering. Primarily who are your actors. What use is sapience to your ant colony? If they are, as a colony, creating sapience. 

Ill address magic later but defensive artillery would still have a max range, this means that the besiegers simply have to back up a little bit farther. Admittedly it may take a few more people to maintain the siege or be easier to smuggle goods in but that isn't going to drastically change things. 

Welcome to the site ASH, I think you are probably stuck with a magically enhanced energy creation, storage and usage system...not to mention clean up. The system humans have in place it incredible elaborate. We have systems specifically designed to provide nutrients and oxygen while simultaneously removing cellular waste and we are nowhere near efficient enough to run at a sprint for three straight days. Problems 

If the only reason you need armor is to defend against lightning strikes...all you really need is a helmet. You would basically be building a human lightning rod. So rather than a full suit of heavy heavy armor, you just build a metal (VERY well insulated) helmet with a rod on top. Attach a thick VERY well insulated wire to the rod/helmet. Maintain control of the wire via some sort of body harness and then ensure that there is enough wire to always keep it on the ground. This system would provide just as much protection from electricity as a suit of full plate. It would still be terrifying and you would want ear plugs but it would work. Keep in mind that any system you create that is based on metals WILL stop working after multiple strikes. 

This is a pretty complex question even if it seems simple. A couple things. 1. Castles can exist for many reasons 

So at first I was writing an answer that presented a beautifully benevolent utopia where everyone is fed, clothed, housed and content...but then I realized that it was completely delusional so here is round two. Everything will appear to change but very little will change in the system. 

Course you could just introduce a super termite that is a major plague on the place...but if they consume that quickly why would anyone ever build anything out of stone. 

This gives you adaptable buildings that can survive the world you are on, course I hope you have a really good reason to send people to that planet as humans wouldn't have developed naturally on it. 

Ok, onto the options that work. I don't feel the need to specify certain weapons sets but more general layout options that seem reasonable. Defensive Stance 

In any of these cases you will have to restrict communications with the outside world including freedom of movement. Once you get to the site you are locked down until M-Day. And as mentioned in @Draco18s comment you will have to have space for the construction folks who are building the ships in the first place. This should be fine as skilled engineers, electricians etc will come in might handy when building a new home for humanity. 

Government Yep, we already rank people here too. I could keep providing examples (firefighters, civilian job titles, trade skills etc.) but I think you get the point...heh. 

If we move that 200 years into the future...we have 1546 - 1871. So first, what happened between 1346 and 1546 with no plague. Certain aspects would have evolved in a similar fashion, though at a slower rate. Peasant revolts, food shortages, religious and political conflict between nation states. The population would likely have ballooned and grown significantly larger. The landed elite would have gotten much more powerful as increasingly cheap labor stymied development. Standing armies and guards would have grown in number to manage the larger population. Likely a few traditional feudal systems would have been overthrown at least locally. Learning from the middle east and asia would have made their way into Europe much in the same way they did and exploration/colonization would have been much farther along. Once the plague hit it would have been even more catastrophic than it was in reality as trade is more common on a global scale, population centers are larger and medicine still relies on limited understanding of what disease really is. Where the black death was a mainly Eurasian concept it now spreads to east asia and the america's wiping out settlements and colonies around the globe. This has the potential to break the European system completely and send it reeling backwards. Nations lose control of their colonies and native populations have time to advance and can later hold them off. Things stagnate for decades and religious fervor climbs to new heights making the Inquisition look like an afternoon at the spa. I could go on ...and on. Option 3: No plague at all. This scenario is less interesting...in the case of no mass plague at all, I think things don't change as drastically as one may expect. Democracy still would have developed, international trade would still have created a middle class that had to be listened to by the elite, peasant revolts would have been more common, and in the end I think the world develops, if more slowly at first, much in the same way it did. Most of the social and economic changes that came out of the black death years were already underway when the plague first hit. Now the political implications are impossible to figure out. Maybe the turks don't overthrow the Byzantines and the empire lasts another couple hundred years...who knows. Final Note: The specifics in my answer are less relevant than the overlying options and thought processes. When dealing with alternate history you are completely free to work out how you want things to function. Just keep in mind to get a setting that feels real the alternate reality needs to come about via the complexities that exist in real life. One single event is rarely going to drastically change history by itself. 

Can't believe I missed this question. Prep Steps You need to do these before you really get started, you have some done but I am listing everything for future user reference. 

The eyes, when morphed into a creature with ocular parts they will be unnaturally yellow. She has to respire in any form...I don't even want to know what it looks like when an end table respires...anyway... You don't mention this but I would suggest that unless your system dictates otherwise this would be the biggest...Heat. Unless your shape shifting dictates otherwise, when shifted into any object she is going to give off heat as the energy in her cells doesn't magically disappear. 

Become a god, make your worshippers carry things for you. Dragons are clearly too important to do manual labor, let alone the menial transfer of wealth from one location to another. Step 1: Attack a city. Step 1A: Don't kill everyone. Step 2: Tell the rest they will live if they worship you Step 3: Make them into an army Step 4: Go conquer and plunder Step 5: They bring the stuff back to your horde Step 6: Repeat steps 4 and 5 

This is the easier route. A smaller group of individuals that volunteer could create and inhabit a controlled settlement supported by the state. 

If your good army abides by these conditions, and the bad army does not, it will become quite clear who is on what side. 

So you are looking at roughly 50,000 survivors. Nice and easy. For power water and sanitation for a population of 50,000 lets look at an example. Woodland, CA. Population 2010: 55468 

Nationalism was certainly a primary issue in engendering conflict for a long time, generally from colonial times through probably the second world war. Unfortunately your hypothesis that this is the problem today is out of date. In our current era, problems of nationalism have been eclipsed by more general concepts. The most famous author on the subject is Huntington. The Clash of Civilizations and the Remaking of World Order. (Arguably at least). He posits that where we used to see conflict between nations we now see conflicts between ideas and cultures which almost always span national boundaries. Some examples include freedom vs control, communism vs capitalism, Islamism vs the West and there are many many others. To explain I will go through a couple. The West The west mainly refers to the United States, Canada, Australia (doesn't fit the geography admittedly), and Western Europe. This example most illustrates the fall of nationalism. European nations/tribes etc waged war on each other for...well basically ever, culminating in WWII. Since WWII no Western European nations have gone to war with one another (this includes the US/Canada/Australia). Interestingly we may be seeing a swing back to nationalism in Europe as demonstrated by anti-immigration protests, and the election of Syriza, and anti-EU sentiment. Freedom vs Control I think the best example of this is in the news right now. Russia vs Nato... Putin controls and manipulates his government and people, (I will caveat this with...yes there is manipulation in the west as well but Russia is at a whole different level). The ability to freely dissent doesn't exist in Russia. When two groups have differing understandings of a fundamental concept it leads to conflict (watch the news for proof on this...) Trans-national Ethnic/Cultural Groups This has become a huge source of conflict. From the Kurds in Turkey/Syria/Iraq and Iran to tribal uprisings in the middle east and south west asia this has become a major source of conflict. When there is a shared antagonistic history it is easy to motivate downtrodden people to blame and then attack a group they hate. (Hitler anyone...) Read the General notes section for more. General Notes 

Its not a bad question but as @AlexP mentions, there is no scientifically accurate method to get you what you want. Simply put the sun is the dominant force on climate. No matter the make up of your atmosphere or the amount of volcanic activity you just can't overcome the overwhelming power of the sun. To have the temperatures flipped on a planet simply isn't plausible. This XKCD what if entry is relevant. It discusses the sun's impact in relation to gravity rather than temperature but conceptually it gives a good idea of the scale you are working with. This article from NASA may also be helpful. Of course this is all assuming an earth-like world...there are some weird situations that could get you closer, but no matter what the poles can only be evenly heated at low temps...though hypothetically you could get a hot one and a cold one...in a definitely non-earth-like setup.