I am a big guy, so I ride with Look pedals on my road bike, because they have the largest cleat size, and the largest area to distribute my weight to the pedal. Shoes vs Pedal style are two different issues. 

Polar's higher end heart rate monitors now offer a foot pod for tracking running distance and a bike computer (wireless as well). The data can be downloaded via the data link. Again, like ttt notes, not inexpensive. But then this level of functionality is alas, never cheap. I recall there was a Palm Pilot app that had an interface to some common bike computer standard, but that was ages ago, and I doubt it is still around. 

Road quality has an amazing effect. A smooth and freshly paved road vs a worn down road, where the tar has leached away and it is very rough makes a real difference on performance. 

For serious winter riding (I rode for 12 years all year round in Toronto, Canada, and while we had reasonable weather, it did get wet, cold, and icky a lot) I gave up on clipless, and just used platforms with a pair of hunting boots! Canadian Tire sold -40C and -70C versions. (I rode in -35C in the -70C pair, and I gotta say, my toes were quite comfy!) Tuck a pair of ski pants or waterproof pants over the tops, and that was the driest I ever attained in bad weather. They bend surprisingly well so pedaling is not the issue, and you have good stability in bad weather. You know, if you are sliding, and put down both feet with those big boots, you might still slide a distance, but you can control it better. I never tried anything like you suggest, as based on other waterproof clothes, once it gets wet enough, nothing is water proof. Everything has holes, seals, zippers, seams, etc... They help, no argument, but not all the way. 

Find a really big hill in your neighbourhood and on your 20 Mile rides do say a 5 mile warm up and then do seated climbs all the way up, rest on the way down, and repeat till you run out of time and ride home. Don't climb out of the saddle, make it a seated climb, and you will build strength all over as needed that is of great value in riding. You will rarely do 20 miles of climbing, so this will help you through the hard parts of your longer rides. Though there is value to finding a long shallow hill. 5-10 miles long, but not very steep to practice spinning and climbing on. 

Generally you will find, for getting started a gel seat may help. As do padded shorts. However, once you ride regularly, and build some muscle and tolerance around your sit bones, you will find it annoying. So it is a good gateway drug to getting used to a saddle. Generally people find that narrower and simpler seats are more comfortable, once you start riding regularly and build up your seat area. 

When I was racing seriously, I got down to 235 lbs, and am now closer to 275lbs. I ride a Titanium Litespeed, and classic steel frame bikes. (Have four bikes at the moment). While I have cracked my Ti frame (and gotten it welded) and broken some steel frames, it is a very rare thing. I.e. Over years of riding regularly, I broke an old steel frame. Replaced it with a similarly old same model frame, and finally just cracked a drop out. Got that one welded, and moved on. The things where weight matter are usually pedals, since you apply a LOT of force to a fairly small piece of medal. I have broken a couple of seats over the years. I had borrowed my brother in laws Walmart style bike, and I bent the cheap steel seat post (when it was over-extended to make up for small frame size) and I was climbing hard, seated. But that was an extreme example. I bought a cheap replacement from a bike store, of greater quality than the cheapo bike deserved and it was fine. 

Boots: Canadian Tire (sort of a car/tools/stuff store) sold these hunting boots that were thick rubber, with insulated insert, rated good down to -40C and -70C, depending on the model. I wore them down to -35C and my feet stayed nice and warm. The ankles articulated surprisingly well, so biking in them was pretty easy. Also I wear a size 13, so when I lost balance in the snow and put my feet down, I had huge platforms to offer balance for the bike. Pants: I do not know if it is me, but every bike I have owned sprays off the back wheel and fenders, while they help are not perfect. I started wearing ski pants, and that worked pretty well. Or else waterproof over pants with the appropriate (for the days temp) undergarments for warmth. Gloves: Like boots, keeping extremities warm is critical. There are tons of awesome gloves available. Get a warm waterproof pair. 

While the question is directly about easiest/fastest way to pump up a tire, it is worth noting that all the above methods work. It really comes down to fastest. Try benchmarking against a flat car tire. This is a high volume, low pressure problem, which while different from a bike tires (low volume, higher pressure) is a good benchmark of speed. It is actually an interesting challenge to pump a totally flat car tire up with a small frame pump, a floor pump, or a CO2 cart. Alas, a compressor takes all the fun out of it, 

I use the regular Blackberry ear phones with mike. They are $2 on Amazon these days, and they leak noise around them very well. However, of course the issue is not entirely related to hearing the things around you, as well as paying attention to the things around you. I personally prefer to listen to talk radio (I Heart Radio or Pandora) or podcats while riding. Or even talk on the phone. But it does distract somewhat while riding. 

Simple answer is, they always need more air. Tires leak, slowly, but they all leak. If you are riding every day, you probably want to top them up every 2-3 days. If you ride once a week, you need to top them up every ride. 

Over the years, I tried many types of fenders, mud guards, etc. I do not know if it is me, or the tires I would buy, but almost without fail I still got wet at the front, at my feet, at the back. I had the reasonably cheap plastic 2-3 inch wide ones on MTB's, I had the aluminum set for a road bike, and I tried one of those seat mounted ones that are a bit high. I always get wet regardless. So I wore water proof clothes instead. I agree they help, but never completely. Conversely my colleague who also biked in year round, would ride in some days where I was soaked, and not even have a stripe on his back, without fenders. I never could figure out how he did it. On my racing bike, I would not bother. On my commuting bike, absolutely recommend them. But they are not perfect. 

I raced 5 Ironman races (so 112 Mile / 180 Km) bike segments and did training for that for 5 years. I raced at 235 lbs and now I am riding 30 miles to work at 270 lbs (alas!) and I do not have an issue with pinch flats. My road tires I run at 120 lbs or so of pressure. Though with the recent hot weather my pump was not getting the pressure that high due to over heating. So I would say, no to your question. 

So Ti is not magical, but this is on a 18 year old frame now, so not that surprising. I have broken several axles, but steel ones have been sufficient for the last few years for me. I suspect weight is the only benefit, however when you care at the level of a few grams, it seems silly when a full water bottle weighs almost a kilo. (1 litre of water weighs 1 kilo) 

There are two schools of thought. 1a) Bike box: This is a hard shell, fairly large box that with wheels, pedals removed, and handlebars (disconnected at the stem) put to the side fits your bike. From a safety of your bike perspective this is pretty protective. I have used this approach flying within the United States, and over to Europe. You will almost certainly be charged by the airline extra. At one time membership in the US's Mountain Bike association (whose name escapes me) had a deal with many airlines to waive the fee. 1b) Paper bike box: Sometimes you can buy these at airports (Call ahead), or else many bike stores will let you grab one from a new bike they recently assembled. (I know taking Via Rail on Sunday from Ottawa to Toronto they sell them for $10 at the train station). 2) Bike bag: By using a soft bag, it implies to the luggage handlers, be gentle. I know people who travel with bikes who swear by them. Again wheels and pedals removed, to minimize size. I am not personally convinced that luggage handlers at airports around the world really feel that way. You will still likely have to pay an oversized luggage fee. In both cases, many airports have different luggage carousels so it will probably NOT come off with your regular luggage, so look around or ask where that might be. I have seen as nice as a specially marked obvious area, to an unmarked door you have to wait at. Also, some smaller planes might not have room for your box or bag, so they might send it later, making you wait for it, depending on how your connecting flights work out.