Wet suit thickness is a very personal thing. I for instance dive in a 3mm shorty in 15C and higher and 3mm one piece for temperatures under 15C and above 6C Remember that you can also layer. So I would say a Dry Suit with thick under garment or a 7mm wet suit with a 3mm chicken vest underneath. Some nice thick gloves and hood and if you really cold then wear a 2nd layer of 5mm over the top. Here are some good guidelines. "Shorty wetsuits and dive skins are generally used in warm tropical waters with temperatures of 75°F- 85°F (24°C- 30°C) and above, depending on personal preference. Dive skins do not provide thermal protection, but do provide protection from accidental stinging by sea lice, fire coral and other small marine hazards. Shorty wetsuits provide a modest amount of thermal protection for core body areas. 2mm - 3mm (1/8 in.) wetsuits are generally used in warmer waters with temperatures of 70°F- 80°F (21°C- 27°C) and above, depending on personal preference. During cooler weather, additional warmth can be achieved through the use of a 3mm hood, addition of a 3mm hooded vest under the wetsuit and/or use of a 2-piece 3mm wetsuit. 4mm - 5mm (3/16 in.) wetsuits are generally used in cool waters with temperatures of 60°F- 70°F (16°C- 21°C) and above, depending on personal preference. During cooler weather, additional warmth can be achieved through the use of a 3mm-5mm hood and gloves, addition of a 3mm-5mm hooded vest under the wetsuit and/or use of a 2-piece 5mm wetsuit. 6mm - 7mm (1/4 in.) wetsuits are generally used in cooler waters with temperatures of 50°F- 60°F (10°C- 16°C) and above, depending on personal preference. During cooler weather, additional warmth can be achieved through the use of a 5mm-7mm hood and gloves, addition of a 5mm-7mm hooded vest under the wetsuit and/or use of a 2-piece 7mm wetsuit or semi-dry 7mm wetsuit. Semi-dry wetsuits have Neck seals, wrist seals and ankle seals that adhere to your skin to minimize water entry." Wet Suits for Temperatures More Wet Suit Thickness Tips 

It should be good for your heart (and maybe body-weight) at least. When I started commuting that distance (18 km. each way) I bought a better bike (i.e. $700 new instead of $200 new, with extra-good tires, better gears, and bestest brakes). More to the point, I interspersed that riding with rest days (when I took public transport instead). Cycling every other day (e.g. Monday, Wednesday, Friday), or two days followed by a rest (e.g. Monday and Tuesday but not Wednesday) might be a good beginning. Especially if your feet are clipped to the pedals (e.g. using SPD shoes) it's possible to get some wear if your fit is wrong: with a 90 RPM cadence, a 1 hour ride each way implies 10,000 cycles per day -- so a lot of repetition. One of my knees started to hurt after the first few weeks, because I had the bike lock positioned in the wrong place on the bike which maladjusted that knee's positioning. After you've got used to it (let's say, after the first 10 or 20 weeks) then you can do it 5 days a week (and on weekends too if you like) -- that's how long it took me to get used to it, I'm aged in my 50s ... and I did go hours on weekend days too, for fun. 36 km isn't really long-distance on a bike; I think 50 km (called "a metric half-century") is maybe the minimum distance that a cyclist would begin to consider a long distance. On the plus side you'll probably end up fitter than most other people in town ... maybe including people who only ride on the weekends. On the minus side you might be surprised at how poorly that translates to other exercises. I think it will help you run. It may (I think it does) help you walk or jog up-hill. I was surprised though, earlier this year, how much it hurt me to walk down-hill (i.e. walk down a mountain-side for an hour or two): that hurt me at the time and for days afterwards, as if my legs were bruised ... something different about the action, the way the muscle is used, the range of motion or something like that. 

In some cases, you need a longer anchor than you can easily get with a cordelette. In these cases I'll use webbing or static rope. I often use two separate ropes here, which could be cordelettes or single strands. It's more difficult to equalize since you'll need to approximate where the ropes should meet before you fully tie off extra slack. The same basics apply though, and the upside is that although if one piece failed, there would likely be more change in the ropes position, there's overall more redundancy since the carabiners holding the rope go through the loops of both separate strands. In conclusion Neither of these methods are the best or end all be all of top rope anchors. There's always a few ways to set an anchor in a given spot. I'd love to hear others chime in with common top rope anchors they use, or hear critiques. One setup that is always difficult for me is top belay systems over water. As always, test your anchor, and double check yourself and your partner, before climbing or rappelling. Also, apologies on the images, since they are not mine and don't do the best job of showing an anchor over a near vertical cliff. 

I used the instructions to create a test diaper sling myself, and it seems like it would hold me, but if i really needed a harness I'd probably opt to spend the time making the Swiss Seat. As I mentioned above, mountaineering harnesses can be little more than stitched webbing with some added thickness which might be a better alternative if this is going to be more than a one time use. One last comment addressing your question. I don't know your exact use case, but using rope while crossing streams/rivers is generally risky business. For example, "The two hikers had tied themselves onto a rope that had been placed across the stream earlier this summer. They lost their footing and were pulled under by the current." Though there are techniques to use rope and anchors to successfully cross streams/rivers, when misused the rope can get pulled into the water, creating lots of drag and usually taking whoever is attached right off their feet. You might be quite experienced with this, so I'm just leaving this as a general fair warning. 

This is not an easy question to answer. More lumens means better light, normally also further range. But if you dive in areas with lots of suspended particles in the water you will get a lot of back scatter which in effect impacts on visibility. Then the next question is do you need it for night dives or just to help see more colours on deeper dives where your colours have become dull and especially red has disappeared? The best option for a dive light is: 

Diving is first and foremost a PRACTICAL skill so the best way to practise is to do it. Yes you can read through the books to refresh your theory, but this will not refresh your ability to dive. But it can be helpful in reminding you about small things you may have forgotten. Practising hand signals can be good, but these we always confirm before dives as different divers from different places and different organizations might do dive signs a bit different. My suggestion is that you go for your first dive with a Divemaster/Instructor or very experienced diver on a nice easy shallow dive so you can just work through setting up gear, getting used to the feel of the gear as you swim (achieving Neutral buoyancy), breathing slowly and deeply in and out without holding your breath. Also remember to practise things like mask clearing, regulator recovery and clearing as these are things that happen more often and should be easy and effortless to do. If you been out of diving for a long time with very few dives it is worthwhile to do a whole refresher course with a qualified instructor to refresh all the skills you learned. This should be done in a pool (or very clear, calm, shallow ocean) followed up by a nice easy ocean dive. On the theory side I would recommend going through those adventure dives that you might be interested in doing and that have a bit more to them to think about: DEEP, NIGHT, WRECK, etc. 

Grab all three loops, and adjust left or right, until the force on each end feels balanced, then tie a figure 8 (or a figure 9) behind the loops. The pros of this method are its simplicity, and that any one strand or piece of pro could fail, and the failure wouldn't cause much change in the rope's position or exert a lot of stress. The con is that you're using essentially one rope and so there's a greater risk if something happened at or below the knot. Two/Three point anchor with static rope or webbing 

I use 7mm PowerCord cordelette that was about 25ft, tied together with a double fishermens. You can also use a webbing cordelette, or a piece of webbing tied with a waterknot. Loop the cordelette through your protection, and ensure the knot is not in the way. Then pull the strands between the pro with your fingers, until it looks about like the image below, draped towards where you want the rope to fall. 

First off, there's tons of information out there on various types of anchors, different ways to equalize and secure them. One book I'd recommend is How to Rock Climb. Different anchor types each have their pros and cons. The best way to learn to build solid anchors is to have a more experienced climber, particularly someone who knows the area, walk you through building an anchor step by step. Personally, I've been taught and often use two different methods for top roping, depending on how far away from the cliff edge I can place protection. Specific to top-roping, you have more time to place gear and double check everything. While there's often more stress in the system, you can also find more bomber placements and use sturdier rope, etc. In many places, two points of solid pro are just fine, but three is almost always better. One point should almost never be used, even if it's really solid, except perhaps in specialized situations. Anchor position and attaching the rope In both cases, the anchor should be long enough so at least the carabiners you're going to attach the top rope to are hanging over the edge. Many people use two locking carabiners facing opposite directions, as a just in case, though one burly locking carabiner is not unheard of. I've never had any specific issues building an anchor at the top of a cliff. If needed, I'll place an extra piece of pro to clip myself into, or use the same pro as the anchors. I make sure the anchor falls where I want, and test it from the top before I toss the rope down. Sometimes it helps to have someone below looking at the route to make sure you've got the right spot. They can also give the rope a good tug while you inspect the protection. Two/Three point cordelette anchor 

There are different ways depending on how you swim, take photo/film, etc. A head mounted approach is easiest and shows people your POV (point of view), bubbles can be an issue depending on your reg and swimming position. But greater risk in losing it of your head. Some people hard mount it on a plastic type helmet (cycle/caving/construction) and then attach the helmet over their hood. Some people like chest mounted straps as this is more secure, but you need to swim less streamlined else you only see the ground below you, which can be great depending on where you diving. The other more versatile option is to place it on your wrist and then you swim with wrist pointing at what you want to film, also easy to remove and put on a stick if you want to get close-ups. Each method will need some practice to aim correctly, but best is to try all three and find the method that gives you the best results. 

Black silicon blocks out all light except that which comes in through the lenses of the mask, leading to less light from peripheral. Spear fishermen, technical divers, free divers tend to prefer this. Clear silicon tends to discolour especially when stored with black rubber. But as far as true visibility goes the black or clear silicon does not make a difference. Visibility can be improved by getting as low profile mask as can comfortably fit you. This will mean less air space in mask that needs to be equalized and greater visibility arc. 

I would say you would be good with about 200 - 500 lumens. Also you will go for a very strong light as primary and then a smaller light for backup in case of major issues on a night dive. 

So, don't assume you can wear bare feet indoors. Glass you know about already. Some people prefer to be barefoot when they run (in the city or country), even with UK snow (not nearly as cold as Canada), and argue that it's easier on the joints (e.g. knees) because you refrain from landing as hard as you would with cushioned soles. 

I read a leash as maybe saying, "The owner doesn't trust this dog unleashed"; and no-leash as saying, "This is a well-behaved dog." That's if I can assume that the dog-owner is competent. IMO it's just as good (as using a leash) to demonstrate your control by giving "sit!" or "heel" or whatever else. Ideally your dog is looking to (looking at) you for instructions, in which case I can ignore the dog and talk to you. If the dog is looking at me and trying to make its own mind up, then maybe I'll avoid all y'all (so that the dog stays closer to you than to me). The important thing (the only important thing) is to be safe. It doesn't matter so much whether I'm scared of the dog and/or want to talk with you, the most (or only) important thing is that I mustn't be attacked. I tend to use a leash only for safety's sake (not to punish the dog, not to make people feel happy) and/or to comply with the law. The other bit ("homeless, long hair, unshaven, muddy") is maybe a bit more important than the dogs. 

I literally stuck myself on a discarded hypodermic needle once as an adult, in Rome, through the side of the shoe when I was wearing light "training" shoes; connversely when I was younger than that (a teenager) and used to walk barefoot, I would watch where my feet are going. I had no ill-effect from that incident, though, luckily. In Toronto it's normal to see signs on shops saying,