So, the Purifiers are a form of destructive, narrow-minded zealotry. They destroy items of inner beauty, while on a quest that sounds attractive, but upon deeper understanding, is utterly futile. And now we reach the Crimson Hexagon: 

Together, the two themes are extremely intriguing, because they are in tension with another. If robots are, in some way, human, they cannot be anticipated and controlled. And to the extent that they follow logic to whatever conclusion it lead them, then they are clearly something other than human. There are many ways for these themes to conflict and interact. One example is Reason, where a robot believes he is a prophet, and comes up with bizarre, mystical explanations for the world it observes. Clearly, this robot is behaving irrationally, and in some ways in a very human way -- but the protagonists observe it is still following the Three Laws, so it is being both robotic and human at the same time. This, of course, hints at what further tension could develop if the robot's irrational, human-like beliefs didn't happen to dovetail so nicely with what the humans wanted the robots to do anyway. 

Rose doesn't recognize him, and when questioned about how to leave (to get to the Keep of Time), he abruptly tells them to try the trump again, and walks away. However, before they leave, he tells Rose: 

In 1984, O'Brien expects Winston to know what Room 101 is. I know that Room 101 is more torture, but why would O'Brien expect Winston to know that? 

TL;DR of this answer: There are definitely gender stereotypes here, of a more violent male passage vs a gentle female one. However, it's also a different resolution of the narrative. You can think of it as saying "gentleness will lead to a better end", but again it's unclear if this is what the author intended. It's also highly likely it was just a publicity stunt. Heck, if you even asked this question it sorta worked. Who knows, maybe the author intended people to read stuff into it that he didn't write. 

The later quote is much more straightforward -- it's clear that we're talking about somebody being analogous to God, and not actually being God itself. The statement here is that, somewhere in the infinity of the library, there must exist a perfect and accurate index. The Librarian who stumbles across it may be no different or better than any other Librarian -- but by having discovered the true index, he will be able to find anything in the Library he desires. This, in this story, is akin to Godhood. This is a complex and unusual view of godhood -- one in which godhood is a thing of beauty and inspiration, the idea of finding order in chaos, and also almost impossible to touch or come near, because the library is so vast that the god, or the book, cannot be found. 

He also wrote more stories after LOTR, in addition to a couple (non-fiction) research papers before that. So he wasn't entirely new to writing in general. 

There are no recurring characters, except in the sequels and spin-offs. For example, as you noted with "except for the sequels", there are recurring villains such as Slappy the dummy. However, in the spin-off series of Goosebumps HorrorLand, there are recurring places/enemies (such as the park itself). But in the plain Goosebumps series, no. 

Here is also a list of place names and their equivalents, taken from the book linked above: (warning - really long) Wessex - Name - Region of Wessex Actual Name 

So it's not really a retirement, it's more of a temporary break. And the last quote implies that stars prefer to be in the sky versus on the ground, because Coriakin was punished with coming down. For those who don't remember, the duffers were the (for a time) invisible and one-legged creatures. Coriakin was supposed to be guiding them. Finally, it's also unknown what punishment merits a star coming down. 

This phenomenon is brief and sudden, and obviously important to the story, but I do not understand it. What does it mean? Where are they being pulled? And why is it some people, and not others? This feels like it might tie in the protagonist's arriving in the first place, from another world. And as for explaining that, the hint we have is Yestril's conjecture: 

This Crimson Hexagon also stands in contrast to the next idea Borges brings: the Man of the Book. This is a much more subtle, and much more plausible, belief - indeed, the Library as describes seems to demand that such a person exist. This is not a belief of total power, breaking the bounds of reality -- it is the understanding that reality's shape naturally funnels knowledge to somebody. That a Man of the Book exists somewhere. And, that one's own understanding of that knowledge and that person will be limited. 

The Scarlet Letter, Chapter II As time passes, the letter changes in meaning. Some people "refused to interpret the scarlet A by its original signification". The A comes to mean "able" in their minds. (Chapter XII) Eventually, the letter becomes somewhat sacred: 

It's unknown, but it appears that although The Epic of Gilgamesh was written first, the Pentateuch (part of the Bible containing the creation stories) has the first description of the flood story. From the Idaho University page on The Epic of Gilgamesh: 

Not really private islands, and they don't really retire either. When a star is old enough and has lost enough power, it can go to one of the islands on the Eastern Ocean. While there, it recovers its strength and becomes young again by eating "fire-berries". 

The portrait, unquestionably, is of Bill Cosey. But the leap that Junior makes -- from tough-as-nails, look-out-for-number-one survivor, to imagining a dead man as her personal protector -- seems to me surprising, out of character, and pretty arbitrary. Why does Junior "adopt" Cosey and cast him into the role of her "Good Man"? What does this signify about her character? Are we meant to understand her as being insane, unstable -- or is this part of her character more thematic? What theme is being expressed here - and how does such an instant, intense, intimate imaginary connection to Cosey fit in with the rest of the book, thematically? 

In other words, he posits that the Library is literally infinite; that the 25^1312000 individual books repeat over and over. He calls this "elegant," as yet another hope for order in random chaos -- here is suggesting, not only that there are infinite copies of all books, but that the arrangement of those books is preserved. This is an order that cannot be perceived, tested, or comprehended by any mortal, but its (hypothetical) existence is a comfort to the narrator. Another variation arises naturally -- that the Library does extend infinitely, but with different arrangements of the books. Eventually, of course, you would exhaust the possible arrangements of books -- but you could create new configurations of those arrangements, and their location respective to one another. However you look at this, Borges is demonstrating the idea of magnitudes of infinity - e.g. the idea of an infinity of infinities. The Library is metaphorically infinite Part of the point here is that the narrator has no idea what the structure of the universe is. He has no way to discover it. He can guess and conjecture, but is overwhelmed by the ungraspable nature of the Library, and of infinity. The thing is, infinity is not a concept the human mind can grasp easily. In many ways, it is easier for us to understand something finite but whose immensity presses upon us (i.e., a finite Borgesian Library), than the infinity of our own universe (where it is so easy to focus on our own planet, country, home). Understanding true infinity is very difficult; creating an example of true infinity might have resulted in less powerful imagery. But Borges's Library is immense in a way we can grasp intuitively. It gives you a sense of scale -- the difficulty of finding a single comprehensible word in a book generated from random characters; the existence of books that are works of truth and art, as the product of randomly combining characters until one forms. This is not literally infinite, but it feels so near the real thing, as to be metaphorically infinite, to demonstrate the sense of infinity even if it isn't the real thing. 

The only occurrence of "church" in the book is in the preface, "From the Publisher to the Reader". This is also fictional but not really part of the events of the book. 

Yes. The poem was written in response to seeing his cousin, Lady Wilmot Horton, at a ball. She is his cousin by marriage, through a man named John Wilmot, governor of Ceylon.. 

The scarlet letter has many meanings in the context of the story. In the beginning, it represented a sin and crime committed. As the story (and Hester) move on though, it becomes a symbol to be proud of (at least in Hester's mind): 

The poem appears to glorify war with its talk of bravery and talk of honouring the light brigade. However, the second to last stanza appears to contradict this: 

There are several options -- which makes sense, as this is a story which explores the idea of infinity. The Library is spherical Immediately following the line "I say that the Library is unending", the narrator says: 

"Lord of the Flies" is a direct reference to Beelzebub (from the Hebrew ba'al z'vuv, בעל זבוב, literally "lord of flies.") Beelzebub is well known as a dark god, a demon, or another name for Satan himself. The clear implication, in the context of the book, is that humanity -- freed of restraints, left to its own devices -- will naturally tend to cruel and hellish behavior; that people are devils, if given the chance. 

I was re-reading The Silver Chair recently, the 6th book in the Narnia series. Towards the end of the novel, 

The Guardians are a group similar to the Cahills and Vespers, their job is to guard the pieces of the doomsday device. According to the 39 Clues wiki page, they protect the pieces of the Doomsday Device and they move them from place to place until they find the right place to hide it. The only known living guardian is Atticus, though his half-brother Jake may also be one. As to the locations of the pieces of the doomsday device being unknown, it's possible if not likely that they were known before all of the other were killed/died.