Of course there are several innovations and Old French doesn't preserve the Latin declensions perfectly, but the original forms are retained in several declension types. The Wikipedia article linked has a lot of example declensions, many of which appear to be sourced from Kibler's An Introduction to Old French. 

I do know of at least one example in Latin where a feminine noun is given as a name to a male, namely cupido, a normally feminine noun meaning "desire", but given to the male deity Cupido (Cupid in English). You restrict your question to given names, though I think family names might be more likely to exist with a mismatch between grammatical and natural gender. In Spanish, for example, family names do not have to be words of the same gender as the referent, i.e., a woman can have the surname Delgado (delgado, a masculine word meaning "skinny, slender") and a man can have the surname Vega (vega, a feminine word meaning "meadow"). The same thing of course happens in English (a woman can be called Johnson even though son is masculine), but compare Russian and other Slavic languages, where surnames usually change form depending on whether they are given to a male or a female; a man's surname can be Толстой (Tolstoj, from толстый = "stout") but his wife or daughter will have the feminine form Толстая (Tolstaja). 

As you can infer from my examples, the split affected not only Middle English */o:/ but also Middle English */u:/: 

Of course the two above sentences would both be highly ungrammatical in any American, Australian, New Zealand, and Canadian English dialects. 

Under an exemplar theory approach, we would expect new words to be less innovative than high frequency words because a speaker hears less of them. References: Hay, J., Drager, K., & Thomas, B. (2013). Using nonsense words to investigate vowel merger. English Language and Linguistics, 17(02), 241-269. Kiparsky, P. (1995). The phonological basis of sound change. The handbook of phonological theory, 640, 70. Wells, J. C. (1982). Accents of English (Vol. 1). Cambridge University Press 

Is there a difference between an affricate and a plosive+fricative consonant cluster? According to wikipedia, there is a difference between a plosive+fricative sequence, as in the following example 

But I honestly can't hear the phonetic difference unless the speaker carefully puts a pause between the morphological boundaries. The semicircle in the IPA /t͡ʃ/ seems to suggest that /t/ and /ʃ/ are coarticulated, or at least articulated together more than in a typical consonant cluster. Is there any difference between the affricate /t͡ʃ/ and the cluster /tʃ/? (similarly with /dɮ/, /p̪f/, /ʥ/, and so on) If so, what's the difference, and how could one tell the difference between an affricate and a simple plosive+fricative sequence? 

No, at least no documented languages have only front vowels. The general explanation for this is given by various theories for vowel dispersion. Schwartz, Boë, and Abry (1997) summarise one of these theories pretty well. Basically, there is a strong tendency for languages to spread their vowels evenly. Most theorise that this is because of learnability, others because of articulatory economy (Lindblom, 1975), others because they think systems self-organise in nature (de Boer, 2000). In 3 vowel systems, the most common vowels are /a/ /i/ /u/ with lots of speaker variation. In 5 vowel systems it tends to add in /e/ and /o/, 6 vowel systems most often add in a mid vowel like schwa. 7 or higher start getting rounding contrasts. There are languages with asymmetric vowel inventories. Many dialects of Danish have a highly asymmetric vowel inventory, with about twice as many front vowels as back vowels. Australian English also has a slightly asymmetric vowel inventory, with only 3 back vowels out of 11 monophongal minimal pairs. 

Note that a creole is linguistically more developed than a pidgin. The language is mostly stable. Unlike pidgins, which along with moribund languages are notable for their simplified characteristics, there are no grammatical features that are unique to creoles. Now, finally, to your question: Yiddish was not a language that developed from two language groups trying to communicate with each other. It is a High German language that was (and, to a lesser extent, still is) spoken by Ashkenazic communities in central Europe. Yiddish was never a rudimentary mixture of two languages, it was just German that borrowed a few features of Aramaic and Hebrew. And, no, English was not a creole during the Norman conquest. English was still English, it was, for the most part grammatically the same as it was before. English just borrowed a large amount of vocabulary from French. 

That is just a /t/ sound, not a morpheme. This makes as much sense as asking where the /n/ in near and nickel come from. The words night, fight, and others like right historically had a fricative before the /t/, and words like through and rough ended in that fricative (compare English through [θɹu:] with German durch [dʊɐ̯çç]). In Middle English, the fricative likely varied regionally, and it inconsistently either deleted (through, plough, night, fight, wight, drought) or became [f] (rough, trough, enough) in Modern English. Just because night and fight end in -ght it does not mean that sound was one morpheme. It just happens to be the consonant cluster they ended in. 

I think the general term for these would be "prestige languages". Though the term itself has a wider application, those languages are chosen as sources of technical-term loanwords because of their prestige. 

Additional letters As for additional letters, there is no hard and fast rule that I'm aware of, but I believe the most common practice has been simply to add them to the end of the alphabet. The Greeks did this with most of their new letters; beyond tau (the last letter of the Phoenician alphabet) are added upsilon, phi, chi, psi, and omega. When the Romans invented the letter G, they put it in the gap that had been created by dropping Z from its original place between F and H. However when they borrowed Y and Z from Greek later, these new letters went to the end of the line. If the new letter is derived from an existing letter, it may sometimes be added to the alphabet immediately after it (thus J follows I, V and W follow U, Ñ follows N), but even in these cases this does not always happen; for example, the letters æ, ø, å, ä, and ö used in Scandinavian languages are added to the end of the alphabet. 

In short: No, Yiddish is not a creole. A creole is a stable language developed from the mixing of parent languages. A creole develops if (and, AFAIK, only if) its speakers were children who grew up speaking what used to be a pidgin as their first language. A pidgin is a simplified language that develops as a means of communication between groups that do not have a language in common. A pidgin is not the native speech of any entire community but is an acquired language. Pidgins develop rather haphazardly out of necessity when multiple language groups, for whatever reason, need to communicate with each other on a very regular basis. Bits of vocabulary from each language are put into a melting pot, so to speak, and an ad-hoc rudimentary grammar develops. People are trying very hard to make themselves understood, and the result of that generally resembles a sort of tarzan-speak. Pidgin languages are not stable and continues to develop in a rather impromptu manner. There is not necessarily any widely agreed upen grammar and will vary widely from speaker to speaker. Certain conventions will inevitably arrive, that is, the features of the pidgin that are used enough will become standard. Wikipedia lists some notable characteristcs of pidgins: 

Re 'survival of the Latin nominative into Proto-Romance' - It survives into Old French, which had a two-case system until about the twelfth century. So for a standard second-declension noun vicinus "neighbor": 

The original alphabet We do not appear to have any ancient authority on why alphabetical order is the way it is. Several modern scholars, such as Cyrus Gordon and Alessandro Bausani, have posited that the order is in various ways based on the calendar or the lunar zodiac. (Giovanni Garbini gives a summary of Bausani's theory in his essay The Question of the Alphabet; this is quoted in many places online.) Writing systems scholar Peter T. Daniels, however, has stated that there is no evidence for such suggestions, and has also stated: 

You can see a few samples of this in action here. This is not directly supported in all browsers, but that can easily be amended with a CSS stylesheet. 

I don't know of any tools to do this, but in HTML5 there is an awesome element. For example, if I wanted to give an English translation above the Spanish sentence Quiero comer una caja de caracoles, I could use this HTML markup: 

What's the difference?, you might ask. In the first one, the word is one syllable long. In the second one, the word is two syllables long because the /m/ is syllabic. How do you express this difference with IPA? 

Is this your homework assignment? *'Boys loves to cry.' Person agreement. *'She didn't went to the market.' Tense. A Generativist model would probably explain this as 'do' occupying the spot where tense normally is licensed. However, there are languages where double tense marking is grammatical (and also double person agreement; this is even found in one Indo-European Language: Bulgarian). 'They are going for the party, isn't it?' Actually this is grammatical. In some dialects of English in the UK this is grammatical. In many dialects, the clitic innit can be used even when referring to plural subjects, and even to personal pronouns. 'Isn't it' has been grammaticalised as a negative tag question: 'Dogs are in the room, innit?' 'You like pizza, innit?' Essentially, 'isn't it' can be used to mean: