"By keeping my linkedin profile up to date, I prevent misunderstandings that might occur, for instance someone contacting me about your business when I no longer work here wouldn't be appropriate. If you continue to pay me as a consultant I will continue to keep you on as an employer alongside any other employers I'm working with, but it isn't a good idea for either of us." "My contact list contains people I've actually worked with or know from my career, which spans businesses I've worked with before you, and will span businesses I work for after you. The contacts I've made are for the purpose of furthering my career, and thus there's no reason to discontinue them just because I'm taking a new position in a different company. If you feel there's a clear conflict of interest, open up a dialogue between yourself, me, and the other person and I'm certain we'll be able to resolve it without burning any bridges." 

There are a few different theories for this. I subscribe to the theory that suggests you can't be overdressed, and unless communicated beforehand that a different style is more appropriate I wear a suit and tie. 

If you're receiving academic credit through this CPT, you might find it prudent to get in touch with someone at your university about your issue. Regularly, an employment contract—whether temporary or permanent—will contain all the major stipulations, however, from what I can tell is that you've signed an offer letter. An offer letter differs fundamentally from an employment contract in that the contract is very thorough in what can and can't happen, and includes severance clauses that make it very detrimental to breach. An offer letter is a little bit more tentative. You can often find at-will employment sections in offer letters such as: "Your employment will be at-will, meaning that [the Company] may terminate your employment at any time, with or without cause, and with or without notice..." And so hence the provisions of your offer letter may not constitute an argument herein. I do however suspect that there is something contractual here between your university and the internship employer that you should probably have addressed, again, by someone at the university. To go any further in the matter you will undoubtedly need legal advice, as I'm not a lawyer, but from my standpoint now it would seem that for whatever reasons it's whoever issued the incorrect CPT duration who is at fault and needs to be spoken with. 

I find in these situations it's beneficial to go to the extreme in being professional in all interactions. This is a job. Everything you do there should relate to the job, and if it's unclear then ask for clarification. Document everything. Every interaction, every email, every meeting. Send meeting notes, even if it's a hallway conversation, and include all affected parties. If the meeting appears to be an interpersonal meeting, CC someone from HR, your supervisor/boss, and perhaps a third party if previous meetings similar to this one have identified the need for an objective observer. Make sure they understand your job role as you understand it, and that they have opportunity to notify you of new responsibilities if they feel you aren't meeting their standards. Do not, under any circumstances, attempt to explain your diet or medical needs any further. They have no valid business reason to know unless they are planning meetings involving food that require your attendance. In such cases inform HR of your dietary requirements, labeling requirements, and when asked tell your boss or co-workers to discuss dietary needs for all involved in the meeting with HR. HR should be a clearing house of such information, and need never reveal who has what requirements, simply providing necessary information so that the company doesn't become liable for injuring its workers. The rest of the question, however, is largely an interpersonal one, and might be better suited for the Interpersonal Skills Stack Exchange briefly, though, I suggest you maintain a high degree of separation between personal and work information, and design boundaries that prevent this problem from continuing. When a co-worker provides information attempting to influence your personal medical decisions, a simple reply should make sure they understand you have no need of their help or continued interest. 

My understanding with hiring in the UK is that government directives require the hiring body to verify your eligibility to work. I think a copy of the passport has become a standard formality, though I saw this interesting column on using DoB to age-discriminate. I would be reluctant to hand over any identification to a recruiter or agency with no job offer or prospect on the table, however, the key here is your employer has offered you a job and is going through the recruitment agency to get the hiring process done. The employer would have obtained these documents, anyways, but at this point it seems like a checkbox for the recruiting agency to move ahead. Of course, don't do anything you're uncomfortable with, but also realize there may be no other option (that doesn't involve even more sensitive docs, at least), if you want to move ahead with this employer. 

US Businesses: Executives in small companies can say whatever they want to investors with caveats. Smart companies know what to say and what not to say, however, and utilize legal teams and industry professionals to doctor releases. Now, the investors know the technology pipeline, what the company is developing, it's why they invested in the company. The executive committee are making what are called forward-looking statements. I'm just going to glance this off Wikipedia because it's accurate: 

These are symptoms of the real problem: The job is not a good fit for you. Face it - you've attempted to create a better fit by bringing your boss's attention to the frictions in the job, and they haven't changed appreciably. You no longer see opportunities in the position to increase your skills and career in the desired trajectory. You know there is a position that will better meet your goals, and it's likely that there's a person who will fit this position very well. It's not necessarily that the company is bad or wrong, or being mismanaged. It's not necessarily that it's a bad position. It may be that it is those things, but from your perspective you might not be able to objectively make that call. So when you say, "I'm being asked to do work I didn't expect to be doing" or "I'm not being trained enough" or "People here are bad at communication" then it's just as likely that your boss will blame you for all these problems as himself or the company. Since you've talked to him about them before and nothing has changed, it's very likely that these things don't concern him. In his eyes they concern you. So there's nothing you can gain by telling him, and little to nothing he will gain. Worse, though, is that for the next decade or longer they will continue to appear on your resume as previous work experience. While it's possible that they actually never give more information than a confirmation that you worked there, some companies do give feedback - sometimes negative - when future employers call to verify your employment history. By telling him all the bad things you blame the company for, he may see that as your failing, and that may be negative for you in your career. Unless you have a personal stake in the future of the company, and you can be certain you are absolutely objective in your assessment, you should not go any further than "I have an opportunity to grow my career in a new direction. I've learned a lot here and will miss the people I worked with." This distances both you and him from the idea that there's something wrong with you, the position, or the company. It also avoids comparing the old position and the new, avoiding questions about why you prefer the new one to the old. It is also a standard 'canned' answer that allows your boss to fill out his forms easily and simply, reducing his work in your leaving. 

If their temperament permits it, people will get offended even if you speak to them in the most professional, unbiased tone. Just get the point across: If he asks you to do something unreasonable, say "I'm busy, you will have to return it." A reasonable person might even connect the dots eventually: "Oh no! Have I been offending him this entire time by making these requests?" In this case you'd have nothing to explain; you are coworkers, not superior/subordinate. He will task you as many times as you permit him. But I think the way to avoid offending him if it's within your best interest that way is to be frank, direct, and don't allow it to boil over into frustration for yourself. This is for everything but the rest area. If you open something, or turn something on, it's your responsibility to shut it down and so forth. That's just common courtesy, and it should go unsaid. If he doesn't do it, people such as supervisors will catch on. 

I think that courses can be useful for entries such as credits offered for continuing education. For example: 

The mentality is largely the same. You are adding graffiti to an object you do not own, without permission, and you believe that you won't be caught, so you should be ok, right? The problem is that you don't have permission, and that this is a product which represents the company. When the easter egg is revealed, and it's not a matter of if, then there will be serious repercussions towards you. Just because you may be willing to be fired for it now doesn't mean that you'll appreciate the exposure if it comes to light in 3 years when you have another job with a security minded company. Do not allow this product to be released to any customers with your digital graffiti. Take it out of the codebase, and hope no one else notices it. 

I have one son (17 years old) would could breeze through most low level programmer interviews on technical aspects. Before he interviews for a position I ask him if he wants to do some practice interviews with me first. This isn't abnormal behavior for any parent/child relationship. If your interview consists of a set list of questions, and the employee leaked or used those questions specifically, then perhaps the preparation provided prevents you from truly assessing the candidate's capability. However, if your interviews are more unstructured, with questions that vary depending on the candidate and the process of the interview, then you shouldn't have to worry about preparation. It wouldn't be any different than if any other candidate spent time with an employment counselor before your interview doing a practice interview. The generic questions you ask will be asked in such practice sessions. The technical questions will be similar in terms of approach and response, though the actual technical questions should be different enough that you can assess skill and capability. If you're asking the same technical questions for each interview, then the critical thing you need to do is have them explain each step to you. I'd recommend changing the technical questions, though, so this isn't as much a concern. In short, coaching shouldn't be a problem - you should still be able to determine if they're qualified as long as you have a strong interview process. There is only a problem if you ask the same exact questions to every candidate and if the candidate has received coaching specifically for those technical questions which you use to determine skill and capability. 

Worst case scenario you change something behind you manager's back, and he doesn't know what's going on suddenly. Makes him look bad, makes you look bad. Draft your methods going forward and present your plan to your manager, and ask that you take charge under his supervision. This is an opportunity as a junior to take on a project you're interested in. But, your manager may also have valuable input, mentoring or advisory to complement whatever it is you draft. Granted, it doesn't guarantee you'll lead those changes. I think it goes without saying, however, that in most cases you shouldn't subvert your manager. 

IANAL Employers have the almost unlimited rights to monitor or modify anything being used on their computer system. The computer system could include: devices the employer owns, software or cloud-based systems the employer owns or administers, or any devices connected to the employers network. The idea is to protect the employer's information and intellectual property. First and foremost you can assume any electronic communication being sent over an employer's network is property of the employer, and may be privileged/confidential. The other thing that I'd assume is that because you've linked your work and personal accounts, you've also compromised your personal account. I think this is a misstep. Keep in mind that company bring-your-own-device and electronic use policies waive a lot of your rights to privacy. This could be as extreme as giving the company implicit access and permission to your personal data in pursuit of securing their information systems. That's why it's of paramount importance to carefully consider what you do with your work devices. While it's ethically wrong to access an employees private email, I think the company has a potential argument here that your "work" and "personal-work" email accounts are somehow administered under the same blanket account as your "work" email and thus all accounts need to be scrutinized. It may also be problematic for them that you're accessing personal email on the company information system. You would have been wise to completely separate your personal email account and refrain from associating it for with any work accounts at all. 

Assuming you've determined that your employer is the best resource you have to resolve your situation, and that it's appropriate to do so given your position and culture, there's no harm in asking in whatever way you feel comfortable. However, your success will depend in part in how you ask, so here are some suggestions: 

Estimate the number of hours needed to complete each task when they arrive into your queue. Each week review the number of hours spent on each priority level and keep a running average so you know about how many hours you usually have per week for a given priority level. 

First, identify what his role is in the company, and what his role is in the interview process. You did the first part of that - you know that he's a back end developer. What you didn't realize is that his role in the interview process was this: Is this a front end developer that I can work with the accomplish the company's goals? Had you understood why you were both in the same room during the interview process, you probably could have spent time getting to know him, the work environment, processes, and how he prefers to work with others. You could have asked him who does the front end work now, and how he feels its going. You could have asked what he would like to see changed, or how he thinks a front end developer might help lighten his load. You'll end up in similar interviews in the future. If you don't know who you're meeting with and why, feel free to ask questions until you do, then figure out what that person needs or wants in relation to the open position, and see if you can meet those needs as part of the interview process. 

If it's really such a question you should definitely use a combination of circumstances to validate a business. Having a valid phone number and physical address is a good indicator but not the whole picture. If they have a website, you can try to find out who registered the domain and see if it looks reputable enough. At the same time, the website itself should look professional enough. Company reviews like BBB, Google, Yelp or what have you should have some indication that regardless if they're a good corporation or not, they're at least legitimate. If they're registered as a corporation, LLC, etc. the office of the secretary of state should also be able to tell you if they are a properly registered company. If they're publicly traded and file an SEC form 10-K, you can broadly find a tax ID called an EIN, but you should also be able to speak to payroll and obtain this number with a good reason (I don't think a company would want to go ahead and say "we're shady," but they also have to worry about identity theft so this is a long shot!) In some cases just like with taxes, web domain or corp/llc registrations, some businesses will also have to be registered to specific federal bodies based on the type of work they do, and a phone call to said agency may shed some light on the legitimacy of the suspect business (so think FDA, finCEN, etc.). All else fails, you can also go to the physical address for the business and scope them out yourself if it's possible. 

This gives you room to negotiate, sets the expectation, and lets them know that you expect immediate action - either they pay you more or they provide the stock options, or they pay you more until you receive the stock options. Meanwhile, start interviewing. The reality is that you've already worked there long enough without them fulfilling their promise, and they have no incentive to fulfill it now. If they put it off again and do nothing, get a new job and this will help them understand the consequences of not following through on promises. 

He has a different pattern of communication than you, and this difference is getting under your skin. 

Critically, I think it's important to focus on the fact that this is an emergency, it's a one-time situation, that it's a smaller amount than your full paycheck, and you have plans to avoid this situation in the future. In general I don't suggest an appeal to their humanity, by describing the terrible situation you have fallen into. A short explanation saying that it's an emergency should be enough to help them make their decision, without forcing them to feel like a monster for refusing you. You don't want to make your employment situation bad. Make sure they understand that while you need this help, if they refuse it won't alter your work or working relationship.