As I understand it, the problem with the intelligent-design argument isn't a matter of the complexity of the objects under study, which are indeed very complex. The logical difficulty with this argument is that it posits the existence of an intelligent designer who is (presumably) at least as complex in its own construction as the things it is purported to have designed. This naturally begs the question: who designed the designer? To put this another way, if the existence of high complexity in nature requires an intelligent designer as an explanation, and if a designer is at least as complex as the thing it designs, then it follows that we must have an infinite regress of designers; it's turtles all the way down! In the context of consideration of the complexity of a cell, yes, it is very complex. But if a single cell is very complex, and all the intelligent beings we know of are made of cells, then we know that these intelligent beings (who are not as intelligent as the purported intelligent designer) are more complex than the cell. The intelligent designer is presumably more complex than us, and hence, by transitivity, it must be more complex than the cell, whose complexity we are trying to justify. 

As William Bell points out in his answer, this statement can be framed in terms of modal logic, with operators for (metaphysical) possibility and (normative) permissibility/desirability. Any given system of modal logic containing both operators would have a syntax for the sentence: 

While these two principles are in opposition, I think it is fair to say that most anarcho-capitalists are supportive of the latter principle, that an innocent buyer obtains valid ownership of property. Hence, if you steal my pencil, I retain ownership of it, and I have a right to recover it. However, if you steal my pencil and then sell it to John (who is a bona fide purchaser without notice of my prior property claim), I lose ownership of the pencil (to John), but I can still sue you (the thief) for compensation. In this case, John has legitimate ownership of the pencil, notwithstanding the fact that it did not come to him through an unbroken chain of legitimate transfers. 

Not sure if this is strictly a philosophy joke, since you could easily replace the philosopher with any complex profession. In any case, here is a great joke that was Number 4 on the Psychology Today top-ten philosophy jokes: 

What happens in the event of theft? In addition to having a theory of initial acquisition, anarcho-capitalism must also have a theory for what to do when there is an illegitimate transfer of property (e.g., theft). In this case, the owner of property has a right to defend the property from theft, and has a right in personum against the thief if the property is stolen. In the event that stolen property is transferred to an innocent buyer, the situation in regard to the property right in rem becomes more complicated. Here there is an argument between two contrary principles that have emerged in common law and equity: 

Rand's thoughts on this issue can be gleaned from her published work on the ethics of what she called "lifeboat situations", where a person is placed in a situation where they can only survive by killing another. Rand regarded the notion that one should based one's moral philosophy on these extreme emergency situations as irrational, since these are situations that differ systematically from the ordinary conditions of human existence. Nevertheless, she addressed the general topic of ethics in emergencies in her essay The Ethics of Emergencies, and she addresses the more specific question of killing an innocent in a "lifeboat situation" in an answer to a question she is asked in Ayn Rand Answer: The Best of her Q&A. As can be seen from reading this material, Rand's position on emergencies is that it is morally appropriate to help a stranger in an emergency so long as this does not entail a danger to oneself. In regard to extreme cases like the "lifeboat situation", she says that moral philosophy prescribes no rules of conduct, since the preliminary conditions of normal human functioning are absent. She regards either position ("I should kill him to live" or "I should refrain from killing him and die") as subjectively acceptable. In regard to the situation you posit in your question, Rand would therefore view it as morally good for the old man to give up his medicine to help the child. If he nonetheless chose not to do so, she would regard the situation as being sufficiently different from the ordinary conditions of human existence that the use of force against the old man would not constitute a violation of the rules of morality. (Presumably she would require that one use the minimal use of force necessary to save the child - i.e., forcibly taking the old man's medicine but not killing him.) 

I think the main difference between the Marx's time and now, is that our present economic system is a mixed economy, which blends parts of the capitalist system (e.g., substantial private ownership of the means-of-production, relatively free trade, etc.) with parts of the socialist "planned" economic system (e.g., substantial state ownership of the means-of-production, state intervention in the economy, etc.). Since our economic system is an unstable mixture of both economic systems, quite a bit of what Marx said about capitalism would still be relevant today (though I do not assert its correctness). There are certainly aspects of his model that have been clearly falsified - e.g., the fact that the working class have become richer, in real terms, and are not the "revolutionary" class he claimed they would be (empirically they are less in favour of socialism than the "elite" classes). With regard to contemporary authors who discuss the application of Marxism to the modern mixed economy, there has been quite a bit of work on this. You can find a book-length treatment of this topic in Mattick (1969) and a shorter article by Davis (2010). You can find a modern Marxist critique of market relations in McNally (1993). There is plenty more, but that should get you started. 

The word "Objectivism" is a homonym, referring both to the broad philosophical position in favour of objectivity supported by various schools of philosophy, and also to the specific philosophy of Ayn Rand and related philosophers who follow her philosophy. Rand named her philosophical system "Objectivism", owing to the importance of objectivity in that system.** Since you are using the capitalised term, I am assuming you intend to refer to the latter. Taking that as your meaning, whether or not there is a difference between "Objectivism" and Rand's philosophy and works depends on whether you view "Objectivism" as denoting only Rand's work, or whether you view it as a broader system that can be extended, modified, etc., by others. The Objectivists at ARI have generally taken the former view, while those at the Objectivist Center have taken the latter. On the latter view, Rand's philosophy forms the core of Objectivism, but the philosophy is broader than her work, and includes later extensions and refinements by others who have developed it further in later material. Why is this controversial, and a cause for argument? I think it is fair to say that the Objectivists at ARI are concerned that people might end up modifying her philosophy in some essential way and calling their modified philosophy "Objectivism", which would be a misrepresentation. On the other hand, those who view it as a broader system as less worried about this, and are of the view that it is better to conceive of this term as encompassing the broad philosophical system, unconstrained by the limits of what Rand herself discovered. (In regards to this issue, it is also worth noting that Objectivists tend not to use the word "Randian", and this term has generally been used by opponents as a sneer. Personally, I don't take that term to be inherently insulting; after all, we refer to Kantians, Aristotelians, etc. Nevertheless, it has been deployed in that way by critics of Objectivism, so it has come to be imbued with hostile intent.) 

** Incidentally, Rand also noted in her work that she would have preferred to call her philosophy "Existentialism" (owing to the fact that its first foundational axiom is that existence exists), but that name had already been pre-empted by the Existentialist philosophers, with whom she had major differences. 

Nothing would happen to reality - it would stay as it is. However, we would then require a change in our theory of counting, which would reverberate through other mathematical theories that are built on counting. Since this equation of arithmetic is effectively a definition of two (see e.g., the building of arithmetic in mathematical axiom systems), a proof that this equation is wrong would mean that we cannot validly add one and one (or more precisely, any axiom system that allows us to add one and one is logically inconsistent). That would require us to formulate alternative axiom systems of mathematics that avoid the inconsistency. Reality would keep chugging along just as normal while we tried to figure that out. 

This is the asserted error raised against Rand in the post. It seems to me that this is a non sequiter, where the existence of objective ethics (as a matter of logic) is conflated with the assertion that humans must come "already equipped" with knowledge of this ethics. Clearly human-beings do not pop out of the womb already having knowledge of the theory of ethics. By the same token they do not come "already equipped" with knowledge of physics, mathematics, etc., but that does not preclude the possibility that physics, mathematics, etc., are objective disciplines. In view of this, there is no identified error in Rand's philosophy in the question. Rand argues that ethics is an objective discipline (like physics, mathematics, etc.) which can be derived logically from an examination of the nature of man. She certainly did not believe that people are born "already equipped" with this knowledge. Indeed, the very purpose of her writing books on her theory on the subject is because she believes that people don't already know this, and therefore have to learn it. 

Rand regarded values as being derived objectively from the ultimate root of all value - life. It is not an accurate characterisation of her philosophy to say that this involves "pursuing that which an individual subjectively values". Rand argues that values are objective, and discoverable by reason, though of course the specific values of different people may differ according to their differences. 

Humans do not initially learn language from the dictionary; they initially learn the first rudiments of language from ostensive definitions (also known as "definition by pointing"). A pre-linguistic child points to a cat, and his mother says "cat", and after repetition of this event, the child learns that the word "cat" describes the class of furry creatures he has been pointing to. Eventually he learns this well enough (and develops his speech sufficiently) that he points at a cat and says "cat" himself. Once a child has formed a language of nouns from ostensive definitions, he gradually moves on to higher concepts, with verbs, and then adjectives. He points to a jumping cat and says "cat", and now his mother says, "Yes, cat. Cat is jumping." Since he has already learned cat, now he starts to learn the ostensive definition of "jumping". The purpose of a dictionary is to assist literate people (not pre-literate children) to relate concepts together, by describing each word in terms of others. The definitions in the dictionary are mostly in a descriptive hierarchy, where more complex higher-order concepts are described in terms of less complex lower-order concepts. However, due to the necessity of describing lower-order concepts, like "cat", without appeal to ostensive definitions, this hierarchy is reversed for simple ostensive concepts, and their description is given in terms of higher-order concepts. For example, one dictionary definition of "cat" (excluding slang) is: 

One aspect of this question that has not been addressed is this: is the concept of "proof" valid if there is no volition? Is it possible to obtain "knowledge" if there is no volition? If there is no volition then all decisions and conclusions are determined (or random?), which means that acceptance or rejection of a conclusion is already determined. Under such conditions, what ---if any--- procedure could properly be said to constitute "proof" of a claim, and what could be regarded as "knowledge"? The reason to bring this up is that it creates the potential for a stolen-concept fallacy in purported denial of volition. Denial of volition means denial that one had any choice but to deny volition, and this means that the conclusion (to deny volition) was pre-destined and not determined by the merits of the evidence relating to volition. Binswanger (1991) argues that determinism is self-refuting on this basis, insofar as it undermines the possibility of "knowledge" and "proof". In view of this issue, it is worth taking a step-back from your question to think about what "proof" would actually mean if determinism is true. As a preliminary matter, it is worth considering the logical consequences of the determinism for the status of "knowledge" and "proof". If those epistemological concepts are no longer valid under determinism, then asking for "proof" of free-will pre-supposes that you have it. 

If you are like me, and think Marx is wrong on his theoretical issues (e.g., labour theory, dialectical materialism), it is nonetheless valuable to have an understanding of the arguments he made, and why they lead logically to where they do. In particular, I have personally found it quite "mind expanding" to think about Marx's ideas about dialectical materialism, since it challenges the notion that "ideas matter" and it challenges you to understand the relationship between production and ideology in society. As to whether Marx and Engels are over-cited, relative to their contribution to thought, I personally agree that they are. That is really just a reflection of the fact that socialist thought is massively over-represented in academia. For many socialists, Marx and Engels represent two of the foremost thinkers of history.