TLDR: Scripture says at the minimum so long as you're not taking advantage of people or harming them it is OK. If you can't make an ostensible positive impact through your line of work then use the loads of cash that you are making to help others become more at peace and free. 

Yes. John Chang in this video demonstrates fire. The book "The Magus of Java" explains his spiritual journey and teachings. I would recommend reading that but there are many correlations between Buddhism and Taoism that should be learned before reading into such anecdotal books. I would recommend Bill Bodri and Master Nan's material to study this non-denominational topic further because the Buddha chose not to emphasize this inferior achievement (of physical transformation). Having an understanding of this topic in this day and age can serve to dis-enchant you from the physical side of things so you can obsess over what truly matters: bodhi. 

It is not that each person's ego is making the reality but that the Mind is creating the reality. Hence, the rules that have come out of that are in effect. Even without Enlightenment though there are ways to go beyond hunger e.g. eating chi. But once Enlightened, one can change those rules--not that one would really care to doctor reality. 

The Unwholesome actions produce a karmic seed that will definitely fruit. For example, even if you killed someone out of self-defense, there would be a negative result. Even if you got angry towards someone because they are harming themselves, you would produce a negative karmic seed. That is why these are "unwholesome" fundamentally. Many things that produce an un-sober state on the other hand only do so after a certain point. There are many medical situations where it is necessary. Many medicines have alcohol as an agent. The same goes for other inebriating drugs. It is of course better to avoid them altogether but there is no diet that is fundamentally unwholesome. On the other hand, the unwholesome actions are on some fundamental level going to cause some karmic repercussion. 

Of course! You are supposed to practice the two together! Btw, let's use proper terminology: jhana = samatha practice, dry insight = vipassana. To use even simpler terms, the former is called "calming meditation" the latter "awareness meditation" They are complementary not supplementary to one another and actually really one practice... "Really one practice" That is an advanced subject that will not be given full justice on a mere Q&A here. Thus, I suggest reading the chapter about the two in the book "A Short Walk on an Ancient Path" by Brian Ruhe. Basically, vipassana and jhana cultivation are not two totally separate routes. You cannot just tranquilize yourself into jhana but will still exercise STRONG observing faculties in order to concentrate on the meditation object. The better you are at vipassana, the better you should be at calming yourself and vice versa. Vipassana, which is pure awareness, instead of having any material meditation object, uses your innate formless awareness as a meditation object. Basically its a meditation object of no-object. What is the object when doing "jhana cultivation"? A material object such as your breath. Perhaps when you meditate you will notice this: "OK. I am going to focus on my breathhing... Breathing in, breathing out, breathing in oh! Noting I just thought about my mom, coming back to breath, breathing in, breathing out" Makes sense? Jhana would not be possible without vipassana. Thus, there is only one practice: jhana. That's why the buddha doesn't talk about vipassana in the original texts, just jhana and his reccommended route: breathing meditation. It's also why Thich Nhat Hanh does the same. The answer to your question: yes! They are one and the same but can be focused on separately to help you perfect Right Meditation and lead you to jhana. 

In conclusion namarupa can be generously rounded off to include 4.5 of the Five Skandhas as it seems to be missing much of the other delineations contained within the great volition skandha and the great consciousness skandha. 

Any authentic sutta or part of sutta from any tradition that gives guidance on what kind of sexual relationship partner to choose? I'm thinking the Vimalikirti sutra should say something about such layman concerns. Specifically things like what kind of partner would an ideal layman choose for family purposes if choose at all? Should one find a companion who already understands the Dharma and is thus highly capable of being a companion and teacher to children? Or is the proper bodhisattva action to practice the dana paramita by bonding and inspiring someone who lacks the dharma--but is ready to receive it--and thus help to transform their karma as well as the whole universe's (through increasing Dharma quotient in a "lower denominator")? [The Taoist tradition (which I highly honor) has some insights into this matter and for me is very connected to Buddhism and according to my learning would imply that a cultivated woman choose the latter and a cultivated man choose the former.] 

The Three Trainings in Buddhism are the most important, organizing feature in Buddhism. Everything that is not related to the 2nd and 3rd training is called the 1st training: morality. This is related to learning to live life correctly, having Right Livelihood, developing communication skills with others, forgiving others, thinking about how to enjoy time with friends, choosing friends, etc. Basically, success in the 1st training means doing good in the world, for ourselves and others. The best way to understand what the 1st training is, is to understand the 2nd and 3rd trainings and understand that the 1st training is what the 2nd and 3rd training is not. These latter two trainings have a much simpler definitions and are also very important in spiritual growth because they are very much in our locus-of-control. The 2nd training is concentration. This training involves any meditation practice which makes one calmer, more blissful and directed towards the five qualities of jhana. The success in this training contains mastery of the entire range of form and formless jhanas. The 3rd training is wisdom. This training is synonymous with vipassana and involves any meditation practice which trains one in becoming more present and noticing of the 3 Characteristics. The success in this training contains mastery of the Stages of Insight, which has a continuous and recursive process to it and blossoms in Awakening/Fruition. Since the 2nd and 3rd training deal with samatha and vipassana meditation respectively, the 1st training, as mentioned earlier, deals with the good work we do in the rest of our lives. This is a wonderful organizing structure because of the fact that most of what we do in our daily lives falls into the 1st training and this type of understanding can help us prioritize. For example, participating on SE Buddhism, conversing with online forums, and participating in a local Sangha is the 1st training and we should continue to do so... but we should neglect our Practice, namely the 2nd and 3rd training. The Three Trainings are also mutually supportive of each other and improving in any training is definitely going to cause an improvement in the other trainings so they should all be worked on simultaneously. This mutual support raises more interest questions like what category does brahma meditation would fall under? and why does vipassana sometimes seem like jhana? It's not the point to categorize everything into this system. What's important is that one not be too involved in the 1st training and realize that the training in concentration and wisdom are very important in Buddhism and lead directly to the goal of Buddhism. Also these two trainings take a lot of time (e.g. 3 year meditation retreats). For more info on this idea see "Mastering the Core Teachings of the Buddha." 

What is Good? We usually see a person who does not cause others harm and is basically of an open benificent attitude "good." Anything can be described as good based on how open and non-harming it is IMO. Similarly, a state of consciousness which is Good... There is a mundane level and super-mundane level to this idea. The mundane level is this: metta aka loving-kindness: being in an overall attitude of unconditional loving-kindness as well as the other brahmaviharas, mudita, karuna, upekkha. The supermundane level is probably what you were asking about... Consciousnesses are only a part of the True Consciousness. They are just imitations and second-level projections. The best way to reach this True Consciousness is to naturally let it appear by never trying to reach it in the first place. So to answer your question, yes, the best consciousness is the consciousness in which you are free from suffering and dualism. It is also uncreated and unborn (as the sutras state). Thus, to achieve the best level of consciousness, let go of all levels of manufactured consciousnesses/ideations (including the idea of achieving itself) and only the truest can remain. 

Actually, when you look at the Table of Contents of the Shurangama sutra, you will notice the topics that are covered are all covered in the Theravadin suttas and especially Bill Bodri's book How to measure and Deepen Your Spiritual Realization which in my opinion is an excellent translation and regurgitation of Shurangama sutra and the entire spiritual path in general. Six Planes, Fifty False states caused by the Five Aggregates, storehouse consciousness... check out the TOC of the sutta and if you are familiar with Buddhism you will see it talks about the same things... except with probably more esoteric definitions than the Theravadin can provide. Hopefully we see a good official english translation in the next decade but until then we can just refer to the Theravadin sutta for translations on the same subjects. Surangama sutta will not disappear. The warning was a skillful means to make practitioners uphold this sutta more than others as it is a summary of what it TRULY means to practice Buddhism towards self-enlightenment. 

Judging from the language of your question, I thought you were referring to this book. If you have not already, read the whole thing. 

Yes. View of rebirth is a part of Right View, but only at the later stages, after one sees for oneself that rebirth is real. Read The Noble Eightfold Path by Bhikkhu Bodhi. 

Buddha and others repeatedly says that those that have genuine samadhi can easily cultivate the Six Paranormal Powers--if they have not experienced them by accident already. The Path of Purification even outlines the step-by-step method to cultivate them after obtaining concentration attainment. In the Taoist tradition there are plenty of stories of such immortals and super-powered people, some of them even very modern, such as the Youtube video of John Chang emitting fire through his hands. [The books that are based on him are very awesome and interesting, like The Magus of Java.] What are some modern accounts in the Buddhist tradition? When I meet Buddhist people and others, they often say they have samadhi but they seem quite ordinary to me. Oftentimes, I am convinced that they make claims of samadhi merely to gain a following--however small it may be. 

When you truly uproot all delusion, you are a complete Buddha. Don't think you'll get rid of delusion in one day, there are many stages of a bodhisattva (someone who has achieved initial Enlightenment). Even the brightest states of mind can be delusion (not that they shouldn't be cultivated!) as the Ten Corruptions of Insight would indicate. This is because delusion is the root of all three poisons including delusion itself. The whole chain of suffering (2nd Noble Truth) began with craving, which has ignorance as its first cause. Working towards Enlightenment is like working with delusion because you are finding states of being that are purer and purer (jhanas) and further and further away from delusion--yet still delusion until like the SNAP of a finger you can drop all the skandhas and rest in your true being that is beyond emptiness and existence. But this only happens after finding emptiness and living existence purely as well. Master Nan gave an example saying it's like taking two sticks, rubbing them together to make fire, and thus burning them away... fire is gone, stick is gone. Don't label it as delusion. It is what it is. Hatred is not hatred, love is not love, delusion is not delusion. It is empty. Recognize the empty nature of it. The more you try to push away something, the stronger it will get. (see Heart Sutra and Diamond Sutra Explained by Master Nan) During meditation. I feel delusion oftentimes as a clamping down SOMEWHERE in my body. By consciously remembering to relax it, I also remember to let go of certain delusions that caused the clamping. This delusion poison can mix with the other two poisons and cause mixed sensations. Also remember not to think about this too much and subconsciously create such feelings in the first place. Get back to your concentration practice as soon as you can. When I clear these tightenings up correctly, I feel like I am floating and all my muscles feel completely at ease. Attachment to the state can cause delusion again but ignorance of the imperative to be-relaxed-and-nakedly-aware-without-judgment-or-outcome can also increase delusion. Read the Surangama mantra, it has some interesting puzzles to overcome the roots of our ignorance and delusion... especially meant for our "Dharma-ending age" 

Should i just satisfy myself mindfully or just keep killing the thoughts? These are not the only two options. You can "satisfy" yourself (feed the desire), repel from the desire (kill the thought), or just let it be (practice vipassana/simple accepting awareness). I suggest the latter. I also suggest some education material from meditationexpert.com to understand the nature of semen and your life force and in connection with higher transformations. 

Although no one falls on the end of the "forever" spectrum--nonetheless, there are certainly people are closer on the spectrum towards "forever" than others, having lived a very impetuous existence with little consideration for spiritual cultivation or making merit (e.g. chanting a Buddha's name). 

The answer to the first part of the question is provided in the sutra that is mentioned in bold in the above quote. Below is the sutra: 

Samvega is a sense of urgency to practice. In this light, yes, ascetic practice and all distasteful events lead to samvega for all aspirants of the Way because of the first two factors of enlightenment. i.e. when someone is mindful and investigates, then it turns into samvega. Almost all ascetic practices, "good" (fasting) and "bad" (self-abuse), do this. From my extensive experiences in the healthy spiritual practice of fasting, when fasting for more than a day I definitely more intensely realize more of what is most important in life... though I can push this to the background of my mind still. This may be due to the mental clarity and energies freed up (that normally go into digestion) or it may be due to the sympathetic (fight-or-flight) system becoming activated. It may be a combination of both. Self-abuse and pain also lead to samvega as one is triggered to think about death and of course liberation. This may only be true for Buddhists though or those who have connected the idea of "liberation" with "death." On the other hand, a person who is ignorant of a way leading out of birth-and-death may just immediately shirk away from the pain, missing the chance to contemplate life-and-death and instead seek out and comfort themselves in hedonistic pleasure instead of the pleasure of self-cultivation. 

Yes, you may do something (chant, good karma) and simply intend for that karma to go to the destination of your choice. In Buddhism, there is metta practice. This is worthy of reading in-depth. You will see the whole process that you wish to see and come out feeling really happy and wonderful. A light intention is enough, although staying in this loving state is good and recommended. I would be careful though about expecting too much or wondering if its working. Just believe that it works. Have faith. Doubt will impede. We don't always know what is best and sometimes a bit of suffering brings out something beautiful in the person (eventually). Anyway, let go of your expectations and expansively wish for the best--because we do not know what is best for others with certainty. We don't even know this for ourselves. Non-buddhist keywords to research to understand how this oneness works: unified field theory, faith healing, yang shen bodies 

Now, we are left with four skandhas. namas = feeling, perception, intention, contact, attention Let's match them to the remaining skandhas based on the passage: 

I was looking through the answers for the most famous Buddhist story about an illiterate person... the 6th patriarch, Huineng. He was illiterate yet (he could not read or write) but due to great past merit and cultivation, when he heard a Buddhist sermon he Awakened. Afterwards he just worked in the monastery and the head, the 5th patriarch, did not know of his Awakening for a long time until he did a poetry contest to find the most Awakened student.