Inferences from events to events are not pure logical inferences. When you feel someone is pulling you up, you can infer that you are pulling him down with equal force. This inference implicitly assumes Newton's third law, which is a characteristic of the world, not logic. In other words, without the help of Newton's third law, logic alone will not tell whether or not there is an equal and opposite reaction. Going back further, Newton's third law implicitly assumes the inductive principle, which lies outside deductive logic and is presumed to be a characteristic of the world. 

The liar's paradox is resolved by Whitehead and Russell in their 1910 Principia Mathematica Regarding the two sentences on the two sides of a paper, they can be simplified as: F = the sentence G is false. G = the sentence F is true. The significance of F cannot be determined until the significance of every and each of its constituents is determined; one of F's constituents is G, whose significance cannot be determined until every and each of G's constituent is determined. One of G's constituent is F, thus a vicious circle ensue. Since neither G nor F's significance can be determined, both G and F are nonsense. In 2017, it is trite to point out this kind of folly to anyone who does computer programming. 

C, D and E are sensitive; A is not. For C, D and E, there is a strong sense that enables them to "see" when A says this, he also means that. That is why Bertrand Russell says: 

Due to the inherent turbidity of Chinese language, it is very difficult to decipher this piece of aphorism; as of today, any interpretation is good interpretation. Roughly speaking, it illustrated the relation between 有 (sounds exactly like "yo") and 无 (sounds exactly like "woo"). 

"This above all: to thine own self be true, And it must follow, as the night the day, Thou canst not then be false to any man." Polonius, Hamlet Act 1, scene 3* *I honestly believe there are circumstances under which lies are desirable, or, at least, forgiveable ;-) 

I'm not sure what you mean by "can only go so far," but I'm happy to show how far one can infer from perceptions. A perception is what you think you see, but what you really see are just sensations. If the physical cause of your perception is the thing you think you see, then there is a fact that corresponds to your perception; otherwise there isn't. A perception itself involves inferences and is therefore not the ultimate origin of our inference. When you think you see a hard-cover book in front of you, you spontaneously assume there are many other qualities, such as hardness, persistence, crispness, impenetrability that are not in your immediate sensations. If you reach out your hand and feel nothing where the book is supposed to be, you will experience a shock (or will be surprised); this example shows that what you think you see is more than what you really see. What you really see is just a patch of colour; what you think you see is spontaneously inferred. The ultimate origin of our inference is our sensation; most people, except perhaps painters, are not aware of the difference between what they think they see and what they really see. Sensations, except for very faint ones, are most indubitable, even when one is hallucinating; it is the inferences that are open to doubt. An untrained Child will pain a leaf solid green because he thinks he sees a leaf that is solid green; a painter will use white paint to show reflections although he knows the leaf is solid green. 

In W & R's Principia Mathematica, x = y is defined as (φ).φ!(x) ⇒ φ!(y), where (φ) means all φ, i.e, y satisfies all the predicates which x satisfies, or y possesses all the properties which x possesses. When Wittgenstein and Ramsay criticised this definition, Russell acknowledged the weight of their criticism but later stood by his original definition. The following discussion speculates the insights behind W&R's definition and their defence against Wittgenstein and Ramsey's attack. This is totally a speculation, I'm not sure whether W&R really thought this way. 

According to New York Post, "guru in bling" convinced hundreds to castrate themselves. By text book standards, this guru has no control of information and has no way of enforcing isolation on followers, which makes his brainwashing technique even more astounding. Following Bertrand Russell's empirical tradition in his "Power, a new social analysis," I'd appreciate it if someone can share some insight into the guru's power. 

Note: * Yes, Deng had advisors, but, if Deng was not smart, all the advisors he had were only good for digging ditches and raising pigs - this was exactly what happened when Mao was in charge. The intelligence of the chief matters; if the chief is not smart, his advisors will be of no use. 

This is definitely a good question. Bertrand Russell also wrote a little book Understanding History and Other Essays in which he recommended several authors like Herodotus, Thucydides, Plutarch and Gibbon. Bertrand Russell is the greatest man mankind ever produced. Unfortunately, Russell's most brilliant books are also notorious for lacking bibliography. You can contact Bertrand Russell Society to find out what sources Russell have used. I'd appreciate it if you can share your findings with us here. 

The following is an excerpt from Russell's "My Philosophical Development," Chapter XIV Universals and Particulars and Names: 

Let A and B denote classes; if each member from the class which A denotes belongs to the class which B denotes and vice versa, we say A and B denote the same class. Let A and B denote bundles of qualities; if each quality from the bundle which A denotes belongs to the bundle which B denotes and vice versa, we say A and B denote the self-same bundle. 5.1 Let x denote a thing and φ denote a predicate, we say x possesses the quality of φ when φ(x). 5.2 φ's are the qualities which we call universals; some universals can be acquainted by us if they are sensible. 5.2.1 Although x's are believed to be the causal origins of φ's, φ's are the beginning of our knowledge of the world (x's), and all we can say about an x are its φ's. 5.3 When we say a bundle of qualities, we mean qualities joined together by logical AND, i.e. φ1.φ2.φ3...φn... 5.3.1 A predicate φ defines a class α each of whose member x satisfies φ(x): α = {x | φ(x) }. 5.3.2 All the classes defined by predicates which x possesses constitute a higher class k: {α | x ∈ α and α = {x|φ!(x)} } where φ!(x) is a predicate of x. 5.3.2.1 it is necessary to ensure that α is defined by a predicate of x because all the functions that can take x as an argument form an illegitimate totality (See PM Introduction. Chapter II, V) 5.3.2.2 x is the only member of the class p'k, where p'k = {x|(α).α∈k⇒x∈α}, i.e. p'k is the product of its members. (see PM ✳40.01) 

There is no fallacy in Trump's comparison; it just takes a while for mere mortals to catch up with his quit wit. Both men defended their way of life by taking arms against the government - this is why both men deserved respect. If the government doesn't serve the people, then the people have no obligation to respect the government - this is the most precious part of American spirit. If the younger man's statue should to be torn down because his way of life included slavery, the older man's statue should to be tear down also because the older man's way of life is exactly the same as the younger man's. Both men had quarrel's with the government due to property disputes. One was infuriated by a government that dug into his pocket, the other was annoyed by a government that tried to deprive him of his men. Both men used war to settle disputes; both fought for what they thought was theirs; both tried to teach the government its position; both believed the government should serve the people, not the other way around. If there is any reason to respect either man, it is the defiant spirit both men stood for, the spirit of taking arms against an oppressive government to stake out a way of life. Both generals cherished freedom; both owned slaves; both defended slavery; both resented government interference of their way of life; both fought against governments that emancipated slaves; both were traitors in arms. One created a slave masters' paradise, the other tried but failed to preserve this paradise. Therefore, both men stood for the ideology that freedom is worth fighting for and it is OK to enslave others. Any reason to tear down one statue is sufficient to tear down the other. That scholar seems to believe that being a founding father can absolve Washington. At the face of it, this professor committed straw-man fallacy. But anyone who knew a thing or two about culture revolution will instantly recognize the most important hidden message: "I am not a Trump sympathizer!" She is absolutely not as dumb as she appears.