Whereas in "A Dream Within a Dream", the dream is meaningless and the narrator chooses to dwell there in order to wallow in self-pity. 

It sounds a lot like the myth of Prometheus, who stole fire from the gods to give to humans. Fire was the beginning of furnaces, hammers, anvils, chains, and the other industrial paraphernalia that are mentioned later, so attaining fire was the moment humans became able to create weapons of war to become like the tiger. But attaining fire in the Promethean story also has some resemblance to the fall of Adam and Eve in Christianity; it was a sudden event in which humans gained something originally reserved for gods, and became a little bit like gods themselves, "growing up" in a sense. It's a common trope in Christian thought that children live in an Edenic, sin-free state and don't fall and become sinful until they grow up, so growing up is linked via the fall of Adam and Eve to attaining fire. In other words, God, in one of his moods as the vengeful God who punishes sinners, created the tiger, a fearsome creature of war. Humans, after the fall of Adam and Eve, gained the same capacity for vengeance and war, but doing so opened them to being smitten by the vengeful God in turn. The story of how the tiger was created represents this concretely with attaining fire as the fall of Adam and Eve and the industrial tools that fire enabled for creating weapons and wreaking destruction representing the sin that humans became capable of. By realizing that God created the fearsome tiger as well as the gentle lamb, a person can gain an adult, nuanced understanding of God by comprehending His dual nature. 

The language used to describe the making of the lamb is simple and far more banal than the language used for the tiger: 

All of the Alpha characters I can think of--Bernard, Helmholtz, Mustapha Mond, the DHC, Henry Foster--are men. And none of the female characters seem to be Alphas. Lenina is probably a Beta. Linda is stated to be a Beta-Minus. Fanny Crowne is probably also a Beta or Beta-Minus since she works in the Fertilizing Room and it seems like all the technicians at the Hatchery are Betas (Linda worked in the Bottling Room). There's some minor circumstantial evidence against the existence of female Alphas; at the beginning of Chapter 4 it says "The lift was crowded with men from the Alpha Changing Rooms", as if the Alpha Changing Rooms are all-male. But the door Lenina opens towards the start of Chapter 3 just says "Girls' Dressing-Room", not "Beta Girls' Dressing-Room". I'm not entirely convinced by this, though. Do we know if female Alphas exist? Can we infer their existence or non-existence from evidence in the book? 

The Time books use a lot of Christian imagery, so there is probably also an explanation in terms of religious parallels, but for this answer I've adopted a purely character-based interpretation. Meg's point of view of the world has evolved; the contradiction represents her two different perspectives In A Wrinkle in Time, Meg felt out of place in the world. She didn't seem to fit in with her peers. Her teachers didn't seem to understand her. She was uncertain about her future, and lashed out with sarcasm and copious self-loathing. We can see this from this passage early in A Wrinkle in Time: 

While I was reading "A Dream Within a Dream", I discovered that Poe wrote another poem called "A Dream" that forms an interesting pair with it. While dreaming in "A Dream Within A Dream" represents a haze of melancholy that stops the narrator from enjoying the good things in life, the dream in "A Dream" represents a hope that carries him through the hard times: 

This stanza places the origin of the fire burning in the tiger's eyes in some far-off place, either deep in the depths or far off in the sky, and questions what being would have the strength and the gall to claim it for the tiger's construction. To me this rings of the Promethean myth: like Prometheus, the tiger's creator dared to steal a powerful flame from somewhere beyond human ken and bring it back to Earth. Stanzas 3 and 4: 

The sand is falling through the narrator's fingers into the depths of the ocean while he weeps—in other words, he is losing his chance to enjoy the good things in life while he stands at the edge of the ocean weeping. He begins asking God whether there might be anything he can do to hold on to those chances, even one of them. He ends by questioning his earlier statement: "Is all that we see or seem / But a dream within a dream?" In other words, could there possibly be more in life, even in a small way, than sitting around and moping? 

William Blake's poem “The Tyger” from Songs of Experience contains one couplet whose meaning has always puzzled me, lines 17–18, the first two lines of the fifth stanza: 

Camazotz represented Meg's view of her world at the time, a place where she was penalized on math exams for using a different method to solve the problems even though it resulted in the same answer. Meg felt she was being persecuted, cruelly forced to conform to an unjust order imposed on her by a higher power. Her adventure on Camazotz let her struggle against that injustice symbolically. Entering IT's room and doing battle with IT, and defeating it with her love for her brother Charles Wallace, who is also a misfit under the current order of the world, was an act of rebellion, an act of destruction that symbolized what Meg wished to do to the order of her life back on Earth. By the time of A Wind in the Door, Meg is feeling much more secure and having an easier time fitting in. Her mother points this out early in Chapter 2, and Meg responds that getting close to Calvin has helped her fit in more because of how well regarded Calvin is at the school. Meg is still uncertain about her future, but she's much more positive about it; she even asks her mother if she'll ever be a double PhD like her mother is, implying that she's given some thought to where she might want to go in life. Charles Wallace is the one who suffers for being different in A Wind in the Door, but unlike Meg in A Wrinkle in Time, who angrily rebelled and castigated herself for being unable to fit in, Charles Wallace is trying to find a way to adjust his own behavior and peacefully get his classmates to accept him. When discussing the subject in Chapter 3, Charles says "What I really need are lessons in adaptation. I’ve been reading Darwin, but he hasn’t helped me much." Meg tries appealing to a higher power on Charles's behalf, and goes to talk with her old enemy Mr. Jenkins, the principal of her school in Wrinkle and now the principal of Charles Wallace's school in Wind. This fails, but it shows how Meg has matured: instead of reacting with violence and rebelling, she tries to solve problems with diplomacy, and she does so on behalf of another person instead of for her own benefit. The universal order in A Wind in the Door springs from a recognition that everything in the universe is interconnected. As the cherubim Proginoskes puts it in Chapter 11, "[W]e all need each other. Every atom in the universe is dependent on every other." The farandolae are meant to Deepen, transform into tree-like farae, and take their place in the cosmic order, singing the song of creation alongside the stars. Fearful of growing up, some of them refuse to Deepen and reject the idea that everything is interconnected, but this rebellion, unlike Meg's against IT, is not noble; instead it plays into the hands of the Echthroi, creatures who want to negate all of existence. Meg and her allies must convince Sporos, one of the wayward farandolae, to stop rebelling, to stop fearing growing up, and play his "indispensable part" in "the great plan", take his "own unique share in the freedom of creation". (Chapter 11, p. 219.) The nobility of conforming, of taking one's place in the cosmic order in A Wind in the Door, symbolizes Meg's new perspective on her life. Now Meg feels that she has a place in society. She cares for other people, like Calvin and Charles Wallace, more than herself. She is learning to see others' perspectives, most dramatically in Chapters 5 and 6 when she has to choose the real Mr. Jenkins from among a group of imposters by learning to understand him. She has come to see the complexity of life, sighing, “I wish life didn’t have to be so complicated." (Chapter 2, p. 35). Meg now sees conforming and taking her place in society as a duty that carries both hardship and privileges, as a farandola Deepening into a fara can no longer move, but gains other abilities in return. As the fara Senex puts it: