None of this is to say that Aristotle was a feminist egalitarian – let’s keep things real. But if we grant that women were among the least advantaged in the Greek polis of Aristotle’s day, Aristotle does want to optimise the role of women in politics to the extent that they have (by his standards of practical rationality) an aptitude for ruling. Of course this reads condescendingly but as I said at the start, Aristotle’s conceptual and contexts were greatly different from our own. ☛ The poor Aristotle is interested in and concerned about the poor not for the sake of justice but on grounds of political stability. Yet de facto some of his suggestions are aimed at optimising the conditions of the poor. In democracies, Aristotle remarks, ‘the true friend of the people should see that they are not too poor, for extreme poverty lowers the character of the democracy; measures therefore should be taken which will give them lasting prosperity; and as this is equally the interest of all classes, the proceeds of the public revenues should be accumulated and distributed among its poor, if possible, in such quantities as may enable them to purchase a little farm, or, at any rate, make a beginning in trade or farming (Politics, VI.5 : 1320a32-1320b1; Barnes, II, 2096). [Shades of the ‘property-owning democracy’ !] In oligarchies ‘great care should be taken of the poor, and lucrative offices should go to them; if any of the wealthy classes insult them, the offender should be punished more severely than if he had wronged one of his own class. Provision should be made that estates pass by inheritance and not by gift, and no person should receive more than one inheritance; for in this way properties will be equalized, and more of the poor rise to wealth’ (Politics, V.8: 1309a20-26; Barnes, 2078). One must not image-doctor but by Aristotle’s lights these suggestions do appear intended to make the conditions of the poor under democracy and oligarchy ‘to the greatest benefit of the least advantaged’. ▻ REFERENCES J. Rawls, A Theory of Justice. ISBN 10: 0674880145 / ISBN 13: 9780674880146 Published by The Belknap Press, 1971. J. Barnes, ed., The Complete Works of Aristotle, II, Princeton : Princeton University Press, 1984. Harold L. Levy, ‘Does Aristotle Exclude Women from Politics?’, The Review of Politics, Vol. 52, No. 3 (Summer, 1990), 397-416. The Politics of Aristotle, tr. Sir Ernest Barker, Oxford : Clarendon Press, 1948/ 1960. Useful notes on slavery and the poor. 

I think Rand's rather persistent presence is due to three factors. 1 She is a NAME and is often described in the media as a philosopher. Many questioners are simply rather curious about her on that basis, particularly if they have had no contact with academic philosophy. 2 She does present a body of loosely connected ideas which looks superficially like a philosophical system. Gene H. Bell-Villada covers this point well : 

If X offers Y but Y has very low quality, and there is no urgency of purchase, it's rational to turn down the offer if better alternatives to Y are available. If X offers Y and Y has very low quality, there is urgency of purchase and the search for alternatives is not practicable, something (the very low quality Y) may be better than nothing. If X offers Y and Y has very low quality, you can bargain with X to bring down the price at which, given your preferences, a very low quality Y is worth buying. The price will then = the utility you will get from Y. I may buy a very low quality laptop from X if it's $2, will last a year, and serve my basic purposes. It's not what I would ideally have preferred but it is better than nothing. That doesn't automatically mean that I should buy it. Being 'better than nothing' is a consideration, but so is having a very much better laptop than anything X offers. It would be a bizarre shopping policy quite in general to buy a particular item which is the kind of thing I want (here a laptop) merely because it is 'better than nothing'. A better policy would be to buy better than better than nothing. 

'Chatters' is a verb : chattering, as indicated above, is something language users do. I chatter just as I talk, laugh, groan. 'Nothing chatters' means (falsely) that nothing does this, nothing engages in the activity of chattering. 'Matters' is a verb meaning 'is of consequence or significance'. 'Nothing matters' means (possibly truly) that nothing is of any consequence or importance. In 'Nothing chatters', 'nothing' means contextually 'not even one language user chatters'- that engages in this activity. In 'Nothing matters', 'nothing' has a wider range and means that there is no existing thing or possible state of affairs that is of any consequence or importance. It covers a domain wider than that of language users. 

David Blomstrom's answer is detailed and deeply informative. I am going to offer something shorter - shorter only with a view to the basic explanation you need to give to your son. ▻ DEDUCTION A deductive (or deductively valid) argument is one in which it is impossible for the conclusion to be false if the premises are true. The truth of the premises, if they are true, necessitates the truth of the conclusion. So : Socrates is a man. All men are mortal. Therefore Socrates is mortal. If Socrates is a man and if all men are mortal - if both premises or statements are true - it must be true that Socrates is a mortal. An argument can be deductively valid even if the premises are not true but are merely assumed : All cats are purple. Fido is a cat. Therefore Fido is purple. This is a deductively valid argument because, if the premises are true then the conclusion must be true. This is still so, even though it is not actually true that all cats are purple or that Fido is a cat (Fido is a dog). It's merely the case that if the premises are true, so must the conclusion be. ▻ INDUCTION Induction runs on probability. In an inductively strong argument, the conclusion is unlikely to be false if the premises are true. Suppose I am presented with a bag of 100 tennis balls. I take out one ball : it is green. I take out another : it is green. This goes on, with every ball coming out green, up to the 99th ball. It is highly probable - very likely - that the final, 100th, ball will be green. It doesn't have to be. It might be blue or red. But it's a pretty safe inductive inference that the whole bag contains nothing but green tennis balls. Or take this example : Jack has never been known to read a physics book. Jack has never been taught physics. Jack has a physics exam tomorrow. So : Jack will fail the exam. It's highly likely that Jack will fail the exam but there's no necessity. Jack's mother may be an extremely competent physicist whose work Jack has followed closely and intelligently even though his mother has never taught him physics and nor has anybody else. Hope these examples help to make clear the basic difference between inductive and deductive reasoning. 

It is one of Hume's central claims that we have no experience of necessity and cannot appeal to it in the explanation of anything. When we consider, say, the determination of an effect by a cause, we infer the existence of a 'necessary connexion' between them. Given the cause, the effect cannot but occur. This is a common way of thinking. But it has a purely psychological explanation due, Hume says, to the 'constant conjunction' of two types of event. We say that A causes B because and only because in our experience A-type events have invariably been followed by B-type events. Hume backs up this claim with his basic position that ideas or concepts, such as that of necessity, require experience at some point in their derivation. But we have no experience of necessity. We do not experience one event causing another; we experience one event following another under conditions that Hume spells out. If the experience is missing then either we cannot form the idea in the first place or, if we do as in the case of necessity, it is a fabrication or fiction unjustified by experience. It is the product in Hume's language of the association of ideas. This is all easily to be found in Hume : Treatise of Human Nature, I, III, 14, 'Of the idea of necessary connexion'. Don't be misled by the earlier I, III, 2, 'Why a cause is always necessary'. The heading is ironic and does not vindicate the necessity in causation at all.