Buddhism does have an aspect of cosmology, creation and evolution of life on earth. But again as @ChrisW mentioned investigating this is not: 

This is dependent of the meaning of rebirth. Taking one meaning rebirth happens from moment to moment as one set of Kalapas pass away and a new set of Kalapas arise. In this context we can reason about it through Vipassana as it all happens within this lifetime. ($URL$ If it takes the meaning of Patisandhi still it is subjected to the same flow. 

Samsara exists based on mind-matter phenomena. Any phenomena which is part of mind, mind content, matter comes under ultimate truths (truths that not fall apart under divisibility into its constituent components or indivisible). So it is an ultimate truth that samsara does exit when you are part of it if you are worldling. When you attain Nirvana which is unconditioned, then you are out of samsara. For some one who attains Nirvana this also is an ultimate truth. 

If you let go mentally then there will be more positive karmic efforts in the future. If you let go by being attached to an ideal or view or practice or embracing this as a view, ideal or practice then this might cause negative karma for the future depending on how much you get attached to the ideal, view or practice. E.g. if you see many charities which seem to do good but many of the volunteers seem overly attached to the cause. This will have an element of unwholesomeness in it. So you have to get detached by training your mind than through other means. Also without going overboard with being detached if you practice this to some extent then this also might help towards letting go through your mind but keeping in mind this is a double edge sword. If this is leading to some form of craving or attachment then this is not the right way it should be done, and also will have some negative karmic effect. For rebirth not to happen you should not get attached at the dying moment. If there is any effective (not dormant or not ahosi) kamma rebirth will happen. Attachment to view, ideals and practices, even to that of detachment, also may have potent for a next birth. If you have mentally let go then there will be not potent karma and there will be no rebirth. More technically according to dependent arising, rebirth is generated in two sequences: 

In historic times it was a practice to wrap the body in a cloth and throw it into the forest or designated grave ward. The clothes used to wrap the body was used to stitch robes. Also the pratice of doing cemetry contemplation was based on such disposed bodies. Creation is a more cultural evolution than being Buddhist at least in the Theravada perspective, i.e., Buddhist do not have a particular way as to bury or cremate. This pratice has come among Buddhist perhaps due to Hindu and Indian influence and customs. See: search on hindu funeral pyre For more on this see: 

I Buddhism what matters is the roots (greed, hatred, delusion, non greed, non hatred, non delusion). Greed, hatred and delusion are unskillful as they give results which you would perceive unfavorably hence resulting in a unpleasant sensation in the future. They are unskillful as they reap an undesired result and is not connected with the goal in Buddhism which is to be free from unsatisfactoriness which is to transent the sphere of perception and sensation (sanna vedayita nirodha). Non greed, non hatred, non delusion are skillful as they reap experiences which you perceive favorably in the future. So it depends on the root or volition behind the action. The same action can be done with different motivation which decide whether it is skillful or not. 

You become enlightened only when you develop knowledge of Dependent Origination, the 3 characteristics, and 4 Noble Truths. Not when you develop powers. If you do have powers this might help in teaching (the only permissible use of such powers in Theravada Buddhism). But trying to develop them you might get "lost" as you might get attached to the powers. 

preventing unwholesome states arising abandoning arisen wholesome states arising of wholesome states maintaining the arisen wholesome states 

In my opinion, Vinyana is always present, but it is the function and sharpness of the faculty that distinguish the different experiences or what is felt through the faculty. In the context of mediation your faculties should be sharp for your the experience the reality as it is, so a person with diminished faculties generally will not be able to progress in Vipassana. E.g. if your arm is lost then your limps then you have are not without or diminished Kaya Vinyanaya but due to the fact that a part of the faculty is missing there is not chance that to make contact of even if there is contact I does not register in the case of a blind person. The ability to move is Power or Ability (Irdi) in which our body reacts to our intentions. The function of Vinyanaya is to register any contact which comes through the sense doors. 

Source: What is the most important belief that propels your life? and What is your most unshakeable belief? but this mis attributes one of Martin Luther King, Jr. or Martin Luther quotes as one of the Buddha's. 

Buddhism does acknowledge existence of deities but in a different context than Brahmanism / Hinduism. See: God in Buddhism, Deva 

If you follow the 3 fold training, (Ekā,dasaka) Cetanā’karaṇīya Sutta does mention that your effortlessly progress through joy, happiness, tranquillity to liberation starting from morality. With regard to the mode of leaning and putting it into practice, as in item 2 & 3 above, Vimutt’āyatana Sutta makes the same assertion, but stating from learning activities. Hence, a properly practising Buddhist would probably be more happier than the rest. The main qualification is "properly practising Buddhist". To be one why don't you find a teacher near you and take a course with a view to practice the right way: $URL$ $URL$ $URL$ 

In Abhidhammattha Sangaha Sections on Supramundane Consciousness, Realisation of Nibbana, Rootless Consciousness, Nirodha Samapatti, Realization, Emancipation and Attainments cover aspects of Nirvana. There are a few book which is based on this: 

In advance stages of Buddhist mediation the exercise is to reduce non conducive notions (see: Girimananda Sutta for such notions). The notion of self or not self is a notion, and it is these preconceived notion you should eliminate as clinging to them causes misery when reality does not match with you notion. If you have a self image that I am so and so and when this gets shattered it causes pain. If you do not hold into such notion then there is no pin. 

The Buddha uses parables to illustrate points of the Dhamma. These are not intend to deceive, not untrue statement but example. The conditions for lying are: 

Cha Chakka Sutta When you are mindful about the body you experience the Mahābhūta through these have an impact on if it is pleasurable or not. Dhātu Vibhaṅga Sutta, Titth’ayatana Sutta and other similar suttas analyse this aspect in the section about the 6 elements (bodily aspect) as well as the mental aspect under the section on 18 mental examination (metal aspect - including visualisation). 

Works like Visuddhimagga covers 40 types of meditations. I am looking for the original source of these meditations within the Tripitaka. Ideally with complete bibliographical references to the occurrences within the Tripitaka. 

Though there is no definite record who his teacher was, it is said he learned it from someone else when he was in the Monywa region in the side of Lak-pan-taung Mountain. Also there is reference that this is the method. This is mentioned in the VRI and pariyatti.org biography. VRI teachers Vipassana as handed down in the Ledi linage. VRI may be drawing on works by Sayagyi U Ba Khin (E.g. The Clock of Vipassana Has Struck page 71 also makes reference to this.) It the strong belief of this tradition (which I also very much involved and practice) that he learned from a linage handed down from the Sona and Uttara who came as missionaries during King Asoka's time. The Wikipedia entry (originally sourced from On saints and wizards Ideals of human perfection and power in contemporary Burmese Buddhism by Patrick Pranke page 461) mentions . Hence this was not exactly his creation as per biographical references above. But the book The Birth of Insight in in page 7 says otherwise though. So there is no proper or consistent way to determine what exactly is right, though previous case may be right. There are parallel of the technique to some extent in other linages too. 

(Ekā,dasa) Mettânisaṁsā Sutta This does not mean it is the fastest way. This depends on your temperament and past life practice. If you have been practicing another form of meditation this might give quicker results. The Buddha is only person who can tell the easiest way one can achieve Samadhi or whether one can achieve it. (E.g. Cullapanthaka's story) But nevertheless, this is one effective way to achieve concentration. Metta meditation has 2 objectives: 

If you take the 12 Links of Dependent Origination the mind and body is created due to consciousness. Mind and body is also known as the world because what we know about the world is the mental model that we have in our mind. Whatever is born eventually dies. What ever that starts come to an end. So we have to die and life is not eternal. Everything that is conditioned or causality arisen is impermanent. Death is an eventual part of the process governed by causality or Dependent Origination (DO). As long as the wheel of DO spins there is birth and eventual old age and death. 

Madhu,piṇḍika Sutta Above clarity from the suppression of hindrances and latent dependencies can be used to further develop Insight. One should also contemplate causality: 

If due to some contain you cannot follow through with your action this does not become a potent karma with the potential to give rebirth but the volition forms a mild karma which can give result after rebirth. Regardless of if you follow through with a action of intend to do some action as retaliatory or not, action and intention will become karma.