My issue here is about communicating how one solved the problem. Consider if your doctor, auto mechanic or some other professional said, "I looked it up on the internet," for an explanation of why they did something. Would you think this is professional and trustworthy? Probably not. That "Google told me so" isn't likely to go over well if that is all one has for a justification. On the other hand, if one takes that information from Google, does a few experiments and learns more about the solution this is quite different and these latter parts are what have to be communicated. Another example would be to consider Math word problems in grade school. In the lower grades it is enough to get the right number at the end. How one got it doesn't matter and isn't often considered. However, at higher grades it is important to be able to justify one's position. Thus, one may see the exact same problem in very different grades and while getting to the answer is the same, there is something different about how the answer to each is written. 

The bigger question is how well is the team getting the job done. If things are being done well, then I'd say it may not be worth trying to change it. On the other hand if you want an experiment you could try playing music or something else to generate more of a vibe. 

Software is rarely ever finished in the sense that it has all the features and zero bugs. Rather, it is often abandoned as there are other projects to work and newer technologies that may make the business processes more efficient that come along to replace things. Thus, you have to know how to prioritize your time to be adding business value or managers may have issue with your performance if you work on bugs with little business value. A project will often have general deliverables to meet along with deadlines. What I've often seen is that when a new software application is released, there will be a warranty period to address any show stopping issues but other feature requests will be wrapped into a new project that will be the next phase that gets put onto the road map for the department to then be prioritized. Thus, there is often a lot of potential work that could be done but limited resources to address all that work. This can become an issue in some companies as some of the work may not require a lot of resources though it may be pushed back as bigger projects take precedence and how to juggle this is something I still haven't really seen handled well in any place I've worked. 

Doesn't matter, the question is what skills do you have. I've had jobs where I had to learn new languages on the job and I didn't get demoted while learning VBScript for Classic ASP or C# for ASP.Net. Now, this was within a position rather than jumping from one job to another so it may be different than what you want to know though the key is what are the skills you have. If you did the iPhone development without any tools, then you may be stuck. On the other hand, if you did have some basic development tools around you, then these may be useful in future positions. 

For the references you are putting down, how would you categorize the relationship: Is this person your manager, team lead, teammate, subordinate, or something else? Where in the organizational chart are you in relation to the reference. Was this person a client of yours? Did you use this person as a vendor for some service? There are more than a few possible answers here. 

While this is a nice question, the key would be explaining what you want to know about how the company would handle an economic downturn of various scales. While I like the question, the follow-up here is going to be the big challenge. 

This depends a great deal on the employer's situation. If the employer is slowly sinking then the request may well be quite reasonable. On the other hand, if the employer appears to be doing well then I see this being not taken well in most cases. I'd wonder if your friend could have changed the reason for the request. If he had the letter written for the purposes of a background check or someone wanting to know more about him as he was thinking of moving that could work as a way around this. The boss' response would be reasonable if he didn't see this coming. In that case, there could well be a, "WTH" response that would be met with a confrontational reply like, "Sure, if you put in your notice," though I'd question how good of a reference he'd be in this case. 

This can vary. President, CEO, Owner, Founder, Creator, and Chairman are possibilities though it depends a bit on how the person views the company. They may just see themselves as a Principal or Director and thus it is worth either asking or looking at their business card or an on-line profile like LinkedIn that may have their title. 

You say that you would like to know how things are going at the company, what problems do they have and if there is any way that you could help them with those issues. For example, I could see sending an e-mail that states something like: "Hi, we met 6 months ago when I applied to work as a X and wonder if you'd be interested in meeting for a coffee or lunch. I'd like to hear about how the company is doing and if there is a way I could help. Thanks, JB" While this may seem a bit creepy in some sense, there are people that like to have a network of people available and this is just the kind of touch point to have so that you're remembered by the person. Notice that I don't mention future opportunities here as what I want is a question or problem to solve that demonstrates my skills. What I'm trying to do is get to the point where they want me enough that the contact that isn't in HR will create the position for me. 

If the company has an HR department and harassment policies, I'd probably suggest setting up a meeting with someone in HR and explain the situation. The key points to note: 

The company - Do you know what kinds of products and/or services they provide? Do you know how large the company is? Do you know where the offices are? There may be a question like, "What do you think of our company?" or something similar where it may be worth having a short prepared set of remarks so that you can show you do know a few things about the company. I'm not suggesting memorizing the last earnings report, but I am saying it is good to have an idea of what the company does and where they fit into the big picture in a sense. Yourself - What is in your background? What is your biggest accomplishment to date? What has been your biggest failure? What is your greatest strength? What is your greatest weakness? There are lots of individualistic questions that can be asked in an interview in terms of your experience that is just about you telling stories about what you've done or how you see yourself. If you have past work experience that may be useful, consider how do you paint your previous employers? If you put them down too much, this can be a pitfall you may hit as they may fear you'd talk about their company like that. The interviewers - If you know names, it may be worth looking them up on LinkedIn or other sites to see if there is a common connection or something else that may be worth mentioning at some point. 

Here would be my couple of suggestions: Pursue leadership opportunities. It can be seen as part of the progression to be the person that will asked to take on some collection of tasks and bring it to completion. Pursue mentor-ship skills/opportunities. How well do you pass on what you know? How well do you mentor new people to the team or organization? 

They are checking your history in terms of what you've stated in your resume and possible interviews to ensure accuracy of the information. If you stated that you graduated from a specific school in a specific year that may be checked. The thoroughness of the check may include queries to past employers where exact dates may be used though some employers may not want to dig into exactly when someone started to the minute and may just give a ballpark of, "Joe started in early August," rather than a specific date. 

If someone thought, "Everything will magically fix itself," which is a positive thought and didn't actually do any work would that be acceptable? While it is one thing to be hopeful about the future, there is something to be said for accepting one's reality which may be less than grand. I can understand the idea of having constructive responses though someone has to identify the problem and call out the elephant in the room. If one cares to follow Marcus Buckingham's then there is something to be said for focusing on the good that was done so people could focus on their strengths and offer those more often to the team. There is something to be said for this being somewhat counter-intuitive though could be useful if one believes in the strengths movement. To be the best in the workplace, it is worth understanding what does one's role cover and what adjacent areas may also be worth covering. To try to bring cognitive behavior therapy, which is the idea of changing one's thought patterns, into the workplace would be at least dangerous if not opening a company up to possible lawsuits. For example, consider a person that has a great imagination and can often imagine various disastrous scenarios. Now, this could be useful for making sure something has captured a, "What could go wrong?" yet if this is seen as a negative thought pattern that has to be removed, it could endanger the company as various scenarios may be missed in the future. Thus, while someone may have a negative thought pattern, it may be useful in some cases. There is no simple answer to this question, in my opinion. 

Are you really saying that you just typed stuff into Google and blindly copied and pasted stuff from the results without thinking about why it works at all? That is one interpretation of what you say here. Meanwhile, others may say that they use Google as a starting point to learn more about the issue, try various solutions and then recommend a solution based on some experiments done. While in theory these are similar, there can be quite a bit of difference in how these are seen. I'd suggest learning more about emotional intelligence and how to become more adept at presenting points. I would suggest considering asking some of your colleagues how they view working with you and what you may do to be better as there could be various tips they may pass along. The key here is to consider that everyone may have something of value to pass along. Definitely one thing I can not stress highly enough is to not bad mouth the project lead as this can give you a reputation that I doubt you want. 

No, various universities and colleges may have listings for entry level positions for recent graduates. That is how I found my first programming job back in 1998. 

Somewhat. There can be a broad range of how deep into a technology someone may or may not get over the course of 5 years. Some people may learn the basics and just use those over and over again for another 4 years which while technically it is 5 years, there isn't any progression of knowing the technology at a deeper level since it was never required. Thus, there is something to be said for the 5 years have general implications that for most people would require at least 4 years to get there. There may be some people that can develop some expertise quicker and thus in only 2 or 3 years they may have the same deal of experience though this isn't always the easiest thing to convey. As an example, consider someone that works at Microsoft on the guts of the .Net framework versus a web developer that uses ASP.Net WebForms for a site. The former may well have a deeper knowledge of what is in the framework and what kinds of design decisions were made in releasing a version of the framework that the latter may not even knows exists as challenges. Thus, while I'd argue there is some flexibility in exactly how much time one has spent with a technology, this shouldn't be inferred that anyone could be given the job even if they have very little to no experience with the technology. 

Omitting them is likely the best route to take as Howdy notes. I switched from a Co-op program to a regular program in university which I didn't really like but I didn't get the work terms that was a requirement of the program. Write up your resume based on your current situation and recognize that the cover letter is likely more important where the question is how well can you demonstrate that you'd be a good pick to get the project done. I also had some initial scholarships go away when my grades slipped enough that I didn't qualify to keep that scholarship though I did keep enough marks up that I was a TA for most of my university years. 

While you can ask, I'd be careful about when you time this request as well as noting if there is a company policy about this. In one of my previous work places, there is a policy that employees can only specify work dates when discussing someone's previous work experience in the company. In this case, a recommendation letter would be nearly worthless as all that is confirmed is what dates I worked. Other places may want me to write the letter that the manager signs which can be somewhat mixed in terms of use as the manager may not remember what details I'd put into the letter. My suggestion would be that if there is a period during the notice where things are going well, I may ask at that point for a recommendation letter for my personal files. The other thought would be to possibly wait for some time after I left and then meet with my former manager to request the letter over a lunch or something that so that I'm not in a position to do anything bad to the company. 

If the topic of the paper could be relevant to the work then it could be part of, "This is what I did in college that shows I know a little about XYZ." would be how I'd frame it assuming the papers have some technical component and the job you apply is somewhat technical possibly as a researcher or lab assistant. The key is to have something that distinguishes you in a positive light here. Being prepared for the interview by having some material that can show off some skills could be handy. At the same time, ever consider being a tutor to help people with their English? That could be another option to earn some money. 

If those aren't applicable, then I'd leave it off as otherwise you're bringing up something that isn't relevant which on some resumes may be enough to be taken out of the running I'd imagine as this shows less than great judgment in a way. Granted this is a bit of a stretch but if you can't narrow down the story of your life to the relevant points for a job, how are you going to handle writing up a report or proposal and not throw in useless trivia that may hurt your team or department's chances of looking good to the executives or other companies. 

You do realize this sounds extremely defensive, right? I wonder how you phrased that you wanted to document the expectations and did you cover how this may cause additional delays but not jeopardize the project? Consider how it may take more than a few e-mails back and forth to nail down a requirement that could take days in some cases that then leads to a meeting where someone wants to say, "Hey, why is this so late?!?" that then the attention turns to you for wanting this all documented. This is part of the trade-off that in wanting that documentation are you prepared to take on this risk? I question if that was discussed or if you sent it after the meeting without it being covered beforehand. In this case, you may have blindsided him with this document that may have upset him. How would you feel if after a meeting that you suddenly got told, "Hey, you said this and that and another thing..." out of the blue? Do you see how you may be creating some mistrust by having this record and wanting to use it like a weapon? That is where I could see the trouble being formed so I'd consider reframing why you want these records. What is the good reason for having these records that creates a win/win scenario for each side rather than having it as insurance in case something goes wrong? My suggestion for how to reconcile the relationship is to consider talking with him about how has he handled previous projects where he had these kinds of issues. Perhaps he has his own way of dealing with this that may be what the company is supposed to do. Consider the question that if someone does break a promise, what are you really going to do? Are you going to go to your boss or a company legal person and ask, "What do we do to make this person uphold their promise?" That does seem like a reasonable course of action and then what? While you may have had the headache of things not working out before, I question how well have you considered what you are doing now will actually fix this if other people don't necessarily play by the same rules as you do.