The reward: Covão dos Conches, entrance to Middle Earth? The following morning, the weather was poor. This was the stretch where snowshoes would have been most useful, as I walked through the snow continuously for a couple of hours. However, it was entirely passable without snowshoes. 

The bridge in your photo looks very safe. If you feel unsure about crossing a bridge, you can try to ford next to it, if the river is not too large. Make a few steps onto the bridge, remaining to a place where falling into the water would not be disastrous. 

As it happens, the easiest way to cross from the north is on the ice of the Þjórsarjökull glacier. The glacier in this area is almost completely flat. There are very few crevasses or other features, and those that do exist are shallow and easily visible. Þjórsárjökull is the lowest part of Hofsjökull, at the eastern end, getting nearly down to 600 metre. When I was there in September 2017, there was no snow anywhere on the glacier. The surface of the ice was rough all day; the only slippery parts were parts where there was substantial mud on the ice. The approach to the ice was very muddy (question on that follows and will be linked later), but once on the ice, hiking was a breeze. Of course, hiking on a glacier is never risk-free, but under the circumstances, I found that hiking on the glacier was substantially less risky than fording the rivers coming out of it. In other parts of Iceland, official hiking routes cross glaciers. No special equipment beyond standard hiking equipment was needed when I hiked there. 

As a child, I remember walking with my family over the Gornergletscher to reach the Monte Rosa-Hütte. I remember the same for crossing Vadret da Diavolezza. In both cases, we did not have crampons and and did not use a rope. We tried the same for the Mèr de Glace, but turned around as it was too icy. In all cases, there were many other people. 

The book Sierra de Grazalema: Complete Guidebook to the Natural Park includes a chapter on canyons, describing two routes: one Garganta Verde and one through the Garganta de las Buitreras. Both require rope, karabiner, helmet, harness, etc. Are there any canyons in or near the Natural Park where one can access using only normal hiking gear? 

According to leave-no-trace principles, one should bury human waste (poo). But burying damages plants and roots. Is this really always better than not burying it and pooing on the surface? (Of course, the only way to truly leave no trace is to not go at all.) Edit: This assuming a context when I am carrying everything on by back; solutions that require carrying significant additional mass are not preferred. 

In a nutshell, the old-style maps prior to 1992 are normal topographic maps, hand-drawn and manually explored. The new style US topo are fully automated, two orders of magnitude cheaper to produce, and lack most information expected on a topographic map: fences, parks, recreational trails, railroads, boundaries, pipelines, power transmission lines, buildings, names for most landmarks, and more. The new style US topo, as it is now, is useless for outdoor recreation. However, USGS are working to add more information to these maps, to improve visual presentation, and to offer paper maps. Among other things, they are planning on adding recreational trails in national forests. From the aforementioned articles: 

Get out. You can quickly cool down when it's raining out, in particular when the rain is horizontal and it's 4°C outside. You say there's no shelter anywhere near. Then walk as fast as you can to somewhere not near. I infer yours must be a day trip, for surely you're not out on a multi-night backpacking trip in a cold & wet climate without any raingear or night shelter. Locate the closest shelter, be it a bus stop, a pub, your car, or even a house if you trust strangers and they trust you. Even if they don't invite you in, you might hide under a ledge. Walk to such shelter as fast as you reasonably can, be it one, two, or three hours march. The wet-cold spiral is real and bad for you. 

One of the biggest problems I have keeping warm in the cold are my shoes. When I'm out cycling in temperatures below -20°C, ordinary sport-shoes or hiking boots fail to keep me warm 

If you want to get a similar feeling at a lower elevation, there is one simple solution: head north (colder) or head west (more snow — shorter growing season). The treeline in Yosemite National Park is at 3,200 – 3,600 metre. The treeline in Jasper National Park is at 2,400 metre. The treeline in the Olympic Mountains is at 1,500 metre. The treeline in the Chugach Mountains in Alaska is at 700 metre or less. Therefore, you can get an impression of higher elevations, without having to worry about the amount of oxygen in the air. As a bonus for granite-lovers: this Svadet near Efjord, Ballangen, Nordland, Norway, and is essentially at sea level: 

Since Iceland has the "right to roam" similar to other Nordic countries, you're virtually allowed to go wherever you want. You probably won't even be able to see the road due to the snowcover, so it would be weird if you could go everywhere except there :) so I wouldn't worry. Even when there's no snow, there's very little traffic. The busiest highland roads may get >100 cars/day, but some remote mountain tracks don't even reach 10 cars per week in summer, much less outside summer. I've walked on some of those more remote mountain tracks for a couple of days and I've never seen a car there. As Simon says, rescue is not normally charged. 

People sometimes do this if they are on a route where they know there is a particular desperate/crucial placement. Unusual special situation. 

I assume we're talking about a follower being belayed with ATC in guide/autoblocking mode? Then even the most determinedly incompetent/malicious belayer cannot produce more than a factor one fall. Are you familier with the concept of fall factors? In this case, the unfortunate second climbs all the way up to the stance, without the belayer taking in any rope whatsoever, then falls all the way back down again. The distance s/he falls is equal to the total amount of rope in use: fall factor 1. Unpleasant for the falling climber, especially if s/he hits something on the way down, but nowehere near the worst case scenario for force on the ATC. That comes with a factor two fall, where the leader falls off above the belay, without any intermediate gear, and falls twice as far as the amount of rope in use. Now, in a factor two scenario I personally do have serious concerns about the safety of an ATC, not because of the device itself breaking but because of the rather limited braking force it provides on modern slick, skinny ropes. IMO it is seriously questionable whether many belayers would be able to hold a factor two fall on an ATC. The direction of pull is down whereas people are used to holding upwards pulls. Some rope is definitely going to run through, and most people these days don't belay with gloves, so ropeburn is pretty much a given. Etc. For these reasons I'm seriously looking for an alternative with semi-automatic assisted braking for multipitch. The Alpine Up is big, heavy and looks dauntingly complicated; the Edelrid Mega Jul is nice but I've read about some quality control issues. Will probably buy the second generation Jul when Edelrid have ironed the bugs out. (Otoh many people argue that the ATC is advantageous with marginal trad gear because its relatively soft braking action reduces the impact force. This is understandable, but based on some tests I've seen it seems to be exaggerated. Top Canadian ice climber Will Gadd for example is on record favouring a grigri for ice climbing these days.) 

I don't think the question is really answerable more precisely than you already have, because there are so many variables: 

Definiely do not attempt to keep them separate on the route. Uncoil and stack them separately at the start, but thereafter handle them as one. Make sure that leader and second both tie the same rope on the same side so that they are not crossed over. I've never used a rope basket, but it doesn't seem like a bad idea if you don't mind the weight. Otherwise the belayer should normally lay the rope(s) back and forth in front of him across his tether to the anchor. (People talk here about all kinds of increasing-decreasing size loops and stuff. In reality, "reasonably tidy" is achievable). The exception is a large, flat, comfy ledge: here laying them on the floor is ok. I nearly always climb with partners with whom I alternate leads, so the need to rearrrange the ends if the same climber is leading everything doesn't arise. If this is not your situation, the couple of minutes it takes to pull them through might well be preferable to the clusterf*ck that can result from a botched attempt to "flip the stack". 

In general it sounds you're not doing anything obviously stupid and you just need more practice. I generally rack some 'draws on both sides - sometimes it can be handy to avoid reaching across. And you can often avoid the 'draw falling into the crack by resting it on a hold, across your wrist or something like that. Try not to place/clip gear far above your head. It feels reassuring but wastes much time and energy, especially with the need to pull up and fiddle with a large amount of slack rope. The obvious exception would be if you're placing gear from a comfortable stance before launching into a crux section in which stopping would be strenuous or precarious. I mostly use longish but non-extendable skinny 'draws for trad - 20 to 30 cm - and only carry a few sling-draws for situations where I think I particularly need a lot of extension. I don't use really stubby sport 'draws, for the same reasons you state from "C" Like you, if I'm not totally pumped and desperate I'll often "harvest" the original krab from the cam in case it might be useful for something later such as building my anchor. Not really necessary/important though. 

Cordelettes are an American obsession. In the UK and Europe most people climb multipitch on double ropes. In this case, and if one is swapping leads, then an anchor with up to four pieces with the rope is trivially easy. Clove hitch to first piece, little loop of slack, clove hitch to second piece, tie rope back to locker krab on harness. Repeat with second rope for pieces 3 & 4. Job done. Clearly less applicable if one is climbing on a single rope or is a guide doing all the leading. But I haven't noticed European alpine guides using cordelettes either; will have to have a closer look at what they do next time I'm on an alpine trade route.