@Mailo You must've solve this one but as it hasn't been answered for long time. The most important thing to consider is the bearing you bought is pre-lubricated or not. As most bearings come pre-lubricated. Pre-lubrication meanings that the bearings will spin faster right out of the box. However, with the low price of skateboard oil, if a bearing does not come pre-lubricated buying that may be good idea. But remember cleaning and lubricating are not the same thing. And if you like you can visit this website, and this website for tutorial on how to clean bearings. 

However, laws of the game does not mention how the result of game should be recorded. So, it is up to the organisers (or, from competition rules) to decide whether or not to replay the match, and if match is not replayed how they want to keep this in record . 

In Premier League 2017/18 Tottenham Hotspur F.C. are playing in Wembley Stadium as temporary home while there their new stadium is being constructed. So, I was wondering if they win Premier League this season will they be the first team to do so playing from temporary stadium in country's top league? And if they are not the first team to do so, which club have done this and when? 

Is there any evidence that he is personally doing negotiations, contract details, etc., or is he delegating? Since Jay-Z is licensed to be an NBA and MLB agent. He may have done negotiations, contract details, etc. But at beginning, he partnered up with CAA and NFL superagent Tom Condon. Now the agency is looking to hire agents and buy their agencies and hire some. so he personally doesn't have to negotiate. Also from complex.com article: 

I don't know why NBA stats shows Russell Westbrook assist percentage as 58.8 because basketball-reference stats for the same game shows 72.5. From basketball-reference, stats for Russell Westbrook and team for that match, MP=37, AST=10, FG=17, Team FG=40, Team MP= 240 NBA stats shows Team MP as 48 which is obtained after dividing 240 by 5 i.e, (Team Mp / 5). Using these stats we can get assist percentage around 72.5. For your calculation, if you use 48 for (Team MP / 5) and 37 for MP (Russel played 36 min 57 sec) you will get almost same data as basketball reference. 

This autograph seems to be of former San Francisco Giants player Nate Schierholtz, Few other balls with similar autograph, 

As already stated in this answer for the question EPL match with the longest injury time is Arsenal v. West Ham United, 23 January 2013 (12 minutes 58 seconds). 

Recently FA announced to fund study of dementia among footballers and Uefa also has commissioned a research project that will examine the links between dementia and playing football. This study mentions, dementia among retired footballers may be connected to repeated head ‘impacts’, caused by collisions and thousands of headers. 

So, when a player completes a century, half-century is discarded and only the century recorded. And if a player scores a double century it is still recorded as a century. 

Deliberate being the key word. Since, the ball deflected from the leg is not deliberate. He can take the ball. 

For comparison against manager considering coach as head coach. What's the difference between a coach and a manager? Football (soccer) :What is the difference between football coach and football manager? Antonio Conte asked who Chelsea will sign... here's his response 

And from article The Effect of Lace-up Ankle Braces on Injury Rates in High School Basketball Players conclusion: 

This is the longest streak of consecutive goals by one player in Wild history, and Zucker is the first player to score six consecutive team goals since Glen Murray did it for the Boston Bruins from Jan. 29 - Feb. 1, 2004, according to the Elias Sports Bureau. However the longest run in NHL history is seven goals, set by Cy Denney of the Ottawa Senators from Feb. 28 - March 7, 1921 and matched by Brian Noonan with the Chicago Blackahawks from Dec. 27-29, 1991. Source: www.nhl.com 

I am trying to find out if there are any notable teams, in any sport, that are recognized at some level as part of two or more national bodies. For example, imagine if the neighbouring Słubice (Poland) and Frankfurt an der Oder (Germany) had a joint team, recognised in some form by both the Polish and German federations for said sport. I would like to find teams that participate in at least one official national and/or international competition for clubs. I am not interested in: invitational teams and other similar groups that are assembled for exhibition mathces only, such as the Barbarians in rugby; multi-national sides competing officially only against national sides or similar multi-national sides, such as West Indies in cricket. If any such teams exists, please provide some details about which organisations they belong to, which competitions they take part in, and more generally which rules regulate or limit their multi-national nature. 

I am interested in finding more applications of active use and/or interpretation of other players' body language that are relevant in team sports (potentially interested in individual sports too, but I'm trying limit the scope of the question slightly). Bonus points for non-obvious examples, such as ones that would only be used by top level athletes. Both sport-specific and generic answers are welcome! 

While it mostly happens in lower leagues, this used to be more common in professional sports until somewhat recently (e.g. Gianluca Vialli in association football until 1999) and may still happen temporarily. My situation refers to the sport of quidditch (or "muggle quidditch") specifically, where captains often cover the role of coach as well, but could apply to any team sport where the player-coach would be the same time be on the field as any other player, and making strategic and tactical decisions such as substitutions, plays, strategy changes, and so on. One key point is having one, or two, players-assistant coaches with whom to share the gameplan and guidelines to follow during the game, while the coach is on the field playing, so that at least one of these players is always or almost always off the field. What are the countermeasures and/or aspects to keep in mind both before and during the game for a playing coach, so that their performance as a coach will not be diminished by them being focussed on their job as a player? As an extra requirement: quidditch does not currently have timeouts, so answers should not rely on using timeouts to make adjustments. 

I am the captain of a quidditch team, "muggle quidditch" if you prefer, experiencing a few more or less regular issues with some of my players. We play a recent sport that puts together athletes from very different backgrounds, I believe this makes it in some ways comparable to youth leagues: while the average player is a college student, most teams don't have a coach, or the coach is just another player, or someone of similar age and experience as other players in the team. This lack of the typical authoritative figure exacerbates problems that are normally solved by the presence of the coach. So for an example of the problematic "types" of players, I found myself with... 

How can I promote and insure a better cooperation for team members and minimize conflict among these different types of players? Is there any method normally used by coaches/captains? 

The specific case I'm thinking of is throwing in quidditch (so think baseball, dodgeball, football, etc. mechanics). I'm hoping however to find a more general guiding principle if possible. I coach a mix of players at different levels of athletic abilities, some come from other ball sports, some from others sports, some others had no prior sporting experience at all. In the case of throwing mechanics, I try to teach with fairly simple methods, breaking down the movement in its components like in this answer. I have seen moderate progress with several players, but they seem to forget everything by the first couple of plays in a scrimmage or actual game. Is there some recognized method or best practice for this sort of situation? Again, ideally a general approach would be great, but I'm happy with answers specific to throwing mechanics as well. 

Bearings: – a bearing is typically composed of 5 to 7 balls, with fewer balls inducing less friction, but putting a higher demand on the quality of the ball surface. In speed-skating, also the weight difference can be important. size – bearings come in two possible sizes: standard 608 and mini (or micro) 688. Again, the weight difference may be important. Mini bearings have less friction, but they wear off more quickly due to a lower dirt tolerance and a smaller contat area size to bear the load. lubricant – since smaller wheels have to rotate faster than bigger wheels to achieve the same forward speed, the resistance of a lubricant will be higher. While you can be fine with grease while using bigger wheels, to get the same speed with smaller wheels you'll have to switch to oil. 

As your question already suggests, there are many contributing elements: Wheels: – although there is some controversy over the exact amount by which the diameter contributes, generally the rolling resistance depends on diameter in inverse proportion. In short, bigger wheels equals smaller resistance. Also, on a rough surface, bigger wheels will bridge the holes more easily, resulting in a smoother and more comfortable ride. hardness – indicated by durometer (common range 73A - 92A) is again inversely proportional to the amount of deformation of the wheel under the load. The more is a wheel deformed, the bigger is its contact area with the ground. In bigger wheels, the ratio of deformation length to the wheel size is smaller, hence the wheel is closer to the ideal circular shape. heat disipation – with deformation, there comes a heat production. Over the same distance, a smaller wheel receives more deformations (as it makes more revolutions) than a bigger wheel, thus the smaller wheel heats up more. The same applies for a heat received from the contact with a hot surface (sunlit asphalt road). Heat makes the wheel softer. mass distribution – affects rotational inertia. Bigger wheels, although not necessarily heavier than smaller ones, have the mass farther from the axle, thus better conserve the rotational momentum. So the bigger wheels are harder to get rolling, but once they roll, it's easier to keep them rolling. You want this for a marathon, not for a sprint. cross-section profile – from flat, through circular, to elliptic. A more tapered wheel has a smaller contact area with the ground, which comes with less rolling resistance. A bigger wheel can be more tapered than a small one, due to a better width / height ration of the cross-section. spokes design – in higher speeds, let's say 25 km / h and over, air resistance becomes quite important (it's quadratic with the speed), so with the same design, a bigger wheel's spokes receive more drag. Spokes design also contributes to the wheel's hardness, weight and mass distribution. 

Setup: – more wheels decrease the load per wheel, thus reducing the wheel's deformation and consequently rolling resistance. The resulting length (front wheel to back wheel) adds to the stability when leaning forwards or backwards, and also makes it easier to bridge holes in a rough surface. On the other hand, it makes it harder to cross legs over in turns. wheel diameter – when using bigger wheels, besides the effect on the height of skater's centre of gravity (less than 2 %, which is not a big deal for a non-beginner), there's a bigger one: an increase in the flexing force affecting the ankle (more than 15 %). You can feel it especially in the inner push part of a double push. frame – more wheels or bigger wheels, both mean a longer, heavier and more flexible frame. Longer frame, albeit more stable, is harder to turn with. Flexibility means loss of energy. With more wheels you need more screws (more weight). When the 2nd wheel is 1 cm smaller, the axle has to be 5 mm lower and some frame models are quite thin at that 2nd axle point, thus prone to cracking. 2nd wheel smaller – it's more difficult to buy new wheels for this setup, since they are usually sold in packs of 8 pcs of the same size. The two smaller wheels have a different rotational inertia and a different wear period. Also the wear-leveling wheel rotation pattern has to be modified accordingly. shoe – with an increase in the flexing force affecting the ankle when using bigger wheels, you may find it hard to use speed-skating shoes. They tend to end no higher than the ankle joint, thus giving no support to it. Until you get the ankles stronger, you may have to resort to mid-high shoes. weight – wheels can account for more than 60 % of the total skate weight, depending on the size and the number of the wheels (plus 2 bearings and 1 screw per wheel). Wheels of the same size can still have a different amount of the wheel mass, with more mass giving a longer life span, but also a worse conservation of the rotational momentum due to a different mass distribution.