For Heraclitus there are only the fragments collected in The Presocratic Philosophers: A Critical History with a Selection of Texts, 2nd Edition by G. S. Kirk,‎ J. E. Raven,‎ M. Schofield, Cambridge : Cambridge University Press, 1983 (and frequently reprinted). Or in German : Die Fragmente der Vorsokratiker (Berlin, 1903, 6th ed., rev. by Walther Kranz (Berlin: Weidmann, 1952. Nietzsche's relation to Heraclitus is a matter of record. 

First principles are true First principles are necessarily true First principles are indemonstrable - they are not and cannot be deduced from anything else since otherwise the premises from which they are derived would be prior and not the First Principles themselves. First principles are more certain than anything derived from them - anything derived (deduced) from them can contain errors but first principles are free from any possible error as necessary truths. 

If the notions of actual or potential infinity are coherent, why is the notion of an infinite series of causes not also coherent ? The series of prime numbers is infinite - why not the series of causes. Also, even if there does need to be a first cause, that blocks the regress (if you must block it) but introduces a notion itself in need of explanation. If God is the first cause, then God must be causa sui - (a) the cause of Godself or (b) without cause. (Spinoza scholarship is riven by these two interpretations (Charles Jarrett, 'The Logical Structure of Spinoza's "Ethics", Part I', Synthese, Vol. 37, No. 1, Spinoza in Modern Dress (Jan., 1978), pp. 15-65 : esp. 39.) It is hard to make literal sense of God as self-creator : God would have to exist before God's own existence in order to bring Godself into existence. I think I am not alone in having difficulties with that idea. Also if, on the other interpretation, God is without cause, why can the universe itself not be without cause ? Finally, in this brief discussion, if you demonstrate the necessity for a first cause you still have to cover the extra step of identifying that cause as God if by God you mean a being possessed of omnipotence, omniscience, and benevolence. All that is not packed into the mere idea of a first cause. In any event, the first cause would not need to be omnipotent but only possessed of enough power to create the universe. The same goes for omniscience : God would only need enough knowledge to create the universe. Moreover there is no inference from first cause to benevolence, no logical connexion at all. 

The answer belongs, I think, to the pragmatics rather than the semantics of language. If semantics are tied to truth-conditions then 'I have nine toes' is true if and only if I have nine toes. That I also have eight or ten toes is irrelevant to the truth-conditions of the statement. Pragmatically, though, if we use a notion such as Paul Grice's 'cooperative principle' then the statement, while true, violates the maxim of informativeness (P. Grice, 'Studies in the Way of Words', Cambridge, 1989, 26-7) : 'Make your contribution as informative as is required (for the current purposes of the exchange). If someone asks me how many fingers I have - I have ten - it is true to say that I have nine because I could not have ten unless I had nine. But this answer violates the cooperativeness principle because my questioner, assuming a standard context, wants to know how many fingers I have in total. By violating the maxim of informativeness I have implied (but not stated) a falsehood. I have not said that I have only nine fingers but this is what, by the cooperativeness principle, I have tacitly implied. So I should say that 'I have nine toes' states a truth (semantically) but implies a falsehood (pragmatically). Tentatively this, rather than 'not entirely true, not entirely false', is the language I should prefer. It points more clearly, so it seems to me, to what is wrong with the statement in standard contexts. 

You have lighted on the soteriological problem of evil (Gk σωτηρία = sōtēria = salvation). This is the evil supposedly inflicted on the innocent in an afterlife - innocent (a) because they have grown up without knowledge of Christ (say, they were pre-Christians) or innocent (b) because they have grown up uncritically but in good faith in another religion. The soteriological problem contrasts with the traditional problem of evil, namely the suffering of the innocent in the present life. Christian exclusivists hold that there is no salvation without Christ. So for them there is no hope for (a) or (b). Yet there are so far as I can see two ways in which salvation can be granted to non-Christians. The first is by extending 'ignorance' to other religions. By virtue of their entrenchment in their own religious ways the adherents of other religions are relevantly uninformed. It is not the fault of an individual who has grown up in a non-Christian religious tradition that s/he cannot acquire the mindset in which to take Christianity seriously. Just as there is no suggestion that the Christianly uninformed Moses will be denied salvation since he was ignorant of Christianity, ignorance excuses the relevantly uninformed of other religions. (Moses' 'ignorance' of Christianity was due to his position in time; the 'ignorance' of those of non-Christian religions has a different explanation. But they are equally 'ignorant' from the perspective of this argument.) The second is by inclusivity, which follows a different route. It is possible to regard Christianity as presenting one face of God, and other religions other faces. God is (if the simile be allowed) like a diamond with many facets. One facet is Christianity, another is Judaism, another is Islam. This is a form of religious pluralism. Individual Christians will take their own views for or against these two options - these two solutions to the soteriological problem of evil. I outline them here because we are doing philosophy and the two options strike me as conceptually not contradictory to Christianity. Are we to legislate to God, dictating whom God may or may not save ? My own religious views are of no relevance. When I refer to 'ignorance' I am thinking myself into a possible viewpoint, no more than that. I intend no disrespect to non-Christian religions, many of which will in turn regard Christians as 'ignorant' of the truth of their own religious standpoints. 

'Isms' are labels. They enable us to group theories, ideas, arguments, that have enough in common to be usefully (for some purposes) treated together. So, for example, empiricism is the label for theories &c. which assume that experience is the only source of knowledge, or the major source of knowledge, or the sole source of one kind - or some kinds - of knowledge. There is always this loose commonality, more like Wittgensteinian family resemblance than anything else. (Wittgenstein, Philosophical Investigations, I §§66-8.) One objection to the use of 'ism' labels is that they readily suggest the opposite - that empiricism, to keep to that example, can be defined in terms of necessary and sufficient conditions : X is an empiricist if and only if ..., whereas in fact empiricism has no such nuclear, essentialist definition. This can lead to unfruitful discussions about whether so-and-so was 'really' an empiricist. The label is not precise enough to make such inquiries helpful. 'Isms' also blot out differences. When I consider Locke, Berkeley and Hume, 'the British empiricists', I am struck by the serious and deeply significant differences between them. Not only do they not agree on what 'experience' is, they exhibit fascinating differences in style of argument, treatment of topics, levels of scepticism and so forth. I'd like to say that the blotting out of differences isn't a reason for using labels but for some folk (not all who use them) they are just that and enable a fast, undiscriminating trip through the history of philosophy. The example you use is 'neoplatonism'. How can this be characterised ?