It is not clear if this has a very high probability of preventing all impacts on a given planet, but it seems there is a fair chance, with the billions of star systems in a single galaxy, there may be a few where this has happened. However, this would preclude any of the interesting evolutionary events that also occur after mass extinction events. We do not seem to have a model for that kind of evolution, very long periods, billions of years, of un-eventful ( ha ha ) evolution, and it's not clear what such a model would look like. 

As long as the firing of the weapon is not powerful enough to destroy vibranium. It is not clear from the description how powerful the explosion was that destroyed the vibranium on the island. † Presumably this is referring to impulse energy, rather than the more general term, kinetic energy. 

The significance of this is in the ability to express and share ideas. With a broader vocabulary, or more nuanced phrasings, as seems to be the case above, people have the ability to express more complex and subtle ideas. It is experience and practice plus thought on a subject matter that promotes these extensions to language. And likewise the extensions to the language promote deeper thought and clearer communication on the subject matter. Similarly, weather knowledge can be thought of from an experiential perspective. Farmers who have lived and worked in the same area for a period of time can often look at the sky, feel the air and predict with greater accuracy the weather in their local area than meteorologists whose job it is to track and predict weather on larger scales than what concerns a local farmer. Aves, also I suspect, would have visual knowledge of the sky, but unlike a farmer they would have a physical sense of the sky from up in the sky. They could fly through turbulent air, taste it, feel the intensity of it, whether it is large and flowing turbulence, less chaotic turbulent air, or smaller, roiling turbulence, hotter, colder, wetter, drier, charged, etcetera. There would likely be an entire area of language that farmers or perhaps even meteorologist do not possess to such an acute degree. 

As for #2 above, most of us have experienced the desire to unplug from our technology or otherwise seek distraction/self-extraction from daily life. As for #1 above, teleporting in the sense you have described might be as simple reaching to pick up a cup of coffee ( as simple as that act and people may engage in the activity on a whim ) or it may be as cumbersome as getting in the car to drive down to the corner store. Regardless, one can easily conceive of the choice to take the longer/less-traveled path with intention so as to break up the daily routine/norm. 

Reducing taxes, across the board, but mostly for the wealthy and putting lots of money into military development reduces the effectiveness of the GDP which makes a country poorer. Borrowing lots of money to go to war pays off, it makes a lot of money indeed, but this usually happens when the wealthy are not being taxed as much and the money mostly goes to the top anyway and the country is still poor. Huge debt accumulates and the government has little choice but to raise taxes on everyone, but not as much on the wealthy. The crooked leaders get voted out because everyone hates everything, regardless of who is to blame, but the leaders are easiest to place the blame on. New leadership finds ways to implement programs and tax accordingly but not threateningly and the economy starts to grow again, wages go up and people are happier. 

Realistically, underground is much more expensive than above ground using delivery drones. Delivery drones (multi-copters) require much less overhead to achieve much better logistics. Consider several miles per square mile of real estate for rails, tubes or conveyors vs perhaps a few dozen, or even a few hundred drones to get the same coverage and perhaps a few dozen charging stations. Even if the infrastructure is already in place, i.e. an existing underground network of tunnels, the cost of buying and installing any form of conduit far outweighs the cost of buying a handful of delivery devices which require no major infrastructure. The next best option as far as my limited understanding and basic assumptions go (see the list below the image) is a pneumatic tube system. You would likely want something more complex and versatile than what is used in bank drive-throughs, but I am not up on the engineering aspects of such systems. The basics are here (click the image). 

Edit Assuming by FTL the question implies interstellar travel, rather than around the solar system. Presumably our solar system will be well colonized before we advance very much outside of the solar system. 

It creates a recession. It deepens the recession. It set the scenario for the next time you want a recession, because you've meddled in another country's affairs to a high degree, and they will probably break and start acting up again in a decade or two. It provides a mechanism for pulling back out of the recession. Greedy jerks ridiculously increase their wealth, but nobody else does, in fact it makes it worse for everyone else, and the greedy jerks matter most because they support the government and often provide the economic support structures that allow the government to function as it does, e.g. private industry is the backbone and the jerks run private industry. 

In order to explain why there are no fossil fuels you have to explain an absence of mass extinction events. The reason mass extinctions result in oil deposits is the trapping of large quantities of biomass that does not have a chance to decompose and release the carbon back into the atmosphere. The most likely cause of mass extinction events ( barring consumption as may be the case with humans on Earth, or global war / colonization in the sci-fi realm ) is comet impacts during the early age of the star system, after planets have cooled and complex life has formed. Large sibling planets, a la Jupiter, outside the orbit of the planet in question are known to perturb comet orbits and direct them away from the smaller sibling. To give some perspective on time spans here, with respect to our solar system: 

Notice: Before proceeding to the references, note that both contain potential answers to these questions, however they would be considered (R) rated content. User discretion is advised. In Terry Goodkind's Sword of Truth series (now 17 epic novels, over 10,000 pages), a world is described in which an ancient magical tunnel network connects distant key locations and centers of power throughout a world with a medieval setting. Users may travel through the tunnel at very high speed by being enveloped by the Sliph - a creature created from a human woman by ancient wizards. This would solve many of the logistical problems of leadership/rule that are pointed out in comments - messages may be sent expeditiously in person this way and would not require the ruler to be on site, but would allow for greater decision making capability on a shorter schedule - a critical advantage. There is also a dragon that agrees to transport the main character (Richard) a bit later in the series - which is slower, but adequate for shorter range connectivity. I will leave it to the reader to research the very interesting plot techniques developed by Goodkind. Ruling is far from a simple task. Goodkind's treatment of the kinds of wisdom and insight that a leader must develop (akin to philosophical objects described in Sun Tsu's Art of War), was, in my opinion quite enlivening and entertaining and it provided a good deal of depth and dimension to the story. The second reference is Lev Grossman's The Magicians series (3 books). In this series a place called the Neither World is described which is perhaps "neither here nor there", but contains a seemingly endless array of courtyards with fountains - each fountain being a portal to another world. The time difference between worlds is pronounced such that it may be difficult to gauge how much time has passed when visiting another world and the difference in the rate of the passage of time seems to vary with each visit. So there are several elements there which may help to develop a world creation concept. I wrote a 10 page report for a college course on the Magicians series (after the second book, but before the 3rd was released) in which I applied concepts described in P. T. Struck's Birth of a Symbol to the icons and symbolism used in the series. This greatly expanded my perspective and my appreciation for the techniques that the author used. My hypothesis was related to the use of magic itself as a symbol for divination and creativity - what starts as magical curiosity for the characters becomes religious or cult practice, which then turns to disillusionment, followed by growth (in the crafting of magic) that to an outside observer resembles ascendance to the level of deity. So magic itself is certainly a conduit for a 1000 years reign. I would suggest paying particular attention to the charisma and the networking capability of your King. I'm a certain that it would be a wise decision for him to align himself with very powerful wizards and sorcerers, and for good dramatic effects, very dangerous and possibly unaligned ones too - the one who bows to no man is the one who can be expected to tell the unadulterated truth, for he does not fear the truth nor any of it's consequences. ;) 

According to theories about symmetry breaking in physics you have explicit symmetry breaking and spontaneous symmetry breaking. In the former the laws of physics fail to remain invariant while in the later the ground state fails to be invariant. If you're not interested in getting deep into theory, then you could play with a juxtaposition of the later to the mental space and follow a Zen-like tract where all is perception. If thought precedes intentional action as well as intentional response, then by not thinking and acting spontaneously it is possible for action to precede perception (since there was no mind the moment the action occurred making the perception of the action completely surprising to both parties, both perceiving independently as a surprise), but then you have to work out a way to communicate spontaneously with random words, vocalizations, movements or other actions which occur without forethought. Very difficult indeed, but perhaps this will lead you in a worth while direction. 

As for special kinds of weapons, your guess is as good as mine. But as I was reading about each kind of vibranium, the standard Wakandan variety as well as Antarctic variety, known as anti-metal, the idea came into the back of my mind about the possible interplay between the two isotopes. The first absorbs and stores energy, making it tougher. While the second actually produces vibrations which liquify other metals. Presumably anti-metal does not liquify vibranium, but makes it stronger, however my suspicion is that there may be an interesting kind of oscillation or feedback between the two isotopes that could be exploited to produce very stange and powerfull effects. The most obvious would seem to be a bomb, similar to a nuclear weapon, which by blasting the two metals together would produce an exotic reaction when the atoms of the two metals fuse come into close, molecular proximity, one vibrating the other storing until it breaks, however the interesting part is what happens when the reaction begins. 

Edit If you're looking for a truly feasible magnetic weapon, one option ( apart from large scale EMPs as described below ) is to use a conventional weapon to fire a small scale EMP, such as a rocket launcher for example, to fire an EMP to within range of a building to knock it's systems offline, or a shotgun sized device to target another soldier's personal gear, taking down his HUD, night vision or other apparatus.