Another quick, maybe too quick, comment (or series of comments.) My first impulse, perhaps just an atmospheric tangent, would be to look into certain parts of the Grundrisse, in particular the fragment on machines. He talks about the way in which the machine isn't introduced to make labor easier but rather to intensify and extend it, to latch it onto accelerating and alien rhythms. He also makes an interesting remark there about invention having lost its scientific purity and becoming a business. In other words, this is the kernel of Marxism insofar as it is generally refracted through an ethical humanism of the common: improving man's (humanity-in-person's) condition in the world by abolishing the exploitation of labor. But thinking is also labor; and today we face both simulation and automation. Marx's machines above involve all the ways capitalism captures us; including even the factories of knowledge, the discourses and disciplinary institutions associated with science. Automation and simulation express capitalism's devaluation not only of our bodies and labor but even our thoughts and the very image of thought. 

The philosopher's only business is concepts; and the concept belongs only to philosophy. Just as scientists and mathematicians create functions (using variables) and artists/writers create compositions (using variations,) philosophers recover or create concepts (using pure variances). In their article on Deleuze, IEP discusses this problem: 

Just in passing and much too long for a comment: Deleuze's thoughts on this may be aggressive -- but keep in mind that (as he says) the question "what is the use of philosophy?" itself is intended to be caustic or at least ironic. So the ideas below may not be expressed with your sensibilities in mind, but they are certainly not meant to insult anyone. He does say that philosophy makes stupidity something shameful, but again this is not exactly an insult to anyone -- given again that he emphasizes that philosophy is at its most positive as an enterprise of critique, dispelling the various myths that stupidity falls for. For background, here are the relevant remarks from Nietzsche and Philosophy (p. 106 of this edition): 

It appears that the debate on God is rooted in theistic definitions of words. To have implicit belief in God, the language we speak has to be theistic; theism appears to dictate diction. theism itself appears to be a linguistical phenomena; atheists trying to disprove God fall into the trap of believing that something that doesn't exist needs to be disproven. There is a theist privilege in language and logic as well. That's why weak atheism appears to be an accommodationist view to keep theism in the privileged position of power. Logic dictates semantics; logic bred theistic epistemic ideas into head just implicitly affirming God's existence. this appears to create theistic notions in our syntaxes. Our children are linguistically and logically bred to have theistic notions without ever having to explicitly state a theist position. Atheists are just people unlearning epistemology of God. Their language, their logic has yet to unlearn semantic theism. When they debate, they accidentally affirm God's existence just making presuppositional theistic statements. It's revealing to know that logic has theistic suppositions; our lenses that reason are theistic lenses; logic deduces God's existence. intersectionality speaking, logic and theism have been bedfellows. Logicians are predominantly theistic; it appears logical theism has developed quite nicely that atheists are havin, to literally change our logical axioms such as God, as if God is an axiom, as if axiom is God. 

Physicalism asks the question what the mind is made up of; what is the substance of the mind? philosophy tries to figure out what the mind looks like, if it's an actual physical object; is the mind visible? can technology detect the object we call the mind? can one Measure it? it appears that materialism was a bit vague, so the philosophers and scientists, believing in a hard materialist position, wanted to get empirical evidence of this thing called the mind. Functionalism asked the questioned how the mind, whether physical or non-physical, not necessarily visible or not, acted. the mind has beliefs, desires, or the mind is beliefs or desires. functionalism tried to analyze the mind this way. what if physicalism and functionalism theory of mind are legitimate in philosophy of Mind? Rather than trying to erase both studies, physicalism can elaborate the multiple views of the substance of mind to aid neuroscience into finding out what the mind looks like, functionalism can aid psychologists better understand how the mind functions; they can use functionalism to learn about peoples beliefs, desires, etc. 

The first sort of thing we know about the teapot is owing to the logical constraint of inaccessibility: we know we can't know it, that any instance of learning associated with it must be causally disconnected from us and anything we can conceivably learn. It's absolutely external to our configuration space; there isn't a straight pathway through the world to such a teapot. But what does this mean? One way to think of this is the problem of entanglement. At some fundamental level, any component of anything that's ever been interconnected "remembers" the other components, can theoretically be affected by its behavior independent of time or distance. So, the kettle can't be entangled with anything that could then be entangled with us. We could propose perhaps that the kettle is in another cosmos; at any rate, somewhere radically inaccessible. But once granting the possibility of gaining knowledge about some theoretical larger metaverse, a "truly" inaccessible teakettle then would have to be not only in an entirely different cosmos than ours, but outside of any cosmos that could be conceivably interconnected with ours at any point. I sense that we may already be straying beyond the bounds of your question, but I would speculatively suggest that the kettle would ultimately have to be considered as a kind of virtual particle. The kettle then would have to be walking a vacuum diagram -- somehow travelling backwards in time to causally found itself -- in order to truly minimize access. Is it possible any longer to evaluate any claim about such a kettle? On my reading, no claim to knowledge can reliably be made -- except for our knowledge that it is outside of our knowledge-context. There amounts to a kind of fundamental paradox in making a claim to such "external context knowledge" as any in-context justification is impossible. The only justifications would also be external, and they in turn could not utilize any in-context justification. Indeed, the only way to justify this knowledge would be to render it in-context -- to directly demonstrate the inaccessible kettle. 

This analogy happens to have the bonus side-effect that, as most arguments so far have been based on the magnitudes of ontological contents rather than the magnitudes of ontological expanses, it now accommodates this concern by having built into it the altogether irrelevance of the magnitudes of ontological contents. So, to answer the original question, there's nothing to worry about. In comparing modern humans to dogs or to early humans with tight extremophilic analogies, ultimately no great filter to superintelligence or beyond is implied. 

something should presumably have to replace the question-mark against all logical possibility. And then even if something did replace it against all logical possibility, humans are at most right now merely demigods compared to dogs. Might this put a substantial hitch on some theoretical maximum of intelligence? Update 1 2014-10-17: While no one has pointed this out yet, during my discussions so far I realized that the frame of mind at around the time of generating this curiosity could readily concede to "The analogy breaks down if superintelligence (including up to hyperintelligence) necessarily must originate from at least as low as human-level intelligence." ... As a corollary, this doesn't bode well for traditional conceptions of God. Update 2 2014-10-17: Responder @ChrisSunami points out that a hunter-gatherer tribe 10 thousand years ago would not have a maximal ontology [in the relevant sense]. Since the main analogy broke down from Update 1, and in light of this hunter-gatherer point, a new analogy becomes forthcoming. 

By assuming the negation of the conclusion, you arrive at a proposition that contradicts a true premise. (We assume our premises are true when the validity, and not the soundness, of the argument is in question. If the soundness were in question then we would also want to know if the premises really are true, but the soundness is not in question right now.) If ~B leads to a contradiction, then it must be false. In classical logic, if ~B is false then B is true. What if we have all true premises and don't arrive at a contradiction by the same method? 

For what it's worth: there's actually some empirical research around the question of which sorts of aid and intervention actually provide long-term solutions versus prolonging indigence/poverty/etc. In particular some experimenters have tried giving homeless people moderately-sized amounts of cash (about $5,000 USD). The results compare very favorably to more ration-oriented charitable-org-style giving: 

You could consider this like a proof by contradiction. Assume there are multiple substances... If we can show in general that the idea of two substances must actually be inherently contradictory, we have proved the “unicity”, the unity or singularity of substance. 

I'm now thinking this may be part of some commentary on Bergson's remark that "a philosopher worthy of the name has never said more than a single thing: and even then it is something he has tried to say, rather than actually said". 

The notion that death gives meaning to life is less a well-defined theoretical position than a commonplace; it strikes me in this sense as similar to the notion that "hate and love are the closest emotions" at least insofar as it might be difficult to isolate specifically philosophical expressions of this notion, but nevertheless it is a very frequently-expressed opinion. Now, plenty of thinkers have discussed death: Montaigne famously quipped that "to study philosophy is to learn how to die"; Seneca wrote "the whole of life is nothing but a journey to death." Other philosophers like Nietzsche might suggest that it is certainly not death which gives life a meaning; rather life only has meaning if one has goals which inspire one to live. Some existentialists like Camus (and to some extent Kierkegaard) emphasize the absurdity of life -- i.e., that not even its end could imbue it with meaning. Other sorts of thinkers indicate that love, beauty or reason are necessary to provide existence with meaning. My sense then is that most philosophy will not simply assert that death is sufficient to endow existence with some meaning; rather we must (learn how to) provide meaning for our own lives. You might be interested in a recent article in the New York Times, "Philosophy as an Art of Dying", which explores the theme in the context of the history of philosophy. From there: 

A social construction manifests into multiple forms of construction. Social means pertaining to society; a society is multiple people that voluntarily bind each other to a contract or are believed to born into a social construct; this contract lays down multiple structures of living that unify the group. The structures built are: racial, ethnicity, gender, sexual orientation, religious. These structures are legal structures that appear to essentialize the human in these social groups to a rigid role; if one defies these laws that one must to adhere to to be a legal racial identity, or ethnic identity, then ostracism occurs; punitivity is seen as the correcting devise to keep one following the law of one's imposed identity. The construction aspect is a legal idea; it supposedly coheres individuals as one identity so nothing foreign can dismantle the group. It's as if individuals disappear, a mass just appears. Interestingly, social construction may be seen a product of biological determinism; the social identity is a fixed and innate identity one is born with; it's as if biology, chemistry, physics constructs these social groups; religion believes these identities are God given, morality believes these identity allow for mutual and fluid activity amongst each other without friction. This is the conservative position. Social construction is seen as a fluid, individual, purely as an experiential identity. It's as if these identities are not actually objective identifies from the 'real'; these identities stem from the ideal; the ideal changes due to experiences not biological mechanisms such as cells, hearts and lungs. This gives forth a plurality of interpretations of what one identity means not just having different identities. The individual is free to derive their identity from personal experience relative to others within group, but also relative to other social groups; intersectional identities can be formed where different social groups interact to form new experiences that enhance unity not break apart unity. Social construction is an extremely relative definition depending on whatever school of thought one adheres to. Objectivists will see sociy construction differently from the subjectivist, etc. Is social construction a social construction; depends on who you ask. It could be a synthesis of all perspectives.