The key to lifting injury free is to keep the intensity manageable and the form correct. The big 4 lifts: squat, bench, deadlift, and overhead press are excellent staples that give you a lot of benefit for the work you do. However, if you are starting out you may want to work up to them. The posterior chain is important, and one of the first things we lose when we sit in chairs all the time. I might start with this for a few weeks to build some base strength: 

If you know your 1RM, but not your 5 or 7 RM you can figure it out a good number to use pretty easily. The most common formula used for calculating 1RM I've seen is acceptable for use up to 10 reps: 

Greg Nuckols had a good article about making your novice training program more effective. There were two major tips: 

In an ideal world, you would be able to go to bed at a consistent time every night, and naturally get up on time in the morning. Unfortunately, life does have a way of not being ideal. If you have to keep odd hours because of work, try to minimize the damage. This is when you have to prioritize things. You won't always be able to do everything. Top priority for working individuals is to get work done. That means depending on how worn down you are, you may have to skip a training session to get sleep in--or you may have to adjust sleep to get your training in. This much is true, you can't compromise sleep for long stretches of time. Whether you keep a consistent bed time or a consistent wake time, if you aren't getting enough sleep you will be just as tired. It's a lose-lose situation. 

Don't forget the recovery walk. Deeper Caloric Deficit We are talking 2 lbs / week or more by diet alone. You simply won't have the energy to do high intensity work very well, and might not be able to get enough volume to have any training effect. Use this for when your body fat is over 20%. 

The cheapest way is to build muscle is to do bodyweight exercises. These include venerable techniques like: 

Also, I recommend doing deadlifts if you don't already. It is the ultimate posterior chain movement. 

Potatoes, like corn are a very starchy food. As a result it has a higher carbohydrate content than green vegetables and other foods that are known to be more healthy for you. According to Self Nutrition Data potatoes have a decent amount of vitamins, and the proteins it has (while not much) are complete. That said, the glycemic load is what you want to be careful of while losing weight, as well as for general health. The Self Nutrition Data site suggests that having a glycemic load above 100 for the day is unhealthy. Lowering that to about 90 would be even better. That guideline will give you plenty of energy, without overdoing it. Now, you are not the only picky eater I know. You may need to explore some options to open your pallet up, which will give you healthier foods and a bit more variety: 

There are many variations of pressing, and the specific recommendations for good form vary for each one as well as for your emphasis. However, there are some common guidelines that apply in each case: 

My sensei has always taught me that speed and power are in the technique. If you get the technique down, the rest will come. He also taught me that all my power comes from the core--or body. Both your punches and your kicks originate in your hips, and the rest of your muscles support it. That's how you can generate enough power to break a board only 3" away from your fist. With the way I've been taught, any time I increase my core strength, I'm increasing the speed and power with which I can deliver both a punch and a kick. Concentrate on your technique/form and the rest will follow. Speed comes from knowing the technique so well you don't even have to think about it. It just happens. When you've trained your body to react to a strike a certain way, you can block and counter it without active thought. It's that edge that makes you fast. And if your body knows what to do without thinking, the timing also comes more naturally. 

I will say that I have had more stress on my knees from martial arts training than I ever had from heavy squats. The book Starting Strength has some good information on why this is. The important and critical factor is getting the hips below the knees before changing directions. The depth causes certain things to happen that protect the knees: 

Understanding when to apply Valsalva If you are using machines which isolate your arms or legs so that there is no appreciable load on the spine, there is absolutely no reason you need to use the Valsalva maneuver. However, if you are using a machine or a barbell that does place load on your spine you need to protect your spine. 

Pushing each other is good, within reason. In order to properly answer your question, you have to consider a few factors: 

It may be worth splitting your 3-4 hours up into a couple sessions. Even when you have that amount of workload, you should have cycles of intensity, effort, and rest. For example, after a high intensity or a high effort session, you should probably do a lower effort session. With a better description of what you are doing, it might help in troubleshooting the programming. 

Simply do these exercises 3 times per week, alternating between them each time. Make sure you have a day of rest in between. Now, why sets of 5? Because you stated you are not looking to get big. Sets of five help work on strength in the range that a beginner should be focusing on. In reality, anything in the 4-6 rep range will work for your purposes. Your goal should be to start out at the lowest setting on the dumbbells, and keep increasing the weight every time you do one of the exercises. With the farmer's walks, you may need to start with a lower amount of time and slowly increase until you get to 10 minutes. When you get to the max that your dumbbells can afford you, you have a choice: go and buy more dumbbells, stay at the maximum and maintain (can get boring), find a pickup sport you can play. In addition to this, be sure to stretch after you exercise. A nice slow walk afterwards can also help you cool down and get blood through your sore muscles. This is just a simple program to get you started. The question then becomes, is this something that can keep you interested? 

There's a reason for all of this. Two things will happen when you are on an energy deficit, which is what you need to lose weight: 

If you are really stretching yourself and going for a personal max, I recommend doing your lift inside a power rack with safeties. As well meaning as random spotters are, I just can't trust them to be able to catch the bar before it hits my chest. If you set the safeties so that you can slide out under the bar without an arch, but the bar doesn't touch the safeties when you have an arch, that will be the best. 

Part of the problem is understanding what is causing you problems at the moment. A good primer is a couple articles by Greg Nuckols: 

As a resource you can go back to several times, I highly recommend "Practical Programming" by Kilgore and Rippetoe. The first half of the book covers exercise theory, general adaptation syndrome, energy systems, and balancing recovery and stress. The bottom line is that the holy grail of losing fat while building muscle mass is something that is really only achievable by beginners. However, it does require some expounding here to understand why. But here are some applicable observations: