While 'cultural elements' company- or country-wise to some degree determine the degree of fact-checking, the specifics of the role are probably more important. If the position sought is difficult and time-consuming to fill and candidates are known to occasionally 'get creative', at least basic fact-checking seems to be a good investment early on in the process. If, however, the job is more mundane, candidates plentiful and local employment laws employer-friendly as regards to replacing employees, it would seem rational to only fact-check if a problem arises. 

As a freelancer I list all experiences - including the ones that ended badly. I had considered not listing one of them because it was very short - but still listed it to avoid the awkwardness of a potential client inquiring about the short gap in employment, even though this is OK for a freelancer. In that situation, I would either need to come clean and admit the bad experience or downright lie and say I was between contracts. Being honest just seems a better option than both of those. The only scenario where I possibly would leave out an experience is if it was short (a couple of months max), ended badly AND was at a client so 'interesting' that future clients will inquire (e.g. Google). 

Depending on personality, having this sort of defeatist feeling could be turned into an advantage. If you truly feel there's no way you'll get the job - and it's not just nerves, you have very little to lose - and could therefore approach the interview differently than you normally would. You could be more relaxed or more assertive or more aggressive as regards to your expected salary package. View it as an experiment. 

If the roles are permanent, the Skype-interview is probably only the first of several - so you would probably be jumping the gun. If you do experience problems during the interview, you could bring up that you actually will be in Germany soon anyway. You do however run the risk of it being viewed as odd (and possibly desperate) behavior. 

You should go for it. Don't worry that your change of heart seems desperate. To the employer it may as well seem you were committed until the very end - and didn't jump ship at a time that surely would have been disastrous for the start-up. 

Assuming the contract doesn't spell out how you go about moving on, your approach could depend on whether you could afford - or perhaps even prefer - to be let go sooner than the end of June. Even when seemingly on good terms, telling a company you will be leaving might spark quite hostile reactions. In similar situations, I have not mentioned me leaving until I could infer that they were planning on me staying. If they begin mentioning you in an 'after Summer' context, you should probably spill the beans. 

Understandably, it may be a bit uncomfortable to seem to have that kind of knowledge, but: Assuming you have the correct understanding of what you overheard, you don't actually know whether the team manager will be fired, moved upwards or has already quit. In these situations, concentrate on the potential upside compared to the downside. It seems your upside might be an emotionally closer bond to someone you believe is leaving anyway. The downside is that you perhaps are missing an important context and now will be perceived as a snoop or gossiper. 

You could attempt to add them immediately after you left. That way, who ever wants to connect can do so - and whoever doesn't aren't socially pressured into doing so. 

A CV is for general information, whereas a cover letter is directed towards a specific target. Since your 'About me' section sounds very general, I would put it in the CV. A cover letter should elaborate on the parts of the CV the target would care about. 

People not being open during audits probably has more to do with the situation than your mode of communication. If pointing out weakness will have negative consequences for employees - such as managerial backlash - they will naturally tend to avoid making any waves. Not until the auditing unit mitigates these concerns, e.g. by guaranteeing actual anonymity, will those dynamics change. 

Personally, I would tell them the next time I talk to them - preferably before the interview. If you have a contact at the company, you could notify them that you have evidence that their website has bee hacked. Waiting until the interview could be viewed as you displaying a lack of urgency. 

Perhaps they want to see whether you are willing to provide any. Having zero references after even a short career could be considered a 'red flag'. References usually use quite vague terms, but sometimes they are very concrete - mentioning specific projects, technologies and the exact contributions made by the subject. Afterwards, they can compare your own presentation with that of the reference and discover whether they are reasonably aligned or not. Perhaps the reference will mention aspects that may be discussed at a second interview. At times (perhaps most often), references uncover nothing new - whereas they other times can be quite instrumental in landing the job. They should be seen as a complement to the interview and tests, not as a replacement. 

Whether an email is appropriate depends entirely on the company culture - in the same way as dress code (or lack thereof), language and general behavior. The only exception would be if you are a freelancer, where I as a client would expect an email related to your company and not a generic address at Gmail or Hotmail. Having said that, I would be amazed if a candidate was rejected on their generic non-offensive email address alone. 

Generally, the more upfront, honest and transparent you seem, the better. I always notify the recruiters whenever a situation could arise that potentially could reflect badly on me if/when they discover they have been wasting their time. On the other hand, by notifying them you risk that they concentrate on the job that makes more financial sense for them and not necessarily you. 

I work in pretty similar fashion in Denmark - and the clear expectation here is that you only go with one of them. I'm assuming the ones you prefer partnering with were not the first to approach you - so it's a bit tricky. Come clean - tell the least preferred partner that you're suspecting the client/project is similar to the one where you've already opened talks with another party. -- Edit: Added from comments -- In Denmark, it would be considered the sub-contractor's responsibility to avoid these 'CV collisions' at the client - because only the sub-contractor knows who they've been approached by. Allowing your CV to be sent more than once to an end-client might trigger a negative response. If the two companies doing the bidding have claimed that their proposed candidate(s) are employees, two identical CVs could make the client reject the person immediately. This is at least the argument made in Denmark for why one must avoid forwarding a CV through multiple channels. 

Even when outsourcing to the very best partners, someone at the company needs to verify that the deliveries live up to the required standard. In addition, when outsourcing - it often turns out that some aspects of the programming for a variety of reasons are best kept in-house. In a perfect world, this could end up with your company outsourcing the mundane parts, leaving you with the parts you finding particularly interesting. So, the question could be whether you are qualified for and would appreciate such a role. 

It's natural to view these things on a personal level - but managers have to view any promotion in context; what will other employees think of this promotion? If you're working at a place where seniority is valued, then formally promoting someone 10 years younger than the average could have pretty wide-reaching consequences. It seems you are paid adequately and are assigned relevant tasks. In that situation, I would personally not care about the title. If this really is a deal-breaker for you, since you seem to be a valued employee, you could try to strong-arm them into giving you what you want, but that might jeopardize what you already have. To me, the possible upside is not worth the potential downside. 

Are you sure your friend doesn't understand the professional environment? I agree that the behavior is non-standard and perhaps even risky employment-wise, but some people are risk-takers and therefore often more direct. Calling it 'perversion', seems a step too far. Being based in Denmark, I cannot evaluate what the actual risk of being terminated for sexual harassment is in your locale; whether it is a no-tolerance transgression or warnings precede more drastic measures. My guess would be that sexual harassment performed by females is dealt with more leniently than when the perpetrator is male. Your friend is an adult, so all you can do is carefully state your actual opinion - that she is treading a risky path. You cannot make her agree or conform to your standards. However, if your friend is given a warning, she might be more sympathetic to your view - but until then, she is doing as she sees fit. 

Since you have not gotten permission, you could choose to inform your employer that you will visit them privately - and see how they respond. It may be they have no objections and even appreciate that the expenses are all yours - as you seems to be hinting at. However, it may also turn out that your employer actually does not want any form of contact with them - for business reasons they need not disclose to you. Having said that, what you do when they are off work, is ultimately up to you. However, meeting privately - especially on their company premises - could have consequences, as it could be viewed as a form of insubordination. Your only safe option (apart from not meeting up at all) would be to keep the encounter entirely in the private sphere. 

As the OP describes it, it does not seem the program is getting its money's worth - and the manager seems to be attempting to pass on an unpleasant task. Since arguments based on what is good for the team (or the youth) seem to have fallen on deaf ears, perhaps the only option left is focusing personally on the manager. In other words, how can the manager be personally 'squeezed'. Is the manager/department/team under any kind of budget or pressure to meet certain goals? If so, the manager at some point in time will have to defend decisions made (or not made). I'm guessing team members are not easily replaced (as Rosie then presumably no longer would be there) - which might be the reason she is kept on. If you believe another approach to recruiting would yield more and better candidates, you could inform your manager. Perhaps the real problem is that the manager regards Rosie as an 'at-risk youth' - or at least a 'vulnerable person' and as such feels it is the team's duty to assist her as well. If so, fixing that situation will probably involve applying intense pressure by your colleague and yourself, thus forcing the manager to choose between keeping Rosie (and failing the youth) or cutting her loose.