I can attest that the bottle type eventually (actually, relatively soon) wears out. The sideways force on the top bearing causes it to wear quite rapidly. I once had unit that fit in the "kickstand mount" area behind the bottom bracket, and it had a wide wheel (the dynamo was inside the wheel) that bore square on the tread of the tire. That one lasted a long time (in dynamo years) -- probably in the neighborhood of 2000 miles operating (headlight back and forth to work). I've never found a decent replacement, so I went to battery units. 

The main hazard is that, with so much swapping, you will sooner or later cross-thread the cassette and ruin both cassette and hub. There will also be additional wear on the threaded surfaces and on the spline, where you wrench it on and off. The spline may eventually become too worn to allow removal. So a lot depends on the care you use -- if you get too casual in doing the swap you're apt to muck it up. 

The problem with target fixation is that the individual has no confidence that it won't happen again. It's like trying to not think of elephants. Talking to a shrink may be worthwhile. Any riding she does initially should be in a setting that is "target poor", and particularly "poor" of whatever sort of thing she fixated on in her crash. 

First thing to do is to get the bike completely tuned up -- wheels trued, bearings adjusted, shifters adjusted, brakes adjusted. Changing out the brake pads (the ones supplied are often too hard or too soft) can often improve braking effectiveness. Depending on the bike design, adjusting brake lever position may or may not be possible and may or may not improve riding comfort and brake effectiveness. And, of course, adjust the seat and handlebar. If the handlebar can't be adjusted upward enough or has the wrong "reach" (probably even more common with expensive bikes) then replacement parts are available to fix this. Good quality tires, appropriate to your riding style, are a fairly cheap investment. The right seat (which is something of a personal choice) can make a big difference in comfort. Your critical factors are comfort, stability, braking effectiveness, and ease of use (eg, shifters that work reliably, etc). Plus basic bike "fit" to your body. Many of the features of fancier bikes -- light weight, exotic materials, bladed spokes, et al -- are vastly overrated and will make little difference in your riding experience. 

One critical step that's often missed is thoroughly bedding the patch. After installing it (I prefer the glue to not be totally dry but with a few specks of "damp" yet) but before removing the plastic backing you take something like a smooth-ended tire iron and rub it slowly back and forth across the patch, pressing hard. This assures that the patch, tube, and glue have fused together. Then leave the plastic backing on, as it helps prevent the patch from sticking to the inside of the tire. 

It depends on the width of the rim, and how it's constructed. If the rim is over about 32mm (about 1.25", measured from inside to inside) then it probably has sufficient "meat" in the rim that drilling will not significantly weaken it. But of course it would be silly to do this simply because you have a Scharader tube -- tubes are cheap. 

In general, no -- not safe. Some tire/rim combos don't center up well and can produce a version of the above even when reasonably well seated, but generally the effect isn't as extreme as what I see in the picture. First inspect the tire for actual bulges, suggesting torn cord in the tire (which means the tire must be replaced). If you don't find those, let all the air out of the tire, wiggle it around until it's evenly centered, then re-inflate. If it looks OK after refilling, ride it around the block once and then recheck, and check again every 10-15 miles for the first 50. Sometimes, for tires that refuse to center well, it works to inflate the tire to about half pressure and ride it slowly a hundred feet or so, to make the tire seat itself. (Then fully inflate, of course.) It may be that you have the wrong size tire for the rim. 

Yeah, I suspect that nothing better than the spoon brake was ever put on those things because hard braking would send you head-over very quickly/easily. I recall about 30 years ago reading a story of an American cyclist who went cycling in China. When he rode with a Chinese cycling club they walked up and down all non-trivial hills. Walked up because the bikes were single speed, and walked down because their brakes were so crummy. OTOH, there was a guy in the Boston area back about 1890 who rode a century a day for a year. On a penny-farthing. I would imagine that eventually you learn some techniques. 

If you can find nuts with the correct thread (both diameter and thread pitch) but a smaller wrench size, you can replace the ones that are there. But note that the existing nuts probably have a built-in washer, and any replacement should have the built-in washer not too much smaller than what you have. In a pinch you can use regular washerless nuts and a separate loose washer, but that's not as reliable. It would be easier to find a new wrench. Almost certainly the rear is not an inch sized nut but a larger metric size, and a combo wrench can be found to fit both. (At least in the US, "bolt" refers to a threaded rod with a head on one end. "Nut" is the small piece with a threaded hole in it.) 

You could use a rack that attaches at the brake bolt. Of course, the rack would get some extra jouncing from the suspension. That appears to be a fairly small wheel, though, so you'd need a rack designed for small wheels (so the front rack strap to the brake bolt wouldn't be excessively long). Best bet is to find a shop that carries a variety of racks and try them on. (Of course, anything you find is apt to be less than ideal to support a child seat.) 

There is, unfortunately, a degree of "planned obsolescence" with bikes. For better or for worse (I haven't figured out which yet), bike technology (which used to move at glacial speed) now turns over every 5 years or so, and once you get about 3 generations back (ca 15 years) parts become much harder to find. In terms of condition, it somewhat depends on your skill level for making repairs -- a full cycle shop rehab will cost you several hundred dollars, making a "bargain" much less so. The ideal bike to find is a reasonably good quality one (that fits you!) that was ridden twice and then stored in a dry garage or basement for 10 years. You'll need new tires and some lube on the chain and cables, but otherwise you're in good shape. 

(I don't suggest measuring from the brake blocks to the rim because the brakes tend to wobble a bit when you remove/replace the wheel.) If any of the above measurements are off by more than about 1/8" or 3mm then something is wrong. (Perfectionists will argue for smaller tolerances, but I'm being practical.) If the distances don't change when you flip the tire then the fork is probably bent. If the distances do change then the wheel is not properly centered, and it probably needs to be "trued". However, do note that a possible reason for the off-center wheel is a wayward washer or nut on the axle. When you remove the quick-release "skewer" from the axle, the two ends should appear to be essentially identical. If there is a nut or washer one end that is not on the other end then that may be your problem. 

Well, it's hard to say from your description. Is the vibration in time with the turning of the wheels, or much more rapid? A vibration that's in time with the turning of the wheels may be a warped rim, a rim rubbing the brake pads, a tire that's not seated properly on the rim, etc. (The fact that this occurred after changing the tire suggests that last possibility.) A vibration that's much more rapid than the turning of the wheels is usually due to resonance in the frame. You'll usually see this more often when going downhill at high speed -- the front wheel will suddenly begin vibrating violently, such that you fear losing control of the bike. What's happening is that minor vibrations in the bike (or even just due to the road) found a resonance in the bike frame, and the vibration becomes self-reenforcing due to the way it causes the front wheel to twist. I'd suggest first turning the bike over or hanging it somehow so you can spin the wheels freely. Observe the wheels carefully, looking at the space between the rim and the brake pads. Look for any change of distance as the wheel turns. Some small amount (a millimeter or maybe two) is to be expected on a well-used bike, but any more is a problem. Also, if the rim touches the brake pads, that's a problem. Observe from the side and look to see whether the rim moves in and out (decreases or increases in diameter) in relation to the hub. There should be no detectible motion in this direction. Next look at the tire while the wheel is spinning. Look straight on so you can see both sides of the tire as it spins, and see if either side bulges out at any point. Then look from the side to see if at any point the tire seems to increase or decrease in diameter. Again, a one or two mm variation in these dimensions is probably OK, but no more. Also look at where the tire disappears behind the rim. There is generally a ridge in the tire a few mm from the rim, and it should maintain a fairly constant distance from the rim edge as the tire rotates. (Since your problem began after changing the tire, these tire checks are likely to reveal that the tire is not evenly installed on the rim.) While you have the wheels off the ground, grasp each wheel near the rim and push back and forth sideways, feeling for any play in the bearings. You should not feel any play. Finally, set the bike back on the ground, grip the front brakes to lock the front wheel (leaving the rear brakes free), and push the bike forwards and backwards. You should not be able to feel any play in the "headset" (the bearing where the fork turns).