It's traditional to construct a bed of evergreen tree boughs in survival situations (fir or cedar are the best kind), I've done it a number of times on private land, and deep in the wilderness on crown land, but it is far from the best solution and not very ethical if you're trying to leave no trace. On other occasions I've slept on a bed of moss, or else just on a soft patch of dry ground. For mountain biking, I sleep on an X-frame air mattress. I packs down to the size of a pop can, and is surprisingly comfortable, even for side sleeping. The size makes it easy to stuff it into the stuff sack with my sleeping bag, and the weight is pretty much negligible. It's somewhat warmer than sleeping on other mattresses as well, because you but it inside your sleeping bag, and the bag below you can loft in the gaps, better insulating you against the ground. 

A walking stick might help, but I think your best bet is going to be to sprawl out flat and dig your hands as deep into the sand as possible. Sand is not like ice. You can self arrest on ice because it's a medium that you can create friction on (scratching your pick into the ice), but sand isn't solid, it moves; flows. Getting caught in a sluff of sand would be a lot like getting caught in a stuff of snow, or an avalanche. Your only chance of not going down with it is to dig deep and try to find something to anchor onto. Your knife may work, but only if you have it out while you're walking, so it's in your hand the moment you slip. I wouldn't recommend this however, because there's a chance you could fall onto your blade. 

If you're planning on getting pretty serious into both activities I'd recommend getting a good trad harness (the big wall harness I show above is super overkill, better for aid climbing than most trad), and then buy a second harness for mountaineering (or just carry some webbing like Ben suggests). One big advantage to buying a light and simple alpine harness, is they're also a lot cheaper, so you can actually get one for cheaper than one of your cams. 

It's light, it packs up small in your bag, and they're pretty easy to come by, you can just order one from a climbing shop. All you'd need to do is loop it over the mooring cleat and drop the other end in the water. The economical version would be a piece of old rope with a loop in either end. Loop one end around the cleat, drop the other in the water, then just put your foot in the loop, tug on the rope, and step up to get into the boat. Or you could buy an actual rope ladder from a yacht supply store: 

No Well, it's probably not impossible depending on how wet, but I can pretty much guarantee you're going to spend more time striking your steel trying to get the wetter stuff lit than if you were to take the time to find or prepare dry tinder. You're wrong to assume that everything is wet. Everything may be wet on the outside, but most logs will be nice and dry in the centre if you cut them open. Cut a nice dry section from the inside of a log, and shave it really fine until you have a good sized nest to strike some sparks into. In desperation–supposing your head is dry–you can cut the hair from your head (stinks, but works) I've used my dog for tinder before, those soft fine hairs burn in a flash like a fuse, so make sure your kindling is close by because once they catch you're only going to have a split second before it burns out. 

S USB Travel Home Battery Charger For Sony ILCE-7 a7 ILCE-7R a7R Digital Camera You can shop for whatever solar panel suits your fancy, you simply need to order a USB charger so you can use whatever panel you get to charge your camera specific batteries. 

You'll notice that they don't just progress slowly from camp to camp up to the top, and they don't spend a lot of time up high, they take their time over a period of almost 2 months climbing higher and higher, but always retreating to lower elevations to recover. Before they make their summit attempt they actually leave the mountain and spend about a week at really low elevation regaining strength. Your level of health does not decrease your body's dependancy on oxygen, oxygen always has something to offer your body, it's necessary for every body function and is literally the most important substance your body consumes. If you think hydration is important, Oxygen is infinitely more valuable, just as your body will operate better while super hydrated, you'll perform infinitely better if your cells have more oxygen. The bottles will benefit an healthy person just as much as they will an unhealthy person, they give you more energy. Call it a fleeting boost if you will, but it's better than any boost energy drinks or electrolyte gels can offer. All the snacks and drinks you bring for energy on a hike aren't any good for you anyways unless you have a healthy amount of oxygen in your blood to extract the energy from them, this is exactly why people at high elevation experience a lack of appetite. More Oxygen = Better, always. 

Animals are the least of your concerns at that altitude. I spend a lot of time at that elevation just on the other side of the border from Montana in Canada. Your elevation is less of a factor for animal encounters than what the weather is. Go hiking in the heat of the day and you will not see another living thing out on those rocks, because every critter with fur is going to be hiding as deep into the cool dark woods as they can possibly get. As for presence, I've watched bears climb right up and over cols just to get to the other side, Grizzlies will dig up an entire mountainside munching on roots, and they'll climb up onto the scree to turn over big rocks looking for juicy moths that may be hiding for the day in their shade. Mountain sheep and mountain goats spend a lot of time up there eating lichens and mosses, but they're super timid. Animals live up there, but they won't be out in the open when the sun is beating down, they'll be out in the early morning, late evening, night, or whenever the slopes are in shade. As far as risks are concerned, you're at greater risk of falling over backwards while taking a selfie and cartwheeling back down the mountain than having a deadly encounter with an animal above the treeline.