By higher gears I assume you mean smaller cogs on the back, which are higher ratio gears. Usually your derailleur won't go there it's because of cable friction, although you could have a bent derailleur or derailleur tab. If you remove the cable from the derailleur it should drop down into these gears. If not it's probably due to a bent hanger or derailleur. If you can physically shift the derailleur to all the cogs with your hand on the derailleur then you should change the cable. I'm assuming that your gears used to all work and that you haven't messed with the limit screws. A good way to check your limit screws is with the cable detached from the derailleur and then push the derailleur with your hand as far inside as it can and let it drop as far as it will. This completely eliminates cable friction. With the cable attached to the rear derailleur I like to shift the derailleur into the smallest gear in the back and then grab the cable that goes to it as it runs down the downtube and pull it until the derailleur shifts to the biggest rear gear, this is the best way test for the L limit screw and it prestretches the cable, so won't have to adjust it as soon. I learned this from a Mavic neutral support mechanic. 

@STW has the right idea, but I think it's worth noting that to the extent possible, you're trying to hold your upper body still, and (especially when sprinting) you "wobble" the bike under you to maximize power. In other words, most of the "wobbling" involved is less of an accidental side effect than something they actually work at. Conversely, when you see somebody whose upper body is moving a lot, while the bike stays relatively upright, it's a pretty good sign that they're running out of energy. There are some other (also intentional) reasons as well. First, working your way through a tight peloton can be tough, especially close to the finish. Most of the riders are staying as close together as they can to get maximum drafting. Worse, unless they happen to be your team-mate, the people right next to you will often try to "squeeze" you to intimidate you enough to slow you down a tiny bit. Here you're literally "throwing your weight around" to make it harder for others to squeeze you in. Likewise, the "smoother" you ride, the easier it is for somebody to draft off of you. The more you're moving sideways, the harder it is for them to get/stay in your draft. Earlier in a race (like in a breakaway) you'll see people do relatively quick sideways movements of the bike to help drop people drafting off of them. In the final sprint, you usually can't afford to do that, but you're still doing the best you can to make drafting difficult, as long as you don't slow your self down (much) in the process. Finally, if you're riding smoothly, it's fairly easy for somebody to stay close beside you and stay in your draft almost until they're in front of you. By moving around as much as possible, you force them to pull farther to the side before they can pass safely, which means they lose your draft and have to do more of their own work to pass. 

Also a potential problem with having the brake levers too close to the bars is that cables stretch, calipers and levers flex, etc. So the amount of braking force that would give you say 2mm between the bar and lever when doing moderate braking on a flat road with no loading might have the lever touching the handlebar if you're doing emergency braking when a car pulls out in front of you while you're going down a steep hill with an extra 20 lbs in a messenger bag. Unfortunately, there's no hard and fast rule for how much clearance to have. There's a lot of variables, but I've always tried to have at least a fingerwidth (a centimeter or so) between the lever and bar. I certainly wouldn't want to go under 5mm. As @altomnr wrote you have to stay on top of adjusting the brakes to compensate for pad wear when you run the brake adjusters on the loose side. 

I worked in a bike shop around 1990 assembling new bikes. Adjusting the hubs was one of the steps we did. They were typically too tight from the factory. I never heard of missing balls, but I didn't look inside the hubs. It sounds like someone didn't do their job at the original shop and at wherever the hubs were made. We sold a lot of Giants, they were pretty new in the country then. We would always peel off the little Made in Taiwan sticker off the headtube. 

I have a 46cm gravel bike with 170mm crank arms (it's a Surly Cross Check, it's approximately equivalent to a 50cm road bike ). Although it isn't a MTB, it's still a 29er (700c = 29er with narrower tires). Indeed, toe overlaps are issues for me, although they are more like annoyance. Toe overlaps mostly happen when I stop at a red light, or sudden strong braking (almost completely stop) with a sharp turn. However, when I ride the bike in trails with twisty turns, at a reasonable speed, toe overlaps have never occurred. I think toe overlaps don't affect the riding performance. At first, it's quite annoying but it's not the end of the world. After a while, I'm used to it and I don't plan to modify my bike. edit: Recently I've been trying a lot of things on my bike, here's what I can tell from my experience: 

You are asking about converting inner tubes to tubeless. As far as I know, tubeless system isn't 100% puncture proof, if you get a nail on the road, it's impossible to fix right away and you need to call a taxi. For me, inner tubes are still the best options for bike commuting. I can think of several ways: 

Yes, aluminium rims help wet braking performance a lot compared to chrome plated steel rims. You still usually need roughly one rotation of the wheel for the brake block to wipe off most of the water film before you get really good braking, but there's still almost no comparison to steel rims. One thing to keep in mind though: if you do a lot of riding in wet weather, the brakes can wear out aluminium rims fairly quickly. When the rims are wet, a lot of road grime tends to stick to them, and when the brakes clamp on that, it grinds down the surface of the rim relatively quickly. We're not talking about a ride or two (or anything like that) here, I've seen people who commute all the time wear out a set of rims in a couple of years or so (whereas I've rarely seen a fair-weather rider wear rims out at all -- they usually last until they either get bent in some kind of accident, or the rider gets the itch for something newer and/or lighter). 

I've known something like this: $URL$ but I don't know this will work for casual bikes. I also agree with @reiheit, internal geared hub is much more nicer idea. An example of this is bike rental system in Taipei ($URL$ I've been in Taipei for a while, and these bikes were awesome. They had 5 speeds (If my memory is correct.). Moreover, Internally geared hub is less prone to failures, and I think the bikes require less maintenance. 

according to the pdf document, the crankset is compatible with truvativ LE square taper BB which has JIS interface. The UN55 also have JIS. So the crankarms and the BB should be compatible, right? When I built the bike in April, I was noob so I put too much grease on the spindle. I think this was the reason why the crankarms fell off easily. That's why I didn't grease the spindle yesterday. 

Technically, it's highly possible, since you can export your routes to .gpx files and manipulate the timestamps. A .gpx file is actually an xml file which is similar to html files with tags. Each tag tells you the current longitude, latitude, and the current time stamp. You actually can edit the .gpx file with a text editor, i.e. notepad and edit the file by yourself. However, you need to know the exact long-lat where you want to "pause". 

At least in my experience, Risse Racing shocks require relatively minimal maintenance. A quick glance shows that their Jupiter 5 (and 5R) are definitely available in/around the length you've asked about (though I should add that those are both coil shocks, and my own experience has all been with their air shocks). They don't list lengths for the air shocks, but do claim that the Genesis (for one) fits most FS frames. I can speak about this one from experience -- I've been riding a Santa Cruz Tazmon with a Genesis damper for a long time now (mine is a pre-production frame with no serial number that I got before the Tazmon officially started production in 1993, and it's had the same shock on it ever since, and required only extremely minimal maintenance). Most rear shocks are mounted pretty similarly -- though the Tazmon is one that actually does have a rather unusual mounting system. 

First a disclaimer: most of what I know about carbon fiber fabrication comes from aircraft, not bicycles. Also note that carbon fiber is not the only composite that gets used -- just for one alternative, Kevlar fibers can be useful as well (Kevlar is stronger, but also more flexible than carbon). Carbon fiber is strong, but does not respond well to point stresses. This is largely because it's basically cloth (woven out of carbon fibers). If you put a lot of stress at a single point, you're putting that stress on only a few of those carbon fibers. While the fibers themselves are extremely strong (for their weight), the bonding holding the individual fibers together is much weaker. For comparison, think of the packing tape that has fiberglass fibers running along its length. The fiberglass itself is really strong, but the strip of plastic and "goo" holding them together is a lot weaker. Although the details differ, the same general idea applies to carbon fiber as well. The exact strength depends on direction as well. As I said above, carbon fiber starts out as a basically threads that are woven into cloth. The cloth is then impregnated with some sort of epoxy (the exact epoxy used varies with the application), laid up in a mold, vacuum bagged1, then baked to harden the epoxy. You can get the cloth in various different weaves, some with the same amount of carbon fiber running in each direction, other with (say) 80% of the carbon fiber in one direction, and only 20% in the other direction. At a guess, most of the CF used in a bike frame is probably somewhere closer to the latter variety, with most of the threads running along the length of a tube, and considerably less running around the circumference of the tube. As long as we're at it: carbon is also about twice as strong with respect to being stretched as being compressed. You'll typically have around twice as many plies where it's primarily subjected to a compressive load. 1 Vacuum bagging means a big plastic bag is placed around the mold and laid-up cloth, and the air sucked out. Air pressure on the outside holds the layers of cloth tight together to (try to) ensure that when they're baked, they act as a single layer, not separate layers. This has little effect on the strength when subjected to stretching, but a huge effect when subjected to compression or bending. 

Purchase a bike pump with psi gause, so you can know precisely how much pressure the tubes have. Checking the pressure by hand isn't always the best method since I found it is hard to distinguish 30psi or 60psi on my tires. Get wider tires, for example go with 700x28mm or 700x32mm since wider tires can handle rough condition better. Some tires have kevlar protection, you can use those, but I doubt you need to purchase new tires 

The only bad thing about the app builder is the app itself is sluggish over time (something wrong with my browser?), but it's no a big deal, since you can always save a route and refresh the page. Also, If I plan a long route, I've found strava heatmap is pretty useful , although popular routes don't always have the least elevation: $URL$ 

Drop bars are possible, but you need to measure the effective top tube of your frame and the "reach" of a new drop bar you want to purchase. You didn't tell what hybrid bike you have but I assume the effective top tube on your bike is longer than ones on road bikes. Another consideration is that drop bars have additional reach forward (70-80mm). There's high a possibility that you'll need a shorter stem (< 100 mm), however, the handling might be funny (Although I've never tried this). Additionally, I assume you want to be faster. have you considered to purchase slicker/narrower tires? This solution might be less hassle and way cheaper. Being in aero position is nice but tire selection is much bigger factor to get faster, IMO. 

Most 700c rims will work with essentially any size of tire. Yes, smaller tires generally reduce rolling resistance a little, but unless you're road racing, it's rarely worth going below about 700x23c, IMO. Also note that just being smaller doesn't necessarily mean lower rolling resistance -- one brand of 700x19c might have higher rolling resistance than another brand of 700x20c, for example. The big change (if any) happens when you switch to slick tires (and most 700x32c tires have fairly substantial tread if not outright knobs). 

Just a couple of notes: first of all, what you're thinking are missing teeth may well be intentional as well. Even on a brand-new chain-ring, some of the teeth are shortened (some of them a lot) to give the chain a spot to shift on to the next ring easily. That being the case, the real problem may be just the bent tooth. It's at least worth trying just straightening the tooth that's bent as well as you can, and see if that doesn't fix the problem.