Puerto Rico would declare its long overdue independence. It might not join the DSA. It would have historically strong ties to the Federated States of Greater New England where many Puerto Ricans live, and would fear military aggression from the SAC. It might seek stronger diplomatic ties with Mexico and other countries in Latin America and might join a Latin American equivalent to the DSA that might emerge in the face of less predictable neighbors in Anglo North America. Alaska annexed to Canada. This would probably be a poor fit culturally and leave succession rumblings sounding on and off. Alaskans are cold weather cowboys and not a "civilized" as Canadians. Canada wouldn't be part of the DSA. But, given the great distances involved and the small number of people involved, there might be enough elbow room to prevent conflicts from bubbling over. Alaska might be broken into several parts - a Northern and Bering Strait Alaskan territory, a coastal greater Juneau province, and a greater Anchorage province, perhaps, to more manageably integrate it into Canada since it might be hard to digest whole. The U.S. Virgin Islands would merge with the British Virgin Islands and would absorb other Caribbean U.S. possessions (except Guantanamo Bay which Cuba would reclaim) making it part of the U.K. It wouldn't be part of the DSA and few people would notice the difference. With the U.K. Navy defending it, it wouldn't have to worry about military and international affairs. 

Alternately, or in addition, the settlers could set up giant mirrors to bring some of Proxima's solar radiation to the dark side to heat it up, while erecting some sort of solar filter on the bright side to reduce the heat levels on the hot side while simultaneously generating electricity to power the fans and the community on the surface. Also, because an atmosphere automatically equalizes temperatures to a significant extent, it isn't terribly important for the mirror part of the terraforming project to be terribly accurately aimed or focused at any particular place. Your Environmental Impact Statement 

Consider a society where the population includes a number of sentient androids, practically indistinguishable from humans in appearance. In practice, they are treated exactly like humans under most circumstances, with the exception that they are not legally considered as persons. One might not know whether someone is an android until they ask (which might be considered impolite), they cut them open (which is also impolite), or circumstances arise where they are requested to produce identity documents (which an android will not be able to do.) Ideally, it should be possible for a human citizen to, say, have a friend who takes public transport to an office job in the cubicle next to them, and goes back home somewhere after work, but not know or care in particular whether this friend is a human or an android. Inconveniences immediately arise: particularly obvious would be the problem that androids are legally not entities that may enter legal contracts*. In a generally well-meaning community, some sort of de facto standard or convention might suffice to keep things working as normal some of the time. For instance, an android may appear to have a job and be paid a salary for it, despite there existing no legally binding agreement referencing this employment, and being technically unprotected/unconstrained by the workplace regulations intended for humans. Everyone is happy so long as everyone plays along. However, in the case where a contract is breached, it cannot be enforced. It might not be illegal to evict a rent-paying android without reason, because they are not technically a tenant. This would be unfair for the android, but is something from which the law would often protect a person. This question concerns the means with which a society might protect androids from abuse of a similar sort. What mechanisms might be developed by a society such that androids reliably enjoy as many as possible of the privileges humans do, despite not being acknowledged by the law as such? Perhaps, for instance, somehow making the aforementioned conventions enforceable, employing some social/market gymnastics such that violation of the would-be rights of an android always carries great enough cost to discourage exploitation? Alternatively, are there existing laws that may be appropriated/interpreted to this effect? Clarification edit: This worldbuild concerns a society in which androids are typically regarded as equals, and de facto share many/all of the rights of their human peers. However, as many comments and answers have pointed out, without (or even with) enforcement by written law, this tends to be an unstable condition in that it requires all of the members of the community to practice respect and kindness to maintain, but might be disrupted by just a few who seek to do so. The solution sought by this question are methods a society which has largely collectively agreed to protect androids as humans might adopt to discourage such disruptions. * Forgive that I am extremely ignorant of the relevant topics. Should it be evident from the statements and examples given that I'm getting all this terribly wrong, please do inform me so that corrections may be made. 

Taxes are not the answer at a first order level, although tax policy can be harnessed to influence more important first order influences on fertility. The biggest drivers of total fertility rates and age of child bearing are the risk of losing a child and the risk of dying before you can have more children. People systemically overestimate both of these risks and over respond by increasing their fertility and age of reproduction than they would if these risks were not present. For example, gang members in places where gang membership is deadly have children early and often, leading to high total fertility rates even though their children are almost certain to grow up in poverty. The same is true of countries with extreme levels of infant mortality and privation like Afghanistan and the poorest countries in sub-Saharan Africa. So, the first order response ought to be to require or otherwise encourage the affluent and their children to serve on the front lines of all military conflicts and in other dangerous jobs so as to maximize the risk of losing a child or dying early. While poverty due to having to support more children does discourage child bearing and tax policy can make a minor tweak to this, it is by far a second order effect. Still, perhaps there is a way to achieve the goal of higher risk with tax policy. This would be to enact huge tax breaks (perhaps total tax exemptions) for military veterans who earn military valor awards, and for members of other high risk civilian professions (e.g. CDC hot zone responders) who are similarly recognized. Since these tax breaks are much more useful to the affluent or for people who expect to be affluent, than they are for the average person, these tax incentives might disproportionately lure affluent people into these high risk posts, and these high levels of risk, in turn, might do their magic of enhancing total fertility rates among the affluent people who take these risks. 

Why would we want to join their empire? We just met them. We don't know anything about them. We only know that they are technological advanced. We don't know if their morals/ethics are compatible with us. We don't know if they would even want us to join their empire, even if we were as far developed as they are. There is multiple ways this can go. They might be conquerors and simply might want to take our resources. Look at Independence day. Not necessarily the most interesting story to tell. Lets say they aren't outright hostile. But they aren't a charity, either. So make them interested in information. They probably want to study us, want to learn about us and the creatures living on our planet. After some negotiations, it is decided that they create an embassy on Earth, and that we keep an open communication channel with them. They send some scientists as well to study Earth. We will want to do the same with them. Maybe they won't hand us their technology, but information about their social structures, their home planet, their political landscape etc. are all very valuable. This process will also yield information about what we have and they want and vice-versa. The first thing that happens is trade. Art in particular. Life will have developed differently on different planets, so there will be plants, tress etc. They don't know about. Those can be used as material in art they might be interested in. Music and instruments are another thing we might have to offer that they might want to import. So at first, the relationship will be based on information interchange, then more and more trade. While art and entertainment always work, you could always make some resources restricted for them. They might live on a quite barren planet and consider large bodies of water to be quite are. Earth could become a place of interest for tourism for them. At that point we'd have a pretty good relationship with them. We interchange information and we trade. So we revisit the question I posed earlier: Why would we want to join their empire? On earth, nations trade and exchange information. Yet they rarely want to merge. Maybe trading could be made easier if we were part of their empire. This isn't a problem we could negotiate a free trading agreement with them (think TTIP). As long as there isn't an outside force / a threat, there would be no reason for us to want to join them in the first place. And even if there was another civilization that indeed was hostile, we still wouldn't necessarily want to join them. They could agree to protect us if they think relations are good, and might even try to ally with us (think NATO), because they might be interested in their enemy conquering a nearby star-system and would like the heads-up and warning. So much like NATO has less powerful members as buffer-zones, we could be a buffer zone for them and be under their protection. In order for us to want to join their empire, there has to be a sense of common shared identity. Which needs to evolve over time, possibly generations. Nations on Earth form because of a long history and a common shared identity, the sense of "belonging together". This sense isn't just there. So the question isn#t really what we can offer them in forms of trade/tech/knowledge, but the question is what can we experience together with them / what events might transpire to form a bond of trust, understanding and to create a shared identity so that we and them would want to merge into one empire. Its an interesting thing to explore. 

Human fear responses are significantly hard wired and evolution changes human hard wiring much, much more slowly than cultural evolution and the human influence on our environment during the Anthropocene era has changed the demands placed on human beings who need to respond to threats. Our innate fear response is strongly tuned to respond to the kind of threats that we perceive in horror movies and action movies - spiders, snakes, wild animal predators (e.g. leopard spots, glowing eyes), falling from trees and cliffs, fire, gross situations that expose us to parasites and germs (festering wounds, rotting meat, dead bodies, and feces), pointy objects, etc. A few of these threats remain salient, but most do not. Yet, we lack innate fears of other stimuli that are very dangerous and much more common these days (motor vehicles, firearms, poisonous gases, dark blue liquids). We could almost entirely lose our fear response to spiders, snakes and wild animals, for example, and probably improve rather than reduce our selective fitness. Furthermore, many natural fear responses (e.g. fighting, screaming, shows of aggression) can be particularly counterproductive vis-a-vis many modern threats (e.g. armed gunmen) that are more salient to our survival in the modern world. While one kind of threat where natural fear leads us astray is the kind of threat that we intellectually know isn't a threat when our senses tell us that it is (which Cort Ammon had some good suggestions for addressing), in my view, the entire natural fear system in humans is not "almost" perfect. Instead, it is wildly out of calibration and needs a dramatic retuning, so that we aren't using ill adapted hunter-gatherer and primitive farmer instincts to respond to modern threats. There are now far more threats where our improved knowledge and the inherent complexity of the threat makes panic, which was a good standby response to lots of threats in a more primitive world, a self-destructive response most of the time today. If we could generally retune someone with genetic modification to increase the threshold needed to trigger a panic and to reduce the number of stimuli which can trigger that kind of reaction, this would usually increase the survival chances of the person in question. On the other hand, a significantly larger share of threats faced in the modern world are more successfully avoided with early stage aversion than with any kind of response once you are in the thick of it (e.g. social situations that are starting to turn into points of conflict where you might get caught in the cross-fire, or crowds hyped up to go drag racing, or groups of drunk people). So a bit of a boost to our anxiety and unease circuits across the board might give us better instincts in response to slowly escalating threats. Another even more subtle issue is "over learning" of learned fear responses, in which people encounter a dangerous situation and develop a disproportionate fear response that limits their flexibility and their capacity to properly calibrate the threat to the response. A classic case was the rapid abandonment of airship technology due to the Hindenburg disaster, even though the design flaws that led to that disaster could have been relatively easily fixed without abandoning that whole technological path for three generations. Unfortunately, while there is considerable room for human directed genetic engineering to develop a more functional set of fear responses in humans, there would inevitably be a fair amount of trial and error involved. If you aren't careful, you delete a cue that is also incorporated unconsciously into user interfaced with modern technologies calibrated to standard issue humans, or eliminate the ability for someone to panic when alerting others to an emergency is the right move for the group even though it may be the wrong move for the individual. And, the failure that lead up to that point could be very ugly. One of the particularly challenging issues faced in modernity that was not something that we had a need to evolve a way to deal with until the last few hundred years was a way to distinguish what kinds of fears are appropriate when we are acting at an individual personal survival level, and what kinds of fears are appropriate to let influence our decision making when we are acting to make policy in our capacity as voters in democratic communities. Visceral fears that can lead to life preserving decisions in our day to day lives are easily magnified to inappropriate levels at the macro-political decision making scale as we make political decisions, because the media makes it possible to experience extreme fear inducing threats at far greater frequencies than are appropriate for the reality because non-fear inducing input that our fear management systems were designed to use to buffer fear inducing input can't do their job. Fear in our social decision making circuits has not kept up with the hyper-social nature of the modern world in ways that are potentially existential threats, and we need to find some way to almost totally disengage social decision making from our personal fear circuits. Populism is troubling as a political movement in humans as they exist today, for precisely this reason. I am also not very sanguine about a4androids conclusion in another answer that training is sufficient. Training can help, but it would be better if large classes of circumstances where people have bad instincts could be fixed in the hardware instead of requiring costly and time consuming effort to overcome. 

Consider a space opera sort of universe in which there exist communities of water-dwelling humanoids. These ocean people are derived from rootstock humans, descendants of genetically engineered human-variants who pioneered the colonisation of water worlds, or of Earth’s oceans. They may live their entire lives without setting foot on land or contacting the open air above the surface. We set aside the technical complications of actually performing the handwavery of genetic engineering for the moment. This question concerns how it still appears rather difficult to justify the existence of the ocean people: in most cases, it tends to seem much easier to first construct closed environments, fill those with air, put usual humans in them and work from there. What good reasons might there be for undertaking a project that would result in engineered humans adopted for survival underwater? Potentially relevant constraint: despite the setting being futuristic in tone, introducing alternative history (perhaps some events that end up causing biotechnology to have developed comparatively faster, or cultural developments that change the way people evaluate different strategies of space colonisation?) is also an open option. Neither does the original goal of the project have to specifically be space colonisation; this question only asks for some combination of circumstances to exist at some point such that building a race of merfolk would be something that would reasonably be done. 

What other obstacles must be overcome to have widespread use of artificial gravity be practically favourable? What other important things am I overlooking? Some more things I’ve considered: 

The idea is to remove the problem of adapting to weightlessness, simply by having every tin can in space that has people in it move in a way such that gravity is experienced nearly all of the time. This question is about the tradeoff between the cost of propulsion (propellant, and the maintenance of engines that are kept on 24/7) and the convenience, and other benefits, of having gravity. Because burning expensive chemical fuel just so things don’t float away some of the time is extravagant to an appalling degree (and simply isn't sustainable anyway), we might suppose fusion (or some other method of getting a lot of cheap energy from very little mass) is available. 

The real problem with a plant triggering sexual arousal is that even if the plant does successfully achieve this perfectly, in some way or another, leveraging that cue into an attempt to have sex with the plant that in turn causes the plant to be able to eat you is an entirely different matter. Sexual arousal merely makes someone highly receptive to other perhaps otherwise substandard cues that there is an opportunity to have sex (the technical term is beer goggles). Someone really aroused and far gone might even try to copulate with a dog or a cow or a goat. But, even extremely sexually aroused drunk people do not generally try to copulate with plants. A plant that did this might cause animals in its vicinity to have inter-species and other varieties of sex that they might not otherwise engage in, like certain plants in the Xanth novels of Piers Anthony, but would probably not lead to someone trying to have sex with the plant itself. Changing the cues in other senses that cause a person's brain to identify a potential sexual partner to the extent that they would be attracted to a plant when they were sexually aroused would be far, far harder (maybe virtually impossible) than merely causing someone to be sexually aroused in general. A more plausible strategy for a plant that could tap into the biochemical pathway that leads to sexual arousal would be to have a chemical trigger that has that effect when ingested, causing people to eat the plant to get the effect and in the process to spread the seeds and encourage humans to cultivate them.