Give this a shot since you state brings up a NULL value, despite restarting the server. 1. Run the below with the local as the second argument. . . TSQL 

Additional Resources (These articles seem to have some references to potential parameters in SSIS package areas to set for smaller transactions, etc. The titles or the steps may be for a different ultimate goal, but there is potentially applicable content in these for what you may need to change in your SSIS logic to rectify your issue so these may be worth a simple read.) 

A few more suggestions—adding as an answer to accept more characters so I can include more. . . BE SURE TO RUN EVERYTHING AS ADMINISTRATOR 

Have you tested or would it be possible to drop indexes on the destination DB table(s) where you are inserting into, insert those into smaller batched chunks (optimal as indicated above), and then rebuild the indexes on the destination table(s) once all inserts are complete? May be something easy enough to test to confirm. 

Do a FULL backup of the primary DB (now or whenever), copy that backup file over to the secondary server, then restore that to the secondary DB in standby mode. Afterwards, see if your LS jobs run successfully on secondary once you get enough fresh logs to apply to it. 

I have to agree with Max's comments about running the stuff that would normally run when the issue occurs as a simple step to confirm whether or not those items/processes are causing the issue -- process of elimination should be simple enough. Since you pretty much have the day and timing down to a science when the issue occurs, you could schedule a SQL profiler trace to run via a SQL agent job and give it a stop time (@stoptime) to stop the trace to see what details the trace will provide. Since you asked about where else you could start to troubleshoot, I think a SQL profiler trace would give you a lot of detail to go by actually. I'll paste what I have on this when I did it on SQL Server 2008 R2 below. SETUP DETAILS Follow the below instructions for scheduling a trace with a specific start time and a specific end time. You'll go to 'SQL Server Profiler' and build your trace criteria as usual but be sure to save to a file somewhere valid on the server itself, check the 'enable file rollover' option, and specify a trace stop time. Once all the criteria is selected and filtered for what you need to capture, run it, stop it, and then navigate. . . FILE | EXPORT | SCRIPT TRACE DEFINITION | 'select' the SQL Server 2005 - 2008 R2 | and then save the file somewhere you can open later. Go to the file, open it and you should get something similar to the below. KEY POINTS 

Can you point the 'full path' to the UNC path i.e. instead and see if that works? Just like when you map the "X" drive to just use that in the full path of one of your packages and run to see if it'll work. If one of your jobs work like that (assuming most all are setup the same and this way, etc), you can probably script out the SQL Agent jobs through SSMS by pressing F7 (once SQL Agent jobs is highlighted), selecting them all from the right pane window, right click, then create to new query window, then do a mass CTRL+H and do a find and replace to replace with , and then run that. Just be sure the SSIS proxy account or the SQL Server Agent account has appropriate NTFS and SHARE permissions where the SSIS packages reside to read them. 

When you know the names of the tables and fields then you are able to craft attacks on their database. The famous 'SQL injection' becomes easier when you know how the data is stored. At the same time you see what information they store. Like they say: Data is one of the biggest assets of a company. 

The solution is a 'normal' solution to generate a unique key. It is used when the database has no sequence or auto-increment option. You can also use it to become database independent. 

The length of the key would be big. The data would be stored in the Person table too. Streets can sometimes be renamed or renumbered. 

That might be the reason. The optimizers are cost based and decide what path to choose based on the 'cost' that each execution path has. The 'biggest' cost is getting the data from disk to memory. If the optimizer calculates that it takes more time to read both the index and data then it might decide to skip the index. The bigger the rows are the more disk blocks they take. 

Do not think that there is a script for this. It needs to be decided/defined before the data is entered. Otherwise it might block your application from functioning. Normally a table needs 1 field to be unique. Only if you create a table to link 2 different tables (for an N-to-M) relation then you need both the M and the N key to make it unique. There are exceptions but it is up to the designer to decide what field(s) make up the unique key. The data can grow and so can the uniqueness. 

Also be careful. Your can hold bigger values than 99.99. These values will give ###### as a result and also the value will be rounded on 2 decimals by the command. 

The parameter is used by the Oracle network layer to do character translation between the client and the database. This way the client can display all the characters in the database in a 'correct' way. Your should match the character-set of your database when you do an export. If you export a UTF-8 database in US7ASCII then you risk to loose information when you import this data back into a database. Why? The UTF-8 character-set can hold much more different characters then US7ASCII. The 'unknown' characters are replaced by a single character. In the past I have seen this happening that we lost all characters with accents. They were replaced by a '?' if I remember well. If you import then you must be sure that the is set to the value of your import file. Oracle will then do the mapping to the character-set of the database in which you import. 

If your is immutable then it can serve as primary key. Only if it was to hold long values then you could consider to create a separate primary key field to save space in the tables that have a foreign key constraint with this table. 

Consider taking a look at sys.dm_exec_query_memory_grants and sys.dm_os_sys_memory to get your started on your troubleshooting journey. 

Consider testing with the parameter too and see what results you get with your logic. This may work for your need as well. 

Condsiderations for security options in SQL Server (Two things to mention for typical simple configurations) 

Issues when Loading Data with MySQL LOAD DATA INFILE You appear to have a few issues going on here and to resolve you can make a few adjustments to get your data to load without error. I've source referenced and quoted the items in more detail below so you can read up on each for a more thorough explanation. In short though essentially you can: 

You can do this by using sp_delete_job and dynamically creating applicable syntax and controlled logic to execute this for the dynamically created job name when date wise it needs to be deleted. Since you are building the dynamic SQL Agent jobs and creating them with a start date and end date, you'd just put additional logic in to execute sp_delete_job if the date is equal to day eight at the end of the job . You could put the additional logic in at the beginning of the job to execute sp_delete_job if the date is equal to day nine or the day after the eighth day . 

Use double backslashes [] in the folder path to separate folders rather than just one to escape the first backslash since by default a single backslash is used as a special escape character and ignored when used alone 

The above TSQL will grant explicit VIEW DEFINITION access to the specific DB object and to the specific security principal as specified in the applicable TSQL logic 

Additionally, not having DBO role permissions may mean. . . (Since you have so many different versions of SQL Server from 2005 - 2014, it may be best to have a small set of users test this initially to see who screams to iron out any kinks, etc.) 

Ensure you're on the 'publication' DB so and then execute the SP. Otherwise, try various combinations such as the below for the variable you're passing to the SP as an argument to the SP in case it's related to it not liking the preceding which indicates that the subsequent string is in Unicode, thereby passing an , or value, as opposed to , or . 

Noting that the. . . 1. will allow access to all tables 2. will allow , , and access to all tables 3. will allow access to all executable objects 

A Limit to the number of MySQL Databases a User Account can Create At the MySQL level as per the Limits on Number of Databases and Tables there is no limit on the number of databases MySQL can contain at this level. If you give a user account the global CREATE permission to create new databases, then you give them just that and you cannot restrict the number of databases it can create at this level. Limiting the number of Database a MySQL User Account can Create To control the number of database you allow a user account to create you could just create the databases per an "approved" request and not grant them permission to CREATE databases themselves. You'd grant the user account Database Privileges at this level once created. Additionally, as some third party hosting services utilize, if you only allow access to manage MySQL instances and databases via an application, it is possible to have rules at this level keeping track of the number of databases an account creates, and enforcing rules to set such restrictions. 

I was hoping at this point I would be able to get the full grid of restore options containing the diffs and logs inside MSM but it still doesn't want to show up. The paths to the backup file are the exact same on the new server as they were on the server where they were created. It seems like the system should be able to take all the backup files and tell me which ones go together. Is that possible? 

I'm looking at restoring databases on SQL Server and I'm not understanding something related to the LSNs. Here is a screenshot from the Restore Database dialog in Management Studio for a sample database I created. 

I can't seem to recreate this on the remote box though. I figure that the other SQL Server probably doesn't have the metadata required to create this list since the backups didn't originate from that box. Is there anyway to restore that meta data as well? I tried restoring msdb but it doesn't seem to help. Here are the steps I'm taking: (1) Restore the master database on the new server. (2) Restore the msdb database on the new server. (3) Restore the full backup of the database on the new server with 

I have a SQL Server database that is running these scripts to create backups. It's running full backups once a week, daily differentials, and hourly logs. These are being FTPd to another box where I would like to be able to restore them for verification purposes. Right now I'm doing this simply hand picking the appropriate backups using the names of the files, which have the date/time encoded into them. That seems pretty hacky to me. On the main SQL Server box where the backups are being created, I can open SMS, right click on the database, and select 

You'll notice that there are two differential backups. If each differential backup contains the data for the transactions of all the previous differential backups, why would the FirstLSN of the second differential backup (22000000041800004) be higher than the FirstLSN of the first differential backup (22000000039800037)? If it covers the same transactions why wouldn't the LSNs overlap? If you look at Microsoft's documentation on this it states 

I have a SQL Server database that is creating full backups once a week, differential backups once a day, and transaction log backups hourly. These are being FTP'd to another box, where I would like an automated system (which I am writing) to pick them up and restore them into a working database. So basically every hour when a new transaction log file comes in, I want to find the appropriate full backup file, differential backup file, and other log txn files for that day use them to restore the database. The issues is that this machine will have several weeks of backup files on it so I need a way to group them together appropriately. What is the best way to do this? When you go into Management Studio and do a database restore, it gives you a listing off all the full, diffs, and logs grouped together so clearly it's storing this grouping data somewhere. I've seen the RESTORE HEADERONLY command, which seems to provide some information but I'm not 100% sure how to use it. It looks like you could make the CheckpointLSN of the full backup to the DatabaseBackupLSN of all the other files, but I'm not totally sure about that. My log files to have date/time stamps in the name but I would rather not rely on parsing file names to group everything together. This article does provide some insights but I would prefer some sanctioned documentation from Microsoft before I embark on a solution.