"Fair" really depends on your citizens and your world as a whole. If this occurred in today's world, there would be a drastic increase of murders...of your government officials. The whole idea seems needlessly elaborate and ethically flawed (though this may be your intent). Cost Incarceration is expensive. People already complain about having to pay for prisons in today's world. The cost of building and maintaining your half flooded artificial steel island would be immense. Depending how (if?) you're enforcing order on the island, you may also need air patrols. All of these items and more raise the question: does the public really think this is worth it? Which brings us to... Ethics There are several alternatives here. The first is that your people are so zealously opposed to murder that they are willing to exile their own countrymen to an unknown fate. Such things are not unknown in history, penal colonies come to mind. However in most cases they are performing some useful task for their country. In your story, those exiles are literally walking around a dystopian structure struggling for existence. I would imagine there would be those in your nation that would be opposed to this treatment. After all, isn't this a sort of murder in itself? If people are zealous enough to build this structure in the first place, surely there are those who think all violence is abhorrible. On the other side of the spectrum is a society where people just don't care what happens to these people.The more zealous government managed to ram through this project but the people in general are ambivalent. Some might even prefer a strict and immediate death penalty. At some point this is going to become a point of contention ("My tax dollars are paying for what?!?"), and those in favor of the island will be removed from power. 

Although possible from a technical standpoint, your idea runs into a few problems. An AI is tremendously complicated to create. Complicated enough that you would have to reuse much of the old candidate's code in order to have the next ready for the election. At that point, you're just updating the version of your candidate for the most recent issues. Can that really be considered a "different" AI? Perhaps that doesn't matter for your world, but it could bring up some interesting plot elements ("RedBot wins Senate race again!"). A related issue is that an AI of this capacity would also be expensive to develop and maintain. Expensive enough that only certain large organizations (let's call them "parties") would have the available funds to reliable field a new AI for each election. Other small entities (let's call them "independents") would occasionally have enough local support to get elected, but it would be a rarity. Another issue is maintenance. There are two alternatives to this. First, you can take the AI as-is at the time of election and not allow any updates during the term. 6 years (for a Senate term) is a long time for bugs to go unresolved. If your Senate is mistakenly routing billions of dollars into the Save-The-Nyancats fund, there is nothing you can do about it. The alternative is allowing updates during the term. However, the problem here is that you could essentially fix votes as if the party was actually in control. For example, the Senator-AI doesn't vote the way the party wanted, so it gets "fixed" as part of a "bug". This would be very difficult to keep track of, as the AI software is immense. Even after all that, your Senator-AI can still be manipulated . Your AI falls into one of two categories, weak or strong. A weak AI is more bound by its creator's parameters, while a strong AI can learn independently and for our purposes is sentient. So if your AI is weak, it could be essentially hard-wired to do whatever the party tells it to (ex: RedBots are programmed to reject all proposals from BlueBots). On the other hand, if the AI's are strong, then...maybe? However, if any part of your laws violate AI rights (killswitch, external bug fixing, etc.), they would immediately be thrown out the window as the AIs are sentient enough to know their rights. All hail the Singularity Party. As a last point, I think that open source politicians would be a terrible mistake. Imagine if a political party could have a private copy of the Senate that they feed bills until they find one that passes. This could be abused very easily. The average voter has little knowledge of programming, let alone complex AI. Those who could take the most advantage of the open source code would be the opposition looking for weaknesses. Now, it might be more beneficial to have a way for the public to interact with the AI (a "Talk to your Senator" app if you will), which would go a lot further in terms of public trust. Just look at today's campaigns. Most voters are interested in the general policies and overall character of the candidates rather than what minutiae of legislature they are willing to pass. 

Rampant piracy that benefits the nation Your coastal/island nation is host to innumerable pirates. These pirates prey primarily on trading vessels of another nearby nation. This other nation is strict about their trade with your nation, perhaps extremely high tariffs or trade limits. The pirates allows these products to enter your country without worrying about relations or tariffs. In return for the government's blind eye, the pirates mostly avoid trade vessels belonging to your nation and keep your neighboring "ally" in check. For a loose historical example, see the Wakō, raiders based out of Japan who raided the coast of China and Korea. 

The problem here is that you unintentionally assume that all citizens try to be morally upright, but just didn't know their crime was hurtful. Imagine a robber (let's call him Rob) running out of a bank he just held up. The Noviolenstan policeman saying, "Hey, you really shouldn't have done that. Think about all the people who have been saving money in that bank. You're disrupting their lives." isn't going to do anything. Rob doesn't care. He knew what he was doing, and whether out of desperation or just plain not giving a ****, he robbed the bank anyway. And there is nothing the Noviolenstan police can do about it. Rob can walk straight through their lines, and if they lay a finger on him, he falls down and sues them for police brutality. So essentially, morally corrupt people can get away with anything they want, all they need is a good pair of earplugs. Though only loosely tied to law enforcement, this scenario reminds me of the sacrosanctity of the Plebian Tribunes of the Roman Republic. The tribunes could more or less do anything they pleased, from vetoing any legislative action to arresting someone "threatening plebian rights". Any action against the tribunes was punishable by death. Though arguably successful in securing better rights for the plebians, the tribunes stalled many government actions for hundreds of years. They were such a frustration that Julius Caesar was given tribunal power as part of his rise to dictator. The two actual tribunes who attempted to veto this action were impeached and removed from office. I think a similar event would happen in Noviolenstan, where policemen would eventually be so obstructed in their duty that they would resort to similar extreme measures. After all, all they're going to be punished with is a stern ethics lecture. 

Take a look at the Kokudaka of feudal Japan for a historical example. A landowner's wealth was determined by the amount of koku the land could purportedly produce. A koku was equivalent to the amount of rice needed to feed a man for a year (about 5 bushels). A smaller unit, the masu defined the amount for a day, similar to your tablets. Daimyo's estates had anywhere from 10,000 koku to over a million. This is not to say that their wealth was exclusively in rice. Think about how we talk about rich estates as being worth "billions of dollars" as if they could liquidate all of their assets whenever they pleased. A noble's wealth might be defined by the amount of tablets their estate could earn, but in practice the actual food would go towards feeding their subjects while the majority of their wealth would be in goods. The feudal Japanese system also included the ryō, a currency unit equivalent to four koku (later changed to 1:1). The ryō and its lesser denominations were used for everyday spending. So in this way, food was the basis of the currency, but people weren't literally taking bushels of rice to the market. 

So my questions are: Would this society develop faster or slower than "normal" technologically? If not technologically advanced, would they still be considered "cultured" (philosophically, ethically, etc)? Or barring those, are they just technologically backwards barbarians that the civilized world must "educate"? 

As others have suggested, sharing power could lead to an even worse feud or to nothing at all being accomplished as each king vetoes the other. Perhaps King X remains king in name while Y is named Supreme Consul/Head Priest/Knight Commander. Y exercises considerable political and military power but still ultimately owes loyalty to King X. If Y oversteps his bounds, then X issues some imperial mandate condemning the actions of Y. The lesser lords and ultimately the people are bound by faith and loyalty to obey King X. Though the kingship is largely reduced to a ceremonial position, X still has the ultimate authority and legitimizes Y's leadership. This would serve to pacify the loyalists who want the king to remain, while still allowing Y to wield power. 

Building a complete ecology is quite a problem in itself, so I will be approaching this from the presentation standpoint. To start, I would look at historic examples of bestiaries such as the Aberdeen Bestiary. You don't specify the type of fantasy, but assuming it's the classic Medieval European style, you may choose to emulate some of the artistic aspects of these creations. More relevant to the discussion here though is the content of the bestiaries. Rather than a scientific breakdown of the natural order, they provide seemingly incidental facts. Here is one passage from the Aberdeen Bestiary: 

Short answer: You wouldn't. You could get close, and it's much better to make estimates than to go in blind. But ultimately it is too big a risk to land and expose your colonists to the unknown. This process would be gradual and controlled with detailed scientific studies. I think you are underestimating the complexity of colonization. This isn't a camping trip where you can just settle down any old place and be assured to have reasonably safe water and perhaps some food. This is something that will be planned decades if not centuries before the colonists arrive, and even then there are many uncertainties. Some points to this effect: 

While certainly effective, a circumstantial disaster like the asteroid in TimB's excellent answer will seem like the cheap plot device it is to your readers. What you need is a reason for a great empire to culturally and, to some degree, physically collapse. To this end, I would suggest the failure of whatever makes the empire prosperous. A Historical Example The Ma'rib Dam was an engineering wonder of the ancient world. It captured and contained monsoon rains and allowed the Sabaeans to irrigate otherwise inhospitable land. It was maintained and improved for millennia. However, on several occasions, the dam was breached due to lack of maintenance, causing massive flooding. The two major floods, in 145BC and 575CE, were so disastrous for the local agriculture that thousands of people were displaced. Fictional Application Let's apply this idea to your scenario. You have some additional constraints not met by the historical flooding: - No survivors - Technological advancements destroyed - Dark Age I think "No survivors" is a bit unrealistic, so I'm going to settle for "few survivors". Here's the scenario I had in mind: The Empire was formed around this dam in the middle of an otherwise inhospitable desert. Being the sole trading stop between the nations on either coast, the Empire became fabulously wealthy. It's capital grew to be nestled below the great dam. The wealth of goods and ideas passing through the city allowed technological developments to prosper. The sudden collapse could have many causes. It could be an earthquake as Stuart Allan and GrinningX have suggested. Or it could be that the opulent leaders simply neglected to maintain the dam (making the flood a fitting retribution for their national celebration). Get creative here, but don't make it too unrealistic. After the collapse, the Empire crumbles. The flood utterly destroyed the capital, leaving thousands dead and technology ruined. Agriculture fails as a result of the flood and subsequent lack of irrigation. The land slowly returns to the desert wasteland it was previously. With no critical waypoint, travel through the desert all but ceases, severing trade between the nations on either side of the desert. The lack of goods and knowledge being traded stifles the growth of these nations and cripples technological development. 

Generating mana requires sacrifice. Simple mages make do with a special mana-rich herb and meditation or similarly peaceful means. To gain more power though, a mage must sacrifice something more...alive. Animal sacrifice might looked down upon by society, but tolerated for special needs. Truly powerful mages though fuel their magic with other humans. This detestable practice is shunned by society, but the truly power-hungry still practice it. 

I'm no nuclear physicist, but I'll take a crack at this. As you stated ununoctonium and the like are extremely unstable. If a planet of ununoctonium appeared it would decay in milliseconds. The only way I could see this happening is if your planet was constantly bombarded with enough energy to continually form new heavy elements. Cosmic ray spallation is known to produce heavier radioactive isotopes (cosmogenic radioisotopes), compared to normal stellar nucleosynthesis. A casual search brought up the idea of a planet bombarded by a ultra-high-energy cosmic ray. A source of these rays, called a Zevatron (I love science words), could be a relativistic jet from an active galactic nucleus. One example of such a jet is in the M87 galaxy, the energy of which has been estimated at 5.1 × 1049J So basically, a planet directly over the center of a supermassive black hole in a center of the galaxy might be bombarded with enough energy to produce some heavier elements. Or far more likely just disintegrate. 

You're going to know almost everything about the nature of this planet before your colonists get there, with the exception of its exact effects on humans. From your question, it sounds like this planet is a "New Earth" blooming with plant-like creatures and possibly animals too. On top of that, it happens to be habitable for humans, presumably without terraforming. This is an absurdly rare planet (the "win the lottery 100 days in a row" analogy comes to mind). Such a unique planet would be intensely studied, especially with the expectation that it would be colonized. It would be identified and studied remotely first, and then probed and explored by robots. You're going to know the soil and water content, some basics about the existing lifeforms, general terrain and so on. The existing life will probably kill you. That pretty opalescent flower actually releases a pollen which paralyzes your lungs. That cute furry creature actually carries a microorganism which eats your skin. These are things that you will have no idea about until you land and expose yourself to the environment. Even if you survive long enough to establish a colony, there's no guarantee that the existing life can support a human diet. There is simply too much uncertainty involved to risk this. The closest historical example would be the Columbian Exchange, which, while ultimately beneficial, was initially disastrous for both sides due to the diseases traded There is no guarantee modern materials would be available from nature. Take something like steel. If there was very little mine-able iron on your planet, you're completely without a resource. This is even more true with rarer materials essential for scientific development. 

Now then, I can't seem to decide how technologically advanced this society would be compared to the hero's homeland (essentially Western European-style medieval fantasy). In one case, I can see how they would be shackled by their beliefs. Scientific development would stagnate from under-appreciation and lost works. A particularly large Empire could be a political disaster, with no way of managing citizens and armies without records. On the other hand, I could see how individual intelligence could blossom, as citizens are forced to memorize their work rather than look it up. The emphasis on learning their trade from their master, lest it be lost forever, could greatly inspire apprentices. An oft-cited term for the role of easily accessed books, the internet and other modern resources is mind extension. That is, we don't know the information itself, but we know how to find it out if needed. In this society, the citizens are deprived of these resources, or rather, their society has developed without them at all.