Use Telnet to connect to your external IP and the port you forwarded. If it connects it is working :) If its not give us some screenshots of your port forwarding page on the router config. 

I am looking for recommendations to clone a Red Hat mirrored raid to a single hard drive located in the same machine. The idea is if the servers hardware ever has an issue we have a similar hardware machine ready to go. All we would have to do is pop in the cloned drive. If the servers RAID ever failed we could just switch to the single drive to maintain uptime and restore the original configuration on the spare server with a backup. This is a restaurant and they are open 7 days a week. We do have time from 12:am to 9:00am to perform the necessary steps for a clone and we talking about under 10 Gigs of information. There is a database on the server. I have looked into Rsync and Clonezilla. But I am just not confident either is capable of completing the task I want. Looking for some suggestions and possibly a step by step if you could be so kind. 

Here is the Technet on Service Principal Names. Give it a read. We use a Scheduled Tasks Admin Account to run all our tasks. We have it in the Users OU. This is available on all computers on the domain to be used for scheduled tasks. The user is a member of Administrators, Backup Operators, Domain Users, Local Administrators, Replicator, and Server Operators. Hope that helps 

I am in the process of transitioning to exchange 2010. The current exchange server is as follows Server 2003 R2 Exchange 2003 SP2 Active Directory I would like to be able to reuse the server name for so many reasons but I must format server 2003 R2 and reinstall Server 2008 R2 as a fresh instal. This server will no longer be a DC after the transition if that makes a difference. Is it possible to keep the same server name? I can accept if that is not possible but just need a concrete answer. Some documentation on the subject is also appreciated. Info on areas I may need to clean up the old server name prior to reinstalling Server 2008 R2 is paramount. 

Scalability is the main difference. The 270 can scale to 2 way while the 1212 can go to 1. the leading digit determines the scalability. That seems to me to be the main difference from what I can see. This is given if you were looking at the two models with similar clocks and cache. Made a little comparison chart for you click here if you want it in its own window :)alt text $URL$ 

Yes Microsoft Windows Server 2008 R2 is a separate license and must be purchased. You can accomplish an upgrade from Server 2008 to Server 2008 R2. Licensing Pricing 

Yes this would be configured at the DNS level using an A record. Point the Subdomain to your Linux server's IP. 

Check out WireShark. It may fit your needs. It can filter by IP and is in real time. You can actually see each packet go through. 

As @Johnh said it is most likely your firewall. Open up port 80 on your firewall or whatever port you are hosting the local site on should it be a nonstandard port. +1 for testing with telnet. Will give you a quick and definit answer on if the Web Server has the proper port open. 

What about this? $URL$ Saw it on Slashdot the other day. You will have to configure the function yourself but this will get you started on having a low overhead OS. Maybe too much work for your solution though. 

Then Open AD and do a search for all users who have Exchange Home Server attribute set to the dead Exchange Server. Remove Exchange mailbox association if you find any users using the old server. If you cannot see administrative or routing groups then: Right click your domain (exchange) container (THE HIGHEST LEVEL) go to properties check off the administrative views. "Display routing groups" and "Display administrative groups" Finally: Delete all the old DNS records for the old server as well as any DHCP records then simply delete the old server from AD this is assuming you were able to transfer all the Schema roles. Hope this helps. 

Weird one. I have a domain controller with Server 2008 R2. It is a hack job but is reliable. AMD system. AM2 6000+ Asus Crosshair MB. The server is utilizing 5 Sata ports for Hard disks of assorted size. No raid is configured. This is mostly for random storage and backup DC When we attempted to upgrade 1 of the drives upon reboot we got a "No Operating System Detected Insert System disk and press ENTER" error. Fiddling around enough to find out the computer would only boot if the System disk and one of the storage disks (the one we removed to upgade...) were connected on boot. What is going on here? How do I repair this issue? I would like to be able to remove that drive. Ran BCDEDIT I see the issue. Recomendations on the command to best resolve it. We want everything on C:. 

www is a subdomain of myname.com www.charity.org is not a subdomain of myname.org it is a subdomain of charity.org.... which is a subdomain of the TLD .org.... ETC. for mybook.com Regardless you should brush up on what a subdomain is.... There is a good meta on it on Serverfault somewhere... or Wikipedia is always good :) And the answer to your question is no it will not effect your other domains as long as you continue to cover their costs with the hosting company. 

REMOVED NON RELEVANT INFO AND EDITED SO if you are using IIS7 download the URL Rewrite Module. All the instructions and info you need are included at that link. Hope that helps. 

They expect this to take under 30 minutes to make the switch from (worst case) infected exchange server with blocked IP to clean exchange server with clean IP. Server 2003 R2 Exchange 2003 SP2 Active Directory Assistance/Advice/ or Alternatives are ALL Appreciated! Thanks everyone, Campo EDIT: Every Machine has AVG The Exchange Server is not an open relay and requires Authentication I have done every step and taken every precaution and we still were infected. EDIT: BLOCKED AGAIN new virus name (GRUM) This is not on our exchange server. No way, scanned with so many things. Went through the registry myself. NOTHING! Scanned all other server NOTHING scanned user computers NOTHING WTF? Odd thing is email still goes through but we are on the CBL.... Moved SMTP to non standard port. Explicitly blocked port 25 on firewall. delisted us. UPDATE: I added additional IPs. Now how do I connect the users on one IP to the server on the other IP? Do I just have the Exchange server have 2 IPs (one for each internal network) or is there more to it? UPDATE 2 This is a reply to @Madboys comment under his answer: I have not done it yet. here is the setup. WE now have 5 IPs. I will use 2 for now. 1 for office network. 1 for exchange. Our modem contains both IPs sent to one port on the back of the machine. That LAN cable goes into a switch which then splits into 2. Each goes into our modem (dual Wan RV042) I assign the exchange to one subnet. Network to the other. Please confirm this plan. Ideally a PIX or similar FW appliance would be best. But again 0 dollars must be spent. Question is how will users on one subnet talk to the other? Should I set this up differently? Completely separate networks? UPDATE 3 ****OK I was able to do this. Modem to switch then I have 3 cables out of the switch. 1 Goes to a WRT54G for wireless and to separate outside consultants on their own network (they have no reason to be on ours). The other two cables go to my RV042 which supports Dual WAN. I setup a second sub-net. Now how to I isolate each WAN on its own sub-net? I believe the point of Daul WAN on this appliance is to maintain up time by utilizing separate ISPs.... Please assist. WE ARE SO CLOSE please advice ALSO: I do not see ANY outbound connections on PORT 25 other than from the exchange server. So that is good. And from the exchange the port 25 traffic is at a normal rate reflective of our volume.**** UPDATE 4 I have reasearched Open WRT and other solutons. I came upon PF Sense looks perfect!. Thoughts? I have an old P4 I can use. Then Just need a few compatible network cards :). Resolved: Modified network layout. RV042 supports 1:1 Nat Isolated Wifi on 1:1 Nat using WRT54G Using 2 nics on Exchange server 1:1 IP mapped to smtp and OWA etc. Other for network traffic. Thanks all for their help and assistance with this issue.