The media whips the situation into a frenzy and in the west public opinion turns against universities and research institutions. Studies are conducted on the negative effects of many of our technical advances and discover just how bad many chemicals and plastics of the time were for people, and the outcry against new materials is extreme. Chemical companies shutter their R&D areas, fearing both public sentiment and the acts of terrorism that were committed against their competitors who did not shut down (R&D centers were bombed!). People in Africa and Asia denounce the "Western" way, showing videos endlessly to their population showing how consumerism and an "advancement" mindset leads to destruction and a loss of moral center. Traditional values are re-inforced. As for how long things stay locked down, consider that in the West many countries may well have adopted extremely strict regulations around what can be researched. Legislation would need to pass that would lift those restrictions, but without research to show the benefits of lifting those restrictions it's never done. In practical terms, it's similar to how the US congress restricted the public funding of study of whether firearms cause more harm than good and consequently no high-quality work was done as even private institutions didn't want to get on the wrong side of senators or special interest groups. In the East and Africa similar things occur, but are aided by a total lack of respect for any Western source of knowledge. So even if they were to advance, they would have to re-discover a lot of information that was already around. Russia is the big problem. You would probably need to have the USA abandon its nuclear weapons (due to public outrage) so that Russia doesn't HAVE to build their own. Maybe have Russia start decrying the technology race (since they're losing it) so that as the gears stop it seems like it was Russia's idea. As long as they lead the charge that made it happen, they could be more likely to be OK with the stagnation. 

Photons: If it ain't broke, don't fix it. If you have life you have heat, and if you have heat you have photons. Therefore, if you have life you must have photons. There is no escaping this. Photons also interact with the building blocks of matter: the protons, neutrons, and electrons that compose all biological life. Because photons are so ubiquitous, it is very likely organisms develop some way(s) to interact with them. On Earth this is mostly evident in plants which are able to use the energy for photosynthesis, and most higher-level organisms which posess occular organs which are used to collect directionally-specific photo-sensory stimuli. While most higher-level organisms posses eyes which grant them varying degrees of occular prowess, the fact is that most such creatures detect only certain wavelength bands covering different sections of the visible photon spectrum. Some creatures are rather primitive only having one color-discriminitory sensor, whereas humans have three, and others like the mantis shrimp have as many as 16 types of photoreceptors. Yet other creatures have other forms of photon detection; pit vipers and many related reptiles have infrared-detecting abilities which effectively allow them to "see heat" in a useful way. The visible spectrum, as we call it, is actually a rather narrow section of the entire electromagnetic spectrum. Even if you include the infrared heat sensors of pit vipers and the UV sensors of the mantis shrimp, the range of perception for all Earth creatures is still quite limited. Creatures with visual acuity in wavelengths to either end of our chunk of the spectrum (either higher energy like hard-UV and X-ray, or lower energy like far-infrared and microwave) would likely see the world quite differently than us, and feel quite alien, while still possessing a type of directional vision very comparable to what we're used to encountering- and all without evoking any sort of exotic, non-interactive, or exceedingly rare particles. 

Regardless of the incorrect percentages in the question, there's not enough nitrogen. There's less than 1% as much as in the Earth's atmosphere, so there's going to be nothing like enough available for plants. Earth animals might survive, but only if you import all their food from off-world. 

If you want a more scientific limitation, say that teleportation preserves momentum, so if you teleport very far in any direction (on a spherical rotating planet) you end up moving too rapidly to survive. 

Find a tree that you knew to be over 700 years old in 2017, and chop it down. A building might be repaired, an artifact might be replaced, repaired or re-made, but none of these can happen with a tree. If you can chop it down, then you can change the past. 

Additional Options Echolocation (Back-scatter) Of course, you might be very loose with your definition of vision in the original post. If you're simply asking for another sense similar to vision without needing that sense to be particularly long-ranged, then echolocation is one possibility employed by Earth creatures which could be sci-fi adapted to other methods of propagation. Rather than the usual auditory clicking noises used by bats and dolphins, any combination of particles could be used in a similar "ping-then-listen manner to help understand an area. If the particles in question were photons of X-ray wavelength, then the alien would essentially work like an X-ray backscatter machine found in airports. Unfortunately, the return-trip timeframe for electromagnetic signals is extremely fast, so 3D imaging is unlikely to arise from photon-based detection, though a series of 2D images can create a good guess if you have enough differently-positioned eyes generating pictures to compare/contrast. Electrons or neutrons could be similarly used, though these pings would potentially cause a significant amount of damage (as the animal basically would be shooting electrons out it's eye sockets like a scanning electric microscope, ditto neutrons). Furthermore, the backscatter is unlikely to be any significant fraction of the output beam. Either way these would be problems. (Let alone describing how a neutron-gun organ developed through natural selection.) Charge Sensitivity / Magnetic Sensitivity These abilitys occur to varying degrees among Earth creatures, but creating an alien that sees a nearby object by looking at its electric charge or mapping it's magnetic fields. To really investigate a surface would involve moving the sensors around to feel the maxima and minima of the fields- which starts looking more like touch than sight, however. 

They Incorporated in Late 1814 Rather than 1832 What a difference 18 years makes! In the year 1814 - towards the end of the War of 1812 - the people of the Republic of Indian Stream discovered the ambiguous wording of the Treaty of Paris while a few men debated which side of the war they should fall under. Not seeking competition with two actively engaged countries at war, a representative was sent to both Canada and the United States with a unique offer - ratify RIS as a neutral territory for use in diplomatic discussions! And so it was. Unfortunately for the soldiers who were wounded or lost their lives, the processes involved with ratifying the RIS as a neutral country took sufficiently long to resolve (~6+ months) that the country was never used as a convenient location for civil discussion on alternatives to continued aggression. Following the war neither country had an appetite to attempt to capture the territory as the RIS was a symbol of joint, peaceful cooperation. 

The answer is known, and it’s that nothing happens at all. If something is immovable, it means that nothing can move it, which can only mean that nothing we know of will interact with it. You’re describing a particle of dark matter, which the Earth undoubtedly hits all the time, but since it doesn’t interact with the matter of the Earth (except gravitationally, which is too weak and too long-range to be noticeable) nothing happens. 

Have each party's candidates selected by the party membership in a long and tortuous process. That guarantees that only the most dedicated party members will participate in the process, and the voters will have to choose between ideologically extreme candidates from different parties. This has to apply to all parties -- if you let one party have a different process and select moderate centrist candidates, then they will win all the elections. 

Option C - Take it Slow After the fiasco with "get rich quick" schemes (what was described above and many others), "Joe" realizes something - he has all the time in the world. Once you can restart days and you can't seem to die, time itself takes on a very different meaning. You don't really need a trillion dollars now - all you need is what you can spend, and you have all the time in the world to get more. So "Joe" can take the bit of money he has built up through the get-rich-quick schemes and put it into the stock market only when something big happens. It won't be every day, but it doesn't need to be. Even if Joe invests only 4-5 times in a year, he can still comfortably make more than he can spend. All without having to go back in time repeatedly for a bunch of smaller gains. An agency similar to the SEC would undoubtedly investigate "Joe" and he would be audited yearly, but provided that he continues not to hobnob with company executives he should be fine. To keep things really clean he could continue to live in Australia and only invest in companies that keep all of their operations in England, France, the United States, or Canada. Taking out subscriptions to local papers and magazines in all those countries (which he would, of course, discard unread) would also help spread the idea that he is just plain smarter about the stock market than everyone else. 

Xenobiology Since this question is tagged with "Xenobiology" and "science-based" it is best to keep in mind that possible solutions don't equate with plausible solutions and that using real science terms to explain unplausible science-fiction doesn't really do anything to help with suspension of disbelief. (e.g. saying "the alien vision relies on entangled neutrinos" isn't much less hand-wavey than "the alien vision relies on flubulated tachyons".) Making aliens extremely unique in their biology in order to avoid inventing more fictional aliens that "look like us" is a good habit, as assuming that all aliens (especially the sentient ones) are humanoid bipeds is a laughably anthropocentric of us. However, it is possible to overshoot the mark and make aliens too weird to exist by all logical accounts of what we do thus far know about physics and biology. 

There would be no complex life, and probably no life at all. The red giant phase of stellar evolution only lasts for around a billion years, and any planet in the habitable zone before the red giant phase would no longer be habitable. So your alternative Earth would have been a frozen ice ball up until some time less than a billion years ago, which isn't long enough for complex life to evolve. 

Magic negates heat death. In a universe where magic works, the laws of thermodynamics don't exist. Without the laws of thermodynamics, there's no reason to think that heat death is the ultimate fate of the universe. 

Ultimately, it would all depend on what you want for your fictional world. Is this some Amazonian island in a male-dominated world, or is female-army the worldwide norm? Is the female birthrate something that society engineers, or something natural? If the Amazonian army wins and starts to take over the world, do they dominate the gene pool or do the Amazonian genes become watered down? 

However, whatever colorations are favored, those colors will inherently depend on what pigments are present in the organism's skin. Technically, it could alternatively depend on other phenomena (like the irridescence of butterfly wings) but simply assuming pigment==color is probably the easiest way to go, conceptually. For humans (and lots of other creatures for that matter) the primary pigment is melanin (of which there are actually a few varieties). Biologically speaking, melanin is a pretty simple pigment made up of a few tyrosine molecules oxidised and strung together. These tend to absorb light from a variety of wavelengths, resulting in the mostly brown shades we associate with it for human hair and skin colors. Evolutionary, we all are starting from more or less the same melanin-producing ancestors, so even with a melanin mutation here and there over the eons that mostly just results in different shades of brown- maybe some more rust-colored here or blonde there, but generally from a similar color pallet. Melanin, as a pigment, isn't likely to mutate any blue or green hues anytime soon. On the other hand, another well-known pigment, chlorophyll is a structurally rather different molecule that does a very similar job (although plants take things a step further, utilizing sunlight rather than just blocking it). At the forefront of the chlorophyll molecule is the Chlorin ring which is like a cage around a single metal ion. In plants, Magnesium is typically found at the center of this ring and that helps to make chlorophyll green. Porphyrin rings are very similar: one natural example is hemoglobin, the red pigment in blood, which cages an iron ion; and a second example is Phthalocyanine which is a bright blue commercially-used pigment which cages a copper ion. The reactions that actually trap the metal ion in the "cage" are typically pretty well selective at putting iron in hemoglobin and magnesium in chlorophyll. Things like altered pH conditions and/or mineral deficiencies, however, can sometimes throw the occasional odd metal into some of these cages- thereby altering the color. It is not too far fetched to think that some alien species may have evolved from an ancestor that had porphyrin-based pigments rather than melanin-based pigments. Furthermore, just as melanin mutations can lead to various hair colors, mutations could lead to preferential uptake of different metal ions and leading to different colors. Aliens don't need to be plants to have chlorophyll-based pigments. (Bonus points: if pH and/or mineral intake can adjust color expression, then there's a high probability that well-to-do aliens might alter their diet to look more fashionable/appealing.)