This is a good question, and one that I've thought about quite a bit as I'm writing an AI myself. Firstly, I believe that intelligence is a very specific part of what makes us human, and is generally static - it reaches the best conclusion it can with the information it has, and its own criteria for 'best'. I think the difference between individual humans has less to do with intelligence itself, and more to do with the various chemicals/hormones being fed to our brains, which cause the nuanced differences between different people/animals by tweaking the ratio of our processing power between reflexive/instinctual actions based on short term memory, and the analysis of data that has been stored for future use. That's a basic explanation of the core of my belief regarding AI/intelligence, but it's hopefully enough to get my point across. Unless we are also simulating the effects of hormones & other influences, any artificial intelligence we make (or digitized mind we transfer) will be fairly rigid in its thinking - extremely logical (within its own scope of knowledge), but also extremely consistent in its behaviour. I think that within an artificial mind, emotions (if implemented) would quickly be evolved out, as they would consistently get in the way of decision making, and be seen as inefficient. Just like how we try and remove negative emotions, they would literally just do it (or not try to implement them in the first place). Baseline humans would maintain all the traits of not just human intelligence, but the entire human package - not just knowledge and problem solving ability, but what could almost be defined as the soul (the combined result of biological processes influencing the various aspects of deduction & reflection). I believe the baseline humans would be seen as a marker of our origins, and used as an anchor to the real world. Realistically these anchors may not be required, as it could be argued that the soul is generally causing more problems than it's fixing, and that there's a certain solidity to relying on pure intelligence, but if you're wanting a world built where they are necessary, pick any emotionally driven, subjective process, and imply that the artificial humans are unable to replicate it. You could even posit that the artificial humans are unable (or unwilling) to actually feel emotions, and so spend their time observing humans so that they can emulate these, and appear to act more human - a simulation of the soul, based on observation of the baseline. Again, I'm not sure why they'd want to do this, as it almost becomes keeping humans around to help with keeping humans around, but there's no reason their justification has to make any sort of objective sense - if they've got a good enough subjective reason, even if it has flaws in it, it should do the job. 

One option is to use stirling engines. They work just as well on cold as on heat. Or rather, they work on a temperature gradient. One of these toys will work if you place it on a cup of hot water or on an ice cube. You might also look at thermal electric generators, or TEG. These create a small amount of electric power from a heat gradient, and so also work with either a heat source or a 'cold source'. 

A neonatologist (doctor who cares for newborns) I talked to recently pointed out that a larger percentage of babies need serious medical care after being born. This change came about about a generation after some serious improvement in the way we care for premature and sick babies in the 70s and 80s. He concludes that the genes that make it impossible to give birth without the help of advanced medical infrastructure are already spreading in our society. If you take this doctor's assertions to the (possibly ridiculous) extreme, you might imagine a race of highly advanced being with no reproductive organs at all who are only capable of reproducing by combining genetic material in a lab. You and your partner both swab your cheeks, pay the fee, and in nine months the lab calls you in to make you parents. 

No, Naboo can not exist. The immense pressure in the core of a planet (Earth: $~300 \text{ GPa}$) would turn the water into exotic forms of ice So, the core will definitely not be liquid. Travelling through there is not advisable. Then there is the problem of dry land - the continents would need to be floating, so they need to be lighter than water. (on planetary scales, stone is not rigid enough to withstand deformation) 

Oh wow. There is so much wrong with this. I see a relatively stable solution that could be enacted by the rich: everyone is their defacto-slaves (no income, forced to work to keep the system running) while they pay a nominal tax. Not even hard to implement. The rule about partial dollars not counting is troublesome: that threshold could be increased to, say, 1 million and most of the country is disenfranchised without any chance to overturn it (no more votes). One wouldn't need to change the threshold actually, a mandated deflation works, too. A wealthy person can pay taxes in full to get political power and profit from it by giving themselves government contracts. Reducing their employees' paychecks at the same time (more company profit, more taxes to pay), thus even less chance to resist this sort of thing. No representation without taxation is an awful system. 

Help! The moon was a spaceship all along, and it's inhabitants have finally woken up. They say that in order to continue on their travels, they need to take our oceans to create a bubble around their ship (don't ask me why, it makes no sense from my perspective). They say we shouldn't really worry about it, as we still have plenty of water vapour in the atmosphere - more than enough to survive on - but I just don't believe them, and I don't think many others do either. I've been put in charge of coming up with a damage assessment, but I have no idea where to begin! There was one final offer they made, before retreating back into their lunar home... they said they also really need gold, and are willing to trade some of our ocean water back to us - 1000 cubic miles of water per metric ton of gold we give them. Perhaps we can pay them off with enough to keep things going, if the situation is too dire, but I have no idea. Help me, please, I can't afford to lose my job over this... As people don't seem to understand what I'm asking, I'll clarify: Is there enough water in the atmosphere for humanity to survive on, if the oceans were stolen? If not, would we be able to purchase enough with our gold reserves, to survive? 

Imperial China was similar, the political weakness here stemmed from its isolationism. Also, the pre-WWI United States. An ineffective/non-existent central government and/or a policy of isolationism will severely limit political power while not impeding economic power too much. It should be noted that the situation is unstable. At some point the political power will be there because isolationism ends or the state centralizes. Or the economic power goes away / the power breaks up into constituents. 

There are no actual clothes, they are part of the human shape. If you have the ability to shapeshift at will, why would you keep changeable distinct clothes around? There is no need - if you feel cold, just grow a pelt/thick pullover, if it's hot, retract it. You can of course carry stuff in the pockets, but as that stuff is not actually part of you, it will not transform. "Clothing" like metal armor should be excluded here, you need to put that on yourself and can not mimic it (as you actually want to have something between yourself and e.g. a sword). To keep the shapeshifting in reasonable bounds, make learning a truly new form hard. Maybe it's exceptionally hard to invent new forms, but much easier to copy things. That way, clothing can be copied when you first see/use/feel/sense* it, as can animals. But growing extra limbs or becoming a little green martian? Nope. This would also prevent the shapeshifters from running around like yetis in winter and naked in summer, as they would not have access to a yeti-shape, so they need to copy or wear real clothing. *: have a magical ability related to this. 

Use them like sheepdogs, if you have 1 dog per 5 combatants, you'll be fine, and can probably accomplish your goals without any real casualties on either side. It sounds like you plan for them to kill people, but that might not be necessary considering they're huge, presumably intelligent, and made of wolf... 1000 of them circling an enemy whilst your army just sits and sharpens its swords, would probably cause the most hardened soldiers to give up. You'd have to give them armour so they couldn't be shot, but that'd just make them look even more daunting to your opponents. Really it sounds like the other kingdom would bend the knee relatively quickly, unless you weren't actively trying to annex their lands - but if you're expecting combat I assume you're going to take them out. The odds of them attacking you with your army of wolves are pretty slim, I think. 

Anything is possible. Instead of them being wiped out by a great war, their quantum computer could have predicted what the eventual outcome of their technological improvements would be, and they could have decided to restore the Earth back to its former glory using their advanced equipment, and then dispose of all their technology by launching it into the sun, before returning to their hunter-gatherer lifestyles. Perhaps the computer that convinced them to do this, was not destroyed, and was placed on the moon instead, and watched over the humans for the next couple of thousand years, to ensure they didn't entirely collapse whilst regaining their place in the natural world - this could be where the myths of God came from. 

Earth experiences pretty significant tidal forces, and it doesn't seem to affect habitability too much. The crust flexes, the oceans rush in and out, and we're fine. Some life actually relies on it. Io, a moon of Jupiter, experiences significant tidal flexing, enough to generate serious heat and geological activity. So, it seems entirely possible for tidal forces to be strong enough to effect habitability. Constant volcanoes filling the air with ash and toxic chemicals, serious earthquakes moving dirt around and preventing plants from taking hold. So, you're question really boils down to "How strong are the tidal forces experienced by horseshoe moons?" Which is a very difficult question. The strength of tidal force is mostly based on distance, and it can be very difficult to predict how close these moons get to each-other. To get extremely close together, they would have a large difference between the innermost and outermost radius of their orbits. They would approach each other at a higher velocity. They would swap quickly. They would repeat their swaps more often. (relatively, we're still looking at several orbits to complete the swap and several hundred orbits between swaps) A horseshoe orbit that never gets very close is pretty much the same thing, but slower. The two moons are always close to the same distance from the planet. The swap places at a greater distance from each other. Since they interact with each other more weakly, the swap takes longer. It might be tens of thousands of orbits between swaps. tldr; It can probably be whatever you want, but the details are hard.