The sample distances must be factors of the total distance. You can find the variance for samples 3 m apart because 3 doesn't divide into 100 evenly, but if there were only 99 samples then things are totally different. The distance between samples is known as the lag distance. On a plot of variance versus lag distance, for low lag values the curve will rise. Where the curve flatten out is the distance at which samples can be regarded as being independent of each other. The variogram has its roots in the correlation diagrams. For data on a 2D grid, it is prudent to obtain a suite of variograms along the directions north-south, east-west, northwest-southeast and northeast-southwest to obtain an initial variance rosette. Any trend in the data will be seen from this and a better variogram orientation can then be tried. Where the distance between samples is strictly not uniform, but within accepted tolerances, adjustments will need to be made to the data. Also if data is clustered within areas, the data will need to be declustered first. When data points are being considered it is common for a search ellipse to be used and for the search ellipse to be orientated. For example, is the data set is soil contamination samples around a metal smelter, or seed dispersal from trees, the search ellipse would be orientated so the major axis would be aligned with the direction of the prevailing winds. Because of the amount of calculations involved and the size of some data set, particularly metal grades in geological ore bodies, computers are heavily involved with geostatistical analyses. An initial reference on geostatistics is Isobel Clark, 1979, Practical Geostatistics, Applied Science Publishers If you want to estimate a value between sample points then either some form of weighting of samples will need to be used. Within geostatistics, kriging is usually used, but there are many forms of kriging, just to name a few: ordinary, disjunctive, log-normal, indicator. What some people also do is to use other forms of weighting such as inverse distance squared, or inverse distance to another power, usually between 1.5 and 3, but inverse distance squared is the more common of these. The results from kriging and inverse distance squared are then compared. The two techniques will rarely give the same results, but the results should be similar. 

Differences in geothermal gradient at different locations (heat emitted by rock). It is generally accepted that the global geothermal gradient is between ${25 ^o C/km}$ & ${30 ^o C/km}$. At some locations the gradient can vary between ${15.4 ^o C/km}$ & ${102.6 ^o C/km}$. The temperature of the air will increase with depth due to auto-compression of the air (also known as lapse rate). [Environmental Engineering of South African Mines, 1989, pp 403-404]. The increase in dry bulb temperature of air due to auto-compression is ${9.66 ^o C/km}$, if there is no change to the humidity of the air. Moisture content of the air. The greater the humidity, the greater the heat in the air. Ventilation of the hole being dug and how much heat the moving air is removing from the bottom of the hole. Temperature of the air entering the hole from the Earth's surface The presence or absence of other sources of heat such as machinery, electrical equipment, warm water springs entering the hole and warm bodies. The age of the hole and its exposure to ventilating air. New holes expose fresh warm rock to air in the atmosphere and the air eventually carries away the heat via ventilation. New holes, or new extensions to holes, are warmer/hotter than old holes. 

This form of geothermal energy was investigated in Australia in the early 2000s. A company, then called Geodynamics Australia but since renamed as ReNu Energy, constructed a geothermal power plant and during 2013 conducted a [160 day trial of a 1 MWe pilot plant] in the Hanbanero Field near the border between South Australia and Queensland($URL$ "The pilot plant used steam generated through an EGS (Enhanced/Engineering Geothermal System) that exploits thermal energy from hot rocks over four kilometres below ground level. Following the trial, it was concluded that it may be economically viable to supply heat energy to nearby gas production operations, but not the supply of electrical energy. No further work has been done on the project, and the company completed site environmental remediation works in 2016." The pilot plant had many technical challenges: "EGS (also described as a hot rock system) extracts heat from hot rocks deep in the earth and conveys it to surface where it is used to generate electricity (see Figure 1 above). This involves a heat exchange arrangement. In most EGS projects, water is pumped into an injection well where it takes on heat as it moves through fractures in hot rock, and is then extracted to surface from a production well. In the Habanero pilot plant trial, temperatures seen on surface from the production well were up to 215 degrees by the time the trial was finished – certainly demonstrating the capacity to extract heat. Another critical factor in how much electricity can be generated though is the rate at which the high temperature steam is produced. In the Habanero trial, up to 19 kg/s of flow could be sustained. This contrasts with (according to the 2014 report to ARENA) flow rates in the order of 80 to 100 kg/s that would be required for economic viability. Whereas the initial intention of the Habanero project was to create a network of man-made fractures to allow optimal rates of circulation, in actuality, fluid was circulated through a naturally occurring fault in the rock (a geological feature which was not anticipated). The challenge of establishing and optimising fluid circulation between wells might be addressed in future through fracturing techniques that have resulted from ongoing technology development in tight gas or oil wells." One of the issues with developing geothermal energy in Australia, from deep hot rocks, is the remoteness of the potential generation sites from regions that could utilize the energy. This makes the use of such geothermal systems currently unviable. 

Now, density, ${ρ = m/V}$ Which leads to the equation you used: ${P = ρRT}$ One of the primary ways the atmosphere changes is via changes in temperature. The atmosphere on the side of the Earth facing the Sun warms up, while the atmosphere of the other side of the Earth cools. According to Charles's Law, for the side facing the Sun, the increase in temperature will cause the volume to increase. An increase in volume will reduce the density, because mass doesn't change. With an increase in temperature and a decrease in density the pressure will remain unchanged. 

This is hotter than the Sun and such energy has been released in Earth's environment. Ignoring the effects of radiation and only considering the heat produced, such detonations product a huge amount of heat for a very short time in a very small region. This adversely affects life forms and the ecosystem in the area of detonation, but the ecosystem recovers from the effect of the heat and the heat does not affect the climate. If however, there are heat sources covering a large area that is generating a large amount of heat for a prolonged period of time it can affect weather patterns and locally change an ecosystem. As for the ease of heat exiting Earth's ecosystem it depends on what is in the atmosphere and the proportions of what is in the atmosphere. Cloud cover will retain heat by acting as a blanket. Gases such as methane and carbon dioxide are known for their ability to reflect heat back to the Earth's surface, thus retaining heat in the atmosphere. Increased levels of such gases increases the heat retention within the atmosphere. 

Water reclamation is the process of capturing, transporting and treating water so it can be be reused, particularly if the water is contaminated. Depending on the type of contamination treatment facilities can be a processing plant or a specially constructed/adapted system of biological wetlands with a slow flow of water through them. Re-using water is using water more than once regardless of whether it has been treated or not. For waste water to be reused it must first be reclaimed and treated.