Run tall, don't slump over Make sure your feet are landing under you - not in front of you. Shorten your stride if you need to. Focus on landing soft and quiet. Yes, running is a high(er) impact sport, but you can still minimize impact regardless of size or weight 

Neuromuscular Activation and Dynamic Stretching Here is an excellent video on a dynamic stretching routine for running. It demonstrates 9 dynamic stretches. I've been using this routine several times a week for months now. It is a great way to get warmed up before hitting the road/treadmill/trails. It includes: 

The higher your heart rate, the more calories you will burn. However, a person is not able to maintain a high effort/ high burn rate for as long as a lower effort /lower burn rate. However, depending on the effort, the calories will be burned from different fuel sources. For more information on this specific topic check out the "Aerobic versus anaerobic exercise" section at $URL$ 

Shorten your stride, increase leg turnover, land mid-foot. That's about it. Any chance you could run UP the hill instead of DOWN it? 

Interesting conversation and results. I like to use what is known as the Yasso 800 method named after Bart Yasso. Instead of using your half marathon time, base it off of repeated 800 meter efforts. To test, run a series of 800 meter controlled efforts with ~400 meter jog in between. The average time in minutes and seconds of your 800s will be your marathon time in hours and minutes. For instance, if you can run 6-10 800 meter repeats at an average of 3 minutes 20 seconds, your marathon time will be around 3 hours 20 minutes. From this you can estimate the pace and effort that you should target for the marathon. In my experience, it's best to build during a marathon at least in effort if not pace. So again, using the 3:20 800s which equates to about a 7:38 pace, you may want to start out closer to 8:00 miles and build to a 7:30 pace or effort. Your results may vary. 

There are several commercial products available. Probably the most common are Endurolytes from Hammer Nutrition. You could also check out SaltStick.com. And for a "it's in there" approach to fueling, INFINIT Nutrition has custom blends. 

I would probably avoid leg weight exercises while marathon training. Your body is/will be under enough stress from that kind of distance; especially if you are already training 5-6 days a week. Running a marathon and training for one will strengthen your legs just fine. I would also caution to make sure the aches are muscle related and not bone or joint related. Make sure you are getting enough rest (both sleep and time off of your feet). It is not uncommon to take an anti-inflammatory like Aleve or Advil during or after long runs, but be cautious of doing it out of habit. 

Simple answer: Every 6 months or 500 miles whichever comes FIRST. Also, if you run every day, or most days, I'd recommend two pairs of shoes and alternate between them to give them ample time to recover. 

One thing you could try is improving your ability to stay in a "Third-World Squat". I do not have any experience in how this helps with the specific movements that you are looking to improve. However, I think, many of the muscles and flexibility issues that this type of squat address will certainly address some (many?) of the physiological imbalances that you might be experiencing - which are common for many western people due to lifestyle. It's quite simple to work on a third world squat. You can start at any time and do it just about anywhere. I started a few weeks ago doing it a couple times a day both at home and at the office. I have seen improvements in my flexibility and mobility and balance. 

Here's an interesting article from the New York Times about standing while working. Over the last 2-3 months, this topic as been showing up quite frequently in fitness magazines, blogs, and tweets. A study, with reference I can not find at this time, showed that a large percentage of people who suffer and or died from obesity related illnesses sat at a desk to work (as opposed to stood or were mobile). Be careful not to read this as people who sit all day long are more prone to death than others as this is not the result of the study; albeit a very close resemblance. Also, to note, the offices at Stack Exchange are equipped with height adjustable desks. I recently tried standing while working for about a week. It was a nice change in posture, but I don't recommend doing it all day, every day. The first day, I stood for about 6 hours. By the end of the day, I could feel the fatigue in my legs and joints. The next day it was better. Currently, I have the option of sitting or standing and will switch to standing when I feel my sitting posture is bad. 

For more in depth information on good form, here is a great resource. Please be aware that there is more than one way to run, but this might work for you. I'll add as well, that running is not necessarily the answer to losing weight. If, from working out, your appetite increases and you eat more, you may not actually lose weight. So keep that in mind. Weight lose can be attained through BOTH exercise and nutrition. 

This is a tough call. I think in general it is a good idea to consult a doctor before dramatically changing diet or exercise routines. But, be prepared to not really be supported in your vegan efforts by most doctors. Doctor's will give advice based on medical research and their advice may be based on research that does not support vegan diets. 

Unless you eat the same vegetables and meal every day, it's almost impossible not to get complete nutrition from a vegan diet. And believe me, you'll want to find different recipes as salad every day gets old very quickly. 

If your supplements are vitamins, it would be good to know if they are fat soluble or water soluble. Fat soluble vitamins are only absorbed into the body when combined with fat (so would not do a darn thing for you on an empty stomach). 

If you can maintain flexibility/motion in your knee with your injury, I suggest water running and/or swimming. Hand cycles may keep your cardio in check, but will do nothing for leg muscle memory and the like. 

This depends on each individual's body. If you go vegan for a year (for instance), and then one nice have a 24oz porterhouse steak, I think your body will definitely not like it. Trial and error and small portions is probably the best you can do. 

I think you could do a running program consisting of 2 runs a weeks and still achieve "good results". One run should focus on a shorter and faster effort after a nice brisk warm up walk. And the other run should focus on a longer and slower effort after a nice brisk warm up. The shorter run should be closer to your 5K pace goal. The longer effort could be as much as 3:00/mile slower than your 5k goal. Make sure you do a nice ~10 minute brisk walk before running and a nice cool down session afterwards. And, please don't increase your mileage/time/effort running by more than 10% each week. 

And one last point. An example field test to find your aerobic threshold or lactic threshold is to do a time trial. For instance warm up slowly over 15 minutes to a comfortable but low race pace effort. At 15 minutes in the TT will begin. You want to go as hard as you can at an effort (not speed) that you can maintain for 30 minutes. 10 minutes into the TT, hit the lap button on your HRM. And after the full 30 minute TT, hit the lap button again. Cool down appropriately. Your average HR for the 20 minute second part of the TT can be used as the base for the Zones. If you go out too hard and cannot maintain a stead effort for the full 30 minutes, you will probably want to try the field test again in a week or two. 

Count Yards/Meters, not Laps I suffered from losing count so many times. Then, I started counting yards (or meters). I typically swim in a 25 yard pool so I'll use yards to describe. But if you swim in meters, just substitute - its the same concept. I simply count yards instead of laps. I start in the shallow end and swim towards the deep end and then back continuously. I know that going towards the deep end, I have to be on either a 25 or a 75 (ie, 25yds, 125yds, 225yds, 325yds or 75yds, 175yds, etc). And, if I am coming down towards the shallow end, I am either on a 50 or a 100 interval (ie, 50yds, 100yds, 150yds, 200yds, 250yds, etc). This really worked for me. When I was counting laps, my mind would wonder and then I couldn't remember if I was lap 14 or 15. But counting in increments of 25 or 50 really helps me. Sometimes I still lose focus. But, I remember about where I was. For instance, let's say that I'm coming back towards the shallow end and the number that pops in my head was 175. Well, I am probably working towards 200 yards because coming back towards the wall (in a 25 yd pool) will be a multiple of 50 (50, 100, 150, 200, etc). And I'm guessing I had 175 in my head because that's what I was on when I was last going towards the deep end. And yes, as Ivo mentioned, you can always use time to help confirm your yardage. For instance, if you can swim 100 yds in 100 seconds (1:40 pace) then, 600 yards is 6000 seconds or 10 minutes even. So if you are swimming 1200 yards, and you think you lost track, when you are done, you should be at 20:00. If you swam 50 yards short, you'll be around 19:10 or if you swam 50 long you would be at 20:50. Abacus On really long sets or sets longer than my attention span, I will set up a layman's abacus on the pool deck. Our pool deck is made up of ~2" square tiles. My water bottle covers two tiles. So, for instance, if I have to do 1200 yards and my attention span is about 200 yards, I will use my flip-flops as end points between 12 total tiles. I'll use my water bottle as a counter (bead on an abacus). Every 200 yards I stopped just briefly enough to move my water bottle to next set of tiles. And then I restart my count at 0. 

There are several places to find vegan cookbooks. I definitely recommend getting (at least) one to start. You'll find there are ingredients that you may never have heard of before. It's a learning experience. Just be mindful that some (many) vegan recipes require long preparation. So maybe look for "easy vegan" or something along those lines. Many vegan recipes suggest soaking beans overnight. That is OK, but you don't need to do that. Canned beans are fine too. Good luck. 

I swim 3-4 times a week. Occasionally, much less often then ~1 year ago, I get extremely bloated after swimming. My stomach is completely full of air to the point that I can not stand up straight. It can hurt. I'm trying to find the cause of this. I think it is either because I am not breathing correctly in the water (swallowing air as opposed to breathing air), or possibly due to something I've eaten earlier in the day. I do not make a habit of swimming soon after I eat. My swims are a mix of easy, relaxed strokes up to anaerobic sets depending on the day. ** UPDATE ** I have adjusted my breathing pattern from breathing every third stroke (left, right, breathe on left, right, left, breath on right) to a 2-2-3 (left, breathe on right, left, breathe on right, left, right, breath on left, right breathe on left). This helps somewhat. I have also started taking a Gas-X pill or two about 20-30 minutes prior to a hard workout set. This seems to be the best solution for me to eliminate discomfort after the swim. If I do get bloated from swallowing air, the Gas-X seems to help me get rid of it easier. 

Consistency, consistency, consistency. It probably doesn't matter what time of day you weigh yourself as long as you weigh yourself the same time every day to track progress. You may find that you weigh the least first thing in the morning after relieving yourself. But, to get an accurate trend, over time, make sure to weigh yourself the same time every day. 

One possibility is the Body4Life program. It too is 90 days (to start), but gears you to a lifestyle change. I did it about 10 years ago and went from ~165 lbs to ~152 lbs and from 15% body fat to about 4% body fat. P90X is intriguing. But, I know a half-dozen people who started the program and didn't get past the fourth week for various reasons. I don't know anyone who actually finished the full 90 days. Something to think about. Also, when I looked into P90X about 2 years I ago, I swear I read that P90X should be done AFTER completing a easier program that the same company offers. But, I can't find that now. 

I believe he is quite spot on. Correct nutrition is just as important if not more important for weight loss and fat loss. Exercise can certainly amplify results and shrink timelines, but if you were to pick one, I'd go with eating well. I think a lighter is a good analogy. In order to make a flame, you need fuel (correct nutrition) and a spark (exercise). While the spark is the catalyst to the flame, without fuel you'll get no flame. 

It is OK to apply products like Bio Freeze on occasion. I use it for spot treatment of sore muscles throughout the year. I would not recommend doing this as part of a daily routine however for two reasons. First, it shouldn't be necessary. Second, if you have muscle soreness that often, you are probably doing something else wrong (nutrition, form, etc). 

Simple answer is no. For short runs of less than an hour, you certainly do not need to fuel. On longer runs - even ultra marathons - you do not want to eat immediately before running. Instead, on longer runs it is best to fuel on the run either through liquid calories (preferred) or small portions of solid calories. Depending on body size and effort you should consume about ~240 calories per hour during workouts longer than one hour. Your body can sustain itself in this for hours on end. If you choose to eat before you run, let it be at least 2-3 hours before hand. If you feel like you absolutely need to eat something before a short run, try drinking a glass of water. On the run fueling options are plentiful. I recommend sticking to products containing natural ingredients (skip high fructose corn syrup products). Some recommended vendors and products are Hammer Nutrition's HEED, PowerBar Perform, Infinit Nutrition, ClifShots, etc. And I would absolutely recommend fueling with 20 minutes AFTER running. This is the time that your body will be best at absorbing fuel to help you recover and rebuild your glycogen stores. A recovery meal/shake/drink should be somewhere around 200-300 calories depending on body size and duration of exercise with about 20g of protein. The vendor's I mentioned above also have some quite good products for recovery. 

I've recently been using the Jaybird Freedom earbuds. They have bluetooth so I am not dealing with wires. There are 3 different custom fit buds along with 4 other adjustments. They stay put, fit well, are comfortable and the sound is very decent. 

Yes. Combine your 3x20min a week workout with a short walk every day and a healthy diet and you'll be amazed where you'll be 3 months from now. 

On average, a person has more than 80,000 calories in fat storage. You'd need to burn through this first before your body targets protein for fat storage. 

Go smaller. Don't risk injury. And I suspect, although, I have no proof, that a one-handed 8kg bell will be harder to do than a two-handed 16kg bell. 

Think of it as a gentle meat tenderizer. But instead of weakening the muscle by pulverizing it, the added pressure and use simply promotes blood flow to massaged areas. Foam rollers are great recovery tools because they generate similar benefits as a sports massage, but can be performed by one's self. 

Avoid You may think that this drink is only 100 calories. And that may be so. But, what it doesn't tell you is that the significant sugar (24g) will spike your blood sugar causing your body to produce more insulin. When your body produces insulin, it immediately goes into fat storage mode. So instead of burning some fat (in addition to carbohydrates), it burns 0 fat and continues to store energy reserves as fat. A rule of thumb that I use (works for me, may not for you), is if sugar is listed as the first or second ingredient and/or is more than 8g, I don't eat or drink it. This includes 0-calorie "sugars" like aspartame. Keep your blood sugar in check, and you won't need to be on a "diet".