Start a toilet cleaning rota that has to be signed off when done (similar to pub toilets with the piece of paper on the wall!) and make it part of people's objectives/bring it up in performance reviews if not done. It is the only way to foster any sort of collective responsibility for the state of the toilets as it is obvious everyone appears to think it is someone else problem Failing that, employer a cleaner and inform everyone that there will be no bonuses this year due to the cost of having to employ a cleaner to clean up after everyone! 

I would say that without any proof, you are on pretty shaky ground and it would come down to his word versus yours and it's likely that the more senior employee would be believed either by the MD or your co-workers. Personally (and this is without experience of working for this type of firm/in the broker industry), if it is not noticeably affecting his ability to do his job, then it is of no business of anyones. Unless there are strict clauses in employment contracts about behaviour whilst on the company premises that he is contravening then he is not really doing anything wrong. I'm not sure what would be gained by mentioning this to your co-workers unless you already have an issue with the branch manager for some other reason. 

It's not as obvious as some people think so I'll add it here - magnets on the side of PCs/CPUs are a no-no. IT Support staff all have war stories surrounding this! 

Yes, you definately should. Honesty is always the best policy. Plus, from the way you have described it, you are not re-applying for the same job you were rejected for previously. You were obviously not rejected as being unsuitable for the company as a whole (culture, approach etc) but for a fairly specific role based on a specific lack of experience) If anything, because THEY contacted you, I would mention it. It shows that you have been on thier radar before 

Personally, I do not think it is unethical at all. Certain types of employment (ie: sales) tend to have clauses written into employees contracts to protect them from actions people do when leaving (poaching customers and colleagues) so as @Vinothbabu mentioned, check that you have no similar items in your employment contract. At the end of the day, your co-worker is an adult and can make up their own mind. They can weigh up the pros and cons of joining your side venture for themselves, you are merely offering the opportunity. Also, this feeds in to a common thread that has started to appear in a few answers on this site recently - think long-term. What is of more benefit to you - developing this side venture or protecting your emplyment/reputation with your current employer? I appreciate it is not always a balck and white decision but you need to think what is best for you and your future. 

I got hired by a company about a year ago that doesn't normally do software development. They had contracted out to a firm to get some software written for them. Later, they hired me to help maintain it. What this software does is gather data locally at a rig site, stores it in a local SQL database, and periodically uploads the data to a remote database that is maintained by my company. This allows people who are not at the local rig site(say, the clients CEO) to use a remote version of the software to login, and see what is going on. Each rig site has a name associated with it: Rig 1, Rig 5, etc. The main problem is that the client can create a username/pw each time they run the software. This leads to many logins all associated with new rig sites created with the same names. There are numerous reasons why this happens, the least of which is that the software doesn't check to see if a username already exists. And quite frankly, my company and all the clients all appear to not care about any of this. The most difficult part of it all is if something goes wrong, I don't hear about it for almost 4-6 hours later. And when I do hear about it, I get the very vague "It's not working". When I try to prod them for more information, no one is ever doing anything when it "broke", or no one remembers. This is frustrating to no end, and I get yelled at when I can't successfully fix the issue in a timely manner. I've informed my boss about this issue, and again, no one really seems to care. So that brings about my question: How do I make them care? How do I get them to impose some semblance of standards that will not only make my life easier, but benefit them as well? EDIT Standards I'd like implemented: 

I've been with my current company for slightly over a year. I've never been reprimanded, written up, or heard any displeasure with my work. Yet a couple weeks ago, I started hearing rumors of my being let go. Now, I'm the sole person in my position. This company doesn't require more than one person for my department. This morning, I was told that I'd be interviewing a new person for my department. With the rumors going around, it is quite possible that this person is my replacement. The reason I'm doing it, is that no one else here really understands what I do(IT). Are there any protocol's that I should follow? If he is to replace me, I obviously don't want that, as I like my job. But I also don't want to put myself into a situation where I might get into trouble. EDIT Just to give an update. My boss had me do this interview for a friend of his at another company. That company doesn't have anyone with any programming experience, so they reached out to us to see if we could give the technical interview. Thanks for all of the answers. 

NO! Until you have an offer letter from a new employer in your hand, do not tell your boss/colleagues/company that you are looking for another job If you have a lot of tasks assigned to you when you hand your notice in, you will still have the same amount of notice period, regardless. Part of the responsibility for handing out all these tasks is with your manager to manage handover/cover/failover - what if you were hit by a bus tomorrow? Making you the single point of failure does not always mean it is up to YOU! to manage cover etc 

Personally, I would phone back and ask to speak to the person who interviewed you and make a casual "I just wanted to check that you had my email address correct" or perhaps "I've been having problems with emails not coming through and wanted to check I have not missed one from you" (less preferable) Make it not about chasing but just that you are confirming they have the correct information. If they have genuinely forgotten, it will hopefully prompt them to send the email through with the details. If there is another reason why the email has come through (as per your gut feeling), they will simply confirm the email address is correct. If you then do not receive anything, your gut was correct 

I work in an open plan office where there are 4 people to each bank of desks The lady who sits diagonally behind me will turn round and ‘stare into’ absolutely every conversation that I have with a visitor to my desk be it work related or personal (banter, what was on TV, sports etc). She also does this to the colleague who sits next to me, and especially when the two of us are having conversations. She very very rarely contributes to the conversation, just listens and stares but will occasionally make some unfunny joke to try and shoehorn her way in. NOTE: none of these conversations are in any way private or sensitive, either from a work or personal point of view She is someone who would not take criticism or confrontation very well so how should I deal with this? Everyone seems to know it goes on but no-one really confronts her on it (she has been at this place for many years prior to me joining and I have only been sitting in this position for the past 7 or 8 months) I am finding it more and more distracting. I’ve stopped myself a few times from spinning round and just snapping back with a ‘YES? CAN I HELP YOU?????' Should I speak to management regarding this rather than confront her directly? Moving desks is not an option for me sadly.