If you assume, as I did, that we're talking about a United Earth, read from this point. If you carefully read the OP's post, which I finally did, skip to "EDIT" and read from there. The historian Shelby Foote while speaking about the U.S. Civil War once concluded that the Southern Confederacy never had a chance. The Northern Union with its greater manpower and industrialization fought the war "with one hand behind their back." Had they suffered greater losses, they simply would have brought the other hand out. Your lunar colony has the same problem in spades. No fundamental resources and dependent on Earth for almost everything (no matter how much handwaving is asserted, there's no such thing as 100% recycling and the next baby born would require new resources)... no matter how many weapons had been stockpiled, the moon would fight a valiant war and die in a blaze of glory... and would then be forgotten as a darkened cinder in the sky. If it appeared the lunar colony was winning, the Earth would simply bring the other hand out... and then another hand... and another hand... having basically unlimited resources compared to the moon. Further, it's unbelievable Earth would be so blind, so ignorant, that it would allow the moon to stockpile enough weapons to actually invoke Mutually Assured Destruction. Someone in the Earth bureaucracy would eventually say, "hmmmm.... you've been importing about 100X the putonium you need for your nuclear reactors... care to explain, or should we send in troops now?" Now... if the Moon had somehow developed agriculture and asteroid mining... that might (might) change things, but it's still a bit hard to believe. Why wouldn't the greater manpower and governmental interference of Earth be watching all of that very closely? 

My Goodness, Yes! Many of the most valuable mineral deposits in the world are found in similar spots - including the famous silver mines of Potosi. There are two primary mechanisms that concentrate ores in such locations. First, magma is a liquid in which many chemicals are dissolved. As magma cools, different chemicals fall out of solution at different temperatures. If you had a ball of magma, after it cooled it would be something like an onion, with each layer having concentrations of specific minerals. Of course, in real life you don't get such a neat arrangement. The second mechanism serves to further concentrate the ores. As superheated water travels through the ground it dissolves minerals. As it cools, it deposits them again. Most mineral "veins" are the result of this action, and the results are often near the ground (as hot water bubbles up from below and cools as it nears the surface). Certain ores lend themselves to either type of ore formation, depending on their solubility in water and magma. You can study a good geology textbook, or you can just look at a map of mines in places such as Nevada and Peru and steal their examples. 

Yes And it doesn't compromise their ultra-tough scales at all. Whether you think in terms of a snake (the entire skin is shed at one go) or a lizard like an iguana (the skin flakes off in patches over time), you still have the same basic process... the scale doesn't actually leave the body, leaving the snake or lizard defenseless, the scale underneath grows beyond the limits of a top-layer of skin, and the skin must be shed to make room for the growth. The scale is still there, and in the case of your dragon, still very much armored. Yup, they'd shed their skins... and an ugly biohazard that would be! 

Conclusion If you took the time to cut all your hair and rip off all 20 nails, then grind them into a very fine powder (preferably without causing heating, per the linked article), you would maximize the value of the keratin to your body. But you probably expended far more nutritional calories than you could possibly receive from them. Net effect: you die one day faster, but you won't feel as hungry 

History suggests that only languages spoken by small minority populations are ever lost, and that artificially invented languages rarely if ever take off. The common historical pattern is that the first generation after an invasion or other mixing of two peoples develop pidgin dialects in order to have basic communication with the other people. The second generation develops a creole language. This is one in which vocabularies and grammatical rules are fused, and as a result it resembles neither parent language closely. There follows a period of rapid language drift as the new language evolves. English is a good example. It was born of Norman-French speaking invaders capturing an Anglo-Saxon country. English was born once the social barriers between these communities started to crumble. Chaucer was perhaps the first great author writing in the new language. Shakespeare marked the point where it was unmistakeably one language. Since then the evolution of English has slowed (but it remains faster than many other older languages, especially with respect to grammar). More recently there is Tok Pisin, the national language of Papua New Guinea. It was born of English "talk business" with colonial administrators, but the Empire is no more and the new language is alive and developing all on its own, supplanting or taking over from numerous tribal languages. A modern English speaker is unlikely to understand it. 

Real Estate is your friend. Heck, it might even make you president . . . I assume that you want to make your money fairly fast (otherwise this question is too easy). The beauty of real estate is that single deals can make you hundreds of millions or even billions in a single deal, and no one blinks an eye. With a time machine you can easily buy a piece of Orlando farmland in, say, 1960, and wait for Mr. Disney. Or you can head to 1920, buy a little ranch in Texas, somewhere around Permian, I think, and wait for the oil drills. If you prefer a more hands-on approach, head to Manhattan in the 1930's - you can buy the whole island for a string of beads, I think - and sell in the post-war boom. And here's the thing . . . no one will suspect a thing, because fortunes are made on such "luck" all the time. About 10% of all billionaires made their fortune in real estate, and you probably haven't heard of any of them not named Trump. 

Not if anything like Earth plant life. It's a matter of energy density. A brain is quite expensive of energy. It pays for itself if the creature can keep itself better fed or safer by thinking. This is far more likely for an animal that can direct its own movement. WIth a few small primitive and sluggish exceptions we do hot have animals that photosynthesise. There is not enough energy to be gained that way. For air conditioning calculation, a human office worker emits 200 Watts. Sunshine is a kilowatt per square meter for about eight hours per day, say 330 W/Sq.m averaged out. Photosynthesis is inefficient (4% at best?). Weather inserts clouds. Animals just do not have enough surface area! Plants have a different approach. They are static. They spread in a fractal manner to maximise solar radiation capture per unit of tissue. They have high tolerance of being partly eaten. Apart from poisons and thorns, their main defence is storing energy underground. Many plants can survive even total destruction of their parts above ground. They regrow from the roots. Many also scatter myriad seeds with long viability. There will be a next generation, even years after a catastrophe! Finally, there has been much co-evolution. Fruits are there to be eaten, which gives seeds mobility inside animals. Flowers feed insects, which give pollen flower-targeted mobility. All animal life depends on plants for food and oxygen.So we have the animal and vegetable kingdoms separated but mutually dependant. Plantlife: high surface area to passively absorb energy and CO2, high tolerance of being partly eaten, growing in a fixed location, with no need to make fast decisions and no ability to enact any. Animal life: small surface area, low tolerance of being partly eaten, mobile, uses thought to outwit predators or to prey. Eat plants directly or indirectly, mostly do not kill the whole plant, spread the plants seeds. The only common ground is monocellular life.