Same thing here. If the AI dies, but the structure(vessel) is be too valuable to sideline the whole thing into museum service... then you do the same thing. Remove an expendable, replaceable part to the memorial. Then build a new one, possibly as part of the rehab you're doing anyway. The vessel is identified by the AI's name, and you rename it Perhaps you rename the structure after an AI death. So its nameplate would be the obvious thing to preserve. This may even be an understanding in large stucture design: that the ship is refered to by the AI's name. When the AI dies, the ship is no longer Eagle but is simply BuNo M-657 until a new AI is installed. 

The previous civilization's nuclear program There was once a civilization on that craggy rock, and they had a rather robust nuclear program, in which they synthesized a lot of different atoms. A lot. Many of them decayed into the rare element you want, and are stacked up in their former nuclear waste dumps (which are now largely inert due to countless millennia of decay). Or, they may be scattered all over the planet from a little... thing they did. 

Rotate the bladed feet sideways so they turn into fat paddles that spread weight. When it wants to cut the surface, it just stands on tiptoe. 

* Now there are two modes to operate a track brake. First, line it with brake pads and give it free motion downward to clamp onto and slide along the rail. This is the normal operation method today. Second, "pin" it so it does not have free motion and cannot contact the rail. Now it is magnetically pulling the wheels down upon the rail, increasing adhesion on the wheels. I'm not aware of this mode being in practical use today. Bigger flanges Look at tram flanges -- they are very short compared to railroad flanges, because of the way street railway rail is built. (also a tram derailing is not a big deal). Use railroad flanges on your trams. That was easy. Don't forget linear induction motors This isn't maglev**. Linear-induction is simply the common AC induction motor "unwound" and laid flat" - the copper-coil stator on the bottom of the railcar, the aluminum squirrel-cage "rotor" laid down between the rails. An example is the UTDC system used by the Detroit People Mover and parts of other metro systems. This linear-induction thrust happens independent from any wheel/rail adhesion. It isn't optimized to pull the train car downward toward the track, but it could be. 

In my mind's eye, I could imagine a country which built itself up to be a great economic and political superpower, and then had a leadership change, and due to either isolationism, buffoonery or inexperience (say: inexperience in an at-will market economy), squandered the political power they carried in the world. All the other nations still bought their stuff, it's pretty good stuff, but when they were the one country to back out of a treaty all the rest signed, the rest of the world just soldiered on without them. You see things like this even in our time. Look at Russia after the Soviet Union fell apart. Still the go-to country if you want to put a man in space, or want decent military hardware a child could maintain. 

Radioactive decay makes it almost mandatory The question isn't "how do you have liquid oceans beneath ice". The question is how you don't. The reason is long-lived radioactive isotopes that decay slowly enough that primordial decay is still happening. You have an entire planet with a fairly predictable fraction of its mass made of that stuff. That makes heat, which makes the planet's core hot. That heat has to go somewhere. Aside from making the core rather hot, the heat is also going to propagate up toward the surface. It will be competing with solar load and heat losses into space. As we well know from this planet, the balance between solar load and space losses determines the surface temperature, so if it's far enough from the sun, the surface will freeze of course. Ice is a fair insulator and snow is a lot better. The thicker the ice/snow, the slower the thermal transfer from the earth's core, and the more that heat is "bottled"/contained. So if the oceans are deep enough, the deepest parts must melt. 

Modern militaries depend on things which go boom. They have to store those somewhere. Generally, the place you store ammunition is called a magazine or ammo compartment. If the enemy can magically introduce the force of fire into your magazines at will, he can "cook off" your ammo inside your vehicles. Any fighting vehicle is finished (except a few modern tanks designed to survive that). No aircraft can survive a carried bomb detonating (it may be able to eject a missile engine firing on the rail). A magazine fire on-ship becomes a "save your ship" emergency; the larger ones can flood their magazines with seawater. They certainly they won't be doing any fighting at that point. So a fire-manipulator who really knows what he's doing, can take all the fight out of a modern military. If anything it creates an interesting opportunity for a relatively nonviolent way to end a war. 

It can have an inverse triangle shaped track. This allows rubber tires on top to carry the weight, and tires on the beveled sides to guide it. But much more, all the tires would have airbag suspensions, allowing the wheels to press on all three sides of the triangle in precisely controlled ways. While the top ones would bear the weight of the monorail, all three tires would also be opposing each other, effectively clamping the rail. These extra "opposition forces" create artificial downforce-on-rail that doesn't depend on the weak gravity. This extra adhesion is just as usable as gravity-derived adhesion. Better yet, monorails tend to use rubber tires on concrete rails, so adhesion is comparable to an automobile, at around 100% rather than the ~40% of steel-on-steel. It should be able to brake quite well, as much as two "gees" on Earth and quite a few local "gees" -- which may be too much for the safety and comfort of those acclimated to the weak gravity, especially if (like most trains) it doesn't have seat belts. Earth transit systems prefer to limit accel/decel to 4.5 mphps which equates to 2.0 m/s2 or about 0.2 gee. 

The existing occupants are cray The civilization there is one of the last non-contacted tribes on earth, isolated and uncorrupted by the outside world. This is by mutual agreement on all sides, although their opinion can only be discerned by the hail of arrows which meets every boat or aircraft. No diplomacy with this bunch, and an invasion of Texas would be less bloody. Nearby tribes who were contacted and integrated, went through pretty much the end of their society and their veritable enslavement, and the social values of all powers do not permit this anymore. So it has been the long practice of all the powers to just leave them alone. And there is no particular value to be had there. Keep in mind all the powers already have coverage in this area with portable islands, i.e. ships. Or for that matter it could be a Hunger Games/District 13 type situation where the occupants, though isolated, are capable of defending themselves from a modern force. 

War zones I get the comic book lore of patrolling Gotham City or Metropolis for purse snatchers. But the fact is, you'll have so much work in Aleppo you'll never get out of the city limits, and it's real easy to hide in a war zone. Unexplained phenomena are easily lost in the fog of war. And if you ever did have any spare time, there are those two small projects in Fukushima and Chornobyl that need a super person just to get cameras into hard places. Who knows, might even pick up a few more superpowers. You're gonna be booked solid. The Illuminati "Listen, gumshoe. You've done pretty well to get this far, but you're not the first and you're way, way above your pay grade. Do you really think it's half as simple as we make it look? Sigh... Put it this way, do you really think a fellow like me could operate without sanction from the highest... possible... levels?" You want to be buddying up with the Illuminati or other supranational entity, because they care about the shape of the world, not about dissecting and militarizing you. Find them. And if the Illuminati doesn't exist... form it. 

The future visitor will find a layer of aluminum-oxide dust, some metallic copper, possibly some recognizable plastic bits... underneath layers of iron oxide or whatever the building was made of, underneath a considerable amount of earth and vegetation. Careful, high-tech archaeology would reveal the likelihood of a building. The aluminum, and exotic metals in 4 places and tungsten or depleted uranium in one, would hint of being a 4-engine-on-wing airplane. Flying it would be out of the question. 

Go up 50 storeys Kai Tak Airport is gone, so no need to limit height. Assuming you lose 25% of space to infrastructure, you now have 101.25 hectares or 10.9 million square feet (1.01 million square meters). 25% is probably less than most commercial developments today, but you have a much more compelling need to design for space efficiency. Given 50,000 people, that's 218sq.ft. (20.3 sq.m.) per person. For a singleton that's a fairly respectable "Tiny house". Many "coliving spaces" are tighter than that, with living and kitchen space being in commons areas. A family of 4 gets 872sf (81.2sm), lush by comparison to 1920-era standalone houses built for working class families. 

Build a shell that is a vacuum container, so the mass spins inside it. Put most of the 1GJ into projectile spin before you launch it. Then you can launch it with conventional velocities, so it hits the enemy 5 miles downrange instead of flying past the moon and hitting Jupiter's rings 3 years later. 

Become a real estate developer. Since they expect you to be a monster, they'll just see you for what you are. If that doesn't do it, become a reality-TV host. I have one more suggestion but I'm reluctant to say it. It still won't win you over everyone, but half. Well, maybe a few million shy of half. But who's counting? 

You said it yourself, the crystal is anti-gravity. Left to its own devices, the crystal will want to go up. So they tend to be mislaid. A lot. Thw worst heartbreak of a ship captain is having a chamber breach and watch his crystals head for the shy, knowing his ship is about to go the opposite direction. Whether they depart the solar system or simply get annihilated in the upper atmosphere, I leave to you. 

Easy. Power with steam. Imagine what happens inside a steam engine which has stopped its motion for a limited time. The machinery cools off, and steam condenses inside the machinery. A significant part of its working volume is now full of liquid water instead of steam, which at the very least changes the compression ratio, and at worst could cause a hydraulic lock, since water is incompressible. The procedure, then, is to open blowdown valves just prior to starting motion. The water is blown out using dry steam, in an impressive cloud. If blowdown is done by a simple automatic mechanism, it has no conceivable idea how much liquid water is present, so it's going to blow for a worst-case scenario. The hot, dry steam may also re-boil some of the water. Now, temperature and steam pressure are proportional. It's bad to reduce steam pressure to zero on every cycle, because that also means a significant thermal shock for the machine. So there's logic to keeping the machine mostly pressurized at idle. Water's boiling point is greatly raised at pressure, so that liquid water we're ejecting is at 150-400 degrees C. When it escapes to atmosphere, it will spectacularly flash to steam in a classic BLEVE, adding a great deal more steam cloud. Dry steam doesn't cause any visible smoke (in fact boilermen wave a broomstick ahead of them as they traverse boiler spaces, so they can detect jets of leaking dry steam capable of cutting the broomstick in half). But saturated steam (no hotter than boiling point), upon mixing with cool air, will rapidly condense to water -- and that creates the visible cloud. Won't be any trouble justifying a big steam cloud every time the engine starts. 

They don't know they're losing. TLDR: fog of war. The battlefield is a mess and you don't know what's going on. They don't have a battlefield observation aircraft with radar and night vision looking down on the battlefield and relaying strategic data to their HUD. Seriously, war isn't like that (except in movies). What really happens is the fog of war - too litle information and too much useless information at once in the pandemonium of the battlefield. That's assuming neither you nor the enemy is adding informational chaos on purpose for a tactical advantage, with smoke, vocalizations, decoys, and the like. For a great example of battlefield data misleading commanders, look at the surrender of Detroit, where Tecumseh laid the impression of having a much larger number of fierce Indians. Or the incident where a British special forces platoon got surrounded by a vastly superior force of experienced Iraqi guard, and the F-16 air support could see the battle but couldn't pick out the Brits because they didn't bring strobes. So the F-16’s kept their weapons on the racks and hit everybody with sonic booms along with some other nonlethal theater like flares&chaff, and some well timed fire from the British forces, to create the illusion of a full-on airstrike. This made the guard follow their trained procedures for surviving an airstrike, and while they turtled, the Brits escaped. 

Hearts and minds, starting in the occupied areas. Improve life, improve travel, respect as much as possible the values that matter to people, and let the word get out: things are better in the occupied areas. Let city leaders decide "we want in on that". Them converting themselves is the only way it works. 

No problem, unless you have an unfortunate location. Use water cooling and interchange your waste heat to the water table. Side-drill pipes as long as you need to keep from ingesting your discharge water and to move the heat signature (what little of it there'll be) away from your base. If you discharge your heat in a large enough area, it will be inconsequential and will take a sharp eye to spot (why is this land a half degree hotter than surrounding areas); this is how the Soviets found the Red October in Clancy's book. You may be able to mask even that by well chosen discharge sites. 

Absolutely, positively overnight You run an express delivery service in a way entirely achievable with normal means, but hard to do perfectly. You do it perfectly. Because when something goes awry, you use your teleport gang to fix it. Take McMaster-Carr. They have warehouses strategically placed so they can reach most Americans overnight with cheap UPS ground service. Warehouses carry most things BLIP! all things. A TelEx cargo Airbus 340 climbs out of Heathrow when BLAM! A wayward drone is ingested by the #3 engine, throwing shrapnel into #4 . With all the thrust on the left side, the heavily laden craft's rudder can't BLIP! empty craft's rudder can easily turn the plane back to an uneventful landing. Your company just doesn't have the kind of misfortune everyone else in the business does. 

Make the bullet heavier. Done. Impact energy is decided by the powder load, period. Powder = punch. Imagine if the end of the bullet stuck out of the barrel and was held directly against the armor. The same powder would impart the same amount of energy to the armor regardless of the size, shape or weight of the bullet. What changes if the bullet travels some distance? Not the impact energy; the same energy bears against the armor (minus aerodynamic losses). Th's a lot of math which can be done here, and you can do it if you really want to, but it's going to cancel out and lead you back to impact energy heing proportional to powder load. For a fixed powder load, the mass of the bullet decides how much velocity the bullet will get. Make the bullet heavier, it'll get less velocity. Make the bullet heavier enough, and the speed is sub-sonic. So there you are. An armor-piercing slug is totally a thing It is completely legitimate to have an anti-armor weapon which is simply a slug of metal. It is one of the major types of anti-tank rounds in common use today. Then of course there is the classic mass driver from science fiction. However, the trend is to make these rounds rather insanely fast. For instance the sabot round is almost a crossbow bolt much smaller than the tank barrel, the difference packed with discarding sabots, which fall off immediately after it leaves the barrel. The sabots are lightweight, so almost all the powder energy is transferred to the bolt. The reason this is better requires a deep detour into the arcana of penetrating armor, which is too much to get into here. If you're wondering if subsonic penetrators can be effective, half of all fatalities of a train hitting a car, pedestrian etc. happen with the train moving 4 mph or less. One engine with one car is about 200 tons, so that's 290 kJ, compare to 53 kJ of kinetic energy for an M61 Vulcan round. Slower and heavier is better... Kinda. The bullet will lose energy from aerodynamic drag. The faster the bullet, the more loss. A supersonic bullet must spend energy making the sonic boom, so it loses more energy. A slower bullet brings more of its initial energy to the target. A larger bullet will also tend to be more aerodynamic. One factor in aerodynamics is front-facing area. Another is wetted area, or total surface area exposed to the wind. These are area factors, but the bullet's mass is a function of volume. That makes the square-cube law work in favor of the larger bullet. These factors mean the subsonic bullet will be slightly more efficient at delivering powder energy to the armor. That means better penetration, or less powder needed. I would say the farther the shot, the more advantage to the slower bullet. But not entirely However range is a bit of a problem, as a slower bullet will have more of an arc in its travel, be more affected by the wind, and won't have the "legs" to go very long distances. This makes aiming more difficult, and may even force you into using artillery-style spotting and targeting computations. And the slow travel means spotter-based correction will take longer, and give your enemy more time to scoot. It may well be that you take a shot and your spotter tells you "2 metres high, 5 metres too far right". And you adjust and shoot again. And for your enemy, it means if they're ever minding their own business and they hear an odd sound, to hit the deck / move their machine, because the next one will hit!