On top of that, if you decide you can see what's happening. Considering the distances involved, the smallest shake on the telescope would go off Earth. so that your final images would probably be the few good images that happened to showcase Earth. You couldn't really get a "film" if you had that in mind. In the end, if I was your characters, I'd try to launch a series of probes in a hit'n'run : come in, take a clip of what's happening, get out. Repeat until you know what's happening or until the probes don't come back. This might require having an independent launching station/ship between Alpha and Earth. The challenge of synchronizing a telescope swarm I have added this section as I think it's the kind of information you want if you go ahead with this. But it's not the biggest problem. I don't really know what kind of performance you can get from a telescope swarm. First of all, why would you want to synchronize telescopes? The main point would be to make them move as one and align them on the same object. Earth is a moving target after all. As a starting point, the Webb telescope will be located at the Lagrangian point (L2), which is 1.5 million km from Earth but relatively close. There is a 5 second delay between Earth and L2, making synchronization impossible without FTL communication (which may or may not be acceptable for you). This means that you can have a synchronized swarm of telescope in the same area of space, but it's simply impossible to have a swarm spanning the whole solar system. You could, however, collect separate data from multiple point of view in the solar system and reassemble them later. 

I suffered from hypotention a great deal as a young woman. You wouldn't want me on there. Although most of the time I did ok there were times I could barely get out of bed. 

New Orleans is an area you will want to look at for inspiration. Also be aware that any low lying area that has massive storms such as hurricanes pushing storm surge inland before them is going to have problems with newly interred caskets coming out of the ground. 

Paul O. Müller was was a Austrian theoretical nuclear physicist who was stupidly drafted into the the German army and sent to die on the Russian front at Pechenkino near Sukhinichi on March 9 1942. Instead of having him die have him be captured and then the Soviets use him to run a separate nuclear program rather than use the Rosenberg's to steal the information from us. That way they could be on a par or even ahead of us. 

Assuming they have "generic" technology and that the gods are not omniscient and that they are mystical. My understanding is that the gods can kill anyone as soon as they know of them. Such that an atlatean could walk amongst worshipper unharmed but should they show who they are they'd die at this moment. Could the Atlanteans hide from the god : Either by (ironically) sinking atlantis? I think Star gate placed atlantis as a sunken spaceship. Could they do the same without the Starship part? Teleportation could play a part in this. Or simply hide it throught light manipulation based camouflage and technological cloacking? Do the Atlatean understand the physic involve in tehe god's "existence"? Could they genetically engineer themselves to stop being "atlanteans" or just stop being human? Could they upload themselves in machine, so that their body can die while their consciousness lives on. Since you mention Star Trek as a guide, I think the cloacking idea is possible. Giving themselves the time to research means to genetically change themselves or just organize hidden party to interact with humans. If my understanding of the dangers is correct, they could trade with men as long as they pretend to be from somewhere else. As an example, they could keep trading with France by pretending to be Greek. 

I grew up in the sub tropics. I ended up in Nebraska for a while and then England. You need to look up seasonal effective disorder (SAD). It is a very real depressive condition that is caused by the difference in the amount of sunlight you get from the amount you grew up with. It can be treated by things such as light boxes and high wattage incandescent bulbs but none of those are quite the same as getting as much sunlight as you grew up with. How people would handle the cold would depend on how well they are clothed and prepared for the conditions. Luckily I had access to proper clothing for the environment and was taught to dress in layers. If the individual(s) have to do things like drive or learn how to keep their homes warm without sufficient explanations it could cause a problem also. 

If you are talking about human habitability then there may be a serious problem with growing crops humans could eat unless there is little or no seasonal variation. If you are talking about native life only then it should not be a problem because any life would evolve to fit the planet it springs from. 

Alpha centauri is 4.3 lightyears form Earth. so you should see what happens 4 year earlier. Which can actually make for a pretty interesting concept. The second big problem is that the telescope needs to stay fixed on earth (or worse, on a particular city). As you pointed out in your question. This feat seem almost impossible considering the distance, as a fraction of a degree would spell the difference between looking at Earth and looking at Pluto. But it is theoretically possible. Distin's idea of using many telescope might help on that regard. As the redundancy could be used to recalibrate the telescopes in real time, cover for errors and reconstruct a better image afterwards. The last point concerns seeing through the atmosphere. The reason Hubble is located in space is that the atmosphere blurs image. This, along with point number 2, would probably make seeing a distinct city completely impractical. This would probably also prohibit the use of many telescopes like Dustin proposes. This site explains it quickly. This is not really a problem if you wish to see what's happening in space. The telescope would need to be incredibly powerful to clearly see all the way to Earth. Which also implies it would be incredibly massive. Today's telescope do not allow us to see any kind of details of something smaller than a star. I'm afraid I can't give more precise guess at how big it would need to be. Dustin's idea makes this point a little better as the individual telescopes can be smaller. 

Whooo (like halting a horse) there, "With that in mind, I imagine that some of these planets if not all would be capable of having sentient life." While one or possibly more of these planets may be the best chance of finding life on a different world finding intelligent life is a totally different situation. In only one instance has intelligent life here on Earth been proven on a world filled with life for millions of years. (Yes there is a questions whether we can classify dolphins, whales or even some apes as intelligent but for now we will stick to humans because we are the only ones capable of leaving the planet at the moment unless of course we take some of the others.) While some people think life on Earth may have arose from life on Mars or from elsewhere in the universe via extremophiles we do not know if panspermia (the name some scientist have given to that theory) will actually work or not. I will be thrilled to find some sign of life one one of these planets. I am not sure about sentient life. At only 40 light years if it were less advanced than us I would be concerned about our future effect on them. If it is more advanced than us I would be terrified of what they would do to us when not if they discovered we are here!