I'll attempt the first question "Is a pool noodle illegal?" It depends on the country. In Germany (and probably similar in most EU) the vehicle regulation code (StVZO) does not explicitly prescribe dimensions for bicycles, but the general opinion seems to be that the rules for small motorbikes (mopeds) apply (StVZO paragraph 32). This means a maximum width of 1 metre for the bike and also for trailers. This is also what I was told a couple of years ago when I inquired about building my own bicycle trailer. Load dimensions are in paragraph 22 of the traffic code (StVO). If a load (on any vehicle, as far as I understand) extends sideways by more than 40 cm beyond the shape of the vehicle, it has to be made visible with flags and lights. Vehicles with loads cannot be wider than 2.55 metre in total (exceptions for agricultural vehicles). The rule specifically says that poles, sticks, flat boards or similar should never extend sideways (I think this means more than 40cm beyond the vehicle contour). Presumably the idea is that they are very hard to see as they have a small contour. They probably didn't have soft foam noodles in mind, but technically these noodles are "poles or sticks".. What I take from that is: If you fix the noodle in some kind of permanent way, then it's part of the bike and the bike should not be more than 1 metre wide in total. So you can probably only have it stick out about 30-40cm beyond your handle bars (ca 60cm wide). If it's attached loosely, then it counts as a load, but still has to be less than 40cm as it is a "thin pole or stick" As the noodle is soft and not really a danger, you will probably not be prosecuted but I would expect police will stop you and ask you to remove it if it sticks out more than half a metre. 

Besides all the obvious health benefits of light physical activity, a bicycle gives - especially for elderly people - freedom and independence, with many benefits for social and mental health. Many people don't drive or don't have access to a car, public transport is too limited, and walking to shops or social activities is just too far. With a bicycle they depend less on relatives or social services for getting a lift to shops, clubs, cinema and whatever. A bicycle is a suitable means of transport even for people with health problems, if you take it slowly and possibly with an adapted bike, and I know elderly people who don't like to drive and others who can't walk long distances, but they cycle everywhere. They would be stuck at home without a bicycle. 

The Royal Society for the Prevention of Accidents (RoSPA) collects statistics in the UK. I haven't read the documents in detail (you have to register to download...), but there is a summary page here: $URL$ Mechanical failure doesn't seem to be common, it isn't even mentioned in the summary. Most injuries happen in a collision with a vehicle, so this is not the kind of crash you're asking about. The page says that, for adults, "16% of fatal or serious cyclist accidents reported to the police do not involve a collision with another vehicle, but are caused by the rider losing control of their bicycle." Of course, "losing control" can mean a lot, including mechanical failures, and some of the collisions will also be caused by things like failing brakes. As far as I know, there is a lack of data as bicycle crashes are normally not investigated in detail, unless there is a court case (but these are then usually collisions where guilt or liability has to be established). From experience and general discussions it seems to me that the main mechanical failure that people have is in the brakes - the brake cable snapping, or worn brake pads (or the wrong kind of brake pads). The problem is that these issues may come without obvious warning - the brake may work well, but then suddenly fail completely when you need it. But you can reduce the risk a lot by good maintenance - check the brake pads and cables regularly for wear, and make sure both brakes are in good order so you always have one even if the other fails. I've also heard stories of the front wheel coming off. However this is really rare and happened when they did a jump (e.g. jumping on a pavement, but they weren't going so fast). Not really on a road, as the wheel is pushed into the dropouts by gravity. The reason was really that the wheel nut wasn't tightened; so check that the wheel nuts or quick releases are fastened; again good maintenance reduces the risk. If you have a quick release and often leave your bike unattended, you may want to put a cable tie around the lever and the fork so that you can see if some joker fiddled with it. If you have disk brakes, it is possible that the wheel is pushed out of the dropouts when braking, although this is more a design fault in some early designs and I think not so much of a problem any more. Other types of mechanical failures (frame breaking, handle bar coming off etc) can happen in principle, but they don't usually happen so suddenly without warning, you'll usually notice the problem long before it's dangerous as the handling of the bike changes. For example, a crack in the frame may make the bike quite wobbly, but it doesn't suddenly disintegrate, and people have gone on for ages without crashing (or even noticing). I have once cycled for about hundred kilometers with several cracks in my rear rim. So, mechanical failures can of course happen, but there are only a few types of failures that will be really dangerous (i.e. happen suddenly without warning), and much can be avoided by basic maintenance and generally checking your bike regularly. 

I used nail varnish, it sticks well to the plastic and is very tough. It's easier to apply than spray paint, but a bit more fiddly and forms a thicker layer of paint. I also used it to mark the locks. You get bottles in the most absurd colours in a 1-pound shop in the teenage cosmetics section. 

Campaigning can be quite frustrating as you'll get a lot of opposition against your suggestions, but even if you don't see immediate results it will put cycling on the agenda and politicians become aware that the current situation is not good enough. 

Besides the practical issues, you should also check the law. In many countries, bicycles must have two independent brakes. A fixie without any additional brakes would be illegal and you risk a fine, even if you do nothing else wrong. It is not even clear if the pedals in a fixie count as a brake system (in Germany, a lawsuit was needed to clarify that this is acceptable as one of the two required brakes, but fixies still need a second, independent brake). 

In the long term, you can also lobby and campaign for better cycling provision. The personal safety advice (better visibility etc.) is all valuable, but there is only so much you can do when a junction s poorly designed and creates conflict between different road users. Basically, if you feel unsafe on the road, then the road needs to be designed better. Lobbying for better cycle lanes will of course not make cycling safer or more pleasant immediately, but there is a good chance you will see improvements over the years. In Edinburgh (where I live) we've seen huge steps forward, both in quantity and quality of cycle provision, thanks to very substantial and constructive campaigning by various groups, and by now almost all local councillors are publicly in favour of supporting cycling as sustainable transport that solves a lot of inner-city problems (congestion, noise, pollution, health etc.). Cycling into town feels significantly safer and more comfortable now than it did just five years ago. In practice, you can: 

It seems to me that the types of injuries are different for motorbikes and bicycles, so that the requirements are different, and I can't see that body armour is useful for bicycles. Common motorbike incidents are when a rider comes off the bike at fairly high speed, either because they lost control or in a collision, and the clothing is designed to protect the rider as she/he slides on the road and possibly hits something. This is not typically what happens in bicycle incidents, especially in cities. Most deadly collisions happen when an HGV turns with a bicycle in the blind spot and the cyclist ends up under the rear wheels. No amount of reasonable body armour can protect you when the weight of 20 ton truck crushes you. You can only try to stay away from large vehicles as much as possible. Other bicycle incidents in cities are usually not high impact/high speed, and the main danger is hitting your head on the ground at 10-20km/h. Not only when you hit a pothole, but also in collisions. When you get right-hooked by a car, most damage is not from the collision as such but they may clip your front wheel and you lose control and hit the ground. When a car pulls out, you often slide over the bonnet and again the main injuries come when you hit the ground. For an impact of 10-20km/h, the head is the body part with a large risk of serious damage - that's why cycle helmets are designed for this kind of scenario. The rest of your body is much less at risk; you may get a broken wrist and a lot of very painful scratches but rarely anything life-threatening. Padded clothing can make the fall much less painful, of course. So, I wouldn't put too much trust in body armour. Fine for motorbikes due to the different kinds of speeds, but for bicycle incidents in the city they are either unnecessary or can't protect you enough, depending on what you get hit by. I guess that's why even professionals only wear helmets, despite their more dangerous riding style. 

An additional point that hasn't been mentioned is that normally the road infrastructure is not suitable for "against the flow" cycling. It may not matter much on straight country roads, but junctions are essentially always designed asymetrically. For example: 

Lock have typically two kinds of problems. How far can you push the key in? Does it go in only partly, or does it go in fully but then you can't turn it? Often the disks inside have rotated so that you can't get the key in completely. Then it helps if you take a stiff wire or thin screwdriver and wiggle it up and down in the keyhole, and then try again with the key. But if the key goes in but doesn't turn, then it might be clogged up with dirt, in this case degreaser might help. Make sure you dry the lock carefully afterwards and don't use oil or grease to lubricate, they will just attract dirt and clog it up again. If you want to lubricate, use dry lubricant like graphite. 

I left my bike at the airport for a week and would do it again. It seemed to be the safest place in the whole city, safer than my home. It depends on where the bike racks are; here in Edinburgh they are right next to the entrance to the departure check-in hall. It's inside the vehicle perimeter, and a security guard stood with a submachine gun next to it. There are probably also numerous security cameras watching the whole entrance area (and unlike most urban cctv, they are properly monitored!). If you only use a cheap lock that can be picked or cut with small tools, then your bike is at risk wherever you leave it. But any decent D-lock requires a power tool. Now imagine the thief who drives his pickup truck through the security crash barriers and then takes out his noisy angle grinder right next to a submachinegun-armed security guard at the airport. I think he would be done for more than attempted bike theft :-) An airport, even without any special bike security arrangement, has all the features of a very secure place. Lots of people at all time, regular security guard patrols, cameras, access control, etc. So I really wouldn't worry too much, as long as you have a solid D-lock that needs bigger tools. But leave your bike only at a designated bicycle parking area, don't lock it to any other railing or lamp-post like you would do in any other place. Then it might be you who will be in trouble with airport security.... 

Also, your brain adjusts the sense of balance over time. You often get this when you cycle up a long steep hill followed by a less steep road with very little inclination. The flatter road may look like actually going downhills (even though it's still uphills) because on the steep climb your brain adjusts and your sense of what is "horizontal" gets tilted a bit. Often, its only when you turn around that you actually get a real sense of the inclination. 

If jiggling the key doesn't work, I found that jiggling something thinner, eg a toothpick or wire nail, works better because it can pass the rotated disks more easily. Push it in all the way and move it up and down. 

How thick are the pads? Are these rim brakes or disk brakes? For rim brakes, the block (rubber) will get worn away over time so you should adjust the cable occasionally, but well before the block is so thin that the shoe (the metal backing) starts to scrape on the rim. For disk brakes it's essentially the same but the pad is thinner and made of harder material. The manufacturers usually give a number how thin the pad can become, something like 0.7 mm.