There doesn't seem to be such a word. Interstellar space within the Solar System is still just interstellar space. There doesn't seem to be a demand for the word you're looking for either. We distinguish space by its contents; the space within the heliosphere is called the interplanetary medium (it contains solar plasma, dust, etc.), while the interstellar medium comprises sparse gaseous molecules from the Local Fluff and (if you go far enough) the rest of the Local Bubble. Whereas there are about 10 oxygen molecules per cubic centimeter in the interplanetary medium, there is only 1 oxygen molecule per cubic centimeter in the interstellar medium. Seeing that there is no clear boundary for the Milky Way (nor is there any single definition for a boundary for galaxies), the intergalactic medium just vaguely describes the medium within galaxy filaments; here, the space is so rarified that there is only 1 oxygen molecule per cubic meter. 

As they described, the entropy in the Universe would increase with each cycle. At this point we realize that each cycle in the Universe's history would be different — and if we extrapolated back into the past, we would find that at some point, entropy must have been at its minimum (the Big Bang!) The fact that we would be back to the Big Bang would remove any need for an Oscillating Universe hypothesis — which tries to explain what preceded the Big Bang. That problem led many astrophysicists to abandon the Oscillating Universe hypothesis. But nonetheless, the idea that the Universe is reborn is quite attractive, and we still know very little about cosmology — including dark energy, which we think has a vital role in the Universe. Some cosmologists continue to research the Oscillating Universe model in hopes that, as we learn more about dark energy and the Universe, we may be able to avoid the problems with the second law of thermodynamics. 

You can see how the galaxies drift apart as the space between them increases. And this happens everywhere in the Universe. So let's keep that in mind and clear up the Big Bang. The Big Bang did not happen at a single point, nor did the Universe begin at a single point. The Universe is, and has always been, infinite. The Big Bang was just when the Universe's expansion really began — that is, when objects started drifting away from each other. The Universe was still infinite, but there was less space between the matter. This density caused the Universe to get extremely hot and expand. So here, space itself was distorted and began to expand. More and more space was created between the matter, and still is now (although now it is mainly due to dark energy instead of heat). 

Again, it is extremely difficult to break down the mass of the components of a galaxy. This is the best you can really do without combining tremendous generalizations with shoddy math and sources. 

Forgive me if my question has an obvious answer, but I need to know the answer. I always thought that more massive/energetic objects had a stronger force of gravity than less massive ones; that is, the Sun would create a stronger gravitational pull than the Earth does. Upon looking into Newton's law of universal gravitation, I began to wonder whether I misunderstood this. Does the gravity between the Sun and Earth have an equal force on both? As in, does the Earth pull the Sun with as much force as the Sun does on Earth? If so, would the Sun just resist accelerating to Earth because it is extremely massive? Mass is just an object's resistance toward accelerating from a force, right? If this is the case, would it apply to GR? Sorry for hypothesizing, I'm honestly trying to get a grasp on it. 

Without these tools, he probably wouldn't have seen it at all. Not to mention, Neptune's brightness fluctuates — at its brightest, it is $7.8$; at its dimmest, it is $8$. That might not seem like much, but when finding Neptune, it could make a big difference. Regardless, even in ideal conditions, it is generally agreed that Neptune is the only planet that cannot be seen with the naked eye. Most sources state that you need to at least use binoculars to see Neptune. 

A black hole doesn't necessarily need to form from a star; theoretically, it could form from any extremely dense object. In fact, many astronomers differentiate certain black holes, like supermassive ones, from stellar ones (ones that form from stars). However, could the same apply for neutron stars? Neutron stars only form because of the intense gravity during a star's collapse: electron capture is forced to happen, and the majority of the star becomes neutrons. Could this potentially happen to non-stellar objects, if the gravity forces electron capture? If so, why don't we see as many of these "neutron objects" as we do non-stellar black holes? 

I should clear this up: the Milky Way isn't a completely well-defined body. Galaxies shouldn't be thought of as a single body — they are more like a collection of various material and stars. That said, I can only give you a wonky estimate of what might be the composition. By "Milky Way", I'm assuming you mean only the Milky Way's disc and halo (and not everything that orbits the Galactic Center, like the satellite galaxies). That alone is hard to define, but let's get a rough estimate. The entire mass of the Milky Way is a bit uncertain, but it falls between $0.8–1.5×10^{12}M_☉$. Let's average that at about $1.2×10^{12}$. Sagittarius A*, the black hole at the center of our galaxy, has a mass of roughly $4,000,000M_☉$. That would make it only ~0.0003% of the galaxy! A few sources state that dark matter composes about 90% of the Milky Way's mass. So it has a mass of approximately $1.08×10^{12}M_☉$. If we want to dissect the rest, we'll have to make generalizations. From some sources like this one, about 75% of MW stars are M type stars, 15% are F-K stars and the remaining 10% are mostly degenerate stars. Knowing that there are 100 billion stars in our galaxy, we can take their average masses and kind of conclude that 3% of the Milky Way's mass is from stellar objects. Regarding the mass of gases in the Milky Way, this source states that both atomic gas and molecular gas would individually make up 0.25% of the Milky Way's mass. Combined, we get 0.5%. The rest is buried in a sea of contradictions and mystery. That said, here's the best breakdown I could make: 

I've asked this question to a couple of physicists a few days ago. Great minds think alike, huh? First, bear in mind that Hawking radiation is only hypothetical. It is not theory. If we trust that hypothesis, this is what we can get. In general relativity, black holes can be described through a number of approximations. For example, the Schwarzschild solution for a black hole describes it as an eternal object — not something that exists for some times, and doesn't exist for others. According to this solution, the event horizon must have always existed, and must remain existing eternally. Schwarzschild black holes approximate black holes very accurately, but as you can tell, they fail to explain how a black hole can form, and (assuming Hawking radiation is real) they don't explain how one could eventually evaporate. Of course, that solution won't help us. I've kept looking for one that accurately describes an evaporating, creatable black hole, but I've found nothing. The conclusion I've come to, along with those I've asked, is that our question has a major problem: Hawking radiation is explained via quantum field theory. Thus, you can't simply use a GR solution for a black hole; you'd need some unholy mixture of quantum field theory and general relativity (keep in mind that both GR and QFT are incompatible in many situations). In the end, it all comes down to how little we really know about black holes. It's not really possible to determine which solution is the best, and our inability to reconcile QFT with GR poses a big problem. The best answer I could give is "nobody really knows what would happen if you kept approaching a black hole". We don't know if we would reach the event horizon, we don't know if the black hole will evaporate. We simply don't understand them well enough to know what solution would work, or how we would put QFT into it. If we somehow managed to find an approximation that properly combines GR and QFT, I assume (but don't quote me on this) the situation you described would be possible. If it is possible, by the way, then we could confidently say that a black hole of any size could rip you apart through tidal forces. Tidal forces become weaker as the black hole's size increases, so one would assume a large enough black hole wouldn't rip you apart. However, if we take Hawking radiation into account, and if your proposed scenario were indeed correct, the black hole would shrink as it evaporates. Since it would get smaller at a faster rate as we approach the event horizon, it would soon be small enough to rip us apart. 

The problem with this is that there are stars, diffused sunlight and airglow that prevent the night sky from being near-perfectly black. This has always been a problem, and it's only gotten worse with air pollution — meaning that we would be less likely to see Neptune unaided nowadays. My guess is that in the past, there have been a few people who have seen Neptune, but none that would take note of it. Do you know how many objects of magnitude less than $7.8$ are there in the sky? The answer is, approximately 30 thousand! Good luck finding Neptune. Even with telescopes, Neptune can be hard to point out. Galileo actually discovered Neptune 200 years before it was recognized as a planet, but he mistook it for a star. Point is, even aided eyes often cannot identify Neptune. Anyway, the reason Curtis could see such dim objects is because he had exceptionally good vision and was aided by tools: