Have you considered the Finger Lakes Trail? It's certainly long enough, and has lean-tos along most of its length. There aren't a lot of loops, but you may be able to arrange a one-way with return by car or public transport. (In particular, the section around Ithaca crosses county bus routes at several places.) 

I didn't know this, but in fact, the ability to send text messages to 911 is being developed and could be ready within a year or two. $URL$ The four major US wireless carriers expect to be ready to route text messages to 911 by May 15, 2014. However, it may take longer for local emergency dispatch centers to be able to handle them. The system will be rolled out gradually; starting September 30, 2013 (June 30, 2013 for the major carriers), you will at least get a bounce-back if the system isn't available in your area. 

Ray Mears has produced videos on sharpening knives. In particular, sharpening them in camp and in the field. The teqhnique is pretty much as @WedaPashi explains it, but it's good to see a video of the correct approach. 

I carry a Victorinox knife. On my last few trips I've used the various tools on it to pry shellfish off rocks, slice cheese and salami, prepare vegetables, cut sticking plaster, cut duct tape for gear repair, cut cloth to make a dressing, open packets of dehydrated food neatly. I have, in the past, used the wood saw on it to clear windfall. It did the job but a folding saw would have been much better. Of all the non-knife tools, the scissors get the most use. As far as other gear, I also carry a KFS set (a knife because the pocket knife is useless at spreading marmite and jam). I go out with people who carry no knives at all. I wonder what they would do if they had to cut clothes to make bandages or slings? To make an emergency shelter? 

When hiking, I often find myself in areas where cell phone reception is poor or intermittent. Sometimes the signal is not good enough to make a call, but it is still possible to send text messages (SMS). I have often wondered how I could use this to summon help in case of an emergency. I'm in the US, and as far as I know, it isn't possible to send text messages to 911. The only idea I've come up with is that I could send a text to a friend, and ask them to call 911 or the local authorities in my area and relay the information. This is inefficient, and requires that I find a friend who is by their phone. Is there a more direct way? I'd prefer answers that don't require special equipment or pre-arranged services other than a standard cell phone. 

Given that it is above the mesh pocket at the side, my guess is that it is for walking/ski poles. If you need to put the poles away for a short time (for example, a traverse using your ice axe, a river crossing), you don't need to go to the trouble of loosening the compression straps (the ones holding the tent poles in the photos above). 

I clean my drinking system with lots of hot water then sterilise it using baby bottle sterilising tablets. Once it is clean, I don't dry it - I store it in the freezer. :-) Additionally, I don't use anything but water. People I know who use powdered drinks or sugar solution tell me the black mold grows really quickly inside the drinking tube and valve. 

It is not. The lowest-impact solution is to use a poo-pot. These are compulsory in alpine areas here in New Zealand. Pack it out - Poo pots 

Suppose I am out in the wilderness and an emergency arises. I have an accurate fix on my location (from GPS, map and compass, astronomical observation, etc...). I manage to get in touch with emergency services and need to tell them where I am. But there are many different formats I could use to report my position. 

(And with any of these systems there is the finer question of which Earth ellipsoid or datum my map or GPS is based on, which could make a difference of a few tens or hundreds of meters in the position; in dense forest this could make it considerably harder for rescuers to find me.) Obviously I want to avoid any confusion; if I give my position in (say) degrees / minutes / seconds, and a helicopter pilot blindly types it in their GPS which is set to decimal degrees, they'll go to the wrong place (perhaps many kilometers away). UTM is less ambiguous, but will they even know what that is? I may be speaking to a dispatcher in an urban office, perhaps over a noisy and unreliable phone or radio connection, and that's hardly the time for a technical discussion of the fine points of geodesy. So in short: 

Scheduled Transport If you are catching scheduled transport (e.g. bus or ferry) then you need a watch. There might only be one trip a day. If you miss it, you are stuck for an extra night. You might be ticketed on one particular time, so if you are late, the next bus or plane won't pick you up. For example, the Milford Track Great Walk in New Zealand. There are only two boat trips a day in summer, and you are ticketed for one specific time. If you miss that, the other ferry that day will only take you if there is space available. Tides If your transport is a boat that can only get in at high tide, then you need a watch. If you are making a crossing that can only be done at low tide, then you need a watch.