(note: AR = allergic rhinitis, c57BL/6 is the typical black laboratory mouse, while balb/c is the classic white one) 

This is a very interesting question, that has been extensively studied and has received great attention. As such, it has often been vandalized by generic press, leaving people quite confused on the matter. That antioxidants have physiological effects I would say needs no proof: our body utilises antioxidants such as ascorbate (vitamin C) to keep down the amount of free radicals, as can be confirmed by any basic physiology textbook (I can provide references if you need). To get to the actual point of your question: do antioxidants have the "ability to prevent strokes"? I don't know if the article you read specifically used those words, but this is the type of bad "generic press talk" I was referring to... Antioxidants do not prevent stroke. You can live a super-healthy life, take tons of antioxidants, exercise every day and still have a stroke. What certain antioxidants can do is to reduce the possibility of having a stroke, which is a very different thing. This is mostly due to the fact that oxidative stress is a risk factor for different cardiovascular diseases. In the same line of thought, certain antioxidants, in certain regimes and certain situations can help fighting cancer. They DO NOT CURE cancer by themselves, I cannot stress this enough. Again, the idea is that free radicals can damage DNA increasing the risk of cancer. Free radical do not provoke cancer, but they can be a risk factor. Same for neurodegenerative diseases and many other illnesses where antioxidants can help in certain cases. It is difficult to generalize because stroke, cancer, neurodegenerative diseases are very broad category of illnesses, that can have the most disparate etiologies. So free radicals are not always the issue and antioxidants are not always the solution. Also, free radicals are actively used by our bodies (e.g. during immune responses) so excess antioxidants is not necessarily good. The scientific literature at this regard is simply huge and it would be difficult to have a complete bibliography here. Here's a sample of papers and reviews at this regard, if someone who is more in the field knows better papers/reviews please feel free to update my answer (sorry most of these are limited access papers). Air pollution: mechanisms of neuroinflammation and CNS disease. - Block and Calderón-Garcidueñas, Trends Neurosci., 2009 Oxidative stress and endothelial dysfunction in cerebrovascular disease. - Chrissobolis et al, Front Biosci., 2011 Oxidative DNA damage in mild cognitive impairment and late-stage Alzheimer's disease. - Lovell and Markesbery, Nucleic Acids Res., 2007 Mitogenic signaling mediated by oxidants in Ras-transformed fibroblasts. - Irani et al, Science 1997 c-Myc can induce DNA damage, increase reactive oxygen species, and mitigate p53 function: a mechanism for oncogene-induced genetic instability. - Vafa et al, Mol Cell 2002 and there is many many more. Not all antioxidants are good, however. For instance, this paper talks about the role of the transcription factor Nrf2, a factor which is involved in the physiological control of free radicals (so we can, by extension, call it an antioxidant inducing factor). The authors show that excess activation of Nrf2 does actually induce tumorigenesis rather then prevent it. Oncogene-induced Nrf2 transcription promotes ROS detoxification and tumorigenesis. - DeNicola et al., Nature 2011 

A more recent article indicates that DNA damage is increased by acesulfame-K and saccharin (more than aspartame), although none of those was mutagenic. Unfortunately I do not have access to the full-text, so I cannot really comment on the results. Genotoxicity testing of low-calorie sweeteners: aspartame, acesulfame-K, and saccharin. - Bandyopadhyay et al., Drug Chem Toxicol. 2008 From the abstract: 

Specifically, they cite this 1936 paper, which unfortunately I cannot seem to find Circulatory changes in fingers in some diseases of the nervous system, with special reference to digital atrophy of peripheral nerve lesions. - Lewis and Pickering - Clin Sci 1936 Some more recent work: Finger wrinkling: a test of autonomic function. Bull and Henry - Br Med J 1977 Skin wrinkling for the assessment of sympathetic function in the limbs. - Vasudevan et al. - Aust NZ J Surg 2000 Case of the month: the skin wrinkle test – a simple nerve injury test for paediatric and uncooperative patients. - Tindall et al. - Emerg Med J 2006 

Yes, there are studies where monosodium glutamate (MSG) is used to induce obesity in rodents, but using this fact as an anti-MSG argument is very questionable. Example of papers using rodent models of MSG-induced obesity The induction of obesity in rodents by means of monosodium glutamate. - Bunyan et al., Br J Nutr. 1976 or The monosodium glutamate (MSG) obese rat as a model for the study of exercise in obesity. - Gobatto et al., Res Commun Mol Pathol Pharmacol., 2002 Of course this is rodent data and as much as animal research is absolutely indispensable to understand human physiology and pathology, it is necessary to critically interpret its results. Note that: 

Honey generally has a water activity between 0.5 and 0.6. (See this PDF), too low to support microbial growth. Honey is in fact a well known antimicrobial, although the high sugar content is not the only factor contributing to this (low pH and presence of several antibacterial compounds play a role there). To answer the question: does honey ever go bad? From the US National Honey Board website 

Here are few examples of studies to support this conclusion This article gives a meta analysis of clinical trials on the role of ω3 in joint pain relieve. A meta-analysis of the analgesic effects of omega-3 polyunsaturated fatty acid supplementation for inflammatory joint pain. - Goldberg and Katz - Pain, 2007 They conclude that there may be an effect in decreasing certain symptoms. 

Aside from the specific Radio Vaticana's case, there are other studies that analyze similar issues. The problems, however, are always the same: low power studies, with a huge amount of counfounding variables (problems that are generally noted in the studies themselves). Investigation of increased incidence in childhood leukemia near radio towers in Hawaii: preliminary observations - Maskarinek et al., J Environ Pathol Toxicol Oncol, 1994 

So, what exactly did they do? They recruited groups of 3 and 8/9 years old children from Southampton, UK. In particular they had 137 3 years old and 130 8/9 years old completing the study (the paper explains the recruitment in more detail). They then tested the effect (vs. placebo) of 2 mixes, called A and B, containing different amount of various food colouring (sunset yellow, carmoisine, tartrazine, ponceau 4R, quinoline yellow, allura red AC, plus sodium benzoate. 8/9-year-old children had 1.25 times bigger doses. Now, I don't have kids myself, but reading this sentence I would say this is waaaaaaaaaaaaaay more than I would give my kid to eat... anyways 

There are several other studies and plenty of reviews and the general consensus is that there is no scientific proof that aspartame is carcinogenic. As for multiple sclerosis I could not find one single paper linking MS to aspartame or sweeteners. Aspartame has been said to cause pretty much any of the diseases à la mode of our time (cancer, MS, autism, depression, even death). This is mostly due to the preaching of some anti-aspartame groups that, alas, do not have any scientific proof to back up their beliefs. I bet the email you received did not have any references in it, did it? This page on the Media Awareness Network is pretty enlightning on the matter. 

Are wet-induced wrinkled fingers primate rain treads? - Changizi et al. , Brain Behav Evol. 2011 Now, getting to your question, yes it appears to be an autonomic nervous system response, rather than a result of osmosis. The second paper I linked has a few references regarding the fact that 

On the other hand this recent study found no effect of ω3 in the amelioration of symptoms peripheral arterial disease. Effect of Omega-3 fatty acid supplementation on markers of platelet and endothelial function in patients with peripheral arterial disease. - Mackay et al. - Atherosclerosis., 2012 

Note that all those molecules are also secreted in completely different situations. Dopamine is also important for drug addiction, processing of food rewards, or gambling. Vasopressin is important for many things, including regulating water excretion by the kidney. Oxytocin has mostly been described for its effect during parturition and lactation, namely stimulating uterine contraction (it is a drug commonly used when labour needs to be induced), and for the milk let-down reflex. However, it is also implicated in a variety of other situations such as regulation of bone metabolism and adipogenesis, obsessive-compulsive disorder, regulation of cardiac contraction and many more. Similar things can be said for serotonin, and endogenous opioids but really the point is not to list every possible action of every neurotransmitter in the brain (there are plenty of 1000+ pages books that do that...) but rather to understand that different neurotransmitters, released at different sites, at different concentrations, in different patterns, in different combinations and different physio-pathological situations have different effects. No need to have one neurotransmitter for each single action the brain needs to perform, when information can be coded (and is coded) by modulating the way these molecules are secreted. So, in summary, one may as well say: 

Another study showed an amelioration in the inflammatory status of cancer patient with fish oil Fish oil supplement alters markers of inflammatory and nutritional status in colorectal cancer patients. - Silva et al. - Nutr Cancer., 2012 

This is a well known urban legend. This letter published on Chest Journal addresses the issue Trees Don't Grow in the Lungs! - Chua and Mehta, 2009 

Natrum Muraticum is table salt. Already the fact of giving it a some sort of pig-latin name sounds very fishy. It's sodium chloride, NaCl, no need to call it salis magicus or whatever. The solubility of NaCl in water is 359g/l. Supposing they start from a saturated solution, and dilute it 1 million times they'll get 359μg/l. When you cook pasta you put ~10g/l of salt in the water. 1 hot dog contains 1.3 mg of salt. I do not feel the need to go into further details on this. Histaminum Hydrochloricum (or histamine dihydrochloride, which is its proper chemical name) is marketed as an "unapproved homeopathic" product against cold. From the Wikipedia page for Zicam, one formulation of Histaminum Hydrochloricum 

DISCLAIMER: I am not a doctor, anything written here should not be taken as medical advice To complete Randolf's answer, I will answer part 2 of your question 

The YouTube video you have link shows someone who has become unfortunately famous in Italy for being a fraud (sorry, some of the sources are in Italian, but Google Translate should suffice for a basic translation). Tullio Simoncini was a medical doctor who proposes a pseudoscientific theory by which tumours would actually be derived by a fungal infection (specifically from Candida albicans) and that should therefore cured with sodium bicarbonate. His theory is absolute pseudoscience, as there is no evidence for tumour being generated by Candida infection, and his treatment is nothing more than a very dangerous hoax to spill money from desperate people. In 2003 Simoncini had his license to practice medicine revoked and was condamned for fraud and involuntary manslaughter after the death of three people due to his treatment. In 2007 a breast cancer patient in the Netherlands died after the same treatment. On 17 January 2012 Italy's Supreme Court (Corte di Cassazione) has finally confirmed his condemnation for menslaughter (sentence 1432/2012) (source, in Italian). He has also been recently sued in Albany by a family of a brain cancer patient who died after Simoncini's bicarbonate treatment (source, in Italian). 

Again, the idea that the male builds a pebble nest first and then starts the courtship fits in very well and Occam's razor would favour this one rather than some forced antropomorphisation of penguins. According to the same page: