On earth there can be hours where the moon is up during the same time the sun is in the sky (daytime moon) due to the combined rotation of earth and orbit of the moon. I would like to have an earth-like planet which never has the moon and the sun visible in the sky at the same time from any point of the planets surface. Is this possible without too much interference with the earth-like state of the planet? Ideally the reason for the lack of simultaneous visibility does not effect the stabilising function of the moon for the planet's hability as well as has no significant effects on the planets seasons and day and night cycle. In general consider the planet, the moon and the whole solar system to be the same than ours. EDIT for clarification: Ideally the planet has a 

EDIT 2: For the sake of this question "visible" means visible to the naked human eye and/or technology available in the late medieval period of our world (ca. 15th century). A solution using atmospheric conditions are perfectly fine as long as this does not infringe on the habitability of the planet and these conditions are the same from any point of the planet. EDIT 3: There are no restrictions on the perceived colour of the moon in the sky. It can be any colour, as long as it stays visible in the night and still give some light during the night. You can postulate any changes to our system that have no or marginal effects like described above and achieve the desired result. If this effect is not achievable with the restrictions declared above, please state why. 

Give your ghosts gravitational but not inertial mass. With no inertial mass there is no kinetic energy. Ghosts can't fall because there is no other form of energy for the potential energy to become. 

Large Jumps? A person of normal bodily strength on mars should be able to jump a lot higher than on earth, lift heavier things, leap further. If you design the base without stairs or use some other design that forces them to do these things regularly then your people could maintain normal fitness by leaping around and hanging to the ceiling. Alternatively you can make a parabolic floor and rotate it so that real and centrifugal gravity combine. 

How Long? There have been many questions about how long humans can survive under various conditions. These range from the atmosphere being removed to an increase in gravity. However this question is asking how long humans can survive from now as the world is. Some definitions. Humanity is granted a bit of luck in surviving as long as possible without any implausible or contrived coincidences. At least one creature that is biologically human must exist. (Closer to humans than Neanderthals are) Consider Evolution, Genetic upgrading and Apocalyptic events. Humans are not expected to instantly see the error of their ways and unite in common harmony. EDIT Current earth is the starting condition. Humans are still evolving and progress towards genetic modification and artificial intelligence is very fast. 

Your primitives would have easy access to lots of high grade tools. The most interesting here are those which are easily understood and used and do not need to be powered by electricity. Axes are already known, they will get excellent steel versions. Hammers are easily understandable. Saws will be a new tool, but easy to figure out. Again, children’ picture books come in handy. The problem with these is that they will degrade over time. It will depend on how much is stored in advance. Further interesting tools are shovels, pick axes, cooking ware, high end ceramics, steel needles of all variants, surgical tools … oh and foam filled rubber wheels (great for much better transportation). Replacing these tools will not be easy. But the people will have experienced a basic understanding of these advanced tools and will want to reproduce them. Most likely they will first use bronze, but they will look out for the metal, these tools were made from and work from there. 

Jump starting the agriculture is the first thing your “primitives” will be interested in. If they find one or more of the aforementioned children’ books on farming, they will get some interesting ideas how to advance their farming techniques. Finding pictures of modern plows drawn by a tractor will give them a massive head start. The plough was first used in Egypt around 5,000 BC (give or take). Having access to much better plows will greatly help farming, increasing yield and taking less time. While tractors will likely not be used by the primitives, they can use oxen to draw the plough. They will also find hints to modern irrigation techniques. Even better for them are the modern domesticated species. While around 5,000 BC the Neolithic Revolution already had happened, the much better “optimized” farm animals of our modern age will provide an immense multiplier to food yields be it milk, eggs, crops or meat. This requires of course, that seeds and animal herds have also been left for the primitives. Another very important domesticated plant is cotton, which would also come with a significant advancement in the timeline. 

What do you mean by earthlike? Obviously no other planet is going to be atom for atom identical( except in an infinite universe), but many rocky planets exist. There are many different features of earth, like mass, composition, spin rate, orbit, atmospheric composition and pressure, star type, moon size and distance, water level, asteroid bombardment frequency, volcanic activity, ect. With all these parameters, it would be unlikely for them all to be similar. They all effect life somewhat. However life could thrive despite a lot of variation in some. There is also the possibility of advanced tech being used. Steer asteroids away from a planet that would get bombarded, make a giant sunshade,... These things aren't that hard if you can get Lots of resources and equipment into space. 

Could a computer make all the decisions associated with government. Trivially yes, making decisions is easy, making good decisions is harder. Could it run a vaguely competent government, or an amazingly efficient one? In principle yes, advanced computers could make brilliant decisions. Computer science isn't really there yet unless you offload tough decisions by hiring contractors or running referendums. Would people respect it as a legitimate government and pay their taxes, probably not but it depends on how it comes about and how good it is. 

If you bring enough wealth with you people will let you do almost anything. If you want something that is cheaper in your own time... Metals like steel, aluminum made into weapons or armor better than theirs. Glass, mirrors or plastics. Spices and seeds. Some electronics? Any electronics must be powered by solar or wind up. Torches or long range radio communications would be useful. knowledge of races or other contests could let you bet your way to success. Once you have a fortune buy a workshop, work out exactly how to make something (bring relevant info) then show it to top craftsmen and invite them round to show them what you did. 

Yes, the signals can be converted or interpreted so that their sense which is responsible for recognition, can understand. 

Rich getting richer would get prevalent and rampant: As the pill has a hefty price, the rich would definitely buy and use it, owing to its effect. They become more productive and work better. And in turn, more money. So, the band of difference between the rich and the poor would expand frighteningly fast. Increase in number of working hours: Now, as you can remain productive and awake for a longer time, the working hours in the companies would be stretched longer, of course with an increased salary too. Result: More money for companies, more money for employees, less work-life balance and increased conflicts. Instant hit with military and defence: The reasons are obvious. 

As people would already be aware of the creatures, they would pretty much be aware and also, would have designed tech or strategies for dealing (and/or) combating with them too. For example, dragons exist in the Harry Potter world, and they are portrayed as dangerous as they are, in most other classics and mythological works. However, the people there have learnt to tame them, and some, in fact, learnt to use them for regular purposes. For example, the owls and birds for mail, etc. So, they wouldn't affect trade as much as we would expect. These would be my reasons why: 

NO The Alien race starts out as a planetary civilization, with tech similar to ours, they expand and develop better tech all round, build space elevators, orbital habitats, mine asteroids. With a population in the trillions, and vast swaths of space solar panels to produce antimatter, the aliens launch their first interstellar probe, its a small flyby mission. Populations expand further, tech booms, artificial intelligences controlling robots produce almost everything, nanotech lets most things be created atom by atom. Probes reveal intelligence on earth. To get any humans, the aliens would need to build a spaceship capable of supporting humans for many years, and making a return journey at relativistic speeds. They would have to work out what humans eat and breathe, enough biology and medicine to keep the humans alive over the many year journey, decode human language,build a huge spaceship, stop the earth being fried from the exhaust, (actual problem) and stop the human from going mad with boredom, killing themselves or damaging something important. And in just 60 years from the start of the project they have a human, after a huge civilization wide effort. Now you have to train the human to do the vitally important task while not giving them the tools to rebel or damage anything important, given that they have no understanding of your tech or culture and probably wish you dead. Even if you managed to abduct much of humanity, what use would they be? Your toddlers have a far better understanding of your world and culture, they need to be kept in a different atmosphere than you, and your advanced robots do all the work anyway. The aliens outnumber humans nearly 1,000,000 to 1 at this point so humans aren't abundant enough to be cheap labor. 

Having said that, I would still argue that people would be able to tame them, and in fact, train them to make trade easier and faster. 

Denial of the creator: This would be the first sign that machine are assuming omnipotence, which would be very dangerous for human beings. Denial of truth: Machines would be very intelligent that they can read human minds, and can say when a lie would be recognizable by a human and when they can't. So, when they need to commit a lie which a human can easily recognize, they would simple deny speaking the truth, which is also very dangerous to the human in question. Illusion of non-existence: This would be somewhat similar to Henry's answer. They can use any of the above techniques to create the illusion of non-existence of superior intelligence until the task at hand is complete. 

Humans were animals who have evolved to design and speak languages. Localized communities needed to have a medium to communicate within themselves, which started from simple actions and clicks to full grammar. So, yeah animals in that parallel universe would also follow a similar pattern of evolution when it comes to learning language. They would first be native to a localized language (language evolved in the local community). And when they face a need to interact with other communities in that planet, they would slowly evolve/learn enough to become polyglots. 

Lets assume a society with powerful general purpose nanobot tech and solar system wide space infrastructure. These nanobots could construct almost anything from a plan and abundant local materials. This includes people and so, if the nanobots are reliable and can record and recreate in sufficiant detail then you have teleportation. This atomic control over the human body need not be used to copy. Almost any disease could be completely prevented or cured. Humans might use such technology to augment themselves as they see fit. Minor changes that allow humans to thrive in 0g without bone loss are followed by more radical changes. Soon you have photosynthetic humans, humans with nanotube reinforced skin that can survive empty space unprotected, and cognitive enhancement. (other body parts may also be enhanced) At what point these beings cease to be human is left to the author. Nanotech allows products to be designed atom by atom to have the exact atomic structure to fulfill whatever task it was designed for. As almost perfect recycling will be trivial the space habitats will not need large amounts of new resources. Everything required can be produced within the same small space station while providing a high standard of living. The energy required can easily be collected via solar panels and beamed to the outer solar system via microwaves. A couple of square meters of bin liner like solar panels (at earth distance from the sun) could provide enough power to keep a human alive and comfortable. In short you will have a complete absence of scarcity and hardship and no one wants to take the risk and discomfort of being a pirate. This largely holds true even in todays world. I end with some quotes about a nanotech assembled rocket engine. $URL$ Where great strength is needed, the assemblers set to work constructing rods of interlocked fibers of carbon, in its diamond form. From these, they build a lattice tailored to stand up to the expected pattern of stress. Where resistance to heat and corrosion is essential (as on many surfaces), they build similar structures of aluminum oxide, in its sapphire form. In places where stress will be low, the assemblers save mass by leaving wider spaces in the lattice. In places where stress will be high, the assemblers reinforce the structure until the remaining passages are barely wide enough for the assemblers to move. Finally, the vat drains, a spray rinses the engine, the lid lifts, and the finished engine is hoisted out to dry. Its creation has required less than a day and almost no human attention. Rather than being a massive piece of welded and bolted metal, it is a seamless thing, gemlike. Its empty internal cells, patterned in arrays about a wavelength of light apart, have a side effect: like the pits on a laser disk they diffract light, producing a varied iridescence like that of a fire opal. These empty spaces lighten a structure already made from some of the lightest, strongest materials known. Compared to a modern metal engine, this advanced engine has over 90 percent less mass. Tap it, and it rings like a bell of surprisingly high pitch for its size. Mounted in a spacecraft of similar construction, it flies from a runway to space and back again with ease. It stands long, hard use because its strong materials have let designers include large safety margins. Because assemblers have let designers pattern its structure to yield before breaking (blunting cracks and halting their spread), the engine is not only strong but tough. For all its excellence, this engine is fundamentally quite conventional. It has merely replaced dense metal with carefully tailored structures of light, tightly bonded atoms. The final product contains no nanomachinery.