And many, many more; I'm not going to endorse these claims, but I will say this: meditation itself has been shown, now backed by science, with the advent of brain imaging technologies indicate to be connected to changes in brain activity, patterns and states, to produce extraordinary changes in the body and mind, from healing to stress reduction to endorphin release. Before arbitrarily dismissing the possibilities (which I've observed is common when someone lacks knowledge of the facts and any practical experience with a subject): over the years I've read books by the likes of Pema Chödrön on various meditation techniques -- sound, visualization, transcendental, walking, etc. -- and am open to experimenting with any and all and prefer to diversify my techniques and practices in order to allow more "wiggle room" for the Universal to make inputs, if you will -- if prayer is talking and meditation is listening, then there are many forms of listening. Perhaps it's not so much a question of whether these wavelengths promote these effects, or whether meditation promotes these wavelengths; rather, does one optional meditation technique combining audio technology enhance meditation? BTW, I'm not a believer, I'm not a skeptic, I don't even identify as agnostic, I simply seek the truth and want to experience as much as I can in this physical form, if I am indeed a spiritual being just passing through.... 

Sometimes when I take a break from work and walk through a nature path, I listen to a podcast called Zencast which is a collection of hundreds of Dharma talks by dozens of teachers over the decades such as Thich Nhat Hanh and Gil Fronsdal spanning a wide array of topics, such as Five Hindrances, mindfulness, meditation, etc. I highly recommend it, it's a great way to consume teachings on an iPod. When I do this, I am present with body in nature and with mind in enlightened knowledge, but is this technically a technique for a walking meditation? 

One piece of advice is to avoid planning for the future and dwelling on the past and instead focus your attention on your senses to observe your environment. I recall once I was feeling anxious and depressed and just happened to be taking out the trash—just walking outside, feeling the breeze and sun, hearing the birds, smelling the fresh air, seeing the blue sky, I laughed and smiled and immediately I felt uplifted. Having spent so much time in my apartment, I was almost numb to my environment, which promoted neurotic thinking. Moving my awareness to nature so that I had more stimulation in the present helped me to be more in the now, as it were, so that my mind was not stuck in the past or future. It was one of those "looking at the flower and laughing" realizations for me. 

My question relates to the view of and position on feng shui harmony by Buddhist traditions in general, and specifically in gemstones (which some believe have physical/metaphysical properties). How do Buddhists regard feng shui; at any rate, practically speaking, would a belief in the Chinese philosophical system by the meditator potentially enhance his or her meditation practice? My understanding is that Buddhism is not a belief system but rather an education, and I lean towards an integral philosophy which integrates in a pragmatic way the best each culture and tradition has to offer, so I would appreciate answers without a binary, dualistic perspective, unless of course Buddhists are wholly antagonistic towards feng shui, then I can accept that as accurate. 

I feel that when I sit down to meditate, when I am completely still and just sitting, my mind tends to be not very pliable. It's like I cannot do anything, just be conscious without the ability to direct my attention. However, when I am on a bus, or walking, my attention is easily directed; it is only when I am in sitting posture that something seems to freeze my mind and attention, or make it less pliable. In sum, it feels, sitting, that I cannot do anything. Could this be something with the energetic body? Something with the inner channels? I dunno. Also, this tendency towards lack of pliancy makes my static meditations very difficult. Should I just sit consistently in this non-pliant state and just wait it out? Thanks for any feedback. 

I notice I have practised meditation in a very biased way, in the sense that I contemplate my experience in a neither focused, neither supported way. Here, by support, I mean a contemplation supported by an object. So, basically, I am aware of my consciousness and the interaction of thoughts and impressions within it, although without a specific support. To me, a focused meditation would imply moments of consciousness unified by some specific centring focus. Similarly, supported meditation implies sensory, perceptual focuses rather than experiences which are bound to alter and vary. An actual object, whether material as a physical object or perceptual as the breath, would fulfill both these aspects. QUESTION 1: What is the effect/consequence of meditating in such a vague way? Of simply attending to consciousness without an ongoing object of focus? QUESTION 2: Would such a way of contemplating actually decrease focus and energy (virya) in some cases? 

I have roused myself to meditate, but I am experiencing lethargy and drowsiness throughout the whole session, drowsiness which doesn't cause me to sleep but which I perceive helplessly. My question is should I: a) continue to merely watch my hazy thought process as long as I am not sleeping b) reduce the length of my sessions so that the time spent in meditation is devoid of drowsiness. I've done a session of 30 min, and am wondering whether to reduce it to 15 or 20 min. Thank you. 

I have been experiencing greater calm lately, yet at some moments I seem to judge others, as in public places or in general. I understand this as contempt, though I don't really believe it; I don't believe I am better or that people are worthy of contempt, but the thoughts arise anyways and I try to just observe them with equanimity. Often, I experience quite a few of these thoughts, and this impedes my calmness. What is the best manner to deal with contempt, or just comparing oneself with others in general? 

I noticed aside from gross sensory pleasures such as eating, or sometimes writing, I don't feel much pleasure or joy. It is as though the emotional spectrum of joy and pride, and other such positive emotions, is limited in myself. This considered, is there any likelihood of success to any meditations or practices given I am doing things without happiness and joy? I feel like I'm trying to move forwards while something is inherently lacking. Thank you. QUESTION: Also, what are the wholesome pleasures and joys usually implied in the Buddhist path? EDIT: I would like to say that it feels as though such positive emotions are unFELT, but not unSOUGHT. Basically, I am drawn to positive situations and joys, e.g. listening to music, but the FEELING seems absent. Anyone have any idea what is going on? 

As a (roughly) beginner practitioner, who has had a share of problems as well, I feel I can contribute. Mostly, my answer would fall in line with Andrei. Presuming this is accurate, this sounds like someone who has some large internal stress, and is possibly using "enlightenment" as a defense for his actions, rather than letting actions spring from some wisdom. This person sounds like they need to talk to someone, but is also pushing everyone away. But I answer instead of comment to give you perhaps a beginners perspective. To speak to your questions in order: 

I feel most lost in this question, so maybe the better experts can say. But I would say fear is a strong motivator into doing the wrong things. And I would also say avoiding attachment purely to avoid fear or avoid that wrong thing is also the wrong thing; that's just translation into a fear of fear. I would say understanding and letting go of fear is way more important than letting go of people. 

Erm. Attachment is human. It's what we do. Sometimes it's instinct. Sometimes it's learned. It doesn't mean someone is stupid. Maybe a better way to say it is that too much attachment can nudge people into doing the wrong things. 

Nope. It would first mean you have to not be attached to the idea of them being who you want them to be. Seeking enlightenment isn't a way to fix everyone else. It might be a way to fix yourself, but even that's an attachment. Before anything else, and especially at my level, it's about being aware of yourself, and all the little impulses that experience has built inside you, and letting go of those. Only starting from that foundation would that depth of awareness spread outward, to your surroundings and other people. If it doesn't start that way, your conceptions, your intent, your attachments, are still in the way, and they will be all you see. I hope this was helpful. 

Another erm. I'm a bit of a hermit. I do have a strong detest for malls, and more for the endless advertising that comes with them, or occasionally shoveled into my mailbox. I think I just reject the materialism of it. Doesn't mean that I would just stay home if there was an opportunity to meet a friend. Doesn't mean I wouldn't go to a cinema if I thought there was a good story to see, or something to learn. My impulse, or detest, is actually attachment, a desire that the world isn't the way I want it to be. That shouldn't lead me to reject the world, I'm in it, aren't I? If I want (and yes, there's that word again) more of what I'd like to see in the world, I should start putting some of it out there. That's the difference, as I see it, between wrong actions and right actions. It's more complicated than that, but I'm rambling, and I think I've said it close enough. 

Having never been on the verge of enlightenment I can't say for sure what it's like. Most of what I hear relates to peacefulness, and this does not sound anything like peace. 

It can. Some kinds of love aren't as deep as we imagine them to be. Some things we call love are actually just selfish little habits. I would call those things attachments, the first that should go, or at least thought about so they can be understood. Letting go would be very different than pushing away. People I hold close I cannot imagine pushing away. I can imagine stepping back, looking at how I treat them, what I might be doing that's harmful or selfish, like clinging to what I like or want from that bond. That does not sound like what you are talking about though.