note: some of the jobs listed above are currently not low-skill positions (e.g. teacher). however, after the automation revolution they will be able to afford to hire a lot of low-skilled assistants (e.g. 1 assistant per child in a private school). similarly, low-skilled versions of the positions might become economically viable (e.g. low-skilled after-school tutors). everyone with a high-skill job will hire a team of low-skilled personal assistants. with automation driving the productivity of high-skilled jobs up, even the middle class will be able to afford a team of low-skilled assistants who understand their own personal taste. for example: 

You can justify any local pressure gradient being permanent by simply making it globally circular, like a large hurricane. (Actually, there's at least one planet in our Solar system with a permanent hurricane - Jupiter's red dot) To make it most plausible, just make its conditions similar to those that cause a natural hurricane, but add in conditions for it not to move - maybe there's some heat source on the surface that keeps the eye stationary, and the winds always rotate around this point. 

As we know from real-life "preppers", one of the most highly focused points of personal defense adopted by a highly (excessively?) concerned citizen is his/her home, a.k.a. his/her fortress. 

i don't think it would make any difference at all. a 30-40% strength advantage is absolutely devastating in 1-on-1 combat. 100-300% is simply overkill. women had very little political power until the "rule of law" took hold. after which, their relative physical strength was virtually irrelevant. 

personal shopper (finds clothes, furniture, etc. that match your style) personal chef (cooks foods that you personally prefer) personal restaurant critic (recommends restaurants you will like) personal media curator (tells you what music and movies you will like) 

on the plus side: almost everything that uses timezones would be simpler. specifically, when traveling or communicating across timezones. this includes reading things written in another timezone. notable examples include: 

Now, maybe your aliens have some exotic biology like five eyestalks or seven hands. They might then evolve a psychology that allows them to easily and accurately compare a higher number of quantities (e.g. "is the weight I'm holding in each hand about equal?"), which could in turn affect the radices in which they can efficiently perform mental math; they'd likely prefer to record their figures in a notation which reflects their bias. 

As an alternative to the amoeba model, you might consider a fungus-style digestive system. This would allow it to munch on items larger than itself, since it lacks a mouth with which to take bites. The blop swims next to some foodstuff. Over the course of the next few minutes, its surface extrudes some small-diameter hollow fibres (like fast-growing mycelial cords) into its intended meal. The growth of these fibres occurs at the tips, and releases digestive enzymes as a by-product, so the tip is always immersed in a pocket of enzymes and partially digested food matter. The fibres conduct the mixture back to the blop, where it mixes with the goo (which I infer is meant to perform the role of circulatory system). One of its internal organs is a kidney-equivalent, which processes the components that aren't metabolically useful and converts them into something that can diffuse out of the blop's skin. If the blop finishes its meal, or is threatened by a predator, it causes the fibres to break away from its skin by chemical signals or nerve impulses or what have you, but the little pores where the fibres were attached heal rapidly. This would mean it prefers to eat big meals (like animals that have drowned in the swamp) and remain undisturbed while it eats, because each meal incurs some energy cost to grow the tendrils, and it has to provide enough nutrition to offset that. 

if time and civilian casualties are non-issues, then siege is definitely the way to go. just start by using drone aircraft to kill anyone that leaves the city. then use drones to fire-bomb any gardens visible from the air. the city will starve to death within weeks, perhaps months if they are seriously over-provisioned. bombing the water and power infrastructure will accelerate the situation substantially. 

some rivers end in a salt lake, salt flats or salt marsh. the water flows into the salty area, then evaporates away leaving behind the salt and other sediment. this area might not be called a "sea" if it isn't a large enough body of standing water. some rivers will flow "backwards" at high tide. nearly all rivers do this to some extent. they generally don't flow backwards long or hard enough to actually reach an area called a "lake". after earthquakes, it may take a short time for the sea to flow into a newly created depression. this situation generally resolves within a few days. 

Kinetocracy - Government by movement, a.k.a. voting with your feet In truth, Kinetocracy is already here, but in a weak form. For example, if a US citizen feels strongly that they shouldn't fear death by firearm as a statistically significant risk to their life, what's the most effective means for them to enact that change in their life? 

Build a maze of mirrors - especially fun if a ray reflected through a mirror instead implants the opposite idea of what the wielder intended! This could either be an overt maze of mirrors, or just a few covertly positioned mirrors in one's house. Or maybe just a fog machine, but that's not as much fun... on the other hand, it is a more portable tactic (think smoke grenades) and thus could be used as a tool in a show of force - a good offence is the best defense 

taunting it seems common for soldiers to expose their butt or genitals prior to a battle as a way of taunting the enemy (e.g. the pissing champion of meereen). if this tradition became so common as to be expected, then you might have soldiers simply leaving their butt exposed as a show of bravery (cf. the red barron painting a bright red target on his plane). 

these are ancient traditions in nearly every culture for obvious reasons. in fact, many cultures consider children to be little more than property of their parents until they take a new name (e.g. during a rite of passage where a boy becomes a man, or when ownership of a woman is transferred during marriage). so, by naming the demon, you are assuming the role of it's parent, and therefore it must obey you (by divine law/natural order/etc.). also, it is worth noting that strangers are universally feared. and a stranger is loosely defined as someone who's name you do not know. e.g.: 

Base ten is convenient for estimation As I write this, every answer declares there is nothing special about base ten. I think one point that's been missed is the value of a digit as an order of magnitude. For example, consider three interpretations of this statement: 

So base ten is nice because moving a digit one space to the right means you can neglect it in your calculations. However, if your aliens have spent millenia with technology that requires extreme precision, they may find that our one-part-in-ten estimation criterion isn't useful for any of the problems they're currently solving (like how the "three is approximately two" rule isn't really useful for us). So maybe they have a much larger radix. Small factors are easier to estimate by hand Note that above, we make an argument for why base ten is more useful for humans than base two or base one-hundred, but we don't know that it's actually optimal- e.g. what about base nine or base eleven? One drawback of the decimal system (and a reason why imperial measurements are still used in cooking) is that humans are pretty good at splitting things into twos and okay with threes, but fairly poor at divisions that have larger prime factors. For example, suppose you have a volume-unit of some substance and you'd like to separate out some smaller unit: 

everything is relative. some would say that your average non-magical human can't even make a "living wage" in this non-magic-dependent world. also, physical skills are not the most important skills in a complex society. intelligence, temperament, and communication skills are generally what lead to success, not how well you light a fire (with magic or matches). so, his ability to survive has more to do with the culture of the world he enters, than with the magic there. if he finds a world of ignorance, fear and superstition, then he will probably be summarily executed like any other stranger who teleported into town unannounced. on the other hand, if he finds a world with a complex society and effective communication system, his personality and business acumen should determine his financial success rather than his lack of magic. that said, even if he is a rude idiot, he should be able to feed and cloth himself entirely on the generosity of strangers in a sufficiently wealthy (and/or progressive) society.