The simple solution will probably be a longer bottom bracket. Square taper BB's come in a variety of lengths specifically for this reason. Switching to hollowtech might work, but if your frame isn't built to that spec you could well have the same interference problems... only now you have new hollowtech BB and cranks. This is one of those times it can be worth paying a bike shop. Not for the skill of the mechanic, but for the shelf of parts. They can try different sized BB's until they find one that fits, and all it costs you is labour and a single BB. Doing it at home you could end up with 3 or 4 BB's that are not quite right. 

They don't mention the feature in the manual for that light, but my light definitely has it. And some of their new lights have a lit up ring around the button on the back, so it's likely to be present. The other solution is more common: have multiple rear lights. Many people use two (I use a battery powered flashing light as well as the constant, dyno light) 

Your valve has slipped partially inside the hole in the rim where it exits. Normally it's on average about 1-1/2" outside the hole. You'll need to inspect the valve body to see if it's cut. You can't put a pump on it because the main body of the valve is stuck. First fix the valve body position, then inspect... Here's how to fix: 

Deflate the tire about 90%. Grip the tire where it meets the rim and pinch it together with your fingers. Do this for the circumference of the wheel. You want the bead of the tire the part closest to the rim to release completely. Now grab the tire in one hand and the spokes in a another, hands about a foot apart. Gently pull your hands together in opposite directions. The goal here is to get the flat tire to slide on the rim, straightening the valve. You don't need much about 1/2" to and 1". Use your fingers to jiggle the valve back and forth to get it to pull fully out from the rim hole. Optionally use pliers but take care not to crush the valve cap threads. If it helps put a valve cap on to pull up and out. Here's your answer --> With the valve position fixed you can now visually inspect the valve. If you see cuts on the side of the valve body you might have a valve flat that air will leak from. Fill the tire back up taking care to keep the tire bead on and no inner tube bulging out from the rim. If you saw cuts in step 6, jiggle the valve and make sure you don't hear air escaping. If you do the valve is damaged, replace inner tube. Optional: A bit of slightly soapy water works here too. Cover the valve body with soapy water. If you see bubbles leaking, that's bad, replace tube. 

material compatible with your brakes (resin/sintered) they fit properly (no extra wiggling, test by pulling the brake lever on then trying to roll the bike forward and backward. If there's slop in the brakes you may well have problems. they lock in place using the proper fasteners. I've heard of people using cable ties to hold "wrong" pads in place. That kinda works in an emergency. Be very careful. 

I think the main limit is how long your kids can handle being on the bike or in the trailer. Remember that your kids are not exercising, so they'll get cold easily. And bored, unless they can see out easily. Ideally you'd be able to make eye contact and talk to them, and not just by having the other parent ride up next to them. These days I'd be tempted to buy one of the long john kiddy carrier bikes (like the Gazelle Cabby), because a kid in an open-top box is likely to be happier than one in a noisy bag-on-wheels. But start with the gear you have - drop the kid(s) in whatever you normally use to transport them, go for a long day ride, see what happens. If you all survive 80km today and 80km tomorrow, an 80km each way overnight trip sounds very feasible. Just keep working up and see how you go. I'd personally start with backyard camping, because if your kids hate that then you will need to tour between motels or B&B's, and you really want to find that out now rather after 80km of riding. Same applies to your fellow parent, BTW :) I am a big fan of specialised bikes, and if you have the budget there are a lot of ideas out there that you can try and buy. Trailers are a compromise, they're slow, heavy, have lots of wind resistance, and are not a lot of fun to be stuck inside for long periods. For a bit more money you could buy a dedicated long-tail bike, and that's at least more comfortable for the kid as well as lighter and faster (plus easier to park!). Then there are proper load carrying bikes like long johns and the 8-Freight. Those carry more and have more load space, so you get a trailer-sized volume of luggage and child, but in a place you can see it. Even bigger are load trikes (Nihola not Christiana for touring, the cart-axle steering only works at low speeds and for short trips), or things like the Greenspeed Ute (recumbent) or a rickshaw like the Trisled Ute (upright). But real load carrying needs four wheels, and Treehugger has an overview. Quads are unfortunately expensive and not especially popular, so tend tyo go in and out of production. But the smaller manufacturers will often build you one even if it's not on their website any more, so it's worth asking. In the UK they're lucky enough to have dedicated recumbent and load bike shops, but in the USA not so much (AFAIK). I normally do short tours on a recumbent bike (because it's easier to break it down for transport), and longer tours (anything over a week) on a four wheeler. Mine is 2WD for off road tracks, but other than that it's just a conventional recumbent with a big box on the back for all my stuff. The win for me is stability (I can look at the scenery), load capacity (I just throw everything in the box) and, well, I just really like riding it. 

Major edit for this, told a story before so I'll completely re-word. If the question is assuming new 26 x 1.5 Kevlar tire which tube would be used of two choices and why? A top of fit tube width of 1.25 - 1.5. Or slightly over sized at 1.5 - 1.75. Note *** All sizes in inches. Answer: I would always go with the "top of fit" 1.25-1.5 tube for choice. My experience has been a smaller width tube that is not over sized will fit easier in the tire on installation. Why? The over sized tube means you have a greater chance to pinch the tube in between the tire bead and rim wall. Interesting over sized does work it's just not preferred. With a repair shop banging out flat repairs or personal use it's more challenging install to use the "over size" 1.5 - 1.75 tube. An over size tube also causes balance issues. The tube is slightly bent and twisted on install to achieve fit. I've ran Specialized FAT BOY slick 26 x 1.25 tires, with Kevlar and always used 26 x 1 tubes. One caveat here, in my original answer I was just suggesting and cautioning don't let the range of size difference (tire to tube width) get too great. So as my previous example, a 26 x 2.5 tire with a 26 x 1.125 tube that combination with a 0.375 variance went BOOM and destroyed the tube and tire. 

One caveat is to be careful about the torque limits for the hub. Rohloff officially support their hubs in tandems, but limit the gear ratio you're allowed to use (without voiding the warranty). Shitmano don't have that restriction, but their hubs tend to fail when used hard and the warranty is limited to a single replacement for each hub purchased... you may end up paying more than the cost of a Rohloff. Sachs also approve one of their hubs for tandems but it's the 5 speed Cargo, so not great unless you're strictly using it in flat areas (Hub-Stripping has more details) 

I think you have the right idea - build up slowly. I've seen a few people with little kids out cycle touring, and did a couple of weeks with a group that included a mother and pre-walking infant. The people below apparently managed at least 1000km based on Moz's comments. 

It's definitely possible to do #1, although you need to match the bolt pattern and bolt circle diameter (BCD). That's a common change for many cyclists. If you're running both chains on the right hand side standard cranksets are all you need (this is typically why people do that) Chainline is important, and typically you would put both idler chainrings on the same side of the spider and no more is necessary. A different length bottom bracket for the captain or stoker could be used to fine tune that if necessary, but almost all tandems are built with the right hand edge of the BB shell in the same plane. Different size chainrings would work, and while it might be unusual at first I expect you would get used to it. However, cornering will be tricky as you may not be able to get both inside pedals in a high position, meaning either pedal strike or slow cornering. One way to avoid that would be a freewheel between the two riders, normally done via an intermediate drive (three chains!) 

Sorry to hear someone vandalized your bicycle. I've been a bike mechanic in the past and there is a point of no return for rims in my opinion. This issue is that point can be subjective based on bike use and needed quality. From this point on, the wheel will tend to come out of true easier due to the weakened rim. Interesting, what you did by stepping on the rim I've seen done at shops and recommended in how-to videos. You can get a spoke nipple wrench and improve the rim by truing between the brake pads. Grep "how to true bike wheel" on Google for a start. I've seen side-to-side improve a bit in extreme cases but up/down hops will be harder to get out. If you do take the self-serve option remember use little corrections at first. Also, attempt to keep all spoke tensions even. Taking it to a shop is an option but labor plus and parts will be a chunk of cash towards a new wheel at the end you'll still have a wheel on a rebuilt rim. Finally I don't know how the bike shops are in your area, I would give you a free assessment if you came to mine. After all this, if the wheel refuses to stay in true sorry but it would be replacement time. 

Before buying a new tube, check and see what your problem might be. Slow leaks can be caused by a bunch of things. First of which is obviously something making a tiny hole. The next could be that your tube is old/degraded and air simply leaks from it. Or you may have some damage around the valve. It might also help to know how often you ride your bike. For some reason that still alludes many cyclists, air just happens to leak out of your tire quicker when you're not riding it. Compare your tire pressure after riding everyday, to having put the bike down for a week or two. There's a significant difference in pressure. Anyhow, on to business. Remove your tire from the rim, and check all along the inside of the tire, as well as the sidewalls of the tire to see if you feel anything sharp, or piercing into the tire, as this could be causing your air leak. Check if the edges of your rim are sharp, and check to see that your tire isn't pinching your tube. I also recommend checking your tube for any holes. I suggest pumping your tube (outside of the tire) up until it expands beyond its expected size. There is no harm in doing this. The more pressure inside the tube the easier it will be to hear the air escaping. Of course if you don't hear any air escaping it will help to place it in water and look for bubbles, and like someone else said before, move your tube around, bend it in different shapes as some holes are so small, or in such a fashion that they only show under those conditions. 

The good news is that you're willing to compromise on price. That means a fairly light, fast bike that is comfortable and can carry loads is very doable. If you prefer an upright you could buy a titanium-framed touring bike and build it with decent components, probably ending up under 10kg for the complete bike (without panniers). A better solution IMO would be a recumbent, also a touring bike, but with suspension and a much more comfortable seat. "more than 40 miles" is easy on most recembents, so you can shop through the faster ones looking for a match between fit and load capacity. I would be looking at something like the M5 Shockproof 559, or HP Velotechnic Streetmachine, or Bachetta Giro 26. Recumbents will be heavier, but much more comfortable and faster (except uphill). You can spec those up to a considerable degree from the base machine, because the bikes are built to order. 

To the best of my knowledge there are no suitable direct-drive hubs available commercially, which means that there are no bikes sold that use them. Schlumpf make a unicycle direct drive hub that offers 1:1 and 1:1.55 gears, but for a recumbent bike those ratios would be ridiculously low. Also, it's obviously fixed gear so without a freewheel it would be even less useful on a bike. You may be able to convert a standard hub gear to direct drive, using a larger axle and feeding the drive through the centre. Hubs are designed to have drive from one side, and pedalling torque is quote large so this would probably involve a major redesign of the hub (I suspect this is why so few people have built them). Another problem is that hub gears are designed to have 2:1 or more gearing up from the chain drive before the hub. So once you got it working, you'd have lower gears than you expect. Using short cranks is a partial solution to that at best, but it's the only thing I can think of that might help. Greenspeed suggest that 100mm cranks are quite usable with only a slight loss of power (but higher rpm = lower gearing needed)