It looks like a common roach, but the eyes are different colour and the red around the gills is uncharacteristic. Some pictures I have seen show a yellowish hue on the fins. I'd guess it is an invasive new species and probably someone out there knows what it is. Here is a gallery with other images. 

Another good cast for small streams with lots of bushes is the water haul, described in this blog post at Gink and Gasoline. It basically uses the water tension to load the rod, like the roll cast, but you cast towards the opposite direction from where your line is lying (no d-loops). You start with your line straight downstreams, which creates the tension, and flex your rod towards your target (upstreams or across the stream) allowing your rod to bend and unload propelling the line. I suggest you watch the video in the post linked above, as a (moving) picture says much more than words. 

Well, it seems that the mystery was solved: it is a common roach with a guanin deficiency that causes them to have a different colour, as explained by this ecologist (in Swedish). 

I have done some research since my initial post, experimented with different backing alternatives, and different brands of backing. I tried three alternatives before finding the solution to my problem. First I tried fireline. It didn't work because it is very thin and abrasive. It wouldn't be a problem, as I shouldn't have my fingers in the backing as a fish takes it, but it cuts through the fly line very easily. My second alternative was to find another brand of dacron with smaller diameter. Scientific Anglers advertises thinner backing with the same breaking strength, so I tried their 20 lb backing, which almost did the trick, except that I had to cut off 20' of the running line in order to fit it to the spool. My fly line had 110', so it was not a big problem for me to cut it shorter at the running line. Eventually I managed to get hold of Hatch's premium gel spun backing at a sale, and now I have much stronger and longer/thinner backing than I ever had. So the trick was to get rid of excess running line and to switch to the right gel spun backing. 

I'm planning on tying some stimulators and I have a ton of deer hair in the colours that I want my flies to be. The recipes that I have read so far ask for yearling elk hair. I wonder if I can replace that with deer hair and still get the same flotation and similar looks. Also, would there be any reason to favour elk hair over deer hair in dry flies like the stimulator or the streaking caddis? 

I'm ordering beadheads for fly tying, and am thinking about getting slotted beadheads to use on jig hooks. The main application will be nymphs to be used as the point fly in a two or three nymph setup. Since the producer I'm buying from offers those wholesale, I wonder if I can just buy a big pack of each size and colour that I need, and use them on other hook types as well. Has anyone tried it? Would it work? 

A buddy of mine has an ultralight set made by a Swedish maker called Trangia. It weights 330 grams for the burner, windshield, a 800 ml pan and a frypan. It works with a spirit burner, so you don't have to carry a large gas canister. The whole thing has 15 cm of diameter and about 6 cm of height. All pieces fit inside of the 800 ml pot an the frypan (which has a detachable handle that also fits into the pot) acts as the lid. I don't think that it gets lighter and more compact than that. 

I just bought my first whole rooster saddle for hackle and found out that there are some soft webby feathers under the usable hackle: 

Answering my own question, it seems to work. The trick is to use the lead/lead-free wire wraps to hold the bead in place. You can stick a few of the wraps inside the bead and turn the slot downwards. A drop of zap-a-gap on the shank, just behind the eye of the hook helps to hold it all in place. 

Me and a friend are thinking about trying two handed fly fishing for salmon and sea-run browns in northern Sweden. We both have been fishing for these same species with single-handed rods, but have decided to give two handers a try after a few tough days at large and deep rivers this autumn. Our goal is to be able to fish starting from next spring in a section of our river that is about 100 m wide and between 5 to 6 meters deep. There is not much room to wade there, as the depth drops suddenly beyond our chests a few meters from the bank. The fish hold in the main current and my friend succeeded (after a hard day of long casts) to land a nice sea-run brown from there. We obviously don't need to cast to the opposite bank, but we need to constantly make 30+ meters casts towards were the fish hold. Additionally, there are many spots where we have very tight room for backcasting with our one-handers. Lastly, we will probably be fishing with sink-tips and large streamers. There are so many casting stiles (spey, skagit, scandi), each with its own gear requirements, so I need suggestions regarding which two handed casting style we should learn for our particular application (and what gear we should buy as well). We prefer something that is versatile and would work also during summer when water levels are lower. 

I reckon that they are some sort of soft hackle, but some of them look like chickabou. Are there any uses for them when it comes to fly tying? 

It seems that your question is about efficacy of the method. I'm not a bow fishermen, but I know that some plankton feeders, such as the asian carp and the silver carp will not easily take a lure or a fly. In fact, carp is one of the most challenging fish to catch on an artificial lure (although they do take bait). In that case, bow fishing seems to be the way to go. In the case of the silver carp, it jumps often and can be shot mid air. See this link for examples of how these species are hunted. Both fish are invasive species in many waters, so bow fishing (being a lethal method) may actually be the preferred option. I'd think that people bow fishing for other species of gamefish (trout, salmon, for example) would be frowned upon in certain communities, though. Edit: not being a bow fisherman myself, I totally missed the issue of visibility that Escoce pointed out in his answer. That means that bow fishing is favoured over rod fishing in instances where fish are plankton feeders, sabiki rigs are not legal (some jurisdiction limit the number of flies in a rig), they are visible in the water, and the target species is one that can be harvested without problems. 

I have started to debarb all my flies a while ago (it is much better for the fish if you are doing catch and release), but have been loosing some hooked fish that I was otherwise able to net when I had barbed hooks. I have heard that it is most likely due to mistakes in fighting the fish, so I wonder if there are any good techniques for landing fish with these hooks. Are there any differences in the way you fight a fish when your hook has no barb? Any tips to improve my landing rates? Please bear in mind that I fish barbless to avoid unnecessary damage to the fish, so tactics that incur more harm to the catch (e.g. beaching the fish) would defeat my purpose. 

My home river has a minimum size limit of 50 cm for keeping atlantic salmon, while I have seen online that some other places have a maximum size limit above which fish cannot be retained. Why is there such difference between fisheries? Which way is more efficient in terms of conservation? What are the arguments for one or another? 

My fly rod says 5/6 wt, and the instructions tell that it can be used with lines of both weight classes if I make the proper adjustments to my cast. My question is what would these adjustments be? 

Catching fish depends on so many variables that it is hard to pinpoint what went wrong. Depending on weather, time of the day, and season, fish are located at different parts of the water body and at different depths. Changes in water temperature and atmospheric pressure affect how fish and other aquatic life forms behave, and it all connects: aquatic insect activity attracts minnows and insectivore fish, which in turns attracts fish which prey on minnows, and so on. likewise, current strength and water volume also determines if fish hold near the banks or close to the main current. This means that, apart from advice on lure patterns and bait (which you got from the other answers), you may also want to think about location. By that I mean the part of the water body and of the water column that you fish. This all depends on the water conditions and weather. For example, fast runoff water in spring makes fish gather at banks and slower parts of the river where they don't need to fight the current. Likewise, colder weather makes them hold close to the bottom, almost immobile. You should be able to adjust this by using heavier lures or waiting for them to sink before retrieving them, and also by selecting where to cast. It can be quite complicated because you need to learn to read the current and identify features at the bottom, something that I am still learning myself. Off course, this all depends on the species, and I can't help you with exact advice if the quarry is bass (there are no bass where I fish).