I'm writing a story, based vaguely off of the Stars Without Number system. There are lots of things bugging me, but by far the biggest issue is this: the military contractors and bounty hunters and the like are all congregating in the war-torn areas, waiting to be hired, instead of relaxing in luxury, waiting to be called. There's mostly reliable, long-distance superluminal communication, but only in the sense that you can put a message on a ship (or into the ship's computers) and have that ship carry it, mostly reliably, between systems. How can I explain why PMCs would do anything but stay at home, waiting to be hired to fight? 

If you think I forgot to mention something, feel free to mention it below. Now, my question is this: How did the zombies win? You'd think that humanity would have pretty quickly organized an army and killed the zombies easily, given that we can do things like climb ladders and drive tanks and they can't. What happened? 

Out of character: I'm willing to change some aspects of how zombies work, but I'd much rather use what I've specified here if possible. If I didn't mention it, feel free to assume it can be whatever you want it to be. Also, I don't need the zombies to stay alive, I just need the initial devastation. Specifically, I need: 

Airborne HIV won't wipe out humanity. It would definitely reduce earth's population and bring an unimaginable suffering but no wipe out. Here is how it probably would go down: 1.The mutated HIV is starting to infect people. 2.A view days or one or two weeks later, the massive increase in HIV cases, especially the ones where people would claim not to have had sex or any kind of needle injections, would lead to massive investigation by scientists, and global alarm systems would kick in. 3.Within one or two days after science joined our scenario, the news that HIV is now able to infect over normal every day contact, are available over the world. In the same time thanks to the snowball effect everyone that doesn't live isolated is infected. 4.Huge medication programs would start, we can't heal HIV but we can keep infected alive for many many years. In the same time the search for uninfected people would start, so we can isolate them and keep them clean. 5.Within the next decades HIV medication would improve and probably even a way to heal it would be found, if not the worlds population would slowly die away, till only the previously isolated would remain. 6.These survivors would start over and humanity would start to repopulate the world again. Note: Point 5 and 6 could change due some evolution leading to a group of people that would be immune to HIV, even though this is relative unlikely, since HIV is changing much faster than humans could., 

Apologies for the extremely weird title. Admittedly, it describes my question well. Now, I'm making a universe where humans have discovered the big secret to space travel. It's actually pretty simple; all you have to do is ████████. Who'd have thought? Now, the problem with easy space travel in a species with low lifespan is that terraforming takes too long. Humans don't wanna wait for stuff, so instead of letting our machines make the planet perfect, we have a tendency to settle when it's barely livable. That means that not all of the chemicals and stuff are out of the air, but there's nothing so toxic that it'd kill people very fast. With that in mind, what colors can the sky be if the atmosphere is breathable? For the sake of the question, please also assume that the gravity, temperature, etc. of the planet is also livable, with modern-day tech. High-altitude stuff is fine -- as long as people can live on the surface, I don't care. Space ships are airtight anyway. Bonus points if you make it snow- or cold-related. 

I'm writing an autobiography of my life in the post-Zed world. Now, I think the effects of the Zeds have been obvious – total obliteration of any worldwide infrastructure, severe depopulation, turning most or all major cities and even smaller ones into zombie-ridden hellscapes. Nowadays, any area with a population over fifty is either very well cleared or doomed. Now, when the zombies emerged and conquered the world, I wasn't there; I was on a small island in the Pacific, starving to death. I only saw the aftermath from after a few months had passed, with zombies still covering the planet and only scattered enclaves. What I do know is this: 

Theistic Religion or All Religion? To make it simple, if we would come to a point where nobody would believe in any kind of deity, we would simply have one reason less to kill each other, but as history shows, Religion is by far not the only reason to grab a weapon. So at least in this way, that civilization wouldn't differ that much from us, maybe a little less aggressive towards the different but not that much that it actually would matter. However an absolute Religion free world would be a mind free world. Because Religion is a specific fundamental set of beliefs and practices generally agreed upon by a number of persons or sects and that can be anything, even a group dogmatically agreeing that a certain cereal is the best cereal above every other cereal. And you won't stop that as long as someone still can think. 

I have to disagree with the others here, yes it is right that the mass would be cubed while the power would be squared, however, strength isn't usually the reason for the speed limit of animals (humans included), instead it is the inefficiency of our limbs at these speeds. For example if you run 20 km/h your foot is pulled forward 40 km/h slowed down set on the ground while propelled backwards until it is 20 km/h slower than you and 0 km/h to ground, than again accelerated forward to 40 km/h. If you size everything up three times, you would be acceleration a 27 times bigger mass with 9 times the power, BUT you would have to do it only once per 3 times a normal creature has to do, making it actually pretty even. Even better, you have 3 times as much time and space to accelerate your feet. In the end the heart and bones would be a much bigger factor in the top speed than the up sized mass, because the biggest problem for such kind of creatures would be to keep their bones intact and circulations running. (The heart would have a hard time to keep the blood flowing). So if you just say the bones are much more durable than ours, the top speed would come down to their hearts abilities to provide oxygen for the muscles, and you would end up with something like elephants. relative fast (about three times as fast as we) walking speeds but lack of the ability to run. In that scenario every creature would be about three times faster while trotting and walking, but just barely, if even, faster than we are when at max speed. If you also presume the heart can provide the oxygen and the muscles can catch the impact when landing, the limit would be a good amount higher, not three times because wind resistance would become a problem at speeds over 60 km/h but they would be about two times faster.