NOT the larger branded liter bottles that waterboys bring out, or that are stored behind the posts, but the little clear bottles only the medical staff dispense. I've seen it a few times, but most recently in the Springbok vs. Scotland test match (6/28/2014), and although it's more or less out in plain sight, the trainers and injured players seem to have an air of surreptitiousness about it – like it's not entirely above-board, or to be discussed. I've only ever seen it given to injured players – or players feigning injury because of exhaustion in the last quarter, and they only take one quick gulp. I suspect it's an elixir of Squirt soda with about 40 Prednisone tablets, NoDoz, and anti-inflamitories dissolved in it, but does anyone know the true content? 

As Tom Au stated, from a backer's perspective, the ”strong side” can simply be considered the side with the most receivers. But in even more overly simplified rule-of-thumb terms, the “strong side” is often the side of the ball with the most distance to the sideline – space – the most open-field to cover ... where you generally want your “strongest” [most athletic] players (and generally the most receivers, per above.) For example, in most high school and some college football, a defense may lineup strong or weak keyed on only that; regardless to how the offense is aligned – indeed before they even break the huddle. If the ball is dead center a linebacker or “captain” will make the decision and call it out. Also: the term ”weak-side” (the oposite of whatever was determined to be the strong-side) can easily be confused with a quarterback's “blind-side”. A right-hand QB will drop back and plant off his right foot – thus the left side of the offensive scrimmage line will be the blind-side – regardless of where the ball is on the field. A pro defense will generally have their best pass rusher(s) attacking from the blind-side so the QB won't see them coming and more damage can be had (turnovers). But that may or may not equate with the “strong” end or “strong” formation, or ball location, in terms of the linemen. An offense will purposefully confuse and pick apart a defense by overloading, and vise versa. Announcers will occasionally flip-flop these terms too, so it can get complex and thus confusing from a defensive perspective, as these things can change around just before the play starts. 

Scenario: Dropped third strike or bunt where the thrown ball hits the runner on his way to first Runner runs to first running "inside the running lane" (between the foul line and 45-foot line) and is hit with the ball before touching first base. Correct call: “runner is safe“ Scenario: Runner runs to first running outside the running lane and is hit with the ball before touching first base. Correct call: “runner is out“ (So far, so good, fairly straight forward in those two situations.) Scenario: Fielder sees that the runner is running out of the running lane and is in the way of the throw, so he holds the ball and doesn't make the throw. Correct call: “runner is safe“ Explanation: In the rule you'll notice that interference is "with the fielder taking the throw at first base". So if there is no throw, then there is no interference. Scenario: Runner runs to first running within the running lane and is hit with the ball before touching first base on his last step as he moves over to touch first base. Correct call: “runner is safe“ Explanation: The runner is allowed to move over out of the running lane to touch first base and clearly if he is moving over at the end of the running lane, his intent is to touch first base and not interfere with the throw. Scenario: First baseman sets up in foul territory to receive the throw from the catcher on a dropped third strike. Runner runs to first running outside the running lane (to the left in fair territory) and is hit with the ball before touching first base. Correct call: “runner is safe“ Explanation: The runner is allowed to exit the running lane in order avoid a fielder, which in this case is a first baseman who is standing directly in the running lane. Since the runner is running to the left of the running lane he is not intentionally trying to interfere with the throw or the first baseman and should be called safe. Scenario: First baseman sets up in foul territory to receive the throw from the catcher on a dropped third strike. Runner runs to first running outside the running lane (to the left in fair territory) and then moves into the running lane and is hit with the ball before touching first base. Correct call: “runner is safe“ Explanation: If in the judgment of the umpire, the runner made an "egregious" move where it is obvious that he is deliberately trying to be hit by the ball or interfering with the first baseman's ability to catch the ball, then the runner should be called out. But the runner is protected by the running lane and that move alone to get back in the running lane should not be construed as "intent". 

The name, "Bruin". And is it reasonable to assume the first had some influence on the naming of the second? (Or is there a Bruin sports team that predates both?) 

Update: A guy broke his leg with a compound fracture in the Rebels vs. Reds match (6/27/14) in Super Rugby. The announcers commented on the medical team dispensing pain medicine in the form of a “green whistle” (“When they bring that out you know it's serious.”) The player inhaled from it maybe 20 times, so perhaps it's like the gas dentists use. And they had to wait a few minutes for it to take effect before they moved him to the stretcher. This is secondary and informational to the original question for supplements given to players who continue with play. 

Simply put, it's their age-old tradition. In fact, many Europeans ask why North American race circuits are all but universally “anti-clockwise”. The origins of the various traditions are seemingly complex, and certainly debatable, but as I understand it late 1700s American horse racing power brokers purposefully created a US standard of left-turn-only racing, in defiance to England's centuries long right-hand standard. Then later America doubled-down and did the same exact thing with field and track. Olympic standards went back and forth in the early days of the modern Olympic era, but world pressure to standardize one way or the other happened to fall in a pro-American era, and basically the world adopted the American left-only standard for track and field – as I understand it - and this in turn influenced just about every other 'rotational sport', if you will. Then later still, America adopted the German left-side automobile standard, and roadways, and this led to the natural adoption of left-hand race circuits here, and I believe that bit is actually well documented – why left-hand wheeled cars race turning mostly left. All the while right handed race circuits never lost hold in Europe, from a time before automobiles. Germans invented automobiles as we know them, and the French invented the Grand Prix format, so one would think they would have also went with left-handed race circuits (both F1 and MotoGP - and all their precursors), but apparently they stuck with the old-school right hand turn standard, which was helped considerably by the fact that certain infrastructure was already built. (Note: A Brit will no doubt summarize this all quite different: ~“Brits invented the standards in motorsport that all of Europe now uses.” : ) But Romans used a sun dial. A post sticking up in the Northern hemisphere, as the sun moves across the sky East to West, the shadow moves “clockwise” around the dial. (So basically I have no idea what I'm talking about, but your question hasn't been answered so I'm giving it a go with this "straw man" post.) I'm going with “it's simply their age-old tradition”., and you fill in the blanks as to why that is. 

A guy steels second and slides perfectly such that his momentum takes him back upright standing calmly on second base. The throw was a bit of a bobble and the second baseman is fumbling around on the ground while the ball comes to rest right up against the plate and the runner's foot. The runner – standing safe on-top of the base – reaches down and (almost, but stopped himself at the last second) reaches down and picks up the ball to toss it over to the second baseman or just hand it to him, instinctively, like any kid playing in the backyard would. No one else is on base. Would he have been called out for interference even though there was about zero chance of him advancing or gaining any advantage from it? (If so, what is the enumerated rule that provides the wording and logic for this please.) I know that if a batter hits a ball, the base is no sanctuary, and if hit a runner will be out for interference, but in that case there is actual interference involved. Anyway, I saw a Padres runner almost do this a few days ago and just curious if he would have been called out. (What about if the runner had called "time-out" first, and the second base umpire granted it. THEN reached down to toss the ball.) The assumption is that there is ZERO trickery or mental gamesmanship of any kind involved – maybe like lending a hand to help a player get up after a fall. (Which is it's own unique question I suppose.) 

I thought that was just "match play", but definitions vary. I'm wondering if there is a specific name for that exact type of match play, and is there a known origin? 

Since the outfielder caught the fly for the second out, and the runner on second tagged up properly, he is not forced out on third – he would have to be tagged out on third for him to be out. If he was tagged, he would have been the third out. That out would “come first” relative to your question. However, if the tag was missed, and the third baseman touched the base with the ball, I believe he would have to “appeal” to the umpire. And assuming the umpire agreed that the third base runner at time-of-pitch did not tag up properly, then the out would be awarded. 

Detail and examples: So, for the last half of the 90 foot distance to first base the runner must not have his left foot even one inch on the dirt inside the chalk foul-line, until that last moment he steps over to touch the bag, because the bag is inside the foul line. This is never a problem for runners veering out to round for second, but running out first base straight down the line – even if both feet of the runner are hitting the chalk line he is supposed to run down, but his left foot is just an inch over the line into the infield – he can be called out for interference of a thrown ball. He can be called out instantly (dead ball) even if the throw does not hit the runner, but the home plate umpire (who has the call, not the first base umpire) determines the throw was interfered with. (Note: A throw must be made for interference to occur.) I just saw the play again (5/17/2015, Rockies -vs- Dodgers, @55:00) and even though the throw from the catcher down the line was way over the head of the first baseman - a ball that was not even catchable - and the player was never hit by the ball – the umpire still called the runner out immediately before he even got to first. It is very odd to watch, because the runner was just going down the line like everyone does, within the 1 foot or so width of the first base plate he was running towards, but his feet were just slightly to the left of the foul line, so he was infield, and thus “outside the runner's lane”. So basically every single runner just runs down the line – every single little league, high school, college, and evern pro game. But 1 in 1000 times a fielder has to make a throw directly down the line, this becomes interference. I always though a runner had the right to run straight down the line, but he does not. He has to run to the right of the line down to first for the last 45 feet. Ref.