If you promised not to reveal those questions and you do - Yes, that could easily get you fired (or not hired in the first place, depending on when your transgression was discovered). 

While anything is possible, as a hiring manager I can't think of a time when I would have held a candidate's position for a period of months. That's particularly true if the reason for the delay was "too many things going on in my life and thinking about relocating". Those are likely both red flags for hiring managers. 

Don't ever treat the filing of a formal action casually. Once you start things in motion, they are exceedingly hard to stop, and can have difficult consequences even if you succeed. 

I'm not sure what you mean by "proper" here, but it seems perfectly reasonable to me for handling a contractor dismissal (it might be different if this were an employee rather than a contractor). If the standard in your office is that the office manger must be present, this seems "proper" to me. 

When changing careers, you may have to rethink this assumption. Unless your experience is directly relevant for the new role, you may indeed have to take a step backwards before you can go forward in a new field. That's one of the things that makes it difficult to change careers. 

Perhaps. But your professional reputation will suffer greatly, if you choose to duck out of contracts early because "project manager is leaving", "poor work environment", "bad fit for your skills", etc. Perhaps you should seek only very short-term contracts. It might be very hard to get a contract if you have a reputation of not completing them. 

Interviewers will often tell you that they use these questions to "see how you think", or "see how you think out of the box", or "see how you think under pressure" or some variant of that. Apparently, Google no longer believes such questions are useful, and has some idea of the real purpose of these sorts of questions: $URL$ According to Laszlo Bock, senior vice president for people operations at Google: "They don’t predict anything. They serve primarily to make the interviewer feel smart." I agree with Laszlo. 

You should talk to your boss (when he is calm) and explain your difficulties in pulling together a good team. Then you should get your boss directly involved in the interviewing/hiring process. That way he can help choose candidates who won't leave when his hot temper appears. 

Everything else being equal, I've always preferred to hire software folks who tend to stay at one company for a reasonable period of time, rather than hopping around. That said, everything else is never equal. If you work mostly at startups, you can expect them to burn bright for a while, but flame out quickly. It wouldn't be a surprise if a candidate like that had a few jobs in the past 15 years or so. If you work mostly at large, established companies, it would be less common not to stick around for a while. Still, duration of jobs over a 15 year period is nowhere near the most important attribute in a candidate. Unless the candidate job-hopped repeatedly among very short duration jobs, it's not something that is very important. If you are happy at your job, doing well, are constantly learning, and are advancing at a reasonable rate - there is no reason to leave just because it might "look better" for some future, unknown, potential hiring manager. 

Sometimes, these things take time. Sometimes, I need to get re-confirmation on the job requisition from higher-level management. Sometimes, I need to bring a candidate in for an additional interview if the candidates were very close, or if one of the important interviewers was on vacation. Sometimes things just get very busy and I have to divert my attention away from hiring for a few days. So, you still might be the top candidate. Or you might be one of the next-best candidates. Or you might not yet have been notified that they aren't interested. There's just no way to tell. 

Tell them now. Just explain, as you have here, your reasons for choosing to stay close to home. It's the truth, it's clear, and your boss will almost certainly understand. No decent employer would fire you for not attending a holiday party. But don't wait until the last minute, that wouldn't be fair to the organizers. 

The fact that you haven't heard back for a week doesn't mean you f***ed up. It might mean that they will get back to you soon. Or it might mean that the company is attractive but doesn't pay well enough to meet your your requirements. That's not a failure on your part. Would you really want to work for them if they were only offering 20% less than your current pay? You asked for what you think you are worth - in my opinion that is usually the correct approach. Now try to be a bit more patient and see where this goes. You may get what you asked for, you may be offered less than you asked for, or you may be able to negotiate more. 

For me, the key is to have the right kind of job. Some jobs demand real attention and focus. Some jobs benefit from attention and focus. For some jobs, it doesn't matter either way. I'm pretty lucky. I have a challenging, engaging job. At least for me, it requires concentration and attention. While there are always dull periods in any job, in my job, I can get into the zone - and the time just flies by. When I shower and shave in the morning, I'm thinking about my workday ahead, and prioritizing my anticipated tasks. I get in early, so I can talk with our offshore team while they are still in their office, and so that I can concentrate on some important tasks before others arrive and the meetings start. As I drive home at night, I start to unwind, and usually only then start to think about what will need my attention at home. In my profession, and for many professions, it's simply not that hard to choose to be engaged. Some folks might just need practice. Like most things that are worthwhile - practice makes it better. As djechlin correctly points out - different types of jobs work for different people. For some people a job where you don't have to fully engage your mind might allow you to feel that it won't matter what happened to you the day before. For some, a more engaging job let's their personal life invade. In this line of thinking, it's all about the kind of job that works for you. And as EMS points out - for some, the job doesn't matter. Even in an engaging job, they cannot get in the zone when they have personal issues. I was just relaying my own circumstances in case it would help. For some (like me), the solution is to get the right kind of job. For others, that wouldn't help. 

You can always resign and hope for the best. As far as can you break a contract - that's a question for an attorney. 

Try to be patient, and not be so worried. It will most likely become clear what is going on very soon. 

The obvious solution is to find a new job, accept it, and quit this one. Alternatively, you can ask for a transfer within your company, to a location where you wouldn't have to work with this individual. If your motivation is solely to no longer work with this person, those actions will clearly solve your problem. You get to decide how strong your motivation is. On the other hand, if your motivation is punishment (beyond that already provided by the legal system), revenge, vigilantism, or something else, I wouldn't know what to suggest. 

There can be many possible reasons. They might be hiring for another additional role similar to yours. Or the ad might have be scheduled to go out before your formal acceptance and couldn't be canceled in time. 

Perhaps your threat of "should have competing offers on the table within a few weeks" would do the trick. If, however, your supervisor is just following standard company policy, that might not work. Everyone gets to decide what sufficiently upsets them such that they want to leave. In this case, based solely on what you have said, it appears to me that you are being shortsighted. Presumably there are other things you like about the company, since you have remained there until now. My advice would be to stick around, work hard, and get your promotion and raise in January. 

I'm surprised this wasn't discussed during the interviews. Whenever I hire a contractor, I always ask if the candidate has any time off planned for the duration of the project. In general, for short projects (3-6 months) I can't hire a contractor that will plan to be absent more than a day or two. For projects of 1 or more years, I would expect 1 or 2 weeks of vacation per year. If this doesn't fit in the contractor's plans, then he/she is probably not the right candidate. Our projects just don't have the flexibility to give up 2 weeks in a 4 month contract. Since it wasn't brought up by the interviewer, your friend should have mentioned it, once it was clear that the time away overlapped the project. At this time, he should probably contact the employer and find out if this will be a problem or not. Every company is different, and many projects are different. It might not matter, but he won't know without asking. 

Whenever I have interviewed someone for an entry-level job who wants to change careers, my biggest concern is if they know what they are getting into or not. Many folks come to tech jobs knowing the positives, but not understanding the negatives. Some of them leave very quickly, when the reality starts to become known. Think it over. Be ready to answer interview questions about why you want this job. Then you may be less confused. 

Sitting there waiting doesn't sound like a good way to show your new company how valuable you are. Find ways that you can do better than that and make yourself useful. 

Candidates have a variety of reasons for choosing a position - some of those are under your control, but many are not. You can increase your offer to the point that it is far better than others. This would include salary, bonus, equity, and other other portions of remuneration under your control. You can also increase the perks being offered. Vacation time, a preferred parking location, a private office, etc. You might be able to offer work-from-home privileges that have particular appeal to this candidate. Other aspects of the position are less likely to be under your control. This would include things like the location of the office, the "likeability" of the person managing this position, the reputation of the company, the industry in which you operate - all of these factors can go into a candidate's decision-making process, but probably cannot be changed readily. You could make a more personal appeal, by having future co-workers contact the candidate to tell him/her why your company is a great place, and why the new manager would be a great person to work for. You could also ask the candidate directly "What could we offer that would make you want to join us?" Ultimately though, you can do your best and still not land the candidate. Many in-demand candidates will play off one suitor against the other to raise their compensation. You won't know ahead of time if you are the desired suitor, or are just part of the game. Best to be prepared to move on to another candidate just in case. 

It's perfectly appropriate to invite anyone who you think would add value to your network. Depending on how you worked with them during your internship, and how they feel about you, they may not all accept your invitation. Don't take that personally. 

Ok, so you have concluded that other Managers cannot be of help. I'll go with your assumption that there is some sort of systematic condescension or prejudice going on here. I'll also assume that you are more concerned about effective meetings, and less concerned about the prejudice itself. Thus, I won't need to suggest you go to HR and discuss this leader's attitude toward non-Americans in general. You could try encouraging more (non-American) people to speak at meetings and offer their suggestions. Sometimes just increasing the frequency can either cause the meeting organizer to reconsider their approach, or at least make it more obvious to the audience that there is "selective consideration" going on. That could pay dividends later. You could also try to encourage some of the Americans in the audience to push further on a rejected topic. This is often effective in public meetings, and I've seen it turn into a ground-swell of support that is hard to ignore. "Yeah, Mr. Team Lead. Ms. Non-American here has a good point - why don't we try X?" [If you do decide that you need to do something about the overall prejudice, confirm that others see this situation the way you do, before you go to HR or higher-up management. You don't want to be slinging around the prejudice card if that isn't what's actually happening. I've seen before that what one person perceived as prejudice against his race, was actually just mild dismissal of all "newbies". This one person reacted way out of proportion to the real problem and it hurt his career at that company.] 

There's no real dilemma here. You shouldn't be answering calls from recruiters in the middle of your workplace. If you don't have a private location, specify that recruiters call you after hours, or get a callback number and call them from a quiet location where your conversation can't be overheard or later once you get home. 

The only thing that makes sense to me would be to do both. Negotiate the best raise you can during your review. You have no idea how long it will take you to find your next job, and it's conceivable you might even change your mind. Meanwhile, look hard for a new job. Land one, then give your proper notice. Gaining a larger salary now means you can negotiate your next job's salary starting at a higher base. You have already concluded that you are "absolutely sure" you will move on to another job. I'm guessing the reasons for leaving aren't mostly about money - that is the case for most folks. Hence, a raise won't cure what ills you about this job. Get what you can to increase your salary going forward. Then go forward, and don't look back. 

I wouldn't specifically label it "unprofessional", but some might. But it would likely be considered odd. Check out the restaurant's menu ahead of time. Find something on the menu you can eat - if not an entree, consider ordering an appetizer, salad or soup. Unless this just a burger and fries restaurant, or you have an extremely unusually strict diet, there's almost certainly something you could eat. If there's truly nothing you can find, call ahead and ask if the chef can prepare something specifically for you. This has worked in the past for a friend who was gluten-intolerant. He called the restaurant and found that the owner had a child who was gluten-intolerant too. While they had nothing great on the menu, the owner was happy to instruct the chef to prepare something suitable. This became my friend's go-to restaurant and the restaurant expanded its menu. Put some effort into it rather than just assuming there's nothing you can eat. 

You have been told that girlfriends are not invited to these events, so even if it's a really pretty place, and even if your girlfriend likes it a lot, stop asking if she can come along to this company event - you've already gotten your answer. Instead, bring your girlfriend on your own time - perhaps immediately following the team-building event. Explain to her that this is a company event, not a family-and-friends event, and that you need to pay attention to the team building activities for a while. Find another time that works well for both of you where you can pay attention to her. Separating work life from home life is something we all need to learn to do as we grow up and mature professionally. Use this event as an opportunity for both you and your girlfriend to learn how to accomplish that without damaging any bonds. (As David Mulder points out in the comment below, some cultures separate work life from home life more than others. Based on what you wrote about your discussion with the activity coordinator, I'm assuming you work in a culture that permits such a separation.)