The "Natural" in Natural Semantic Metalanguage is intended to contrast with other semantic metalanguages which use non-linguistic symbols and syntax. Here's an example, which apparently is describing the semantics of have to: 

The Wikipedia page is just out of date. If you check the edit history you'll see the latest edit is from 2013, but the ovd code was only created in 2015. SIL have an index which looks like it could be up to date. It has ovd, but not olv. But Google has no results for "olv Uvåsiljan" or "olv Ulum Dalska" so my guess is that it's either a typo or someone made it up. 

This will depend on both the language you are analysing and your analytical framework, but in most cases both nouns and pronouns could be categorised as a subcategory of the nominals. Other subcategories of the nominals include (in some languages) proper names, participles, adjectives, and co-referencing affixes/clitics. The nominals could also be called substantives. Nouns and verbs are the two arch-categories of the open word classes. If a word can take morphology such as case, gender or number, then it will usually be analysed as a nominal. The different nominal subcategories will have different restrictions on which morphology they can take. Or if there is no difference, then it can be argued that what would be two word classes in one language are actually one word class in another. The adjectives are the classic example of a word class that can be either a pure nominal, a pure verb, a pure independent category, or something in between. 

While in general borrowing is a process that occurs in every language, there are some factors which mean it occurs more in some languages, one of which is a taboo against naming the dead. In such languages, the taboo means not only that you cannot say the names of dead people, but also vocabulary which is contained in names or sometimes even is just somewhat similar to names. Gary F. Simons (1982) found that 59% of the words of the Swadesh 100-word list in the languages of Malaita are found in the names of people. To avoid the taboos, words are borrowed from neighbouring languages and dialects. These languages will often have many synonyms, so that when one word becomes taboo, another can take its place, with the cycle repeating when it too becomes taboo. 

There are many papers written on the phonology/phonetics of Amdo Tibetan and all of them use the IPA symbol [ɣ] for this sound. This so-called "pre-initial" sound is quite common in Amdo Tibetan and I hear it quite often when listening to the recording that accompanies my Colloquial Amdo Tibetan textbook, for example. The problem is that no matter how hard I listen, I can't seem to hear that this is a velar fricative. In fact, I don't hear it as a fricative consonant at all. Instead, it just sounds like a very short [ə], or at least some other kind of central vowel. Thus, instead of [ɣlab raŋ] I hear something like [əlab raŋ]. My native language is English and a voiced velar fricative is not a sound I can produce naturally, but I have read a description of it in "A Course in Phonetics" and I've listen to a recording of this sound on Wikipedia (see here: $URL$ Yet to me this sound does not sound at all like the sound that Amdo Tibetan linguists are transcribing as [ɣ]. My question is: Is this [ɣ] sound actually being pronounced more like a [ə] (or some similar vowel sound-- in which case the transcriptions are "inaccurate"), or do I just hear it as [ə] because I am unaccustomed to hearing a syllable-initial [ɣ]? Or perhaps this velar fricative is being pronounced so lightly that it's fricative nature is not easily heard? Can I use software such as Pratt or WaveSurfer to figure out which sound is actually being produced? P.S. I can upload a sound file if that would help. 

The question "how similar are these two languages" can't be easily answer. There are many levels at which you could make a comparison, and it's not obvious how you want to quantify that. If we're talking just about lexical similarity then the answer is very similar, you can take a look here. 

In general terms, yes, ditransitives are universal as far as we know. You can take a look at this paper by Haspelmath 

'Generative Grammar' is an ill defined term. You will find linguists using it to mean 'Chomskian Grammar', and linguist who think it can also refer to certain construction grammars. You mention that 

A grammatical constraint is a "rule" that prohibits speakers from building a particular kind of sentence. For example, you can't say in standard English he go to school, or to he goes school, etc. What they are asking you (if I understand the question correctly) is to provide examples of these kinds of constraints that a n-gram based grammar would miss. An example that comes to mind is that of long distance relations and structural closeness. If you need specific examples I could give you a couple. 

Here and here you have lists of languages by number of speakers and the population percentage those make up. Then it's just a question of adding up until you're at your desired threshold. 

is the definition of grammar. But this is not the case. There are two kinds of grammatical theory, generative enumerative (which fit this definition), and model theoretic. Model theoretic approaches to grammar do not postulate rules which build grammatical structure, but rather constraints. 

All of these are ungrammatical which is strong evidence that these that phrases are not noun phrases. 

The morpheme would probably be best described as a case suffix. In natural languages the oblique case often has the meaning of concerning/regarding, but it also has other meanings. If you wanted a label purely for this meaning I think you'll need to make one up. One option would be regardive. I'd wonder though if you're really being tied too much to the English. Notice that in your first example the case marks a relation between two nouns, but in the second it marks a relation with the verb. Languages with productive case will have verbs which require their arguments to be in particular cases, just as many English verbs require their arguments to be prepositional phrases. Would it be possible to say "1SG.FUT-tell you-DAT tooth"? Without that contrast the case marker is actually almost semantically empty. That doesn't mean you shouldn't do it, because many languages do, but it just seems to me that the only reason the suffix is there is because the English translation would use the word 'about', not because it necessarily makes language-internal sense. The English word tell is really polysemous and has two meanings: tell to and tell about/of. That's why it almost always requires one of those prepositions. In your constructed language there's no reason why tell should also have those two meanings - it would probably be more natural to have two verbs. If you did that then you wouldn't need the suffix. And if you did that then you could reconsider what the suffix actually means: does it mean a joke with dogs in it? If so then one of the spatial cases would be very appropriate. Just as in natural languages, physical relations can be extended to metaphorical relations in conlangs too. Instead of basing it on English prepositions I'd encourage you to think about basing it on thematic relations. Your conlang will be less Englishy if your cases are based on those relations rather than translations from English. 

Rhyming is not a uniquely English phenomenon. It is present in Chinese, for example. As one article puts it, "Chinese words are made up of so few possible syllables that it’s almost hard NOT to rhyme." (original article: Rhyming in Mandarin) The main difference between rhyming in English and Chinese, however, is that Chinese rhymes must take into account both the pronunciation of the syllable and the tone (i.e. the tones must match). Rhyming was an integral part of classical Chinese poetry and there were even large dictionaries of Chinese characters indicating which characters rhymed with each other. (Since the pronunciation of Chinese has changed over time, many classical Chinese poems don't actually rhyme anymore when read using modern Chinese pronunciation, however.) Your question mentions the possible difficulty of constructing rhymes that form coherent sentences in some languages. This is a valid point, for example, for languages that have different syntax than English. Tibetan and Japanese generally have (subject-object-verb) word order where the verb always comes last. Thus if you are constructing a poem in these languages and you want the last words/syllables of two sentences to rhyme, you would be forced to find two verbs that rhyme with each other. I imagine there are other languages which are also easier to rhyme in than English due to differences in syllable structure. Hawaiian language, for example, has a syllable structure, which means that all syllables always end in a vowel. Thus I imagine it would be fairly easy to rhyme in Hawaiian. But then again, perhaps other languages have different criteria for what constitutes a "rhyme". 

I am currently studying Amdo Tibetan. In this language the voiced velar fricative [ɣ] is reported to occur as the first sound in some syllable-initial consonant clusters. More specifically, this sound occurs only before voiced consonants. (Before voiceless consonants this phoneme surface as voiceless [χ] or [h].) Here are some examples of phonetic transcriptions of words starting with this sound (taken from various academic papers): 

Most versions of minimalism assume linearization constraints that are independent of the structure building operation. This becomes obvious when you see that different languages have different V S O orders. Linearization is usually taken to be a more language specific thing. 

Both are true. Although most language evolution, even today, occurs through language use by the whole community, influential individuals can have some impact on their languages. Take Homer, his works (if it was only one man) had some effect on ancient Greek; Castillan Spanish was also influence by literary spoken poems, etc. However, these effects are tiny and usually restricted to lexical variation and constructions employed. The sounds and grammar of a language evolve through language use. 

This is not the case outside of indo-european languages, as has been pointed out to you. The most likely candidate for the origin of the nV forms is the PIE form *ne, which was a negation. But it could also be coincidence that different families converged there. I do not think there is a good explanation as to "why" the current situation came to be like it is. 

An alternative to the standford parser is called Freeling, it does a pretty good job but is a bit harder to use. 

I would certainly count it as a sort of evidentiality since it expresess how the speaker knows what he is communicating, ie. source of evidence. In this case you claim it expresses second hand information as apposed to first hand evidence, so yes. 

What I've seen people do, and what I would do, is to get more annotators. Get two or three more people and have them go over the problematic items, and then make a decision based on majority consensus.