This big problem sprawls all over the place. In one sense, if we are meaningfully relating ideas about "mind" and "body" then we have already "homogenized" them into some sort of idealist monism. Obviously, they are being related "in some mental medium." Can these ideas then be reduced back into "matter" and material "causality"? Here, we find ourselves dealing with an ever more problematic and, more to the point, probabilistic definition of "matter," one that even "stone cold physics" can no longer rid of the "observer," that free or indeterminate entity who subsists now as a kind of infinite regress. One recent experiment in cognitive science, can't recall the name, suggest that neurons actually "act" prior to what appears to be a "reaction." Almost as if they go "faster" than the material, causal world bounded by the speed of light. Seems both intriguing and a little fishy. I don't know about the names you cite as "dualists." I don't quite get the Chinese rooms and bats in a basically Darwinian ontology. I might suggest that they are "monists" who see some fallacy of self-reference in a physics that explains all physicists. No matter how big the explanatory box gets, there must always remain technically immeasurable sources of "origination" external to it. Thus we accept, as we do our "zero" and "infinity" workarounds, a QM indeterminacy or Kantian transcendental or some other "unknowable" in which our apparent agency resides in a state of chaotic micro-choosing, prior to any knowable "choices." Sorry, I sort of barged along without really answering your question. But I'm not sure that the many arguments opposing a materialist reduction of mind entail a true Cartesian dualism, just a Lockean "I know not what." 

I am still groping towards answers here, so forgive my amateur attempt. But I suspect that "randomness" is a complex, inherently paradoxical term akin to "singularity" or "nothing" or "infinity." You refer to the distinction between "random" and "caused." But this is a rather odd dichotomy. It assumes "uncaused events" or, in a Humean vein, events with no conjunctions or perhaps "no correlations." Moreover, in Kolmogorov's definition, the random sequence cannot be compressed, reduced, or divisible by... anything not equal to "itself." Or at least, I believe this is a crude rendering of his meaning. So this too contains a hint of absolute "singularity." This is a bit like the problem of parallel lines in Euclid's fifth postulate. Infinity surreptitiously enters the assumptions. From what viewpoint can we know that two lines never, ever meet? And if some observer is making such a claim about two lines, isn't that consciousness itself mediating them? Aren't the two "identified" as two "lines" and thus already "meeting" in the mind...or perhaps in the "visual plane," which is then abstracted out. Something similar happens with randomness or having "no correlation" with anything else. From what viewpoint can we ascertain that there are no correlations, no hidden variables? Hasn't the observation itself already "correlated" the particular events, whatever they are? We argue that what we mean is simply that it is unpredictable, yet obviously nothing can be known to be "perfectly unpredictable." Unpredictability in the single event can only get down to 1/2 never less and never 0. We simply cannot reason about, re-flect upon, or re-cognize singular events, they are like the Kantian ding-an-sich. Yet the idea of randomness introduces this assumption of a kind of noumenal singularity. It surely exists, but we cannot know it exists. Like zero, it is a kind of negative construct that we introduce into ordering processes for certain abstract manipulations, but nothing the eye or even the mind's eye can see. So people may either use the term colloquially, as we do with "infinity," or they must actually practice and learn all the complex mathematics within which some assumption of randomness is inscribed and reified. So I see nothing simple or intuitive about it. 

This stems from an ancient question in philosophy. How one can distinguish between "mere appearances" and the "reality" behind appearances, which is another way of asking about a "mind-independent" reality... or things as they really are, "things-in-themselves" when we are not looking, so to speak. The question then emerges in its modern form, rather paradoxically, along with the rise of modern physics and the "experimental" method after Bacon and Galileo. As we know, verification by "experience" or "experiment" became hugely successful in replacing Aristotelean verification by "reasoning" and authority. Most thinkers agreed that this was a valuable and irreversible advance, not least at a political level. For as Locke argued, the testimony of "experience" of the "senses" is available to all people. The public demonstrations of the Royal Academy were validations by "common sense" as opposed, for example, to Latin texts. Yet the other half of science, the mathematics and reasoning, were not sensible. How did the two fit together? This is what Locke and the British empiricists set out to demonstrate, quickly falling into philosophical difficulties with Berkeley and Hume. To simplify, we know that there is some sort of difference between "experience" and "reality," between "seeming" and "being." This is the very essence of being "objective" and not delusional. But if all valid knowledge comes to us only through the "senses" how do we know what is "really out there"? Worse, senses are embodied and individual. I cannot feel your pain. So, how do I even know you are out there? As for science, since neither "matter" (Berkeley) nor "cause" (Hume) are directly perceived themselves, are they mere names? For what? This is the skeptical challenge Kant sets out to address, with a particular view to Newton's physics and the incontestable value of the experimental method. His merging of "rationalism" and "empiricism" is pivotal for modern thought and sets out what we might call a workable "compromise." To simplify, he demonstrates that any possible "experience" itself is made up of certain essential concepts. This a priori conceptual apparatus is the very basis of human "reason" and the way in which we put together or "synthesize" sensible phenomena. His demonstration is very complex and compelling. His middle stance? We can trust our senses and experience, because we, and all other "rational beings" can only have experiences through our sensory-conceptual apparatus. We can speak of the world consistently and objectively because all rational beings must have this conceptual apparatus, as if it were some virtual reality helmet we could not remove. This is not unlike a psychological version of the "anthropic principle" in modern cosmology. But it is important to note that Kant is not doing psychology, which would only refer us back to the senses and experiment. We might talk, for example, about "how our senses evolved." But this quickly becomes circular. Kant's argument is a unique type of rational inference. So, what about mind-independent reality? What is outside our conceptual helmet? What about "things-in-themselves" or Kant's famous Ding-an-Sich? Kant says yes something is "really" out there, as perhaps some totality of possible experiences. They anchor us as if we were mentally feeling our way along some surface or limit. We can even speculate about this "noumenal" realm behind the "phenomenal" realm. But we can never have "knowledge" of it. It "makes no sense" to argue about it or make claims about it. Thus, mathematics leads us to new inductions validated by sensible "experience." But these are never the "reality in itself" and thus always potentially falsifiable, as Popper argues. As my gross simplification indicates, this may be a pragmatic solution for the working scientist, but for many it is deeply unsatisfying, hence Einstein's dismissive question about the moon. It is the forerunner of the Copenhagen interpretation, in some versions, that the "measurement" is as good as it gets. This has not at all stopped physicists and philosophers from arguing about it. But there is something quite reasonable about concluding that there is a reality "limit" to the possible, that we can have truths, but never the "whole truth and nothing but the truth." For Kant it is a way of logically anticipating those "logical arguments" that can never be settled. Many subsequent and prior arguments deal with your issue. I only offer Kant as pivotal to its development alongside physics, and as a philosophical period with which most physicists today are probably not very familiar. It would remain today a touchstone, at the very least, for most modern philosophical positions on your issue. 

I am not familiar with Nietzsche's concept of monological art, but purely on the basis of the question, I find it either obscure or patently absurd. If anything, an overreaction to Wagner's overweening, manifesto-laden, monarch-funded Gesamkunstwerk. Obviously art is a form of communication, the mediation of a nascent community, with the proviso that this need not be entirely interpersonal communication. Both the abstract art of middle modernism and the anonymous Church art of the Middle Ages strain to transcend mere public discourse or "address" conforming to audience. The ostensible "witness" may be God or History, though the eyes and ears are human. With the waning of ancient "aura" techne and poesis are swept up almost unavoidably into the commodity system, and I would certainly agree with Hegel that there is little possibility at present that "art" itself can still act as the organizational basis of a society. But Hegel's famous obituary may have been premature, given the many forms of imaginative "reflection" and "recognition" art has been able to assume since his day, particularly in formal abstraction and "conceptual" art. (Not that Hegel would have been anything other than appalled--here was an "audience member" who ignored Beethoven and admire Rossini!) In my own view,"art" is something that exists to a greater or lesser degree in every artifact meant to be observed in itself, and nears the Kantian ideal of a pure purposiveness or reflected end-in-itself in those otherwise purposeless "artworks" most saturated with this strange, inconclusive intention. I really do not know what it would mean for an artwork to eschew an "audience." If it does not transmit and circulate some sort of life-force or Geist-stuff, for lack of a better word, it is a dead object, dead as a pile of overproduced, unsold commodities. It is also hard for me to see how video games or mocked-up satanic rituals carry any higher artistic purpose than "I'm-like-She's-like..." cell-phone chatter. While the problems of audience and "integrity" are many, and never entirely resolvable, I cannot see what could communicate itself through matter and senses as "art" without some intended audience or historical witness... its enabling constraint. The idea of "monological art" sounds as self-contradictory as Wittgenstein's private language or the aspiration to become a talented solitaire player. 

Check out the MeetUps website. There are philosophy groups, through perhaps not near Walpole, NH. You can start a local group and even a phone conference. I know at least one in NYC (I think called Lyceum) that was doing some Skype meetings. Another obvious approach would be to check out nearest schools and maybe hit the bulletin boards to drum up your own discussion group. You could start your own blog and chat on any number of social media sites. Sounds like it will just take some lead organizing on your part, but otherwise doable. Personally, I don't care for phones...