The advantages of vanes probably call to many: cheaper and more predictable. I could not find a reason why Olympic competitors use vanes. Maybe it is an Olympic requirement? 

An arrow's fletching should balance between providing good spin and minimizing drag. See the video here. Feathers: 

If you hike in a group, ideally arrange the sequence so someone big and not-so-bright is first. Maybe they won't notice the webs. :-) I have not ever seen anyone wear a mosquito net. Not during spider season. Not in the tropics, jungles, or rain forests. I have years of total trail time. But it is a great option and should be easy to pack for "just in case". In the Pacific Northwest, spiders have a definite web building season which lasts 3 or 4 weeks. In the lowlands, it tends to be September or October seemingly triggered by when temperatures drop or maybe when the rains begin. So there is no need to carry protection between November through July. 

I am a 25+ year scuba divemaster. Alas, poor fin kicking technique is very common, even among experienced scuba divers. First of all, selection of a fin which is too flexible is better than one which is too stiff (within limits). If you sometimes use a full 7 mm (1/4 inch) wet suit and other times no wet suit, you likely need two sets of fins. Same for snorkeling/swimming versus scuba. The extra bulk of wetsuit/tanks/weights/BCD is appropriately matched with longer and stiffer fins than when skinny dipping. (I am not sure if it is proper when wearing only fins to call it skinny.) It is nearly impossible to select the appropriate length and stiffness in a store (at least by a novice). Fins need to be test driven. One lap in a swimming pool is usually enough to determine a good match. Fins are designed with a variety of parameters. One of the most important is their buoyancy. If thrown into the water, do they sink or float? Sinking is good for kicking technique—especially on the surface (swimming) where density helps keep the fins in the water. If you'll be at depth (scuba), non-buoyant fins are more comfortable and easier to control—unless your swim will have elements of Cirque du Soleil. However, when removing the fins, there is a definite advantage to buoyancy so that $150 fins do not immediately tumble 700+ feet to the bottom between the Galapagos Islands (darn!). The most common fin technique inefficiency is "bicycling". The knees should not be significantly bending. This causes the fin angle to move a lot without moving through much of the water, so it provides little propulsion but a lot of wear and tear on the feet, ankles, and knees. Efficient kicking motion comes from the hips with the knees kept stiff. If done correctly, it won't be possible to rapidly kick—and that's okay. This video shows great kicking technique. Though he "dolphins" as for a monofin, but it works well with two fins, too. Notice how he moves the fins through a great distance but hardly flexes the knees. This video clip shows both frog kick and flutter kick (the latter I derogatorily call bicycling). Frog kick provides nice kicking variety because it uses an entirely different set of muscles. The flutter kick does have its use: the video demonstrates how it can be used to prevent kicking up clouds of silt and minimize coral reef damage when swimming near the bottom. By using long, patient kick cycles and keeping the ankles relaxed, stress on the ankles should be minimal. If you do feel the ankles getting sore or tired, stop, relax, and then continue with gentle large motions instead of rapid tiny kicks. 

Start small and simple. The important thing is to get back into the habit of walking long distances and times again. You probably haven't walked a mile in a while. For starters, walk around your neighborhood. Walk to the store. Walk to the movies. Walk to the bar (and stumble home again). Google maps provides walking times, distance and directions.; use it to decide if you can walk there instead of driving. Slowly increase the distance you're willing to walk. A half mile. A mile. Two miles. These 15 to 30 minute walks will do a lot to get you in shape both physically and mentally. You don't need any special equipment or preparation, just walk out your door. Once you consider a wilderness hike, don't worry about fancy equipment. Any simple pack to hold a liter of water and some snacks. Some decent walking shoes. Maybe a rain jacket if it rains a lot where you are. And a smartphone with GPS. Find a book or website of easy, local hikes close to home. For example, "Walk There!" is for the Portland, OR area. Many cities have large parks and trails. Some are along rivers, some are along old railroad tracks. A book I would recommend reading is Bill Bryson's "A Walk In The Woods". It's about a schlubby, middle-aged author who decides to walk the Appalachian Trail with no training. It goes about as poorly as you'd imagine. It's an excellent description of why people hike by someone who does not hike. It's also a dire warning to not overdo it at the start. 

Even if it is soaking wet, heavily raining, caked in ice, or encased in snow, one need only remove most of the excess moisture by vigorously shaking (or bending to break out the ice). It is then readily used as tinder. Of course the drier it is, the better; a little moisture retards its flammability. If you carry white gas as fuel for a portable stove, that makes an excellent "dryer" for wet materials (even paper) and makes the tinder easier to ignite. Be sure to expect a small fireball as the fuel vapor will travel a few feet. 

Years ago I was caught in a totally unexpected and sudden blizzard/snowstorm. I started out the trip at 85–95°F (30–35°C) in August so I was totally unprepared for cold weather in the days when I owned a goose down sleeping bag only. I hastily found a reasonably wind-sheltered site, pitched the tent, and dove inside as the storm raged. An hour or two later, I felt the trickle of very cold water flowing (head to foot) through the ground-contacting portion of the sleeping bag. Turning onto one side bought perhaps 10 minutes of relative comfort. After about three repositionings, comfort was unattainable. So I got out of the bag and tent—standing naked in the fierce blizzard—and wrung out the totally soaked bag of several gallons of water (or so it seemed) and shook it vigorously to fluff it up. It was not dry, but at least it was not soaked. Getting back in the sleeping bag was heavenly: It was way warmer and I fell asleep immediately. However, soon it became soaked again and the cycle repeated throughout the night, something like once an hour. Not the greatest night's sleep. By first light (04:30) the storm disappeared and I got out to look. There was perhaps eight inches of Cascade Concrete™ (snow) with drifts of more than two feet. My tent site turned out to be a small gully which was draining maybe 50 feet (15 m) of the PCT. The temperature was chilly at about 10 °F (-12 °C) and my hands were too cold to do a decent packing job (why would anyone take gloves or mittens for summer backpacking?), so I basically stuffed tent and sleeping bag into—and onto—the pack. Though it was a three hour hike from the trailhead on the way in, it took more than seven hours to return because it was difficult following and finding the trail combined with the extra effort of walking in frequently deep snow. After considering this misadventure for decades, my advice for a soaking wet sleeping bag is: 

Just to provide an alternative with rope, which does use cutting, multiple pieces and optional fastening, but is still rather simple and reusable. How to make a slip knot Without being there in person you may have to play around with this a bit to figure it out but it's not too difficult. 

Lift the webbing between your dog's left armpit from behind, so that just enough is in front of them to wrap around toward the back of their neck with a bit extra. Hold the front end of the strap here. 1b. Alternatively, hold one end of the webbing behind the dog's neck, then guide the rest of the rolled up webbing around their neck, forward across their chest and under their left armpit. Same result. With the back end of the strap, wrap it over their back also and guide the roll in front of their chest, back behind their right armpit, and up to the back of the neck again. You now have two lengths of webbing running in along the front side of your dog's chest and one confused dog. Wrap the webbing around from back to chest behind their left leg and pull it through the front facing strap of their right leg. Keep wrapping back toward the spot behind their left leg and pull the strap across the under side of their chest, coming above their back on the right side and wrapping toward the front-facing side on the left side. Thread the strap through the front-facing left strap that is across their chest, wrapping toward the under side behind the right leg. Finally bring the strap up to the one you're holding at their back and wrap one more time around the underside back up to the back. Cinch it all together on top or hook both sides of the webbing to whatever. You're good to go. 

The people who have been suggesting sleeping naked and increasing the air flow through your tent might be on to something. You're going to sleep feeling fine, then waking up in the middle of the night shivering. You're doing things to be warmer, it isn't helping. It might be making it worse by messing with your circadian rhythm. Instead, you might try being cooler. Here's the idea... Your body temperature rises and falls through the day, peaking in the afternoon and hitting its low point in the wee hours of the morning. This helps tell your body to sleep. Now you're all bundled up in a little tent with poor air circulation and layers and layers of insulation wrapped tight around you. You go to sleep and the body heat you're radiating is trapped. This builds up until in the middle of the night your body is like "my skin is warm, must be time to be awake!" You wake up. Your heart rate, slow while you sleep, increases. Blood vessels in your extremities which have constricted to save heat and energy now open up to bring oxygen to those muscles so they can do work. Warm blood flows out of the core, and cooler blood from your extremities flows in. Your core temperature drops and you start to shiver to generate some heat. (In hypothermia cases, this sudden rush of cold blood from the extremities back to the core can kill. This is why you treat hypothermia by warming the core first.) Instead, try sleeping with less on to avoid increasing your skin temperature during the night. Socks, and maybe one layer of thermals. Enough to keep you comfortable while you fall asleep. This is based on an article by the National Sleep Foundation.