First, the choice of 'i' or 'y' is not necessarily significant: spelling was more fluid in earlier eras. Secondly, there are indeed contexts in Modern Welsh where 'y' and 'w' can alternate. For example the equative of 'trwm' ("heavy") is 'trymach' ("as heavy"). However, this is not relevant here, because "tir" is a word meaning "land" (see Wiktionary). There is no need to bring in "tŵr". 

According to Wiktionary, this is true for several Semitic (Hebrew, Arabic, Amharic, Maltese), Turkic (Turkish, Turkmen, Kazakh), and Finno-Ugric (Finnish, Hungarian, Eastern Mari) languages, and some others including Mongolian, Hausa,Zulu. Whether any of these have been influenced by each other, or by Indo-European, I can't say. I observe the biblical "If I forget thee, O Jerusalem, may my tongue stick to the roof of my mouth", which is often interpreted to mean "May I lose the power of speech". 

Yes. Biblical Hebrew has object suffixes which distinguish the person, gender and number of the object. Example (from the Shema:) 

You are on the track of something important, but you are confusing a number of things. The first thing to say is that language is not written language: written language is a highly divergent subset of language, with a lot of special properties not shared by language in general. Language does not have letters: it has sounds (or in the case of sign language, signs). The levels you are talking about do exist in languages in general (except that we talk about sounds rather than letters). But there are more fundamental distinctions that can usefully be made. Most linguists will recognise at least the following: 

What term should I use to describe the branches of linguistics studying a specific language or language family such as "Chinese philology"? Is it possible to call it "regional linguistics"? 

After long googling, I'm still not sure what does this theory think about the origin of language. Does it really state just: "There IS some kind of mysterious connection but we don't know what's behind it."? Or does the "natural resonance" in human actually refer to the "concept of the word" - ("kiki" is made of short and intermittent sounds)? I'm sure Müller doesn't actually refer literally to sound resonance. 

I'm reading "Cognitive interpretation of Czech verse" by Pavel Jiráček about a way to analyze poetry by reading how the consonants, syllables and words conotate "up" and "down". What is the best broader term for those kind of theories? I guess I need a version for dummies. 

This problem's going through my head for a while. Take Indonesia - everybody speaks fluently Indonesian there but Indonesian remains a second, "official language" for most people anyway. In Canada, there's​ a huge percentage of bilinguals - but even though French and English affect each other and create neologisms occasionally, they seem to remain two very distinct communication systems (I have no references for this). Though, do languages merge together or tend to merge together when coexisting in an area for certain time? 

The process is called metathesis, and as you suggest, it is common in language change, and in individual errors. Besides "bird", other well-known examples are English dialect "aks" for "ask" (a purely consonantal example, but still regarded as the same phenomenon) and many examples in the Wikipedia article I linked to. Note that this is nothing to do with letters - it is about sounds, and happens in unwritten as well as written languages. "Intrusive r" is an interesting phenomenon in non-Rhotic English, but it is not as you have characterised: I don't think any UK speakers put an /r/ n the words you've mentioned except in two cases. The common one is when a vowel-final word is followed by a vowel ("America is") and then some speakers regularly insert /r/: this has been widely studied by linguists. The other, which I have not seen remarked on, is when non-rhotic speakers are imitating rhotic speech: they sometimes get it wrong, and insert /r/ where there is none, because their non-rhotic accent has neutralised a distinction. So, for example, I have heard an English actor doing an American accent pronounce "drama" with a final /r/. So I can imagine somebody pronouncing "hawk" as [hɔɻk] in such circumstances, as though it were spelt "hork", because there would be no difference in their normal accent between those words. But they would not do so in their normal speech. 

Listen to those Indonesian words. The sound is very clear and native speakers agree with me it's way better than the voice of English Google Translator. I doubt Indonesian speaker uses more advanced technology than English, so what's the difference? 

@jknappen is surely right in terms of studying those phenomenons in general. However, philologists of a given language often do specialize in a given class of words. In this case, you might want to look at the role of particle-verb combination (like Fraser, 1974?) 

Tonal languages. Is the use of tone in those languages often enough so that the languages could be called two dimentional? Click languages. Are the click consonants in click languages such as Xhosa being arranged so that they play a role of a standard phoneme, or can they play the role of the second layer of information? 

Is there a website or a study I could find a detailed list or net of priming connections between words? Here's how I imagine it: 

I've just read about the Saussure's second primordial principle that states that language is linear. This is sometimes interpreted as the notion of one-dimensioness of language. The second dimension indeed doesn't usually play a significant role in language, since written language is perfectly legible even without intonation and stress. Is there a language that has this second dimension? Here are two examples I'm wondering might be the case (you don't have to include them in your answer): 

I've always imagined (without much evidence) that this was a two-step process. First /u:/ became /ju:/, then the /j/ modified the consonant before it, i.e. d in duke and T in Tuesday. There is some evidence, at least, that the introduction of /j/ is a recent phenomenon. Guy Deutscher (in The Unfolding of Language, page 52) quotes Charles Eastlake in 1902 saying that those born around 1800 said "Dook" for Duke and "Toosday" for Tuesday; to me this implies that they were using /u:/ and not /ju:/. 

This is standard in classical Greek for all names (and I think all proper nouns). In modern Spanish usage varies by region, but generally the article is used only with the names of relatives or close friends. 

In Spanish, infinitives and imperatives have their object-pronouns attached to them, as in dámelo ("give it to me"), a compound of da ("give"), me ("to me"), lo ("it"). To me, these look like proto-conjugations. In particular, they have already begun to develop irregularities: "give it to him" should logically be dálelo, but some sort of euphonic change (not sure what this is called) has changed the middle consonant to s, creating the modern Spanish dáselo. With a few more such changes, this simple agglutination may someday become become a "morphological category" as impenetrable as the Latin noun. 

There are some examples in different languages in Rebracketing in Wikipedia. Incidentally, this has absolutely nothing to do with "letters". It happened, in probably every case, in the spoken language, and quite likely among people who were illiterate. 

I believe that this system is imported wholesale from Chinese, but I know much less about that, which is why I have concentrated on Japanese. 

I'm not able to give you an authoritative answer, but here is my attempt at one. See "Macrolanguage" in Wikipedia and in SIL for more information. The distinction between a language and a dialect is mostly a political or social question, not a linguistic one. Thus Serbian, Croatian, and Bosnian were universally regarded as one language (Serbo-Croat) until the breakup of Yugoslavia. Having said that, mutual intelligibility is often taken as an important indicator. Although there have been British (especially Scottish) films that have been subtitled for US audiences, nearly all English dialects are mostly comprehensible to speakers of other dialects. This does not appear to be the case for Arabic: according to a Wikipedia article, "Some varieties of Arabic in North Africa, for example, are incomprehensible to an Arabic speaker from the Levant or the Persian Gulf." As far as I know, there has never been a strong move anywhere in the Anglosphere to treat different varieties of English as different languages: I don't know whether or not there has been in the Arabic world; but the people who assigned ISO639-3 codes (members of SIL) seem to have regarded the different varieties of Arabic as different enough to require them to be listed separately within a macrolanguage. 

The phoneme g is not original in Czech and is present only in foreign words. There is an official grammar rulebook declaring the inclination in locative case to be "ž" or "z", however I feel like phoneme "dz" would fit much better, even though it's not even a letter in Czech. Example: The mages are fascinating. We talked about mages. Official translation: Ti mágové jsou fascinující. Mluvili jsme o mázích. My suggested language: Ti mágové jsou fascinující. Mluvili jsme o mádzích. Example2: We use tags. We talk about tags. Official translation: Používáme tagy. Mluvíme o tazích. My suggested language: Používáme tagy. Mluvíme o tadzích. 

I'm learning Indonesian and I was telling myself it's great for an anthropologist to be able to aproach so many aboriginal languages in the group. Though, I'm not really sure if this could be a real thing. Is it possible to communicate with local tribes in Indonesian. I know Indonesian is still being used more like a formal language (most of the Indonesains speak it as their 2nd language). 

One of the specifics of the Czech phonetics is that everything is written "phonetically" and I wonder wheter one of the reasons for that could be that Czech simply uses less phonemes than English. It may sound as a language-biased note but I've always felt like the phonemes are in their "perfect position in Czech". If you want to say the phoneme [a] in Czech, the more you open your moth in the vertical direction, better. More interesting example is "t". The English "t" is more "noised" so that it sounds a bit like "th". You can hear a similar shift basically in all consonants. So is there really a smaller gap between English phonemes? If so, how has this difference originated? 

No. Your rule mostly works, but "in a row" fails to capture constructions like "He has definitely gone", where has is still an auxiliary. In fact, trying to analyse syntax just by considering the surface sequence is usually doomed to failure. Consider 

The verb they tabulate to illustrate is גלה 'reveal', which displays exactly the same patterns as you mention with תלה. They go on to say that 

There are instances where a word has been altered by folk-etymology, or by analogy with another word. For example, the English word admiral is ultimately a borrowing from Arabic amir al-bahr, but the 'd' is thought to have appeared by confusion with admirable. In that particular case one could say that the word has two sources. But such examples are the exception, not the rule. 

I don't know another language which has singulatives like Welsh. But it's well to remember that Welsh, like English and the Western Romance languages, has lost all its case inflection except on pronouns. The reason I bring this up is that in Russian and other Slavonic languages many nouns have a suffix except in the genitive plural (eg рука (ruka) 'hand'; рук (ruk) 'hand gen. pl') Now I'm pretty sure that Welsh singulatives aren't like this, and they do actually contain a singulative suffix (IIRC plant 'children' is borrowed from Latin planta, so the singular plentyn must be derived). But you can't tell that from their current form.