While the Zeitgeist may have been taken to be an objective entity by certain 19th-century and later philosophers, I doubt if Whitehead regarded it as such. In the quote it functions as a metaphor to convey a claim which has some plausibility. (Btw : change 'take is start' to 'takes its start', just a little typo.) I think what Whitehead intends can be illustrated from the era of Newtonian discovery. Enough inquirers, professional and amateur, were free like Newton from the 'immediate pressure of circumstances' and were intellectually galvanised - made 'eagerly curious' - by a range of insights from Copernicus, Galileo, Kepler and Descartes. Newton was able to penetrate into the still widely prevailing assumptions of Aristotelian and Scholastic physics, see where they were wrong or inadequate and by revision come up with his own distinctive, powerful and fruitful concepts of inertia, force, mass and gravity. This is the best sense I can make of Whitehead's observation. He seems here quite perceptive; I find nothing to disagree with. 

Large portions of mathematics are of no use whatever in describing the universe. Thousands of theorems and proofs in pure mathematics are completely irrelevant to science. There is a famous Cambridge toast (whether apocryphal or not) : 'Here's to pure mathematics, and may it never be of use to anyone !' It is not mathematics that describes the world. It is physical theories which do so, and these have indispensable mathematical components but include observation, experimentation, theorising and other conceptual components which are unconnected with mathematics. In even the most successful scientific theories, mathematics is only one element. None the less it is an element, and a necessary one. Why is mathematics so important in successful science ? Its capacity for abstraction plays a part. Take the example of someone placing a ladder at an angle against a wall. Describing the situation in English or some other natural language will involve a narrative embracing the colour of the wood, the question why someone left it there, its number of rungs and whatever else comes to the narrator's mind. A mathematical description is more austere; it 'radically erases detail' (Sarukkai). There is a triangle formed by the ladder, the wall, and the intervening ground. From the length of the wall to the point where the ladder touches it, and the length of ground between wall and ladder we can calculate the length of the ladder, the third side of the triangle. Of course in this real-world situation the measurements will not exactly match those of the Law of Cosines applied to an ideal or model triangle. But they will be greatly more accurate than any alternative and will generalise to all triangles. In a way mathematics is so successful because it 'mathematicises' the real world; and the real world lends itself, within limits, to 'mathematicisation', to austere description. But within this situation of measurement, any number of non-mathematical, empirical assumptions are at work in the background. We assume, for instance, that the ruler by which we measure wall and ground is and remains straight, that it has been correctly calibrated, &c. This brings me to a final point, implicit in what has just been said. If mathematics plays an indispensable part in the formulation of natural laws, in few if any situations do its equations, embodied in natural laws, enable precise description or prediction outside idealised conditions. This is because the 'initial conditions' to which natural laws are applied are seldom free from 'disturbing' elements. If we apply a law describing the rate of expansion of gas a vessel containing nothing but that gas, it is unlikely that any such vessel exists. The gas will have to be absolutely pure and uncontaminated by other ingredients, and such is not the real world of scientific practice. 

On the Kantian side one thinks immediately of the requirement of respect for persons. All the evidence suggests that not only did Ms Heston not consent but that there was no due presumption of consent. I.e., there is every reason to think that had she been in a position to give informed consent she would not have done so, given her religious beliefs. Her status as an autonomous agent was not respected. The mother as releasor did not respect Ms Heston's autonomy but took a gamble that the court would appoint a doctor who would pursue surgery without transfusion. The doctors and the court did what they thought was in Ms Heston's best interests but in doing so did respecting her autonomy, which in this case was plainly disregarded. Looking at matters from the side of the universalisability of maxims, I can't see that a refusal to accept a full blood transfusion even when one's death is likely or virtually certain without such a transfusion entails a maxim which involves a 'contradiction in conception' or a 'contradiction in the will'. It is logically possible for everyone to act on the maxim, 'even if death is likely or virtually certain without a full blood transfusion, refuse a full blood transfusion' : hence there is no contradiction in conception. Nor does the maxim involve a contradiction in the will in the sense that no rational person could (prudentially) will a world in which the maxim were universalised. How would the utilitarian respond ? Well, I think we already know since the whole narrative of the doctors' and the court's action is utilitarian. A full blood transfusion would produce the best consequences for the patient and this was all that was actually taken into account. A more refined utilitarian approach is certainly possible. The above analysis is act-utilitarian; it considers what it would produce the best consequences in a single situation. A rule utilitarian might well take into account the undesirability of ignoring what the patient would (almost certainly) have wanted if they had been in a condition to give or refuse informed consent. A rule of ignoring this might well not recommend itself to this type of utilitarian. REFERENCES Richard Galvin, 'PRACTICAL UNCERTAINTY, PRACTICAL CONTRADICTION, AND LOGICAL CONTRADICTION', History of Philosophy Quarterly, Vol. 30, No. 4 (OCTOBER 2013), pp. 349-366. Torbjörn Tännsjö, 'Utilitarianism and informed consent', Journal of Medical Ethics, Vol. 40, No. 7 (July 2014), p. 445. R. Gillon, 'Four scenarios', Journal of Medical Ethics', 29, 2003, 267-8. R. Gillon, 'Medical ethics : Four principles plus attention to scope', British Medical Journal, 3-9, 1994, 184-8. R. Macklin, 'Applying the Four Principles', Journal of Medical Ethics, Vol. 29, No. 5, Festschrift Edition (Oct., 2003), pp. 275-280. (Johovah's Witnesses and blood transfusions a key case considered.) 

Anyone who simply says 'empiricism is ...' or 'innatism is ...' is bound to run into the criticism that both terms are many-ways ambiguous. But at the level at which I assume you are asking the question, I'll venture a characterisation of the difference. Empiricism on a standard view is an epistemology, a theory of knowledge, on which all knowledge derives ultimately from experience. I have no knowledge of anything until I have some experience of it or relating to it. Innatism by contrast is very roughly the view that all knowledge does not derive ultimately from experience but that we have ideas (concepts or principles : they could be the idea of God or the rules of deductive logic for example) which we are born with and do not learn from experience. Most textbooks cite Locke in the 17th century and Berkeley and Hume in the 18th as the leading 'modern' empiricists though the label can be contested. Locke is known, however, for an extended discussion and 'refutation' of innate ideas in Book I of 'Essay Concerning the Human Understanding' (1690). A more diluted version of empiricism holds not that all knowledge derives from experience but that experience does provide us with some knowledge not derivable in any other way. Except from experience how could I know how scarlet differs from purple ? Innatism has been supported (in different ways) by Socrates, Leibniz and Chomsky. 'Empiricism' comes from the ancient Greek, 'empeira', which became 'experientia' in Latin and which we have adopted as 'experience'. What 'experience' is, is hardly totally clear. It may mean awareness of public objects such as tables and chairs, or awareness only of our own sense impressions (e.g. what I seem to see when I seem to see a table or chair). I can only briefly and incompletely indicate the possibilities here. One point should be added, and that concerns the possibility of pure experience. It's a plausible view that all experience is informed by beliefs and expectations. It never occurs in an uninterpreted way. In other words (as some would say) we can have no pre-conceptual experience. That raises the question of whether at least some concepts are possessed prior to experience. If so, empiricism cannot rely purely on experience - or at least experience itself has conceptual preconditions and is not absolutely and solely basic to knowledge. The literature is vast. Twentieth-century empiricism was represented by AJ Ayer, 'Language, Truth & Logic' (1936), CI Lewis, 'Analysis of Knowledge and Valuation' (1946) and B. Russell, 'Human Knowledge' (1948). Innatism is strong in the work of Noam Chomsky, 'Aspects of the Theory of Syntax' (1965). See also S. Stich, 'Innate Ideas' (1975). The online 'Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy' is useful for both exposition and criticism of empiricism and innatism.