How much of this is marketing hype is unknown to me. Most female hikers I know did not use a specific women-sleeping bag and did just fine. Many high quality sleep systems I have looked at did not have this distinction. 

What is technical down? I assume it is some sort of hydrophobic down. If yes, how does Arc'Teryx technical down differs from other hydrophobic down technologies? 

If you run out half-way, perhaps you should bring twice as much? That being said... One option for day hikes is to hydrate well before hitting the trail. Also, have readily available water for your return. e.g. leave a water bottle in your car. An other option is refilling from natural water sources during the trip would allow you to consume an adequate amount of water during your trek or short hike without having to cary extra water. It should be possible to plan in advance water gathering points. Depending on where you trek, you may want to consider water treatment. On short trips you may prefer readily available treatments such as the Sawyer Squeeze Filter, SteriPen or the Aquamira Frontier Pro. 

Note: You asked about timing. That depends on your skill, stamina, quality of tools, type of wood, condition of wood, and thickness of wood. New pieces of oak will take forever to cut through; old pine can be a breeze to go through. If you don't have a splitting wedge, that can sap time and endurance as you slog through a large piece. You asked about youngest age to cut. That depends on each child; physical capability is important, as is maturity, and each person is different. We don't teach Paul Bunyan requirements to anyone younger than 14 and all must demonstrate some degree of physical conditioning. Those who are 11 and up, and mature enough, can use a hatchet and saw under supervision. Keep a first aid kit handy, though. 

And some interesting dialog in this forum discussing a specific ban on the subject, as well as discusses some other downsides which, like my own answer, can be mitigated with proper resources and training: 

I hike a lot in the White Mountains of New Hampshire, and around here our 'book time' is based off of a book called the White Mountain Guide. It assumes that you will take half an hour for each horizontal mile and each 1,000 feet of elevation gain, so a 10 mile, 3,000 foot hike would take 6:30 by book time. This number can be useful for planning purposes, but it should never be taken literally; I'm far from the fastest hiker around, but on a good day and a decent trail I could beat book time by 30%, and of course there are many who could go much quicker. On the other hand, someone not in great shape or taking things slow could easily take longer than the book predicts. So personal ability is a huge variable in that regard. Terrain also matters considerably- on a fairly flat trail, 3 mph is a reasonable speed (50% faster than predicted!). On a particularly steep or rocky trail, you slow down considerably. There are instances where taking a longer trail with the same elevation gain will actually be faster because of the ease of navigating. Even with the fairly constrained context of trails in this one region, the variance is huge. And then we get to weather. Rain can definitely impede progress, but snow is the big kicker- if you end up postholing through thigh-deep snow, your speed could be well below 1 mph. On the other hand, if you have good traction and you're on a solid-packed trail, you can go faster than in the warm season (especially going downhill). Basically what I'm saying is that there are way too many variables to give you a reasonable estimate. If you set Scott Jurek (recent AT record-setter) down in Kansas on a nice day, he could probably do 60+ miles and feel good about it. Put some average person in that same area in a whiteout snowstorm and they'd probably struggle to make it from their front porch to the mailbox. There's just no way to make an estimate with massively narrowing the scope of your question. 

I don't think it is a huge problem for most people. In a certain sense it is flawed by design; at least if you are concerned by weight saving. You could use a top quilt. If you want extra insulation, you could also get a down-filled sleeping pad such as the DownMat UL. Some bags will have variable filling with less down underneath for that exact reason. If you always use a sleeping pad, some sleeping bags (e.g. Spoonbill UL) will simply have no bottom down fill based on that assumption. 

A reference article can be found here. One pot for which I would have reservations is the grease pot. It is not made of titanium but is light, cheap and not meant for cooking. :) 

I would say that most filters will do just fine with 20 liters of water without the recommended maintenance. If there was one I would consider it would be Sawyer Squeeze. The Squeeze is a hollow fiber filter which can be forced (squeezed). It is affordable, reliable and simple to use. The water is available immediately; you can even drink as you filter. I find it easier to use than a pump-style filter. You may also use it as part of a gravity system. The Squeeze requires back-flushing using a syringe. In my experience, this is rarely required if the water is relatively clean. You may choose to bring the syringe with you although I personally would not. Another option is to mail it to yourself for long hikes (i.e. bounce box). With clear water it repeatedly worked just fine for weeks-long stretches. When it requires back-flushing you will notice reduced flow rates. The filter is remarkably simple and does not have many moving parts. I did have problems with the O-Ring becoming misshapen, which resulted in leaks and un-usability. The problem corrected itself after a certain time. You should not tighten the bottle too hard as it may cause issues (now I know). I also owned a MSR HyperFlow but had it failed on me in the field. I would not recommend it as it is more error-prone and more costly than the Squeeze. Ceramic filters are also reliable and field maintainable. However, I personally had bad luck with those as the cartridge broke down on a trip. For non-filters, you could use a drops such as Aquamira. I would recommend transferring the contents of the bottles into a secondary container as the corners of the bottles tend to crack and leak. I've had it happen to me twice and I have met other hikers with the same problem. I believe Aquamira is aware of the problem but I do not know if they have corrected it. You could also keep them in the original plastic box which offers some extra protection for those sad cornered bottles. SteriPens are great but unreliable for multi-week trips and costly (battery usage). 

All cutting should be done on a steady wood base to protect against cutting into the ground and hitting rocks or roots which can damage and dull the cutting tools, and which can reduce bounce-back if you strike it the wrong way For large pieces of wood (5" or more, depending on your strength, stamina, wood quality, and wood type), you might have best luck starting out with a mallet and splitting wedge. If you don't have a splitting wedge, start cutting large pieces from the outside working your way inward. Lean wood against (or stand it atop) the steady wood base Avoid the temptation to use a hammer to the back of an axe or hatchet to cut. Heads can be brittle and shatter. A hammer (or rubber mallet) might be used to help dislodge a stuck head 

I tried to research your question, but could find no information - credible or otherwise - which would suggest a deliberate behavior. So, my answer is just a guess. First off, Canada geese feed by dipping their head under water to feed on vegetation. As others said, this action can create enough surface movement as to prevent the water from freezing. But my observations of local Canada geese say otherwise: we're experiencing temps in the single-digits over the last several weeks, and the geese are happily playing (?) on the ice of a normally slow-moving river. So wherever they're getting their food from is anyone's guess - but it's definitely not from underneath the water. If you're seeing the geese in cold weather, then you're seeing the urban-adaptive nonmigrating Canada geese, and, that means, they've found ways to adapt by eating and nesting in ways that are different than their migratory brethren. So, to answer your question, I would say "they could - but only for more warmer cold climates, and not at all for very cold climates". To suggest "they would" suggests an instinctive action on their part, and I haven't seen any information to support this. You mentioned it is a local park pond. If the pond is artificially fed via a pipe below, that could be the reason that the water moves above and does not freeze over. It could also be that the pond feeds the pipe for local use. In this case, artificially moving the water using bubble machines could be in use (like that used on the sides of boats that are moored in fresh water to prevent freezing along side it). One last thought on why there would be a hole in the ice (which I realize is not what you asked) is, maybe there is runoff from local streets? This would add salt to the water, if your area does salting in the winter. This could create a salinity in the water that is both agreeable to the Canada goose, as well as make that part of the water less able to freeze. When that saline water is diluted as it mixes with the fresher water away from that entry point, that water can freeze. Living with Wildlife - Canada Geese Somewhat unrelated to your question, I found that the name of the bird is actually "Canada goose" (branta canadensis), and use of "Canadian goose" suggests its citizenship! LOL The link here gives examples and counter examples of other species' names, and shows why language (especially English), in my opinion, is a stupid form of communication... Canada (or Canadian?) geese 

That sounds very strange to me- the leather itself seems like the last thing that would be letting water through, especially if treated with waterproofing products. My immediate thought would be to look at the stitching, including the tongue and gussets. How many pieces make up the uppers? If it's more than one, check those seams as well. Do you notice whether your feet start getting wet in a particular area? Also, re: your car comment- I initially read that as California, which gave me a tiny bit of uncertainty, but I doubt your cars get nearly as hot in Canada. The worry is more with open flames or radiators, especially when the leather is wet. 

The bag pictured, a Karrimor Bobcat, for some unexplainable reason has a single anchor point on the underside. Two is common, none is understandable, but one makes no sense- tying your sleeping bag on there would cause it to swing around and twirl, unless you went in for some complicated lashing. In any case, as you noted, it's better to have your bag inside the pack to keep it dry and to make your load more compact. If it doesn't fit, you either want a smaller/more compressible bag or a bigger pack. My personal philosophy is that if you buy the cheapest product available, what you get is the cheapest product available. Quality is generally going to be lower, especially in less-visible areas, and you'll have the minimum of bells and whistles- including, in this case, attachment points. That's the bargain you strike. 

You need to use rope specific to the knots' purpose. It does no good to practice a fisherman's knot on hemp or climbing rope, when fishing line is expected. You'll never understand the nuances of the knot if you do otherwise. Bends tend to require ropes of different sizes and/or materials. If you were to practice basic Boy or Girl Scout knots, then yes, any rope you have is a good start: hemp, clothesline, para cord, climbing. But once you start practicing with knots who have specialized purposes, you need to practice with the rope they're intended to be used with. You didn't specifically mention "splicing", but here, the best rope to practice with is ¼" hemp. Such beginner practice will inevitably require the entire train commute home :-) 

Do a head count before you enter the cave, and be sure of the names of each caver Do a periodic head count while inside the cave - for example, every hour - and be sure you can touch the person whose name whom you call out. It's not enough to ask them to say "here!" because they can be several yards away and be missed. And it's not good enough for a proxy to say "yeah, he was just here with me". Do a head count by name when you exit the cave Each person - not just the group leader - should indicate to a friend or family of their plans: when they're heading out, where they're going, and when they plan to return. That friend or family member should expect contact indicating that they've safely exited the cave. This is no different than going hiking above ground: leave a hiking plan with a trusted person who can call for help if you do not respond when expected to. 

One option is to ask the land owners. In an attempt to answer your question... According to the Outdoor Magazin: 

Yes it does dry shoes much faster. When long distance hiking it is definitely a nice thing to be able to stop in town and dry your shoes overnight using newspapers. It will draw a lot of the dampness right out of your footwear. This is a known trick and many people will attest to its magic. 

If you are looking for a cooking system for backpacking the Caldera Sidewinder Ti-Tri have the option of using a titanium floor for this exact purpose. 

One expensive component is the cooking pot; depending on if you already have one, you might want to find a stove that is compatible with your existing pot. Trail Designs have several models that can burn both alcohol and wood. You can order their stoves for specific pot sizes. I have experience with their Sidewinder Ti-Tri which can also burn esbit. I would consider the keg version instead of the sidewinder as having the ashes inside your pot is a poor idea in hindsight. Unfortunately, they are not cheap and only 'robust' if you use and handle them properly. I believe your best option will be to find a cheap cooking pot and build your own soda can alcohol stove. Plenty of people have built theirs and used them on long hikes. Use a small plastic container for transportation. To save space, try to store items inside of the container when you are on the move. As long as your wood burning stove have support and space for placing the alcohol stove inside of it, you should be good. Although I have no experience with this specific diy, I would consider trying and adapting this Wood Burning Trail Stove to your needs. Alternatively, you could also spend part of the money on a used wood stove. You could start by looking at the gear swap on BPL. 

One downside I've recently found out is that some hammock use can violate Leave No Trace policies. If you aren't careful about the rig you use to hang the hammock, you could injure the trees. The wider the strapping around the tree, the better for the tree. I suppose this doesn't mean all hammocking is bad for LNT, but it is common to hang a hammock with ripcord or similar such rope, and that's supposed to be no good for most trees. Some of the boy scout camps we go to mention this, although so far none prohibit use. It's also part of our leadership training. As a result, the scouts are recognizing some downsides but which can be mitigated with better equipment and training. It is interesting to note that the BSA is also promoting the concept, and some troops are reporting complete conversion to hammock-only camping. Consider: 

I have a similar compass. What you see is normal, and can (and should) be changed. You review declination with NOAA, because declination changes with your physical location, and over time. Refer here: Magnetic Declination (Variance) Next, you want to adjust your compass so that it is offset by the declination you determine from the above link. My compass is not "tool-less", so I need a small screwdriver to make the adjustment. In short, your compass is normal, it's just set for a different declination. Once you set the declination in these kinds of compasses, you read maps as you normally would, without adding or subtracting degrees. This is a neat way to use a compass, but, the expensive ones will do this, such as yours. 

I have the same pack, and I've never noticed an issue like this. I find it interesting that the sway is resolved by undoing the buckles from the hip belt to the pack- I don't have mine in front of me, but based on my memory those are not a primary load-bearing component, and the velcro would be sufficient on its own. It sounds like this is related to the natural sway of your hips, which shouldn't normally cause the pack to move much. My first thought is that the pack may not be riding correctly on your hips. I assume you had someone measure your torso length and the size pack you got is correct for said length? You could try cinching the hip belt a little tighter or looser and seeing if it rides better a little higher or lower. Ensure that your shoulder straps are reasonably tight, but still not bearing much at all of the weight. Also, make sure all of your compression straps are tightened up so the load is carried closer to your body. If none of that works, you can always go back to the store where you got it and ask them to take a look at it. 

Cotton kills - but only when not in water. Whilst in water, cotton will not have any thermal effect. However, the material itself can easily wear you down through drag. You might be able to swim short distances, but longer ones - depending on your fitness - can slow you down considerably through drag. Elite swimmers will wear suits with soft and flowing curves, and no extraneous material. Some even go so far as to shave their body to reduce drag their hair might have. I don't know if that's effective or not, but when races are won by a thousandths of a second, perhaps it's worth it. Clothes that are worn are not made with elite swimming in mind, and so any material - cotton or not - which doesn't easily allow water to pass through it or by it will tend to drag the swimmer, leading to early fatigue. If one were to wear tight-fitting clothes, which allows water to pass around it more easily, that could reduce that lag; but if the clothes were too tight, that can be restrictive on the muscles needed for motion or breathing. In addition, cotton does bind to water, and holds tight to it. This is the reason we advocate against wearing cotton in cold weather, because water that gets into the fabric will have a tendency to cling to it, making the wearer colder. In the water, again, there isn't much of a thermal effect because water is in contact with the body regardless of the cotton; but the fact remains that cotton binds with water. When you are swimming, you're dragging all that water along creating additional drag. So, wearing a loose-fitting rayon shirt, for example, will have a tendency to drag the swimmer. But a similarly-fitting cotton shirt will have more of a drag effect because it holds onto the water. Try swimming with a jacket on, and you'll feel the extra weight you're lugging around when you swim. This is a reason we call for removal of as much clothing as possible when there is a need to swim some distance. If you tread or are using a life-saving device, the clothing won't matter - and will come in handy once rescued.