I wouldn't call it "incredibly high". It peaked at 30 times normal. source, and that's inside the "waterhole" a frequency range where the background radiation is the lowest in the cosmos. 30 times a normally very low signal is still pretty small, I think. It was unusual, no question, but looking at the sheet of paper most often reprinted in articles about this, each space is 12 seconds, there are a handful of visible spikes. 

Graphite and Diamond are formed by high pressure inside a plant, so all the rocks being graphite seems unlikely. More present - sure. All rocks, I don't think so. A Brown sky - sure, why not. "a garden of eden that's mostly acetone", because acetone is both somewhat complex and fairly reactive and it contains oxygen and because most primordial oxygen on any planet would probably be bound more simply to hydrogen or Iron or Carbon, I have a really hard time seeing that as a likely outcome. Unexpected combinations could still happen, so I like where you're going with this, but that specific example seems unlikely. If we take the assumption that life forms in water / needs liquid water, it's hard to figure that water would get anything drunk. It's too essential to life. Our bodies are 80% water. I don't think it's possible for life to develop where the body is 80% alcohol for example. An Alcohol water-mix, kind of an anti-freeze of sorts on a colder planet. . . . who knows, maybe. On a cold enough planet, cold blooded animals resist freezing by limiting the amount of water in their bodies, so some exotic outcomes are possible, but no water, I have a hard time seeing that. We've only got 1 example of the evolution of life to study so far, so how it might work on another planet with a different conditions is far from exact science. There's always going to be certain parameters defined by the chemistry, like carbon based life is probably the only one that works, other molecules simply aren't able to do what Carbon does and liquid water may be essential too, but there might be a lot of exotic and unexpected ways life can happen within those parameters. Too many unknowns to say for sure. Hope that helps some. At least, that's my 2 cents on this question. 

Due to binary star tidal forces, there are some setups that are unlikely but in your example with a 100 AU distance between the stars, an orbit around the larger star is reasonable. A double planet system is less likely. It's unlikely to form on it's own during planet formation as that requires too much planetary angular momentum during formation. It's possible, but also unlikely to form by giant impact, as that's more likely to leave 1 planet and 1 moon. I've read (but can't find an article right now) that there's a giant impact size ratio and it's in the planet-moon range, not planet planet. Much less than 1 to 1. Pluto-Charon is 9-1 and Earth-Moon 81-1. A giant impact is also unlikely to create an Iron rich core for both objects. It's not a good way to create planet-planet. That leaves a 3rd possibility, also unlikely, but perhaps the most likely of the bunch is planet capture. Planets can form in Trojan points in the same orbit (Theia). The difficulty with orbital capture is that the velocity needs to be just right and capture's are likely to be significantly elongated orbits, which, maybe, over time, perhaps with a 3rd asteroid, could even out to slightly more circular. This is very improbable, but it might be the most likely way to form a double planet. My 2 cents, as a layman. 

I think the related answer that James Kilginger provided is very good and worth a read. I'll touch on a few points related to your question. There's 2 parts to this, how do ring systems form and where are they more likely to be stable and long lasting. I doubt that any ring system would be permanent, but some should be much longer lasting than others. So, lets talk stability first. As you pointed out, as ices melt inside the frost line (somewhere around Ceres, though different ices have different melting points, but in general, around Jupiter distance or greater ice particles are largely stable and can be part of a ring system (I'm not sure about Jupiter's gonzo magnetosphere though). Closer to the sun, certainly by the time you get to Mars, probably a bit further out than that, solar radiation melts ices and it turns into gas which the solar wind blows away from ring systems pretty quickly. What's more, any smaller rocky debris mixed with ice could experience spin or acceleration as ice is melted and escapes from one side as gas. Those local accelerations could blow some material from a ring system too. Smaller dust particles in a ring system near a star would get blown away too by the Poynting-Robertson effect which is much more significant closer to a star. Some of these problems would be avoided if the star is in it's white dwarf stage and quite cold, but a main sequence star is much more friendly to distant ring systems than closer ones. Ring systems are only stable inside the Roche Limit. That's covered in the other question and outside the Roche Limit, the material would tend to reform into a moon. Solid objects however can orbit inside a liquid or fine particle Roche limit and maintain their shape. Planets close to the sun still have Roche limits usually well inside their Hill Spheres, but long term stability is still a problem for planets close to their stars. Here's an article that touches on this regarding Mercury and one on Venus. The same principal would apply to ring systems where the significantly larger solar tide would have a destabilizing effect on all objects in orbit around a planet close to it's star. It wouldn't destabilize immediately but over many orbits, objects could either spiral into the planet or outside the Roche limit, so Ring systems would be significantly shorter lived as planets get closer to their star. The tidal force grows with the square of the distance. Earth, for example experiences 90 times the tidal force from the Sun that Saturn experiences. Saturn is also about 95 times the mass of the Earth, so it's not hard to see why Saturn is a much better candidate for a long term ring system than one of the inner planets. Much more mass and much further form the sun. Formation of ring systems can happen by 3 methods, (that I can think of). Large collision, break-up of a moon that travels inside the Roche limit or accretion. The collision can be on a planet's surface where debris is blown into orbit or similar high speed impact on a moon in orbit around the planet. Collisions of this size are rare, but likely more common in young solar systems. A moon that moves too close to a planet can get broken up and form into a ring system if it travels inside the Roche limit see pictures top right. There's no reason why that couldn't happen from time to time on a number of planets. It might one day happen to Phobos as it spirals in closer to Mars. Moons tend to move towards or away from planets quite slowly so this doesn't happen often, but it can happen from time to time, even when solar-systems are billions of years old and mostly settled into stable orbits. Finally, accretion, Enceladus see here is feeding Saturn's e-ring and may have fed other rings in the past. Enceladus is unique among all the moons in our solar-system in that it's able to steadily feed a ring system. This is possible because it's quite small, so volcanoes on it's surface are able to eject material at greater than it's escape velocity and because it probably has a liquid water-like layer under it's surface, maintained by tidal heating because it's close enough to Saturn to experience enormous tidal forces. Enceladus is likely responsible for only a tiny part of Saturn's rings, but this is still a viable method for ring formation. Europa on Jupiter experiences similar consistent volcanism due to large tidal forces that also keep some of it's inner layers liquid, but Europa's a much larger moon, so far less material gets ejected at or above escape velocity than with Enceladus. Only small moons close to large planets can supply material to a ring system in this way. But, because moons may play a role in ring formation and Large planets are more likely to have more moons due to greater gravity and Planets far away from their star are also more likely to capture more moons because they have larger Hill Spheres and objects don't orbit the sun quite as fast, that's probably the gist of it. Large planets are more likely to have moons and rings than small planets and further away from the sun, a planet is more likely to maintain a ring system then close to the sun. It's not impossible that planets close to a star or smaller planets could have a ring system, but quite a bit less likely. 

But I digress, though I did want to point out that Io is not believed to have formed with Jupiter but formed later. The question asks how orbiting debris can overcome tidal forces between Jupiter and other larger moons like Ganymede and Callisto. A cloud of orbiting debris in a disk around a planet can coalesce into a moon provided it's outside the fluid Roche limit. A solid moon begins to break apart usually closer to the rigid Roche limit, closer to the planet, due to some structural integrity. For moon formation, all that's required is that there be sufficient debris density and that the debris is outside the fluid Roche limit. It doesn't matter that the density of the orbiting ring is low, what matters is that once the coalescing starts, that the proto-moon is outside the Roche limit, it's the Moon's density, not it's size that determines that Roche limit relative to the planet it orbits. A moon information might initialy have a lower density, due to being less compact, so it may have a corresponding Roche limit that's more distant from the planet, but the variation is the cube root of the density, so the roche limit boundary wouldn't be all that much further out at the start of formation. The proto-moon doesn't need to add the ring-debris all at once, it only needs to be able to hold onto what it gets very close to, and that's a product of being outside the fluid Roche limit. In time, the Moon clears out the region where it orbits, and as pointed out in the other answer, migration likely plays a role in moon formation, but migration isn't the reason Moons form, that's a product of sufficient density of the orbiting disk and gravity. (hope that makes sense, I'm not sure I explained the last part as well as I could have). 

I'm going to assume that the theory is correct that Earth (and your water world) get most of it's atmosphere and water from asteroids and comets Source and Source, though the 2nd source suggests some could have come from the primordial material of the Earth. If your water-world has a lot of gas trapped below it's crust in it's primordial material, then out-gassing from volcanism becomes a bigger factor and the volcanoes, not the atmosphere above would keep the oceans saturated with gas. That's possible, but I'm going to assume that most of the gas is already in the atmosphere following a late heavy bombardment period. I'll touch a bit more on tectonics later. Titan Probably got it's thick atmosphere from outgassing Source and perhaps Venus from a recent large outgassing event too - just throwing that out there. I'm also assuming that your planet wouldn't have permanent ice over it's oceanic poles due to the warmish temperature you implied and likely oceanic circulation not blocked by land-masses would prevent ice formation. 

Source. Below are 2 pictures of Mercury's "cool" orbit that kind of spirographs around the sun. This is a more typical 2 body orbit, notice how much neater and closer to an ellipse it is than the ugly Moon orbit above. That's because it's still essentially a 2 body orbit not a 3 body. 2 body orbits are neat. 3 body orbits can get chaotic, stretched or bent, and the Moon is more than half way towards where it would become unstable and leave the Earth, so it's orbit is more unstable than most "stable" orbits in our solar-system, but it's still considered a stable orbit cause it's well inside the stable region of Earth's Hill Sphere. 

A much too simple explanation of orbital inclination here. And a much more complex one, factoring in orbital movement here. Kepler's laws only work in 2 dimensions because one object orbiting another is a 2 dimensional calculation and bringing a 3rd dimension into his law complicates it unnecessarily. 3 dimensions is essential for accurate planetary tracking, but it's unnecessarily in a 2 body gravitational system that takes into account distance, eccentricity and velocity. Kepler was likely aware of this. Kepler, in fact, discovered orbital inclination by looking at Copernicus' observations, and that was something he was very proud of and it was a very important discovery. Source here. Kepler deduced that orbital inclination explained away previously not understood and overly complicated orbital oscillations. He didn't just undo Copernicus' circles, he worked things out in 3 dimensions and he might never have figured out his laws without understanding and measuring orbital inclination. Nice question. (footnote, my answer is more history of science and mathematics, but I think your question, the way you asked it is more astronomy, so, I think the question should stay here, but the powers that be can decide otherwise if they like). 

So, the disappointing answer is, sometimes you can go down the column in the periodic table and find another and another gas simply by replacement and sometimes you can't. In the case of SIO2, the bonds are very different than CO2, and the melting point is over 3,000 degrees. Explained in detail in this question here. Some of the Hexaflouride series is interesting. 4 of them are stable gases at Earth's temperature and generally non reactive enough to breath and sound like James Earl Jones when you talk, but they're not likely to be found in a planet's atmosphere cause they're vulnerable to photodisintigration and not likely to be reformed in significant numbers Other molecues are more likely to form. And, ofcourse You could have a planet with a 3,000 degree surface temperature and all sorts of elemental gases, see cool periodic table with temperature slide) and at 6,000 degrees, all the elements are basically gases, but temperature that high, destroys any complex chemistry so you don't get complex molecules. Also, at temperatures that high, the exo/endo thermic direction no longer applicable. Molecules tend to form back and forth in an equilibrium ratio. That bit I remember from School. On the Germane in Jupiter question, it does raise some other questions, what about the other Group 14 hydrides? What about Saturn? It's possible that Saturn has too little metallic hydrogen to create much Germane. The trick in general is both formation and stability. If a gas has too short a half life (like if it's vulnerable to photodisintigration like a lot of carbon chains are), then it's not likely to last. Jupiter also has storms and wind powerful enough to bring up some elements that aren't necessarily gas - like dust in a sense, up high into it's atmosphere, some carbon chains, sulfur and phosphorus and ammonium hydro-sulfide, (which, despite having a boiling point, it's more accurate to say it separates into Ammonia and Hydrogen Sulfide at 56.6 degrees C, in the cold upper clouds of Jupiter the two elements could combine, into something like a dust. Technically it's a salt. Source. Apologies if I got carried away. I love thinking about planetary atmospheres. Can't wait till the J.W.S.T. gets a picture of some in other solar systems. My kitten is trying to delete what I wrote, so I'll post it now - will tidy up later.