In the same vein as ChrisW's answer, I would ask you, "You and I live different lives. I do not live your life. Is it appropriate for me to give advice?" The answer is generally "yes," especially in the position you have chosen to put yourself in, asking us for advice on this forum. =) So what is the difference between me giving you advice on a life I don't live and a monk giving you advice on a life he or she does not live? One may argue that it's a level of differentiation, but that immediately begs the question of what level of differentiation is appropriate? Indeed, is it not reasonable to seek advice from everybody? I know that, in my culture, we prize the ability of children to see things through their young eyes and reveal what we cannot see ourselves. Of course, we aren't obliged to follow their advice either. If we were, my toddler would have far more cookies in her diet! You point to the title of "venerable" as an object of concern. Alan Watts had a line of reasoning in one of his lectures that addressed this issue. He focused on the concept of the teacher, and asked "From what does the authority of a teacher come from?" What gives a teacher the right to tell you what to do. The answer he offered: "The authority of the teacher comes from the student." If someone wishes to learn from another, they might say "hey, tell ya what. I'll call you teacher, and you call me student," and from that the authority stems forth. As you say, they are fallible. But they have also devoted a tremendous amount of time to seeing the world through eyes very different from your own. If they are willing to share their advice with you, that should be seen as a blessing. I can call myself "venerable" if I want. It's just a word. Whether anyone wishes to act upon my claim is entirely up to them. However, as a general statement, we find that the lay society has decided that when a monk or nun is called "venerable," we really mean it. There is something special there. You obviously don't have to take my word for it. I have no authority. But the fact that lay society accepts that monks and nuns can and should be given this title is something worth noting, and you should decide what to derive from it. If I were in a position of authority, I'd argue that it indicates that your peers have found their advice is worth heeding, but as I stated, no authority here besides that which you give me. 

Sometimes the mind is more quiet, sometimes it is more uneasy. Don't expect that in meditation you will always progress, or that the progress will be steady. Don't create the expectation that the mind will always settle when meditating, because it can be unsatisfying. Don't fight your mind and don't force it to calm down, it can be frustrating. Instead, when you notice your mind is wandering, bring your awareness back to the object of meditation. The practice of meditation is not to stop adding concepts to the thinking actively, or to learn to interrupt the process of thought. But it is more like weakening the impulse and momentum of thought. Thinking will never completely cease as it inherent to the human being. But with practice you get less overwhelmed and blinded by it, thinking becomes subtle and calm. Then, don't be anxious about being peaceful or settling the mind, because this anxiety defeats the purpose of meditation, it just would feed the eager to think. You can also practice to perceive the thoughts in a distanced manner. When someone is wandering on the thoughts, it is like he/she is immersed on them, being carried away by them. Then instead of being in the flow of the thinking, try to watch the thinking from outside. Be aware of the process of thought, perceive how it moves and watch it go away by itself. Instead of trying to block the chain of thoughts, something that is usually ineffective, try to stop feeding it and let it go. There is also shamata, a practice to improve the stability of awareness. Begin by keeping the focus on the breath as long as you can. It seems that shamata is commonly disregarded for its simplicity, but it is very important. How can you meditate on something if you your awareness isn't stable? If you are really into it, I suggest you to read the book "The Attention Revolution: Unlocking the Power of the Focused Mind" by Alan Wallace. And last, vipassana can be helpful to perceive that it makes no sense to "feed the trains of thought". From one side, thinking usually tries to fight the impermanent and unfulfilling marks of existence, and asserts the identity (the concept of self). From other side, thinking itself is impermanent (it is mostly random in the long run), is unfulfilling (its desires and aversions are never completely met) and have no self (it is not absolute, nor apart from everything else). Although thought is produced, you don't need to get overwhelmed and blinded by it, you don't have to be driven by it. EDIT: Adding some more explanation on second paragraph after the quote, regarding interrupting the thought or stopping adding concepts to it. And adding a bit more info to shamata and vipassana part. 

In my own search, as a non-Buddhist, I have found that logical questioning is useful, but it has limits. In particular, it is reasonably effective at identifying paths that cannot lead to enlightenment once you have decided on characteristics of enlightenment that are important to you, and reasonably effective at identifying the general direction towards enlightenment in many situations. It can be a useful tool to assist you in your search alongside the advise of those teachers you respect. In particular, it can be a powerful tool for upsetting existing assumptions in your own mind. These assumptions can be dealt with in other methods but sometimes logical thought can arrive there faster. If you go far enough down the path of trying to apply logical thought, you'll eventually come across Gödel's incompleteness theorems or Tarski's undefinability theorem. These theorems demonstrate limits in mathematically rigorous thought when dealing with self-referential systems (such as nearly any religious statement including the word "I"). They demonstrate that, for a large body of questions which are highly related to enlightenment, logic simply cannot provide the answer. Often it can barely even phrase the question. From experience, I can also provide a warning: if you rely too heavily on logic, once you reach its limits you can feel lost. Always try to find a happy medium between logic and the more traditional approaches such as meditation and vipassana. Also be ready for that ideal balance to both change as you grow and to be extremely difficult to quantify using the logical and mathematical part of your approach. 

The article refers to side effects of the meditation practice on people with very deep mental illness. Mindfulness certainly is good for anyone, but meditation can be harming. Normal people could experience boredom and sleep at worse. People with depression and anxiety have very sharp minds, and meditation (not mindfulness) could possibly worsen their state. I think the problem they are trying to address is that on meditation you leave people to look and feel for themselves, and it is not safe to leave these mentally ill people "wander" on their thoughts and feelings by themselves. 

The point of meditation is not to make the mind devoid of thoughts, but to stop being dragged by them. Not to follow them, not to feed them, and so on. 

I've been meditating (somewhat regularly) about one or two years back. Mainly shamata, and vipassana lately. Today I feel that my willpower is considerably lower than before. I mean, I used to be very interested in a variety things (such as music theory, matial arts, computer programming paradigms, algorithms, and so on). And lately I'm not feeling interested in them so much as I did before. Some years ago I used to think about them, study them and practice them. Lately I'm not engaged in any of these activities, besides what relates to my job. Sometimes I think about getting involved with one or another of them, but soon I feel unwilling to get exposed to unsatisfying activities, I feel there is no sense to make effort on impermanent matters. When I started meditating I thought I wouldn't lose "my interests", and now I feel somewhat lost by this lack of enthusiasm. It doesn't feel bad at all, I'm just a bit unsure about letting my secular skills and interest fade away. I'm not sure it is ok if this unwillingness deepens. Do you think it is OK? Is it expected in the Buddhist path? Do you think I should let it happen? Or do you think there is something missing in my practice? Do you think something must be done about it? I'm asking for an advice, so I'll allow myself to be partial to choose an answer. 

Forcing awareness is a tricky concept. I would not be surprised if every practitioner of meditation has done it on occasion. The best analysis I have found for the issue is that forcing awareness can, in theory, allow one to become more insightful and aware. However, the act of doing so admits the "desire for insight and awareness." By meditating in this fashion, it is not possible to simply let that desire pass through you. It is held on to. At the very least, this is a desire which will not pass. It can obscure that which you are looking for. At its worst, it can lead you down a false target leading you along a less ideal path. I have found that forcing awareness in meditation can be effective for identifying illusions and assumptions, but it is less effective at actually encouraging awareness. Accordingly, in this complicated world with its many illusions and assumptions, I feel it has its place. However, the traditional approaches as advised by the other answers are more effective as these things they do best. A focus on them is wise. 

The deepest description of love I have come across in my walk is a state where one does not oblige oneself to draw a distinction between one and the subject of one's love. One can give freely to the other, not out of obligation or expectation or even altruism, but simply because one does not see a reason to distinguish between giving to their love and giving to oneself. 

Certainly the subject of enlightenment or The Dharma can become hindrances. But we need guidance to achieve the proposed states of mind. Saying that we should "just become more aware" sometimes isn't enough, usually we need some insight. He makes the following metaphor: 

There is a sowewhat long article in Wikipedia on this regard. But Buddhists don't see Buddha as God. Buddha is more like a saint, as there are may Buddhas. They attained enlightenment in a specific way, so they are considered as so. Monks attain enlightenment but they aren't Buddhas, besides they say everyone has the nature of Buddha in ourselves. Now God is something that is not very thought/talked/taught about in Buddhism. God isn't accepted or denied, but we rather don't conjecture about supernatural things or beings. We don't identify God as we can't perceive him or it, as we can perceive other people. But there are the deities is Buddhism as seen on the Six Domains of Samsara. They aren't supernatural begins, but a fleeting state of the life. For example, when people win the lottery, initially they are very happy and taking advantage of all the money they won. But this mental state doesn't last long, it goes away in one or two years, they cycle to other domains. Another example is when we buy some new smartphone or car, we are very happy and proud and full of energy (we feel as gods) in the first days or weeks, but all this excitation disappears (we migrate to other realms or domains). So being a god is feeling like one, but feelings change sooner or later.