Well, Buddhism is not simply a doctrine or belief system that needs to be defended through clinging to its knowledge or the view. The wisdom mentioned here that is acquired through reading, thinking or studying has to be experienced through Vipassana meditation. Unless it is experienced through this way, this knowledge will become just another view among many other views in this world subject to decay and misinterpretations. There's a seven step purification process in Vipassana where you begin simply from practicing virtue, give up all the wrong views midway and finally end in wisdom. You go through the entire process similar to using seven relay chariots until you arrive at the destination where each chariot is used only to achieve its designated purpose and then you abandon it without clinging to it; this is explained nicely in Ratha-vinitha sutta. 

In Saṅgītisutta three types of persons in the world are mentioned: sekkha (learner), asekkha (adept) and nevasekkha nāsekkha (ordinary person or puthujjana) 

There was an incident in the 50s, a monk named Ñāṇavīra Thera commited suicide, he was believed to be a stream enterer and was suffering from amoebiasis. So I'm curious to know, if someone knows for sure that he's become a stream enterer (or beyond) and doesn't desire to live anymore, can he decide to commit suicide? 

Yes it's a result of kamma. Being born as a male is considered a result of a higher kamma. In Paramatthajotika by Buddhaghosha thera(can't find the english translation) it is mentioned that being born as a female is due to the violation of the third precept in a previous life. In Therigatha 400-470 mentions the story of a Bhikkuni named Isidasi who lived during Buddha's time who violated this precept eight lifetimes ago being born as a man. The rest of her lives are as follows: 

Maybe those things aren't worth speaking or thinking about? Indeed, these aren't worth talking about because knowledge about them doesn't bring an end to suffering which is the main issue that Buddhism tries to address. Hence, Buddha encourages to discover yourself rather than the vast universe. 

Under six major wrong doings (Abhithanani) in Buddhism, (i. matricide, ii. patricide, iii. the murder of arahants (the Consummate Ones), iv. the shedding of the Buddha's blood, v. causing schism in the Sangha, and vi. pernicious false beliefs (niyata micca ditthi)), 

Of course others have responsibility to rectify the wrong views. There were several individuals spreading wrongly grasped views on Dhamma even during Buddha's time like Arittha, Sati and Sunakkhattha. Buddha's and other monks' reactions on such situations are detailed in Alagaddupama sutta and Mahatanhasankhaya Sutta. Buddha explains the plight of such people, as if grasping a snake from it's coils in the water snake simile in Alagaddupama sutta. 

In Aṅkura­peta­vatthu, it is mentioned that if one gets some benefit from a tree such as lying in the shade, he should not harm even a leaf of that tree. 

The essence of this is that for the life span to increase, human qualities also have to improve, advances in medication and increase in the standard of living alone will not be enough. 

But for people studying the Dhamma for its real purpose, that is the cessation of suffering, Buddha's advice is to question him or an experienced monk when there's doubt. 

There's no mention on the future buddhas except Metteyya buddha in the pali canon. However, there's a book, Dasabodhisattuppattikatha which was written much later than the compilation of the pali cannon, possibly influenced by Mahayana bodhisattva ideals. Here's a list of the 10 buddhas in that book. 

Following excerpt from Excursions Into the Thought-World of the Pali Discourses by Bhikkhu Analayo explains them in detail. 

As for creating a schism in the sangha, my understanding is that this is not applicable for laypeople. Only monks are capable of causing a split. But a layperson can be a cause indirectly which isn't a severe offense. 

So, according to Buddhist texts such cross realm interactions is possible and it seems that the victim is not responsible for his or her actions done at that time. 

I think the question is on the four iddhipada, the four mental factors of achieving a goal: chanda (intention), citta (thoughts), viriya (effort), wimansa (investigation). According to this section in wikipedia, there's a collection of discourses on this topic in Saṃyutta Nikāya called Iddhipāda Saṃyutta. 

Very importand question! Why? Because it's required to see the meaninglessness of being a recidivist to actually change ones ways. Such a question and remembering the answer is not one to put aside but to repeat till it bring fruits, till one sees the recidivist clearly! (speech can cause so much... this or that and best.) The question and answer around it teaches not only the terrible size of suffering, but also gives when clear the right amount of effort to stop this foolish recidivist-hood. Anamatagga-samyutta — The unimaginable beginnings of samsara 

If reminding on just this, in each situation, there will never be any trouble in addition, to that what might just rippe for possible end (if not wrong grasped and continued with it) accure. [Note: This is a gift of Dhamma and not meant for commercial purpose or other low wordily gains by means of trade and exchange.] 

Supportive case samples: Just to give a possible graspable case. One is asking you a secure way through the dangerous forest. You tell him what you think. Later you find out that this way leads through minefields. Maybe apply-able by replacing "intent to kill" with intent that one takes on ones understanding? (Thinking: "Who ever might come accross my answer, way he fall to that."): 

It's just a matter of the object, of the food, but at it's root, if observing well, there is no different. Views, either greedy, aversive or defuse appearing are views. And for politics increasing greed and pleasure is more conductive. One can say that it is like controling the markted of drugs. Sometimes east did it, sometimes west. Currently Asia has it under control, made it their tool. When ever on hears that people of certain geografic or birth are inherent different, one can be sure that the observant is/was not very attentive and took either this world and views or that as real. Wordlings from Buddhist Countries are interested in the marked like popular Western teachers. An all tolerating, all serving business bring fast costumers, since the mass is not very smart but greedy and full of conceit. Since many eastern still learn service and devotion as a tool from child on, they have it generally easier in this regard, but on the other hand, those rejecting service and devotion are fastly winning people in the east. So so called "open-minded" comes generaly for a certain purpose and was always a good tool acting smart to again just win. So no hope for refuge in regard of realm of certain birth, because their conditions change as well by time, better by deeds. [Note: This is a gift of Dhamma and not meant for commercial purpose or other low wordily gains by means of trade and exchange.] 

Good question! Many would dwell in their barkwood, "emptiness", if they have gained, taking it for heart wood. Aside that concentration can be wrong concentration, based on wrong view, leading to wrong release: 

No, not for the case of taking side, not in a wordily sense. He would nevertheless speak of what is good, explain cause and effect but never making a favor, never "playing" world empire king or judge. Mara often tried to bring him to become a leader, a judge in wordly views. Knowing kamma, knowing that beings are heir of their deeds, wise don't do such, letting beings chose their deeds and defent or shelter, devote only to the Dhamma. For more to understand, read: 

— AN 10.176 Followed by "Skillful Verbal Action" and "Skillful Bodily Action", eventually keeping then the Uposatha of the Ariyas. [Note: This is a gift of Dhamma and not meant for commercial purpose or other low wordily gains by means of trade and exchange.] 

How do the "rationalists" (those who try to just depend on what they have already understood) argue how and why they come into being with all their diversity, desires, character... and where is might disapear intom From nothing to nothing? God? Mystic? A mysterious plan? Is there any valid argument beside of the fact of being reborn and that birth has a cause? And what is the cause of birth? 

My person guesses that Ilya Grushevskiy might mix up two Suttas, how ever, here the one in regard of discussion: