They may have little interest in the specific kind of social events the company is promoting. Did the company tried asking them what would they like to do? They may reply with proposals to attend a developer-centric conference together or to organize online multiplayer gaming sessions, for example. Listen to them. 

That means they have a common baseline behavior as a team. I'm assuming as a natural result that there are no intra-team communication issues: these only appear once this team needs to collaborate with other teams with different dynamics. The intra-team collaboration, if existing and natural, is an asset. Work with it. 

I've been in similar situations in the past. One that specifically comes to mind was a highly specialized team whose clients admitted to be quite competent technically, but with reportedly sub-optimal communication skills. So, to your points - 

And so do others IT teams around the world work - I'd even daresay the majority of them, if my personal experience may be taken into consideration; tools like Slack, Google Hangouts and similar are natural to them. But, more important, face-to-face communications are actually frowned upon in some situations because there may be no proof of resolution or commitment. Text-based solutions, be it chat or email, can provide both backlog and proof of commitment. 

I have been told a number of times that it is important to list some soft skills on your resume especially since, as a software developer, it is really easy to fill all the space with hard skills. While I do have soft skills I think I could list, I always feel kind of silly listing thing like 'strong leadership' because it feels like anyone can say that and everybody does! Is it as important a people have been telling me to list 'soft skills'? If so is there any way to list them to make them seem legitimate? 

There is a manager (not my manager) who sits across from me and since we both have open cubicles I can easily see (if I turn) and hear what he is doing. Perhaps I should phrase it differently, it is difficult to not hear what he is talking about. At any rate, he has small meetings at his desk a semi-frequently which I get the privilege of have no choice in listening to. A few time I have overheard them talking about something I have a very good understanding of (such as our current migration to Git) which they are confused about and I just turned around in my chair and provided my input. It has been a kind of instinctual thing and they seem appreciative, but it occurs to me that this might be rude and intrusive. As I mentioned, I don't really have a choice in listening to these meetings, they are 2 feet from my desk and are not easily ignored. The manager and I are on good terms, if we weren't I would not be doing this. So am I being impolite or helpful by interjecting in these meetings? What is best course of action? I really have no idea what the best option is here, I get the feeling I should bite my tongue and keep silent, but I feel bad by wasting other peoples time by not helping. Additionally I can't move away from the meeting, I have a desktop computer and I am a software dev. I could ask him to hold his meetings in an actual meeting room, it would disturb me a lot less, but that seems unlikely to work since we don't have computers in most of the meeting rooms. Ps. I know listening into meetings is bad to do, I'm not trying to (I'm also not asking if it is bad)... Additionally there is nothing sensitive covered in these meetings, he would find an actual meeting room for that. 

As soon as all your paper work clears. (no risk) As soon as your starting date is clear As soon as you have an "indication" to around which date you will work. Right now. (Taking all risk on to yourself) 

Leave him be, and get to know more about his headphones in a positive way. unless he deliberatly goes towards your client's working enviroment and THEN use his headphones, I see no problem (even then it's just a bit akward). What happens in your own working enviroment is up to you. It may seem a bit strange for when your client looks around your working enviroment, however there are plenty of valid reasons he could make for using them that don't need to offend the client. For example: 

Lets start here by answering as if you were alone. Yes, in Europe they will ask for a LOT of personal questions in order to figure out your personality. Also, a lot of interviews will be somewhat informal sometimes and they will try to have a conversation with you. This means they could ask a lot of things that are unrelated towards the job. However it's also known that you can at all times state that you'd rather not talk about those things. Many of the questions that they have asked you did in my opinion cross the line of what I'd allow them to ask of me. So this is most certainly not normal. Yet some interviewers will ask them regardless. For example, asking if you have other interviews planned for other companies I wouldn't mind answering. I would always say yes, even if I don't. However, to tell them which companies crosses the line for me. They can ask me that AFTER they have hired me(written contract etc etc.), not before. Many of the questions I've read felt like they were looking down on the interviewee and that in it's own is unacceptable. 

I'm a Canadian student (going to the University of Waterloo) and having gotten a J-1 visa (and potentially looking to get another) I can share some of what I know. If I am correct you need a sponsor, when I got my J-1 I was sponsored by Cultural Vistas and I know that Intrax and SWAP are others (and I'm sure there are more). You do not work for the sponsor, they just make sure the application and job are good to go. Each sponsor has different requirements and fees, here is the intrax page with some info and here is the Cultral Vistas one. Looking at the Cultral Vistas page 

Which mentions some of the stuff you mentioned. I also remember my (to-be) manager having to fill out a training/work plan. As for the fees, they can be paid by either party, but since they can be somewhat substantial, they are often paid by the employer. Sorry this is so late, I missed your question earlier, hopefully this is enough to get you started (if its not too late). I'm not sure which country you live in so this final link might not be too helpful, but you if your willing to ignore all the uWaterloo mentions, my university talks a lot about getting visas here, here and here. 

At this point you've informed him more than what he really deserves. Hopefully he'll give you more time to figure out the code. If he doesn't then that's not your fault. Make sure to log this. Put it in the report that you'll deliver school, as they will be the ones to decide whether your internship is a success or not. NOT the company. (even though the company tends to have a large influence) If you end up being unable to do all the things that the company has asked from you, you will have proof that you informed the right people in the right way. Shifting the blame from you, towards the company itself. So in short: Document EVERYTHING that has been said and that has been mailed. And put it in your report that goes to school as an appendix. 

This depends on the company, I would try to discuss this with your company. Since you've worked there for only a month, I doubt that you'll have built up enough vacation days in 5 months to take a full month break. There are however some companies that don't make a big deal out of this or allow you to "buy" extra vacation days. So contact your manager and HR about this. Also, it's also important to see this from a different angle. Depending on where you work, taking a full month holiday could be considered career suicide. Your employer will wonder whether this will be a repeating occurrence even though it probably wont. Also, question yourself on whether you will be heavily missed that month. If the answer is yes, then your employer will NOT be happy about this. If the manager needs to actively look for a replacement for you for that entire month it's quite a big deal. In the end, I feel like you'd need to communicate this clearly with your manager while keeping this in mind. Personally I find it very likely that your request would be denied. However, seeing as you're asking this far ahead in time. I don't see the harm in asking. Whether you graduated from college is slightly irrelevant. You've already started a job. Asking for a month off at the start of your employment is always VERY awkward and unusual. If you feel that the company is very strict on rules. I don't think you'll be able to make your case to your manager. I could imagine a conversation with your manager going something like this. (not as a mail, I'm terrible at writing those and I prefer personal contact)