There doesn't seem to be an answer suggesting the only obvious solution besides the ones you mentioned (and discounted) in the question: simply make the moment of inertia larger along the axis of the cylinder, so that rotating along that axis becomes its most stable state. This of course requires adding a lot more mass. But since this kind of structure has to be built in space anyway this isn't necessarily a big issue. Simply attach a number of captured asteroids in a thick ring around the midpoint of the cylinder, and stick them together with carbon nanotubes. The ring should extend out from the cylinder as far as possible given the material limits of the nanotubes holding it together. Of course, your cylinder might be so big that you're at the limits of carbon nanotube tensile strength already. In that case this plan won't work at all, since the mass of the ring will exert even more centrifugal force than the cylinder itself. Because of this, a cylinder using this stabilisation method would have to be a lot smaller than the theoretical maximum. It could still be enormous, though. (I should note that this answer is somewhat tongue in cheek. I'm not sure it would really work, because an object on that scale wouldn't really behave like a rigid body. The ring would want to spin one way while the two ends of the cylinder want to tumble, and that might cause the whole thing to tear itself apart. I don't know whether it's possible to prevent this or not. I suspect that in reality the only ways to do it are some kind of active stabilisation or some kind of counterrotating mass, with the latter probably being far more practical.) 

Like @Theraot suggests, rocks are a good idea. Depending on the kind of rock your retreat is built on, you might have up to 60ppm lithium in those rocks. Out of the millions of tonnes of rock that you could easily have access to (particularly if your retreat is built at least partially underground, or especially if that part is still being built), you might therefor have a few hundred tonnes of lithium available to you. Of that quantity just under 8% is Lithium-6. Now, you're going to also need a few other things. Particularly, you're going to need a source of protons, and some Helium-3. These are a little harder to get hold of, but don't worry because the reaction you're going to perform produces as much of them as it consumes. You're only going to consume the lithium-6. The key is to fuse a proton with an atom of lithium-6. This will release a helium 3 (which will need extracting during reprocessing later on), a helium 4 (which is waste, although there are some fun party tricks you can perform with it), and 4 million electron-volts of energy. At the same time, you will also fuse a helium 3 atom with another lithium-6 atom. This will release a proton (you see where this is going) and 2 more helium 4 atoms, and 16.9 million electron-volts. So, you've used 2 atoms of lithium-6 and got 20.9 million electron-volts and some waste helium (and some other products that need to be reprocessed to feed back into the reaction again in order to sustain it). Now, to relate this to useful units. A mole of lithium-6 weighs 6 grams and contains roughly 6x10^23 atoms. This means that 6 grams can run 3x10^23 of our reactions and thus generate a little over 6x10^30 electron volts, which is to say about 267 megawatt hours, or enough power to keep the average person going for 12 years (or just under 3 years if they're American). This means that the rocks under your citadel ought to be able to keep a population of, say, 50,000 people going for somewhere between 60 and 240 years, depending on how frugal they are with power. Obviously shorter for a larger population and longer for a smaller population. Other than potential availability (depending on your city's location), there are other advantages to this over fusing deuterium from (heavy) water: 

It's a flightless bird As others have pointed out, a creature would not dive if it was unable to do so due to being too buoyant, and if it had no reason to. As for reasons for diving, one is to get food and another is to avoid attack from aerial predators. The latter reason is taken care of by the armour, but we have to ask why a surface-dwelling organism would evolve armour instead of evolving the ability to dive, which is probably the easier solution for most organisms. This is where buoyancy comes in. If the animal is very lightweight it will be hard for it to evolve diving behaviour, and it might take the armour strategy instead. Buoyancy means low density, i.e. light weight for the size. But why would an animal be so light weight? One obvious reason is flight. So: we have to imagine that this organism's ancestors were birds, or pterodactyls or similar flying creatures. Think of something like a large sea bird, though not necessarily a whale-sized one. It eats something that lives near the surface, so it doesn't need to dive very deep (if at all), and it spends a lot of its time resting on the water surface, using its feet to paddle like a duck or a swan. If food is very plentiful and predators are few, then birds will often lose the ability to fly. We just have to imagine that this happens here, resulting in a bird-like animal that spends all of its time paddling in the water, never taking to the air. (One difficulty is that a bird would need to lay its eggs on dry ground, but if this is not an Earth species we can imagine that it has live young instead. Or it could evolve a special body cavity in which to incubate its eggs or something - you'll have to be inventive here.) After that, we just need it to evolve its large size and armoured back. Sea animals seem to evolve a large size quite often. The reasons for this are not completely understood (though see here), but the same thing might well happen to a flightless sea bird. It would be easier for it to stay warm, it would have bigger fat reserves, and it would be so big that no predator could eat it. However, since it's sitting helpless in the water it could still be attacked by other aerial predators, who peck at its flesh without killing it. An armoured skin would be a sensible evolutionary response to this. 

The main problem you're going to run into is that complete control of these forces would be, to put it bluntly, mad overpowered. Being able to control any of the forces, even the weak force, would make you a god of destruction. You said "no planet destroying abilities", which in my opinion is simply incongruous with having powers over these forces, any of which have the power to destroy the universe as we know it. However, I'll do my best to stick to more relatively mundane applications. Disclaimer: I am a biologist and a programmer, well, actually a student studying to be those things, so physics in not my area of expertise. Feel free to correct me if any of the science below is downright inaccurate, but also keep in mind I'm intentionally simplifying and not concerned with using the most correct language possible. Notice: this answer has been edited substantially since it was posted, with major rewrites of the sections regard Gravity and the Strong Force. Gravity Gravity is unique among the forces in that it is best described not by quantum mechanics but by general relativity, via the curvature of spacetime. So one interpretation of gravity-based powers would be power over spacetime itself: wormholes, time travel, banishing people into pocket dimensions, etc. However, I’m going to focus on a more conservative interpretation and define gravity-based powers to mean the ability to affect the acceleration experienced by massive objects in a gravitational field. Gravity is by far the weakest of the four forces. You basically need planetary scales to make it do anything noticeable. Unfortunately if we give our gravity-users planetary-scale powers over gravity it becomes trivial for them to destroy the planet. So instead we’ll limit their powers to changing the effects of planetary-scale gravity fields on much smaller massive objects. In other words, they need a powerful gravitational field to already be present, and they can make objects lighter or heavier within that field. I’m interpreting this as the ability to affect weight, not mass. This ability has absurd potential for practical applications, most notably in construction and aerospace. The biggest challenge in designing a craft to reach space is that the fuel that generates thrust is usually the heaviest component of the craft. If you can turn a thousand-ton rocket into a five-pound rocket that still has millions of pounds of thrust behind it, the solar system is your oyster. Forklifts and cranes are a thing of the past on government construction projects: have a Gravity-user make the cargo featherweight, and give it a firm shove, and give the workers on the 20th floor heads up. And when it’s time for the building to come down, just quintuple its weight and get out of the way. Of course, the ability to level buildings with a hand wave also has potential for military use (and more likely, terrorism). A gravity-user could pin soldiers to the ground with 10G, turn them to mush with 200G, pull planes out of the sky and sink tanks deep into the ground. With even a few gravity-users in play, the shape of warfare would change dramatically. No one can risk large forward-assaults anymore, lest they wind up sinking through the Earths’ mantle. Black ops is the name of the game and cyber-warfare reigns supreme. That said, the logistical usefulness of Gravity-users far exceeds their use in warfare in my opinion. While they’re tremendously effective, they’re also a precious resource that dies to a snipers’ bullet just like an ordinary human. If you want your nation to be the most powerful, I think employing gravity users in your supply lines and manufacturing bases would be a much better allocation of resources then sending them directly into combat. They just make so many industrial processes so much easier; the demand for civilian services is so high I doubt many Gravity-users would turn to the military except in times of a draft. Then again, it might only take one to flatten the enemy capital into the ground. I see Gravity-users as practically-minded upper-middle-class people mostly employed in construction. Their abilities are incredibly useful for everyday life, but aren’t particularly well-suited for direct combat, unless their reflexes are fast enough to drop bullets out of the air, but they would serve as a major deterrent to anyone planning an invasion. Because of high demand for their abilities from many sectors of the economy, I imagine they’d be very well-paid and live comfortable lives of productivity and comfort. The increased productivity they would bestow upon society would them icons of the workforce and heroes of labor, but since their success depends entirely on them getting their own hands dirty, I don’t see how they could ever own a business or ever truly leave the middle class. Electromagnetism Unlike gravity, electromagnetism is strong enough at small scales to be used without fear of destroying the planet. However, considering that electromagnetism is what hold atoms and molecules together, it could easily be used to vaporize... well, anything, including the entire planet, so let's set a limit and say that an EM user can only control electromagnetic fields at macroscopic scales. Well, they can act like a magnet, or a lightning bolt. Create a positive charge on bad guy and a negative one in the atmosphere, and BANG!!! crispy bad guy. They could also create radiation, from radio waves to visible light to gamma rays, so you can microwave top ramen, become a human disco ball, give people skin cancer, or just annihilate them with gamma rays. Lasers might be tricky to pull off, but probably possible with sufficient training. You can wipe hard drives with a handwave, and you're every cyborg's worst nightmare. If powers include detecting EM fields, you could see in infrared, ultraviolet (probably not a good idea when visiting public restrooms), and detect all electronic equipment and brain activity around you. If they can manipulate existing radiation, they could curve light around themselves and go invisible. Be careful with magnetism, since much like gravity it's very difficult to contain or aim. It would probably be possible though. EM users are the Supermen of this world: they're flashy, versatile, immensely powerful in traditional superhero fights, and well-suited for public adoration. When your abilities revolve around lightning and lasers, stealth and discreteness isn't much of an option; even if you can turn yourself invisible for the approach, you’re going to light up the sky with fireworks when you actually strike. Also they don't however have any strong defensive abilities though (soon to be a common theme), so they would probably rely on governments to keep them safe and would serve publicly as either patriotic super-soldiers or semi-legal vigilantes. They would be the flaming sword of modern justice, the poster children of the force-users, and the only ones the public would regularly interact with. Weak Force Unfortunately there is no getting around the issue of subatomic manipulation for the next two. Unlike gravity and EM, the weak force has incredibly short range, since the particles that mediate it are massive and can only exert their effect over any distance at all thanks to the Heisenberg uncertainty principle. Herein lies a problem: by "short" I don't mean a few feet or a few inches or even a few nanometers, but 1/1000 of the diameter of a single proton. In other words, the weak force can't even be projected from one atom to another, or even from one side of an atom's nucleus to the other side. So, you have two options. Either Weak users can project their abilities over distances or they can't, and can only affect what they can touch. The first option is very problematic since this ability is so stupidly strong, as we'll see shortly. The second option makes this ability stupidly weak (no pun intended) since the distance between the electrons in your hand and the electrons in whatever you're touching is many orders of magnitude greater the weak force's range, meaning that your powers would only apply over your own body. This is problematic because this ability is stupidly destructive, as we'll see shortly. So, problems of range aside, what can the weak force do? Well, it can change quarks (the particles that make up protons and neutrons in atomic nuclei) into other "flavors" of quarks. What does that do? It can change protons into neutrons and vice versa, which can change atoms into other kinds of atoms. Ha ha, you think! I'm an alchemist that can turn lead into gold and bullets into snowflakes! Well, no, because if you change the ratio of protons to neutrons in an atom, most of the time the result is an atom that is unstable, i.e., radioactive. Basically, your power is to turn any substance (or person) into nuclear fallout. If the ability were to taken to its logical extreme (which might be planet destroying territory), they could effectively turn any object into a neutron bomb. So, going back to our options above, our weak user can either make anything, anywhere, radioactive, or they give themselves fatal radiation poisoning. Far more interesting, in my opinion, is to give their powers range over whatever they can focus clearly on, i.e an arbitrary short range of three meters. Given that EM users couldn't control their force at the atomic level, Weak users would require enormous concentration to do so, and would have to be close enough to their target to have some idea of its molecular structure (i.e. calcium carbonate for cement, water for people, etc). Due to the difficulty involved in feeling out and manipulating quintillions upon qunitillions of quarks, their powers would extremely difficult to master, and would probably not emerge until later in life, and perhaps only if they studied enough physics to understand what was happening. Their powers can only be used to destroy, but unlike the Gravity users, they can control and direct them without world-shattering consequences. Their only defense is a crushing offense, but unlike the EM users, their offensive tools are not well-suited to public activity, and aren't accompanied by huge flashes of light and heat. For the average weak user, I'm imagining a cynical and secretive pariah with a very hard life unfolding before them. Maybe they were expelled from college after a particularly bad breakup, when their ex was taken the hospital one day with her flesh melting off her bones, and all her doctors died of cancer within the year. Maybe they wander the streets in rags holding a brown paper bag, muttering constantly about they could kill them all if they wanted to, yes they could, they'd kill them all! Or maybe they're sitting on a plush couch in an imposing skyscraper somewhere, ignoring their host's offers of wine and women, negotiating the price for the deaths of a nation's entire government. Whatever their path, they stay out of the spotlight, hide their powers as much as they can, and use them however they see fit. Strong Force It is really a stretch to make this is not a planet-destroying ability. The strong force is strong, 137 times stronger than EM to be exact. It's also known as the color force, because much like the weak force it acts on quarks, and in addition to "flavor" quarks have a property called "color" that is expressed through the strong force. To oversimplify, in quantum mechanics color always has to add up to white, so a red quark, a green quark, and a blue quark join together to form a white proton or neutron. Also a red quark could temporarily join with an anti-red anti-quark to form a meson. This color interaction binds quarks together extremely strongly. In fact, the energies involved are so large that nowhere in the universe today will you find a free colored quark that's not part of white structure. In fact, this energy, called quantum chromodynamics binding energy, is much larger than the actual mass of the quarks themselves (remember E=MC2). In short, most all mass in the universe is the "mass" of the energy bound up by the strong force as it keeps quarks glued together. It's range is about 1000 times that of the weak force--still far too small to reach from one atom to the next--so let's assume its range mechanic works the same as the weak force. Now, what can it do? By gaining power over the strong force, you have the ability to unleash obscene amounts of energy. The weakest possible implementation of this power that I can imagine is the ability to split and fuse atomic nuclei. If the atom you're targeting is lighter than iron, fusion releases energy and fission absorbs it. Heavier than iron and it's the opposite. How much energy? Well, think atom bombs, nuclear power plants, and well, the sun. E=MC2. again, emphasis on the C2. Let's do some quick math. Every second the sun converts 600 million tons of hydrogen into 595 million tons of helium, with the missing mass converted into energy. So fusing hydrogen converts (600-595)/600 = 0.833% of mass fused converted to energy. Take 0.1 Kg of hydrogen gas, and fuse it by manipulating the strong force. 0.1 Kg (M) * 0.833% * (9.0e16 (C2)) = 7.5e13 J = 90,000,000,000,000 J = 90 Terajoules = around one and a half Hiroshima bombs. And that's a conservative estimate of what you could do with this power. In the modern universe, the strong force holds atomic nuclei together, it doesn't "get out in the open" much, so to speak. When it does, the universe turns into Quark-Gluon plasma. Bad times. I don’t have any numbers to back me up but I’m guessing that even the tiniest spark of QGP would, immediately upon creation, explode with the force of hundreds of nuclear weapons. An EM-user might be able to absorb the radiation from the blast, but not the heat or the shockwave. So a Strong-user, using just the tiniest corner of their power, can unleash energies far exceeding those of the other force users. With a flick of a wrist they can wipe cities, countries, continents off the map. Even if we emplace arbitrary limits on their power to tone it back, they could kill and destroy anything and anyone they chose by creating microscopic nuclear explosions out of any matter at all. Their biggest challenge is not blowing themselves up in the process; to solve this issue, I suggest scaling up the range of the Strong-users’ abilities from 3 meters to 3 kilometers, an increase proportional to the difference in range between the strong force and the weak force. Gravity-users are the industrious workers, EM-users are bold knights, Weak-users are roguish assassins—and Strong users are Kings. Gods, maybe, and despots, most likely. When you hold an entire nation’s nuclear arsenal in your fingertips, it’s not long before you start wondering why you’re bothering with working for anyone else. Also once the government discovers what you’re packing and decide it’s too dangerous to let you live, you don’t get much of a choice. They’re safe nowhere, and that makes them even more dangerous. Their only options are to disappear completely, or to make the world fear their wrath to the point where threatening their life doesn’t seem worth it. Perhaps they’d even start or inspire cultish followings that would populate their kingdoms and worship them as gods. I imagine a world with Strong-users is locked in a cold war the likes of which the world has never seen. Every government with a brainwashed/loyal Strong-user, and every Strong-user who’s carved out a kingdom for themselves through violence and threats of violence, would constitute a nuclear power with an unlimited armament. Mutually assured destruction doesn't even begin to describe it. If Strong-users can be detected at birth, expect very few of them to reach adulthood. 

From a science point of view, yes, if life were discovered on Venus, there would be an immediate switch in priorities. Scientifically this would be huge. (And contrary to other answers, science rather than colonisation is the main reason for funding space missions in the current political climate.) It would be our first discovery of life anywhere away from Earth, so there would be a huge wave of media excitement and popular interest, and as a result, funding for space missions, especially Venus ones, would go up for a while. Scientists all over the world would be intensely excited to answer all sorts of questions about Venus life: did it arise independently of Earth life, or was life transported from one planet to another via meteorite impacts, which is thought to be possible? Does Venus life use the same amino acids and nucleic acids as Earth life, or is its chemistry completely different? How does life survive in the incredibly harsh environment on Venus, and how many places on the planet can it live? There is basically nobody in biology or planetary sciences who wouldn't immediately want to know all that. Then there's all the potential medical applications of a whole other biosphere full of biologically active molecules that are probably not found on Earth. So basically it's a no-brainer: there's no doubt that if this was discovered there would be at least one follow-up mission, perhaps several, designed specifically to study it. This would indeed quite likely involve cuts in funding for Mars missions, because that's just the way things work. These Venus missions would not be manned, due to Venus' thick corrosive atmosphere. This not only makes it extremely hard for even an unmanned spacecraft to last very long but also means that you can't blast off from Venus unless you manage to take something the size of a Saturn V with you and land it on the surface - that's currently quite some way beyond what humans are practically capable of. So these would be robotic missions with specifically designed experiments for studying Venusian biology. Perhaps people would consider a sample return mission - i.e. an unmanned spacecraft that picks up a sample and takes it back to Earth - though I would guess that would be unfeasible at our present stage of development. However, there is a big caveat to be mentioned. Life is thought to be very unlikely on Venus, due to the extremely high temperature and sulfuric acid rain - certainly no known Earth life can survive there. We can suspend disbelief and imagine that life finds a way to survive there anyway, but it also poses another problem: no probe sent to Venus in 2022 will include equipment to detect life, because nobody expects to find it there. Detecting life in non-Earth-like soil is hard - even the recent Mars probes don't carry equipment designed to do that, because it would be prohibitively expensive to do so. So the probe will not carry PCR equipment for detecting DNA; it will not carry an experiment to culture any bacteria it might happen to find, and it will not carry the microscope and special dyes that would be needed to attempt to observe cells directly. Even if the soil on Venus were teeming with as many bacteria on Earth, it would look as lifeless as Earth dirt to the rover's sensors. If you're really lucky a growing bacterial colony might be observed by the cameras, but it would just look like a small stain that changes slowly in size, and it would be impossible to be sure that that was actually life rather than just a chemical phenomenon. For these reasons, it's extremely unlikely that a near-future Venus rover would find life on Venus even if it were there - they only way I can think of it happening is if there is not just bacteria but actual complex multicellular life that can be directly and unmistakably observed by a camera. 

Unless the push was massive (which would have required a lot of finance), I highly doubt that the US would be capable of a manned mission to Mars in 1977, with only 6 years to prepare. In reality, in about the same time frame, the US went from deciding to build the space shuttle to building an unpowered prototype for atmospheric testing. The design and construction of the engines for the space shuttle weren't finished until 9 years after the project began; most suggestions for viable Mars missions rely on this technology having been developed before it can even begin. As of 1971, NASA's best guess for the earliest it would have been able to launch a manned Mars mission was 1987. And given that most of this work was performed by commercial organisations, I don't think put any more emphasis on commercial involvement would assist matters all that much. It's being successful now, but only because manufacturing techniques and materials have pushed the cost of entry much lower than it would have been in the 70s.