The world is not static. Right "now", there is only 1 in 10000 Force Sensitive (FS), but it wasn't always so. And it will not always stay so. One possibility is that FS is a recent development, and ten thousand years ago there were none. Then somebody got lucky in the genetic/environmental lottery and the first Jedi was. They had more children than average, and those children had more children than average and so on, but it still a rare trait. In the future it will be more common. The other possibility is that they used to be more common, but for some reason most of them died. Maybe they were killed as witches, maybe they lost a civil war. Again, they will be more common in the future... unless there is a new witch hunt. (The above is my unique contribution, below I repeat points made by others to make this a complete answer) Weak inheritance You said that FS parents had an increased but still low probability of getting FS children. This can be achieved in two ways. The first is making the genetic basis very complex. Maybe you need one of two genes from group A, one of three from group B as well as one particular gene C. All of these genes are somewhat rare. Parents are likely to not carry more genes than needed, and can fail to pass them along in several ways. People having more than the minimum number of genes can be stronger FS, but not dramatically so. The other way is to make the genes only part of the equation. Having the right genes only gives you a chance, in addition you must get some boost from the environment. Maybe during pregnancy, maybe early childhood. E.g. a near death experience can "wake you up". Note that either way, weak inheritance will make evolution move even slower, making my first point more valid. Who cares anyway. The world is as it is, and the people in the story doesn't know why. The readers doesn't need to know why either. Nor does the writer. 

I'm going to give an answer based off the game, Mass Effect. Let's take a look at the Migrant Fleet, where the race known as the Quarians have made their home on a massive fleet of aging ships. They are generally unwelcoming to outsiders, and are very thorough regarding any threat against the fleet. Pretty uptight, right? Let's introduce the Geth, a race of sentient machines created by the Quarians for work. Even though they were developed to be non-sentient, there were some problems... 

For a story like yours, elements from both might work: Some advanced alien race travels from solar system to solar system, using some unknown technology to fuel their massive fleet by funneling mass from the stars. They showed up, shaved off a significant portion of mass for their fleet, and then vanished. 

Based on this, as well as other information available, I believe it will be near impossible to completely avoid some form of artificial intelligence. The reason for this is that in almost any sci-fi scenario, it will be difficult to control the development of A.I. even if we are already aware of the risks. There are simply too many individual entities such as governments, corporations, and individuals who will continue development of A.I. bordering sentience. The line is fairly blurred between "Computer system capable of advanced decision making" and "Computer system capable of self-though". What happens after we inevitably cross that line is entirely up to the circumstances. The scale could be a small, isolated incident or an all-out war. We could see something, go "oh shit" and get rid of it, or we could re-enact the events of The Matrix. 

This was originally posted to the Puzzling SE, which means that the poster has a specific answer in mind. Since they chose the odd value "65 million years" instead of a round number, it is probable that the intended answer is: You should cause the Cretaceous–Paleogene extinction event. 

Bureaucrats needed. Ruling and administrating the galaxy is such a chore! Why can't somebody else do it? Hm, over there is a planet full of beings that actually like ruling! Odd things, but useful. Let's educate them so they can take over the job. 

The only job available for the last arrivals will be as museum exhibits. It is very hard to guess about the economics of new and unknown technology, the short answer is that you can write it either way without anybody being able to contradict you. Today, we don't know how to handle anti-matter, so an AM drive is impossible. On the other hand, we also don't know how to freeze people and have them survive the process. Who knows what the future will bring? 

Ships Rivers have been important to civilization since the beginning because sailing up and down the river is much easier than trudging over land. A standard bridge will stop ships from passing! Everybody up-river is going to hate you and try to destroy your bridge/city. You can build a drawbridge or something, but you don't want to build houses on a drawbridge. 

I need a really good weapon for a hero to wield, and not just a regular sword, something really cool, that'll be noticed by all, like a huge flail, or a creepy scythe. Here's how magic works: Magic is in your blood. When you use magic you lose some of the power that's in your blood. If you run out, you die. Words are linked with the flow of magic but not necessarily, if you have enough concentration and focus you can just think what you want, but the words make it safer. There are runes that power's imbued on but I don't just want a sword covered in those. To sum up my question, What's the best weapon that's unusual and awesome to bring into battle and trust your life with. Sorry if you didn't understand this, the weapon is for fighting those with some plate armor, a helm, chest-plate, vambraces, grieves, but no armor around the belly and groin. The enemies also wear a chainmail hauberk. 

CIA: take this course of action immediately, find and contain all of the Affected, we will build a large compound, maybe in Russia or Canada, those huge empty places and with the help of governments around the world we will restrain the Affected. The only hard part are the ancient Affected, but they're good at being quiet. The only thing we really don't want is a witch hunt, it'll ruin modern day society. Sincerely Mr. President. 

Prevent? No, but our potential time traveler could certainly make the situation much better. The unfortunate thing about this plague is that vaccines don't work to prevent it. Meaning that we would have to effectively stop it from originating in the first place. Very difficult to do with the little information that we have! Instead of attempting to locate a needle in a haystack (or really, a flea in all of Asia), we need to instead look at minimizing the damage. Your time traveler has an extensive medical history, and should be capable of manufacturing antibiotics. Additionally, they should be able to arm themselves with knowledge of generally where the plague spread and when. By setting up manufacturing of antibiotics near common shipping lanes, it should be possible to get them out to the general populace before the plague hits their area. Of course, prep time and gathering supplies may be tricky to come across. 

The founders originally came as a scientific expedition. They devised a habitation that could support larger crews, where eventually multiple teams would come by to study the continent. Potentially hundreds or thousands of scientists might be staying at once in a growing colony. Now for whatever reason, the rest of the world nuked themselves back to the stone age (or completely died off), leaving the current colony stranded with no external supplies. Ideally, they imported the technology necessary to sustain themselves so they could grow food and collect water as necessary. However the elements are harsh and tend to erode the structure above ground. You could have two possibilities from here: 

I have a huge castle, more like a walled city, population 70,000. About one thirds of those are fighting age and men. The castle is built on a huge mountain, which is flat at the top, about ten square miles. There's only one way up the mountain, a winding ramp that goes all the way around the mountain. (The top is directly above them bottom.) There is magic, but very few have enough power and knowledge to wield it well; about 100. The castle has a force of cavalry 3,000 strong, and they're trained on charges down the slope(the winding path that goes around the mountain that the castle is on top of.) The defenders have enough food and water to last them years, and they keep on growing things so scurvy isn't a problem. They also have trebuchet at different positions on the wall and distributed around the city. Explanation of Magic Magic is a second life source. If you run out of it you die. The less Magic you have the weaker you get. In this respect it is like a second stamina. They way your body checks if it is physically strong enough to do something is as follows: 

It really depends on the power of the mages, but if you've got enough archers, maybe eighty, even if he does have supersonic speed, they could shoot arrows all around him, along with the mages shooting spells, he'd die pretty quickly. 

The problem with the slow alternative is that somebody else will do it the quick way and colonize the heck out the planet before you get there. 

Reality TV! Digital humans, like any other humans, needs to be entertained. And a large fraction of humanity like Reality TV. Making Reality TV about digital humans doesn't seem real, somehow. No, you need good old-fashioned biology to make things really interesting. Coming soon to a multicast stream near you, the new series: In the Flesh! General tolerance As @Andon asked, why do we keep the Amish around? Because we recognize them as fellow humans beings, and they are allowed their choices, as we all are. As long as digital and biological human recognize each other as humans, they will each allow the other to exist on their own terms. Childhood Like several others, I think spending your childhood in the real world is good for you. Builds character. 

For a different perspective, consider the Earth in the year 10000. 300 generations or so has passed since today and in every generation, people has moved to different parts of the Earth until the connection between location and genes has been lost. The variation will still be there, but it will be spread out all over the place. Nobody will be talking about races anymore. Historians will know about them, but most people will not. Now, send these people to a planet like today's Earth. They will be surprised at a) Most people with certain skin colour will be collected in a certain place. and b) these primitive people think that skin colour is important. Optionally, you could throw in a period where gengineering your kids was the norm. Almost everybody make their kids look like whatever the fashion was, and this change would be inheritable. A few generations later everybody looks the same. In this case they would also be surprised at the variation of the primitives. 

Eventually the Quarians would be driven from their home world by the Geth nearly 300 years before the Mass Effect games took place. In these games, the Geth were still a major threat, acting as the main antagonist. One interesting bit that intrigued me regarding this topic: 

The first thing that came to mind was the Star Forge from Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic, that effectively funneled mass from the star it orbited (yes, Bioware had the idea long before Episode 7 was written). It is a tad small, however, sustaining from a single star for a looong time, so you could scale it up a bit to take mass over a much smaller time frame. It also reminded me of the Vasari Loyalists from Sins of a Solar Empire: Rebellion: 

A spell is a merely a complex component composed of many complex components. Spells are layered and stacked, from the most basic roots to the most advanced reality-bending magicks. Simple spells may only require a few key components. A fireball, for example, might require components that extract key elements from the air, components to bring these components together, and components to drive some form of reaction. A component to extract oxygen from the air might be composed of multiple components that deal with splitting/separating the individual elements. A mage/wizard would be able to draw out these components in a way that best fits their own theme. A dark evil wizard might find that certain components can be formed within blood allowing specific uses of blood magic - The actual lines of blood that he draws may be composed of several layers of component spells already. Another wizard may write out / carry runes composing of key components that allow them a variety of uses. A grimoire/spellbook/tome would teach all of the required components necessary to perform some spell. Other books might teach broader theory, layering theory, or theories on producing automated spell matrices to channel through. The bonus here is that a sufficiently talented caster can then work with these individual components-of-components to produce their own spells and new magicks. They might learn a trick that allows them to take a component from a Fire Wall spell and apply it to water instead. Additionally, this would offer a way for one-time spells. Instead of detailing the exact intricacies of how these components are formed and behave, the components are simply laid out in a complex matrix; potentially obfuscated by the mage/wizard to be very difficult if not impossible to properly decipher. The mage who purchased such a book would simply put in their own power/energy/magic, and it would run the complex system of components, burning the "circuitry" in the process. 

First I'll address fire-breathing The dragon could produce a very flammable liquid in a gland, and could spit it out, past the teeth. The dragon could click his teeth in a special way, producing a spark, lighting the gas on fire. The dragon could fly but the wingspan would be colossal. As for the fireproof scales, it's possible to, if they're thick enough and the skin underneath is totally protected. 

Some spells can be both, but some are only on impact. If you send a spell to paralyze your enemies (make them unable to move) there is no way, unless maybe send a spray of paralyzing poison toward them, to do it on release. Everyone in this universe has Magic. Some people produce more Magic than others. This is the reason that few can do great feats of Magic, though if they knew how, almost anybody could conjure a candle-flame. Another thing that you need to know about Magic is the use of it. Special words, the Olde Tongue, were linked to the usage usually, but not always. The words just helped you to focus and ‘stay on target’. These words helped magicians to focus on what they were doing and not get lost in the process. The Enemy They have about 100,000 soldiers land, about half are conscripted so they don't really want to fight and don't have good training, other half are expert soldiers, about 10,000 are mounted, the rest are melee or archers, about half and half, also archers have low bows, not crossbows. Enemy have about 200 mages. The enemy also have a Sky Force of about 12,000. Enemy Sky Force 500 Dragon Riders: dragons are about 80 ft. long, can breathe fire, have deadly whiplash tails, aren't smart. 500 Griffin Lancers: men with long lances, land in the middle of the city and wreck havoc, griffins aren't smart but listen to commands, about 50 ft. wingspan. 10,000 Transported by Rocs: men who will be dropped in the middle of the city by a roc, they ride in carts, but if safely dropped, cause mayhem, trying to open gates and letting the rest of the army inside. They are distributed among 100 rocs, 100 to a roc. 1000 Gargoyle Trainers: stay on ground but set gargoyles, (almost as smart as humans,) onto people, gargoyles are demonic things that can turn into almost unbreakable stone, and then turn back at will, so they are great bombers, bombing themselves onto prominent buildings and troop forces, can be broken by some magic spells. As you can see, it'll be a hard fight for my defenders so I need some really good defense ideas. What'll help the defenders win?