But lets pretend for a moment that water does have memory. The aspect of boiling has not been researched. A search of Google Scholar nets no results for boiling and homeopathy. When referring to "how-to" guides of preparations it becomes obvious that homeopaths are merely after clean or unpolluted water to make their preparations in. 

Trump's weight is harder to pin down, as he wears tailored clothes that hide his girth (because weight will fluctuate when campaigning). He is clearly overweight even with this visual aid. It is much more likely that he is obese, as he is on the record as saying he doesn't like to exercise, and isn't carrying much muscle, yet looks heavyset. Recordings of the Dr Oz Scam, sorry, Show, had audience members citing two differing figures for Trump's weight during his appearance. 

The simple answer is yes. The more complex answer is that the number of deaths is nothing in comparison to other man made structures and the risks from climate change. There have been several studies done to find the environmental impact of wind farms on birds. Generally birds lack the ability to dodge humans and their quest for global supremacy. From the American Bird Conservancy there are a list of deaths related to sources as deaths per year in the US: Feral and domestic cats - Hundreds of millions Power lines - 130-174 million Windows - 100 million to 1 billion (NB the high end seems too large to me) Pesticides - 70 million Cars - 60-80 million Lighted communication towers - 40-50 million Wind turbines - 10-40,000 (Table found here) Obviously wind turbines aren't as popular as cars, cats and windows, but with the expected increase in wind energy generation, the impacts will likely increase. The thing that has to be borne in mind is that the wind turbines are on an order of magnitude smaller impact than other bird killers. It also has to be remembered that the studies are also showing that newer wind power plants are having less impact on birds due to design upgrades, better placement and better ecological planning. The real issue here is climate change. Coal power plants kill birds, in fact, they are threatening to wipe out entire species. According to a study reported in Scientific American, at least 950 entire species of terrestrial birds will be threatened with extinction as a result of climate change under several scenarios, even at the lower estimate of temperature gains, just counting species of non-sea birds in the higher latitudes; outside the tropics. Birds in the tropics will be impacted by habitat loss, which brings the total species wiped out to ~1800 (Jetz, Wilcove, and Dobson 2007). The take home point is that we need clean energy sources to save bird species. Those that fly into turbines each year will be minimised with better designs and locations of turbines. In the meantime, worry about the cats and climate change. Update: recent studies have shown that birds of prey are more prone to injury and death from wind turbines. Essentially, birds of prey spend a lot of time looking down for prey and not enough time looking where they are going. The usual bird collision rate is 0.08 birds per turbine per day on average (range 0.05–0.19), whilst the 'smarter' Eagles are colliding at a rate of 0.112 to 0.133. The study also suggests that bird size and speed of flight are important determinants of collision rates, hence why gliding and hovering prey birds are colliding more often. It is worth bearing in mind that both of these collision rates (that often result in death) still indicate an avoidance rate of 99%. This avoidance rate is important to compare to the relative deaths per gigawatt-hour of the power sources to realise that wind power is still a very good option. This study estimates that wind farms and nuclear power stations are responsible each for between 0.3 and 0.4 fatalities per gigawatt-hour of electricity while fossil-fueled power stations are responsible for about 5.2 fatalities per gigawatt-hour. Thus, wind turbines could do with some investigation into how to make them safer for birds, but they are already a much better option than fossil fuels. 

In short, if I may crudely summarize dozens of studies: less fighting, more harmony, less conflict, less stress = better lives (for children and adults) The problem, as it relates to divorce or staying together, is neither staying together nor divorcing brings any requirement for attaining any of the above beneficial outcomes. Some people get divorced and bitterly fight just as much (or even more) than when they were married, even though they were in terrible conflict during the marriage. In such a situation the children will be harmed regardless, and whatever reduces their exposure to violence, conflict, and stress is best - however that can be obtained. If parents provide a stable, harmonious, low-stress environment for the children, the research seems to indicate getting a divorce is not necessarily helpful to the children and may be more harmful. This however assumes that the situation is actually all these positive things - fighting behind closed doors that the children still hear and experience, especially when the fighting is about the child themselves, is not such a positive environment at all. Strong self-regulation and absolute rule-following by both parents is required, and this sort of discipline and consciousness is not something all that commonly encountered - but it is absolutely possible. Some people claim great surprise as adults when their parents get a divorce and learn that their parents weren't really all that interested in being married for years - but I do not find research that addresses this in a satisfying way. Furthermore, it is noted that the adjustment level of the children prior to divorce is greatly predictive of how well a child will adjust post-divorce. To quote again: 

It's times like this, on issues like this, that I'm most saddened by the restriction of access to academic literature. Being privileged with access to such material, I'll provide at least some citations and quotes from this restricted pool of research. I will draw liberally from an excellent review that was accepted for publication in 1998, The Adjustment of Children with Divorced Parents: A Risk and Resiliency Perspective. The linked article specifically addresses the question at hand: is it better to stay together or get a divorce? Here I shall quote directly (less than 1 page of 13 with snippits noted and emphasis added, though the entire article is so very applicable): 

It is unquestionable that doctors generally, and radiologists specifically, will be effected by the ACA going forward. But the question here is what the net effect will be. What makes this difficult to really answer is that there are a number of provisions that come into play, and some can be deemed negative while others are positive. No one knows for sure what the ultimate net effect will be, but we can try by looking at a few to get an idea of what the bottom line might be. 1) A decrease in insurance payments made for imaging. According to How Healthcare Reform Is Affecting Radiology, slide 11 (and others), there is a decrease in pay for various imaging work of up to 50%, both directly for procedures such as an MRI and in a policy that groups together certain procedures that were performed at the same time into one single payable service. The stated goal of this is that these sorts of common expenses are much more expensive in the US than other comparable countries, and the rationale that two sets of images done during one visit to one patient should not cost the same as if they were done at entirely different times, etc. Rationale aside, one could easily consider this a negative for radiological businesses, but radiologists are largely salaried staff and are not paid per procedure or even per hour. But the economic value provided by radiologists is reduced, so this could provide a negative pressure on pay. One of the reasons this is a concern for some radiologists is that that they are already very highly paid positions (both in general and compared to general care doctors), with salaries in the US ranging from $160,000-500,000+ per year, and a very high predicted job growth rate in the coming years. Glassdoor Survey of Salaries. One can thus reason that if anyone is going to be targeted for a pay cut, radiologists could be at the front of that line. 2) A major increase in potential demand for healthcare On the other hand, the major increases in healthcare coverage that are a central goal of the ACA are likely to provide far more demand (paying customers) looking for healthcare. Those who were previously unable to pay for services performed in an emergency care environment would now be covered, which is another positive effect. This could be viewed as a mixed impact, however, as many/most medical professionals are salaried now and would be called upon to work more. The increase in demand for nurses and doctors would provide an upwards pressure on salary and increased bargaining power. It seems odd to claim that an increased demand for ones services is harmful. If you are already highly paid and work long hours, I suppose you could reasonably think that there is no benefit to you directly of having more people waiting in line for your services. But it would provide more opportunities for people seeking to be radiologists and provide additional justification for pay 2-4 times higher than other medical doctors. 3) An increase in pay for some physicians and regional incentives According to the National Physicians Alliance (and many other sources) there will be a 10% boost in payments for primary care services, a 10% boost for surgeons and other personnel working in under-served communities, an increase in Medicaid payments so they match Medicare payments, and incentives/pay/loan forgiveness for working in under-served communities. As far as the claim that there will be less flexibility to choose where to work, I can only assume this is what is being referenced - but to claim reduced flexibility when payments/incentives are offered to work in rural and under-served areas seems like a backwards way to look at things. If there is a shortage of doctors this should tend to increase the flexibility of choosing where one lives and works. 4) Insurance stability, availability, limit elimination The ACA will be removing lifetime/yearly limits on healthcare coverage, make insurance companies unable to drop people who are getting ill, etc. This effects physicians, too, as they need insurance too. It also means doctors don't suddenly lose patients because of bureaucratic nonsense. 5) Digital medical records requirements This is billed as an upside, but I heard an NPR report the other day (sorry, no citation - radio program) that many older private practice physicians say that the cost of going digital is just too expensive and they're just going to work until the penalties are too much and then they'll retire from their practice. The cost of systems and converting records is considerable, and for small practices the advantages of digital patient records are vastly reduced while the out of pocket costs are still high. For some doctors this is a negative, though for many its a benefit. YMMV Uncertainty This is just a natural downside, as if nothing else the ACA signals changes in physician pay, work environments, insurance, and a real or perceived move towards a pay-for-performance or packaged-payment system. People naturally fear change, and this can be perfectly rational. Who trusts the government not to screw things up, really? But the present system is untenable, so it is inevitable and scary. Conclusion So as you can see, even this partial treatment reveals the situation is mixed. Some physicians will make more money, find more flexibility, more bargaining power, and have better work environments. Upcoming physicians may find better pay, modernized systems, and more opportunities and options to pay for their (already prohibitively expensive) education. Older physicians, and those in highly paid specialties (such as radiology), may find the ACA costs them more than it helps them. It is important to remember that the Affordable Care Act is a monolithic piece of legislation, and as such it inevitable contains pros and cons for everyone involved. How you judge the net result depends on who you are, how well the current system suits you, and how a variety of provisions and interpreted and implemented in the future. The NPA link provided earlier has many additional readings/links/citations that may provide further reading. TL;DR: Some physicians love Obamacare, some hate it, some are ambivalent, and some have such a mixed bag that its hard to evaluate whether its ultimately good or bad. And for some, only time will tell. 

This is simply a statement that in the results, all of the woman had a positive correlation between strength ratings and attractiveness ratings and none of them had a negative correlation. That is, as one went up so did the other. We are not told in the article or the abstract the slope of this relationship which presumably varies for each respondent, that is, does a doubling of the strength rating double the attractiveness or is it flatter (50% more say) or steeper (150% more say). 

This is the official website of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for the Republic of Poland - monarchies do not generally describe themselves as republics. In addition, the CIA world fact book describes Poland as a "parliamentary republic" subject to the 1997 constitution and with the head of state "President Andrzej DUDA (since 6 August 2015)" - not Jesus Christ. Further, the articles you linked, if they are true, appear to be refereing to a religious ceremony at which the President was present - not a political or legal change. 

What do you mean by weather? Rainfall? Temperature? Wind? Where in the world are you talking about - different places have more or less climatic variation. 

What this says is that there is greater intergenerational equality of economic opportunity in Australia than in the US and that this has not changed significantly over time. Put another way, what your father earned has less impact on what you earn in Australia than in the US. This of course cuts both ways - social mobility is not always upwards. This is then used as a basis for decrying the economic opportunities of a person who is: 

Aside from the limitations on the statistics and the publication bias described above, this is an argument over interpretation of the results. The authors see the preference as having an evolutionary basis - woman like strong men because they are the descendants of people with a preference for strong men and that gave their ancestors an evolutionary advantage. If so, such a preference should be universal. An alternative view that the article ventilates is that the preference is a cultural one and that our culture venerates strength and that these woman learned to do this too be growing up in this culture. If this is correct, then the preference is culture specific and not universalizable; across neither space nor time. One study cannot determine who is right or if either hypothesis is. Obvious issues There are a number of issues that pop out at me with how the study is constructed which may introduce biases - I do not know if the authors' addressed these.