As I remember, for centuries popes ruled an independent state known as the Papal States until Italy conquered it in 1860 and 1870. In 1929 a tiny independent country in the city of Rome was created, the Vatican City. The popes were the secular rulers of an independent country for centuries up to 1870, had no country to rule from 1870 to 1929, and have ruled a new independent country since 1929. But the Holy See, the papal curia that runs the Roman Catholic Church, is considered to be a separate subject of public international law from the independent country of the Vatican City. The Holy See is considered to be equal in many respects to an independent state. Thus the pope is the sovereign of both an independent country, the Vatican City, and of an organization that has somewhat similar status to an independent country, the Holy See. $URL$ And then there is the SMOM, The Sovereign Military Hospitaller Order of Saint John of Jerusalem of Rhodes and of Malta, which like the Holy See, is considered by many to be a sovereign subject of international law, with diplomatic relations with 107 countries. $URL$ So possibly the "dragon" might seek to be recognzed as a sovereign subject of international law, maybe by promising Monaco and other tiny countries not to devaste them if they give it diplomatic recognition. 

I believe that a camel is described as a horse designed by a committee. Which is intended as an insult. But camels are superior to horses in many ways. So camels or more camel-like horses would be a good bet for improved war horses. Making your war horses more elephant-like, or replacing them with elephants, may also be a good idea. War elephants have been used for thousand of years. Their use in the Mediterranean during Hellenistic times was a minor sideshow to their use in South Asia. And I have been able to think of a number of different uses for war elephants that might have made them more effective than in real life. It should be noted that there were different uses for horses in war. For example, heavy cavalry needed bigger and stronger horses to carry the weight of their riders, their riders's armor, and the horses's own armor, and carry that weight at a gallop. I can easily imagine that reinforcing heavy cavalry with some camels and some elephants might make them more formidable. On the other hand, light cavalry needed fast horses, to outrun fleeing enemies when the enemy army broke and to make fast raids and fast scouts. Since light cavalry horses didn't have to carry as much weight as heavy cavalry horses they could be smaller, but they should be as fast as they could be. It may be noted that in The Hobbit and The Lord of the Rings orc armies included wolfriders, orcs riding wolves. Most orcs were small, closer to the size of children than men, and the wolves were wargs, bigger and stronger than modern wolves. If your armies include members of different species with different sizes, their cavalry mounts might be members of different species with different sizes. And a lot of horses, and related animals like mules, were used for other purposes in war. Pulling travois or wheeled vehicles with supplies, for example, or sometimes carrying supplies on packs on their backs, or pulling artillery. As late as World War II when many armies were largely mechanized, there were still millions of horses used for military transportation. And of course camels and elephants are also useful for military transportation. Some elephants were used for military purposes in World War II, including one that loaded heavy barrels of fuel onto airplanes. In the US Indian Wars in the American west, the various hostile groups and the US army had different strengths and weaknesses. And sometimes the same difference would be an advantage for the Indians in some situations and and advantage for the army in other situations. The difference between Indian ponies and army horses was an advantage for the Indians in some situations and an advantage for the army in other situations. So if your fictional armies have need different types of horses for different types of cavalry and for transportation, you should modify the different types of horses for different purposes in different ways and perhaps make them resemble different types of animals, or replace them with several different species of animals. 

Here are some suggestions. All the land in a tiny Yorkshire village would be owned by someone in 1850. The manor house would have appeared on a plot of land owned by someone. Or maybe on the border of two or more plots of land. Maybe the landowner(s) were hypnotized by space aliens or whatever to believe the house had been there for decades or centuries. But the plot of land would have been described from time to time in various legal documents. And if those documents didn't describe any manor house there until 1850, that would indicate the building wasn't there when those earlier documents were written. If the tiny Yorkshire village was inhabited in the middle ages, it was probably part of a manor, and very probably only one manor, since it is specified as tiny. Thus there was probably one and only one medieval manor house in or near the tiny village. The medieval manor house or its ruins might still be visible, on a plot of land. And the history of that plot of land could be traced back to the times of the medieval manor. It is very probable that the location of the original medieval manor house, and any replacements that might have been built by later lords of the manor, would be known. Thus people would know that the 1850 house was an extra manor house, even if they had been hypnotized or something to believe that it had been there for a long time. The owner of the land where the manor house appeared would have believed it was his property, and might have moved into it. And if he and his family weren't rich enough to build such a manor house, they might not have been rich enough to maintain it, thus explaining its dilapidated condition in 2018. If the manor house had the style of a historic English manor house, it would be easy to guess the approximate era when it appeared to have been built. Since the owners of that property in that era didn't build a mansion on the property, they probably couldn't afford to build a mansion. Thus people who think that the manor house was built long before 1850 would have a mystery on their hands, and there might be many local theories about ill gotten wealth financing the supposed building of the manor house. Some answers speculated the manor house came from outer space. If so, it shouldn't look like any known style of English manor house. If not, there would be no extraterrestrial evidence connected with it. If some land for a distance around the manor house was transported with it, there could be evidence in that land. But maybe only the actual building was transported to the village and every thing outside the foundations was already there. I can imagine the building materializing with its foundations above the ground and falling a few feet to the ground, thus establishing its dilapidated condition post 1850. Thus the foundations are likely to have crushed some plants of various types beneath them. Possibly excavation of the foundations will indicate that there are dead bushes, etc. beneath them. A dead and dried up bush may have its roots outside or inside the foundation and branches crushed under foundation stones, and may be radiocarbon dated to c. 1850. There could be remnants of wooden fences, for example, under foundation stones, and dated by dendrochronology or radiocarbon dating to, say, 1845, while wooden rafters in the manor house are dated to, say, 1645. Low-background steel is steel made before the atomic age beginning in 1945, and thus is useful for many purposes. Making steel uses a lot of air, and since 1945 the air has been contaminated with radioactive fallout. Checking the radioactivity of steel objects is a good way to determine when they were made. Of course steel made 1850 and earlier wouldn't have any radioactivity to test, unless it was made in the future or some other planet, etc. But a manor house made in 1850 or earlier wouldn't have any steel parts except for knives in the kitchen or swords and armor. But that is an example of the kind of tests that could be made. Possibly the rocks in the foundation might be more radioactive than they should be, and contain higher proportions of a radioactive isotopes than similar rocks on Earth do, because they possibly were quarried in a younger solar system where there has been much less decay of radio isotopes. 

At the present time the following political entities are in existence in the USA: Caddo Nation of Oklahoma. Catawba Indian Nation. Cayuga Nation of New York. Cherokee Nation, Oklahoma. Chickasaw Nation, Oklahoma. Choctaw Nation of Oklahoma. Comanche Nation, Oklahoma. Delaware Nation, Oklahoma. Fort McDowell Yavapai Nation, Arizona. Lipay Nation of Santa Ysabel, California. Jicarilla Apache Nation, New Mexico. Kaw Nation, Oklahoma. Navajo Nation, Arizona, New Mexico & Utah. Oneida Nation of New York. Onondaga Nation. Osage Nation. Pawnee Nation of Oklahoma. Penobscot Nation. Pinoleville Pomo Nation, California. Prairie Band Pottawatomie Nation. Sac & Fox Nation of Missouri in Kansas and Nebraska. Sac & Fox Nation, Oklahoma. Santee Sioux Nation, Nebraska. Seminole Nation of Oklahoma. Seneca Nation of Indians. Shinnecock Indian Nation. Sycuan Band of the Kumeyaay Nation. The Muscogee (Creek) Nation. Tohono O'odham Nation of Arizona. Tuscarora Nation. Wyandotte Nation. Yavapai-Apache Nation of the Camp Verde Reservation, Arizona. Yocha Dehe Wintun Nation, California. And this is just a drop in the bucket since all 567 Federally recognized Indian governments in the USA are considered "Domestic Dependent Nations", even if they use tribe, band, community, pueblo, rancheria, or something else in their names. So even with the coming of Europeans, there are over 567 current Indian nations in the USA, even if many of them are very tiny. About 1700 the Iroquois were the overlords of a large region in southern Canada, and the northeastern USA, larger than many present countries. The Comanche, ruled most of the Southern plans of the USA for generations, which is sometimes called "The Comanche Empire". In Mesoamerica there were many city states and kingdoms with active military, diplomatic, and political lives. The Incas in South American founded a vast empire stretching for three thousand miles from North to South. Many Indian cultures used agriculture and many important food plants were first raised and modified and improved by Indians. What was necessary for most of the Indian cultures in North and South American to become civilized was to learn from the civilized cultures in Mesoamerica and South America, and catch up with a few thousand years of advances. Many Indian cultures in North and South America used pure copper, gold, and silver where it could be found. in South America smelting and alloying of metals was practiced. Metals were mostly used decoratively, but there was some use of metal tools in some societies. Metallurgy would have continued to advance and spread from culture to culture for hundreds and thousands of years until all the Indian cultures eventually entered the bronze and iron ages. 

Perhaps your faster than light drive can go "through" objects or pass "through" their spatial coordinates without interacting with them. Thus you can't harm a planet or a star by hitting them. Instead you pass harmlessly through them like neutrinos. Thus people might say that an ship is "neutrinoized" when using FTL drive, and some of your characters might think that the ship and themselves are turned into neutrinos when the drive is on until someone explains what actually happens. Possibly the FTL drive is so fast and the mechanisms for turning it on and off are so slow that the shortest possible distance you can travel using it is one trillion miles (1,000,000,000,000 miles). The distance between one star and its closest neighbor star is usually about 5 light years or about thirty trillion (30,000,000,000,000) miles. So they aim their starship at the destination star and then turn on the FTL drive and emerge from the drive within a trillion miles of the star. But if their slower than light (STL) drive is fast enough to travel up to a trillion miles in a short enough time for story purposes then a ship on slower than light drive could destroy a planet by ramming it. So if the ship emerges from the drive too far away from the destination, they turn on the FTL drive again for the shortest possible time and travel about a trillion miles. This may take them to the other side of the destination sun. If they are still too far away from the destination planet, they travel back approximately a trillion miles. If they are still too far away from the destination planet, they try again. And sooner or later the variation in the distance traveled in the shortest possible FTL trip will enable the to comes out of FTL drive close enough to reach the destination in a short enough time using the slower than light drive. Or maybe the shortest FTL trip is always exactly 1,000,000,000,000 miles. Thus after they make the long interstellar trip they see how far they are from the destination planet. They calculate the surface of a sphere exactly 1,000,000,000,000 miles above low orbit around the planet. And they calculate the surface of a sphere exactly 1,000,000,000,000 miles from their present position. And maybe there will be positions where those two spheres intersect. If so they will make a FTL trip to one of those positions and then another one to low orbit around the destination planet and use their slower than light drive to match speeds and then land. Or maybe they will have to make one or more intermediate FTL trips 1,000,000,000,000 miles long zig zaging around to reach a position exactly 1,000,000,000,000 miles from low orbit around the destination planet. If you keep adjusting the parameters of the FTL drive and the STL drive you can make a trip across the galaxy take much less time than an interplanetary trip. But I kind of doubt you can make the STL drive slow enough that it will be impractical to devastate a planet by ramming it under the STL drive. The energy needed to match speed and direction of a planet orbiting around a different star with a different velocity than the star and planet of origin will make ramming with a starship on STL drive very dangerous. Perhaps the starship will be legally required to travel by FTL drive to a spot in empty interstellar space and match its intrinsic velocity to the velocity of the destination star and maybe even the orbital velocity of the destination planet before resuming the FTL trip. Thus any ship that stops its FTL drive in a solar system and has an unmatched velocity will be assumed to be hostile and the planetary defenses will be activated. 

In the late Roman Empire there were six levels of government administration. Most of the Roman Empire was divided into civatates. 1) So in most regions a pagus or subdivision of a civitas was the smallest administrative unit. 2) A civitas or city state ruling a town or city and surrounding countryside. Each civitas was ruled by aristocrats elected as magistrates and council members by those citizens eligible to vote. A Christian diocese usually corresponded to a civitas. 3) A province consisting of several civatates, and military bases, imperial lands, etc. A appointed governor who could have one of several different titles supervised the governments of the civatates and imperial government activities. 4) A secular diocese. A vicar (of a praetorian prefect) supervised the provincial governments in his diocese. 5) A praatorian prefecture. There were only four in the Empire. Ruled by a praetorian prefect. 6) An Emperor (or emperors) ruling the Empire (or a part of the Empire). Thus the later Roman Empire had five levels of administrative subdivision and six levels of government. Wikipedia's List of administrative divisions by country shows that countries have varying numbers of levels of administrative divisions. France, for example, has six levels of administrative divisions and thus seven levels of government. $URL$ The United States has three levels of administrative divisions and thus four levels of government. 1) Municipalities. The USA has allegedly 35,930 municipalities. They tend to provide utilities, clean streets, pick up trash, etc. etc. Among many other services. Can enact local ordinances and have magistrates courts. 2) Counties. The USA has over 3,000 counties. They perform many services including registration of wills and deeds. Can enact local ordinances. Run courts to try local and state criminal and civil cases. 3) States. The USA has fifty states, not counting other types of government like 567 tribal governments. They perform many services, for example, issuing drivers licenses. They legislate most laws and have state courts. They also legislate rules for counties and municipalities within them. States have their own armed forces, the National Guard, sharing control with the Federal government. 4) The Federal government. It handles war and diplomacy, the post office, and many other functions. Has federal laws and federal courts. Many functions are performed by two or more different levels of government. These examples show that it is possible to assign separate functions, as well as overlapping functions, to a central government and at least three levels of administrative divisions.