Saltgrass has not been mentioned yet. It grows in salty water, and excretes solid salt from it's leaves. Additionally, livestock can graze on it. After much experimentation, the culture follows the following recipe: 

High Pressure Pressure increases with depth. In the following phase diagram we find a small region below about 270K where an increase in pressure (in the 10MPa to 200 MPa region) causes a phase change from solid to liquid. This is many orders of magnitude more pressure than Earth's surface, but comparable to the pressure in the Mariana Trench. 

Human women often give birth prone such that the force of gravity is perpendicular to the direction they're pushing the baby. Therefore, there's no reason to assume that [most] women aren't strong enough to give birth in zero-g. Women from a variety of species (including some humans) give birth under water where the forces of buoyancy and gravity are equal and opposite, so there's still no reason to suspect that gravity is a requirement for birth. One of the long term effects of weightlessness is that our bones become weaker. It's possible (though, highly unlikely because the baby doesn't go between hips - it goes through cartilage and other tissues) that this would mean that giving birth necessitated a risk of breaking one's hips. It's also possible that the bones could become more pliable, either because of the sometime inverse relationship between strength and plasticity, or because of a drug/supplement administered during gestation. If birth without undue risk of catastrophic injury was not possible, there's always Cesarean section, see bulldogs. 

I would say almost any animal. smaller animals are "less susceptible" to gravity changes since being smaller they have a lower volume/surface ratio, so with a 0.72 g they would barely notice. water dwelling animals would also barely notice since they live inside water where buoyancy almost negate their weight. bigger animals would indeed notice and with time they would be subject to some changes. However an adult elephant that weights 7000 Kg on Earth would be about 5000 Kg on Terra; not a very big difference. They are going to be ok. 

I'm designing an esoteric symbol to use in a story. I have zero experience with this but can use drawing/CAD softwares. Where can I find some resources on how to design a symbol? I guess a good list of existing ones with references to meanings, associated concepts and cultures would also help. I'm talking about a symbol specifically, not a logo or trademark etc. 

It doesn't really make much sense to have only a room. If you can build it it would be better for it to represent all (or almost all) of the living space available. If the room available is limited for any reason then you could still have a very small centrifuge, maybe divided in a few bunks, so that people can rest there and maybe sleep. The reasons such a space would be used for sleeping and resting are two: first if the centrifuge is small, moving inside is difficult and you will experience different levels of acceleration within you body and also a very strong coriolis effect every time you turn around; second, sleeping in space is actually very difficult! Astronauts on the ISS can hardly sleep a few hours, so if you have a gravity room available only at times sleeping in there is one of the best thing you can do probably. Oh, also, if the space is limited better do something in there that requires limited movements and room. 

Scanning for life signs seems to focus on self-aware life forms, no matter how primitive. You don't usually hear "scanning for life signs...only deer and whales." In this answer I'm assuming we're reverse engineering already existing technology, not demonstrating feasibility. So from that we can assume that life signs use some form of brainwave sensing. Brain activity does emit some low level signals. Now, the feasibility of detecting such a weak signal from a distance would probably require some preliminary focusing, like heat and/or pulse to locate living things. The way I would design this system is to first do a low-resolution scan for heat, then narrow it by pulse. Finally run the brain waves from those pinpointed locations against known patterns to determine age, health, species, and gender. You could probably determine mental state with such systems. At short range the technology could replace betazoid empath skills. 

Most plants that grow foods are herbaceous, meaning that they have supple stems and die each year, but also that they generally grow relatively fast. Herbaceous plants focus their growth on fruit production at the end of each season. Trees have woody, stiff stems, which allows them to grow taller and survive multiple seasons. They generally grow slower. Trees focus on long-term growth and fruit production is not as important. So plants that stay small and focus on fruit production are good for people food. Plants that focus on growing large don't have excess energy for large-scale fruit production. You're going to need a very specific combination of factors to make this happen. A specific kind of GMO: a tree that has been designed to have the characteristics of an herbaceous plant like fast growth, but later grow stiffer cell walls to help it stay strong and survive multiple seasons (think of tomato plants - they get very large, but crawl or must be supported). A very specific food source: high-density energy sources, either from a very very sunny area or special mineral deposits. But, it's going to need to be in the tropical latitudes. Up in the north there just isn't enough sun to facilitate fast plant growth. 

My "gods" are actually people. However they have access to tech that grants them the ability to do almost anything they wish, plus they have various mind enhancements, so there is little difference between them and "real" gods. What games would their young play? Real "normal" people also exist in this universe, and I want them to be involved in their games. I was thinking of something like Nomic or some God game I would like the game not to be cruel to people in nature, but at the same time entertaining for individuals that can live forever and possess virtually infinite physical and intellectual resources. So basically I'm looking for games where normal people are the "pawns" and the players are, in fact, the referees. What games might referees find entertaining? 

Is there a reliable and, at least, relatively safe way to keep a person unconscious for a period of at least a year(more would be better)? It doesn't really matter whether the individual is comatose or just "sleeping". I just need a way to keep a person unconscious for a year or more without causing any substantial physical damage to them. I'm not an expert so I don't know if using anesthetics for a long time is dangerous or how to avoid other issues like bedsore and stuff. 

There's a person. This individual doesn't have and ID, or a birth certificate, nor any document of any kind. They are not recorded as ever being citizen of any country. They possess knowledge and wisdom as any adult but have no memory of their past. They may be able to perform a job but do not possess any degree or experience. What is the fastest way for them to get an ID in a modern country (first world)? Do they go for immigration? Or is it easier to forge one with the help of criminals? Does any of this differ if they are minor of age? 

Dropping In the weeks to hours before birth, the baby resides lower in the abdomen - a transition that physicians call "lightening". A hypothesis has been advanced that a baby won't drop without gravity. On the surface, it seems to have merit, but babies drop while expecting mothers are in a variety of positions. In addition, dolphins appear to have a similar phase, so at the very least, mammal babies can drop without gravity. Earth women have exercises and movements which hypothetically move the baby into position, but while that research appears to be in its infancy, there's no reason to avoid talking about the zero-g versions of the same exercises. Gestation Humans carry babies in their wombs surrounded by hydro-static pressure. Since Earth women do yoga, swim and sleep, it's pretty clear that their orientation does not effect their ability to bring a baby to term. For women to need gravity to bring babies to term would require proof. Copulation Again, nobody wants to admit to having had sex in space, but humans are endlessly creative when it comes to this. I will not be adding a link. Evolution Nature will find a way. There are few things that cause rapid evolution in "natural" species, but illnesses and breeding problems are at the top of that list. Nature is neither fair, nor kind about this, so there would be some cruel generations where natural selection takes care of this problem. That could have it's own consequences because our powerful brains are related to the long gestation times. The other option would be to guide evolution with Genetic Engineering, but that tech is probably a long way away. Verdict If you want it to be an issue, you can, but I wouldn't bat an eye if a fiction writer told me that zero-g birth was commonplace and about as catastrophic as Earth birth. 

What follows was due to a misunderstanding, but I think it's interesting so I'm going to leave it for now I just saw your comment about intelligence. I think if they have the same mental capacity, they could potentially coexist. The species that will become dominant will be the ones to acquire technology fastest. Humans are really good at using tools; a creature that can rely more on strength might not develop the early technologies needed to lay the groundwork for progress. In any case, I think the points above are still valid. Presumably the species will develop separately, until eventually they will develop the ability to communicate. Then as long as they can prevent each other from committing genocide, it will probably develop into a somewhat stable peace. You can draw on the history of infrahumanized groups and how they survived. Certainly Europeans considered "natives" to be "less human" than themselves, and though they did really bad things to them, most other races survived. Shipwrecked Europeans experienced the same thing - they were "obviously subhuman" and enslaved. While the stronger in an area will probably enslave the weaker, both species will likely survive to the time where slavery is eradicated (hopefully). 

My starting place was to determine what made a sentient plant different from an animal (maybe I'm dense? Took me a while). Here's a starting place for differences between the two. $URL$ Basically: A. Plants don't move B. Plants make their own food C. Plants give off oxygen and take in CO2 D. Plant cells have cell walls and other "planty" structures E. Plants have only basic abilities to sense Of course, I can think of exceptions, for example, some carnivorous plants don't make their own food, can move, and can sense objects pretty well. Because they're sentient, they need to be able to interact with their environment (smart, paralyzed races don't seem likely to last, and are unlikely to be intergalactic), so A and E are out. So let's say that to make a plant, we'll need them to make their own food from the sun, and they need planty-parts in their cells, viz. chloroplasts to make food and cell walls. So they're going to be a lot more animal-like than some animals, but with ability to make their own food. Plants (along with...pretty much any other life form) have 3 major needs: 

yes you can have something like that. they are called superseasons We have them on Pluto. Also here. It's basically what you describe; you have seasons within seasons, like a "cold winter" and a "hot summer" etc. Both tilt and distance affect seasons on Pluto. I think it's going to be hard for you to have something like that for a planet in the goldilock zone; its orbit would have to be extremely elliptical (something unusual for an inner planet). But maybe you can have the same effect with a different solution. Change your planet into a moon! If your planet is a gas giant moon its axial tilt can cause the "miniseasons" that last maybe 1 month, and then either the distance from the star or the seasons (determined by the axial tilt) of the gas giant can be the "superseasons" 

They are relatively rare in fiction but there are a few interesting examples, in fact I even remember reading about one in real life. I would like mine to be small and light (say less than 0.9 kg and less than 2 cm in diameter). Death must be assured if the conditions are not met. So, can we build it with current tech? EXTRA POINTS: it would be great if there was room for extra stuffs, say a microphone, GPS or other things... Recharge is also an issue, can they last indefinitely if powered by body motion like clocks? 

We can most certainly build such a structure. We build all kind of structures underground and within mountains. check out these idiots! And take the virtual tour of their temple. We build tunnels for trains and cars through mountains, and Cern itself is a 27 Km long tunnel hundreds of meters below ground. To be fair these are examples of very advanced engineering, not medieval level tech, though it's worth noting that the Damanurian temple was built by amateurs EDIT: Ok so Erebor is really REALLY big, It's a lot of material to move! So either you need more people or a lot of time. Maybe the fortress it's the result of centuries of work, but it's probably possible at least from a technical point of view 

Plant Nomads. A group of (probably) small sentient plants with minimal root systems that move around, following water sources and rainy seasons. Stationary Plant Societies. Plants develop a way to pass along knowledge to seeds and send them out, much like coral polyps, to establish new colonies. The older plants would be stationary once their roots developed. Some motion might be possible by selective growth and allowing parts to die. But that would be on a months-to-centuries timescale. 

The question states that memory survives. But beyond that, nothing changes. Society will become based on what can happen in 24 hours. As noted in other answers, the long-term problems of society are largely solved. There's no more food shortage, there's no shortage of fuel, or any material goods, no incurable disease, or global warming. In fact, there's not even a way (or reason, really) to execute large-scale war. Science will focus on four topics: ameliorating pain, intensifying pleasure, intensifying pain, and getting out of the loop. The Final State With no threat of death as we know it, and no long-term problems to solve, government will eventually have one simple mission: maintaining order. Governments will be necessarily weak, since people can decide on a daily basis if they want a revolution. The exception could be large families with weapons, who could consolidate power over small areas and become despots. I think even family ties will eventually erode though. Business will be transacted with verbal agreements before professional witnesses; probably older people. They will have the job of publicizing any agreements made and ensuring that both parties keep their word. Breaking a contract/being dishonest will incur a penalty, plus lose the ability to make deals in the future. The mechanisms of enforcing order will be generally limited to 1-day events. Execution will be a common form of punishment, probably for small offenses, since it causes intense immediate pain, but no long-term effect. While multiple days of pain can be threatened, the time involved in tracking down a criminal will probably mean that only the worst of criminals will be punished more than one day in a row. Public, corporal punishment will become normal, with the degree of shame or pain determined by the severity of the offense. Especially recalcitrant criminals would eventually be driven insane by mental duress of repeated executions or stop committing crimes. Good behavior will be rewarded by corresponding pleasure. Economies won't exist anymore beyond mutual favor trading. People with large amounts of Ben & Jerry's in the freezer will find themselves very rich in the new economy; while cash/durable goods will be not valuable. The focus of those who seek to learn will be to find simple, effective tools that can be built quickly, like the website mentioned in the other question. Daily life of most people in Western societies will focus on exchange of favors - for example, borrowing the flat screen TV for a day in return for supplying the food for a party on a day. That may take several days of smaller tasks to bargain with the store owners/people who just went shopping. Tourism will also be popular, since the fuel is free, it will just be the time for the pilot to fly to wherever you want to go. A merchant class will develop traveling 6 hours across what used to be borders of less developed countries, bringing valuable items. Less developed societies will focus on learning for a while, eventually perfecting techniques of raising the standard of living within an hour or two and enjoying it for a day. Since you'll have the same ingredients to cook with every day, spices may become very valuable...but that's a rabbit trail. The most valuable people will be those with skills at bringing pleasure and novel experiences; eventually there will probably be guilds as people focus on learning one area really well. Highly valued skills you might not expect would include pilots, translators, woodworkers and smiths who can quickly create functional objects, operators of large machines, musicians, and artists. Getting There After the initial shocks of anarchy, which I don't think will last very long, governments will devolve significantly more power to localities to prevent losing them all together to independence movements. Government will shift to focus on immediate protection of people in it's circle; otherwise people will rebel and form their own governments. The capitals and surrounding areas will remain under government control, and military bases will probably remain loyal since the soldiers respawn there each day. Eventually, smaller governments will become the norm, the size of 6 hours of travel. Those with control of weapons will stay in control at least in the medium term. Governments, even the most despotic, will be eventually insurrected by ideas, which spread as military power does not. Eventually ideas, the basis of revolutions, will soften key parts of the military, and the government will loose the ability to project power.