In the UK you can buy OEM R/H only: $URL$ (That is the 8 speed that will work fine on 7). Here is the tech.doc: $URL$ The part number is ST-EF60-7 - ask your LBS to order the part in for you, off the top of his/her head the sales staff may not know this can be ordered, but it almost certainly can, and definitely can in the UK. 

I spent my formative years in a Raleigh Five Star Dealership that just so happened to buy up all of the vintage Raleigh mudguards of the steel type for 26" wheel 3 speed bikes. (Raleigh had a warehouse clearance.) That was in the UK and we had mudguards for everything going back to AFTER the requirement for the white panel on the rear mudguard. Nothing from the the 70's onward had the bolt type you describe, although we also had a lot of frames including ones with the 7/32" x 26 TPI eyelets. Sounds to me that you either have a U.S. special, something really obscure, something really, really old or something after-market. I suggest that you put some new mudguards on there. It will be a lot less hassle. For those new mudguards you can drill out the existing holes or use 5mm nuts and bolts, obviously with a fair few washers in there. If you want to keep the retro look of the existing mudguards, you could make your own 'P' clips with a bit of tin, some snips and a drill. These could then be attached with a metric nut and bolt. 

Since you may need a big gear to power down big hills, let's look at the effect in gear inches of changing from 53 to 50. 53/13*27=110 50/13*27=104 (27 is arbitrary figure for comparison) So you will be losing 6 'gear inches' at the top end. Your next sprocket is presumably a 14 tooth, 53/14*27=102 If you went for a 49 then 49/13*27=102 Therefore, you could go smaller still, with 49, to effectively lose only one big gear. The amount of teeth on the chain rings and sprockets is always going to be a compromise of weight, reliability and range. Going smaller saves weight, which we like. When your rear cassette is due for replacement you could get the 14-28 one (with a new chain). This will drop your big gear down to 49/14*27 94.5 - some mountain bikes can manage that. If you lack top-end gears then you could put your 53T back on. Hopefully you have got a good cadence already, and, unless you have huge hills to power down, loss of some of the big gears should not be a problem. As noted by @Daniel R Hicks you will need to adjust the front derailleur to be 1-3mm above the outer chain ring teeth, outer cage parallel with the chain-ring and cable adjusted accordingly. Although it is very 'macho' to have big chain ring and miniscule sprockets, realism is helpful, think whether you really need to have the biggest gear and go for it. 

Just to add another reference / data point, this image is from an aerodynamics course presentation by Bert Blocken of Eindhoven University of Technology. In it he references wind tunnel test results of a rider in three different positions and provides data for the bike + rider, and the rider alone: 

Now keep in mind these are averages for the samples used in each study and individual variation exists, so the impact to any individual will be in this range but could be more or less. The physics impact Now of course from a performance perspective, you lose power output as altitude increases, however there is a performance gain as the lower air density means you can travel at a higher speed for the same power output (and aerodynamics). The physics is fairly straightforward and unlike the physiological impact it applies equally to everyone. As an example I examined the influence of altitude on the physics of cycling’s world hour record, and showed how the reduction in air density as altitude increases means one can travel faster for the same power output, or put another way, the power demand reduces at any given speed as altitude increases. That resulted in this chart, which shows the relationship in power to aerodynamic drag ratio (W/m^2) and altitude for speeds ranging from 47km/h up to Chris Boardman's 56.375km/h record. 

Aerodynamics of a helmet cannot be considered in isolation but rather how it affects aerodynamics when on the rider. The fastest helmet choice for one rider won't necessarily be the fastest for another, it's quite an individual thing. I've done many, many aero tests of helmets on rider, and am often surprised at the combination that proves best. In general I wouldn't advise using what a pro uses specifically - they ride / wear what their sponsors require them to, not necessarily what's optimal. Instead perhaps note what they use as a guide for options to consider. If this is riding on roads / commute, then functional considerations need to factor in. Comfort, ventilation for cooling, being able to hear road traffic, safety in case of accident (TT helmets probably are not ideal in that respect). Of course there are many other ways to gain improved aerodynamics and speed. Tight fitting bike clothes, nothing loose or flapping, shaving exposed skin, improving aerodynamic position on the bike, use of aero bike components, better wheels and tyres, and of course training to improve power output. 

One possibility I am considering is to use the Shimano 105 triple, and replace the outer ring with a guard; my only concern with this is that the spacing between inner and middle rings might not match what the 2x brifter is expecting. Various mountain cranks are possibilities, but issues with chainring spacing and chainline might come into play. For my philosophy on this gearing, see this link at Rivendell Bikes: $URL$ also click the link on that page for "low-wide" crankset. Thanks! 

The simplest change you can make is to swap your big front ring for a smaller one. If you currently have 34/50 on the front, change it to 34/44. Your easiest gear on the big ring would go from 47 gear inches down to 42 (and the hardest from 110 to 97). If your front shifter is indexed it might not shift as quickly, but it should be OK because it will be a smaller difference between the two rings. For the rear cassette... If you want optimum gear choice for easy spinning, choose a rear cassette with close gear ratios, like the Shimano Tiagra 9-speed 14-25. It is compatible with SRAM 9 speed, and is available from Chain Reaction for less than $20 US. (SRAM does not offer a comparable close-spaced cassette.) If you pick the 14-25 cassette you will probably want to go much smaller with your big front ring, maybe 40 or 42 depending on how big a top gear you need. I rode this cassette for a year with a 40t big ring (in my flat, windy area), and I never missed having bigger gears. As always, Sheldon Brown's Gear Calculator is a great help in making these decisions. One last note is that none of the changes above would force you to change your rear derailleur, although you would need to shorten your chain (or get a new one). 

Question: What is my best bet for a crankset, given the following requirements for a road bike I am setting up: 

There will be only very small differences in the widths different FDs (assuming you are talking about the inside to outside dimension). One that is designed to be minimum sized so that it provides a best fit for 46t large chainrings is Shimano's CX-70, intended for cyclo-cross: $URL$ It does have a 16t capacity. It is also compatible with the bar ends (which don't index the front anyway). I have purchased one of these to use with a similar chainring setup and 105 dual-STI brifters, but I have not yet installed it.