Everything? I mean look at your programming skills. Would you say "why would I need experience in that language"? Experience means you don't have to be trained, you can adjust faster, hit the ground running, whatever your favorite term for it is. You will also know if it is for you. Maybe you won't like Agile? It's better to have a candidate who did it and liked it instead of a "maybe". There is no such thing in Agile as leaning back, letting the other folks do it and tolerate it. You are in... or not. Your best bet is to get a book and familiarize yourself with Agile. Most companies I know will accept somebody who says "I always wanted to do that, I read about it and heard about it on conferences, but my old company won't do it". That's fine. It's really not up to you do decide what your current company uses, and your potential employer knows that. However if you interview and say wildly uninformed things like your first sentence here, that will probably mean they will go with a candidate who, even though they have zero experience like yourself, have at least some book knowledge. 

Even if money were a motivator in our business, this would be horribly wrong. Take the money and hire somebody who is really good at writing specs and planning projects with manageable deadlines. Both DEV and QA will be way happier than any money could ever make them. 

What do you expect the companies stance on it to be? If it's legal, they can hardly tell you to not take it in your free time. The implied drug policy for workplaces is don't take any at work or appear under the influence of any at work. That goes for any drug, even perfectly legal ones like alcohol. So whatever answer you get, asking this question will probably reflect badly on you. Were you fine with the implied policy of "don't do any on company time", you would not be asking. So as an employer, I would have to assume you are asking permission to take drugs at work. Edit: After reading the link, it seems you left out a few details in your description of it being "legal". It seems the use is only partly legal in Colorado. State laws allow it, federal laws do not. Strictly speaking, you are still breaking federal law. The good point is, as it obviously was debated recently, you can ask for their opinion on it quite openly. I would not, however, ask for recreational use. Ask for medical use first and hope their whole policy will be explained: "I recently read an article where someone was fired for medical use of marijuana. In case of medical problems, I trust my doctor to prescribe the drugs that help me best, but I don't want to get into trouble with the company either. What's your policy here?" 

Your boss is not interested in the details of your work. You could argue that he should, but it's rare to find such an individual. You will need to explicitly tell him what you already know: if you don't have that information, you will need to get that information. Your customer already has that information. Make an estimation of how many man-hours it will take you to find out on your own and how long it should take your client to tell you. The result might be something like "Our client can bring us to their level of knowledge in a 2 hour phonecall, we would need to spend 40 man-hours to do this without contacting the client." Then let your boss decide if it's worth it. 

If your skill set is applicable to different industries, then working in different industries is normal. From an employers perspective, it's a good thing that your next job after the one I hire you for is not at a competitor, but in a completely different sector. But from your description I guess you had at least 6 different jobs in less than 12 years. As an employer I would be ill advised to hire you for any role that I need for more than 2 years. I would probably not develop you as much as possible, because compared to others, I will have to assume you will leave rather sooner than later. So what you need to do if you want employers to invest in the long-term you, is to explain to them that you are not going to leave them after 1.5 to 2 years. And it needs to be convincing, because you will need to convince them of something they cannot see in your record. How you do that is up to you and your personal situation, but you will need to explain that something changed for you and that your goals have changed. 

Maybe the one that should do the third hour of the interview got sick. Or won the lottery. Or fled to Canada. Who knows. If they had already selected someone esle, they would either run your interview the way it was planned, or cancel it alltogether. Changing the plan and still "wasting" the man hours to do it would not be in their best interest. Just ask them in the interview. 

Do not get manipulated by the CC. CC'ing the email to somebody higher up the ranks then you is an easy (dirty) way to make the problem seem like it's yours. Ignore the CC. Be firm — not rude — when replying to bad questions. It is highly unlikely that your management will have a problem with this (as long as you stay friendly). In the case that they do decide to talk to you about it you still have a strong argument for not answering bad questions. You have a job to do — things to get done — and bad questions are a waste of company time. 

The Answer Stick to your guidelines, even if they are absurd. In my opinion gender ratios like these are just a way to make your company look 'diverse'. It's marketing and has nothing to do with actual talent recruitment. Talent recruitment should be about finding the most talented candidates possible, regardless of their skin color or gender. That being said, stick to the guidelines. If it's company policy then you have to go with it till you are able to change it or find it upsetting enough to leave. The Rant Of course you are going to have more male candidates. In most countries — even more so in developing ones — the ratio of men-to-woman studying — and interested — in IT related fields is incredibly lopsided. You can not fix this with recruitment ratios. Hiring woman because they are woman is exactly what gender equality is not about. 

No, you should not leave. It is only a week we are talking about and you are likely to learn something in that time. If the problem was you getting harassed, picked on, or something similar then I would probably recommend leaving (as it is such a short time frame). However, in your case I would say that staying just for the sake of showing yourself that you can cope with less than perfect circumstances at work will be worth it. You will be proud of completing the internship and this sets a tone for you to build the rest of your career on. If you want to work in any programming field (or any field) you are going to have to fight through jobs and times like these to get to where you want to be. Quitting will always be an option, but seldom the right one. Focus on your long term goals and you will find it easier to deal with the short term difficulties. As Cicero put it 

When you get a question that shows no research effort, simply reply with a question. "What have you tried?" or "What have you been able to find out about what may be causing this problem?". If they don't have an answer then simply tell them to come back when they have some effort to show. Make it absolutely clear that you do not answer bad questions. Point out that there are already solutions to most of their questions available on the internet (Stack Overflow). Tell them to go search there first before asking any kind of question not directly related to how you do it at your company. As the old saying goes: 

Meaning; the joy of having fought through your internship will be greater than the joy of not having to go to work next week. Even if your expectations are not getting met it does not mean that the internship is useless. It is valuable to learn what you don't like and in what environments you cant work productively. This helps you later on with knowing what jobs fit you and what ones don't. Your mentor not being helpful is also a valuable lesson. Not all people can or are willing to teach others. Asking well researched question that show effort that you have tried to find the answer will help increase the chances of getting help from your mentor. Don't worry about completing all the tasks. As an intern over such a short time frame (and unpaid) it is not your responsibility, nor should it be their expectation that you complete everything on time. You need time to learn and this means you are a lot less efficient then their normal employees. Hard coding tasks are good. Even if you are only able to complete one of those hard tasks or a function in one of those tasks it will teach you something and make you proud. I remember sending my first email with PHP, it took me 3 days (and even then it was still buggy) but I am still proud to this day that I stuck to it and was able to make it work. Do not compare your work or work pace with that of your mentor. Your mentor will write better code and be about 10 to 100 times faster than you at it. This is how it is supposed to be. Don't feel bad that your code is not as good as theirs or that you cant keep up with their pace. As an intern or even a Junior Developer this is perfectly normal. You can bring it up if you feel its worth it. Your mentor might not realize that he/she is not helpful or that you find the programming tasks too hard. Just choose your wording wisely here, avoid saying "You are not helping me!".