The geometry is the major problem with converting a road bike into a TT/Tri bike, road bikes have you sitting much farther back relative to the contact points on the handlebars. You may be able to offset this with a different seatpost that puts you farther forward (assuming saddle is adjusted all the way towards the front). Other changes may include a shorter stem, different saddle. You may be able to make your road bike work, just don't expect to be comfortable mid ride switching from the aerobars to the hoods/drops. You have to pick one and stick with it. 

The 6700 rear derailleur has more capacity and might fix your issue. OR: You can ditch the roadlink and use a Shimano 9spd MTB SGS RD. They work great with 10spd road shifters. I used 105 5700 shifters and an XT RD-M761 SGS RD and XT 10spd 11-36 cassette to get up Alpe d'Huez and some other epic climbs in France during summer 2015 and shifting was great! 

This would be a great problem to have for most of us roadies. Simply eat more if you find yourself losing more weight than you care to lose. You can alternatively balance with more strength based exercises like lifts, pulls, rows at the gym or elsewhere. Or cake. 

When it gets really cold (or it is cold AND wet) I wear a pair of neoprene socks designed to keep kayaker's feet warm. I wear these over a pair of thin wool or acrylic socks, UNDER my shoes. I am primarily a mountain biker, and this seems much more reliable to me than the shoe covers that slip over, because of the chance of tearing the cover on something. I think the socks I have are something like these: $URL$ There are thicker models available but I prefer wearing the thin ones over the wool because it allows me to wear the neoprene ones many times before they need a wash. The coldest I've ridden with this combination was probably about 20 degrees with a few inches of snow on the ground and a couple of stream crossings, and while my shoes were soaked my feet felt great. 

So I have a wheelset that I really like, only problem is the first time I rode the wheels a nipple came off the spoke when I launched off a speed bump going downhill. For a long time it was silent (the nipple must have been stuck in some stan's or something) but recently its come loose and rattles all over the place when braking. I am pretty sure this is going to drive me crazy. Looking for strategies that people have found successful for getting a nipple out in this situation. I figure if worst comes to worst I can take the tire off, remove the valve core and put a dab of rubber cement in the rim that will hopefully catch the nipple. But I'd like to fish it out if I can. 

Mind you, with top of the line brand new components it is much easier than potentially old and rusty equipment. 

There is no video editing software from Shimano. The CSV is present, you should see it if you paired your sensors in the mobile app. I have used DashWare with success with my Shimano action camera, others have reported Garmin VIRB edit software works but I have not tried. 

An optional extra that would come in handy and for future work on the bike would be a bike workshop stand I spent 100$ on mine and it has been excellent for regular maintenance and upgrading parts. 

Hang your buttocks off the back of the saddle is the only appropriate answer. You can see great evidence of this in cyclocross races when racers go from climbing to steep descents (in some cases) and go straight to the drops and hang their rear end off the back of the bike. Here is a downhill rider doing an extreme example of exactly this: 

Here in the Toronto area, you can find these bikes either at a spring bike show or (more commonly) fall bike show. They are generally priced aggressively to clear out stock and you won't find many in the stores in the coming years. Most shops will not have previous model years around as they make money selling bikes and want to move stock. I also managed to find my girl's bike on Kijiji the same way that a shop just wanted to clear out last years model. 40% off. The final option is a few bike stores that sit on stock for years and they won't move on the price regardless and you won't convince them. 

I don't remember where, but I read once that because a 3/32" chain is more flexible laterally than a 1/8" chain, it is more tolerant of imperfect chainlines. This makes sense to me, but I haven't seen any numbers to support it. So with an imperfect chainline you might see faster wear with 1/8". I suspect the difference in wear is imperceptible, especially with a steel cog. The combination of a 1/8" chain, imperfect chainline, and an aluminum 3/32" cog would probably be where you'd see the most increase in wear because you add a slight bit of play where the chain interfaces with the cog, but I still doubt you'd notice much additional wear. 

I've read that you can mount wire bead tires with tubes on UST rims so imagine you'd be fine tubeless, as long as you can get the tire to hold air - you might need an extra layer of tape if its a loose fit, and you may also need some Stan's or other sealant to fill in around bead imperfections if you aren't already using it to help w/ punctures. May be more likely to burp a tire so I'd be a bit less confident dialing the pressure down. I would have some concern about the wire bead separating from the rubber at higher pressures without a tube but for mountain bike pressures in the 20-40 psi range it should be fine. 

I had a (improperly tightened) bolt drop out of a SPD cleat while riding which left me in the same predicament (also ended up eating asphalt), I ended up being able to wedge my shoe against the frame to get the appropriate leverage to kick the shoe/cleat combo out of the pedal. I would try attaching the pedal to a bike (and foot in shoe) and attempting the same move. You can always unscrew the pedal and take off the shoe to get back to where you are today. 

A road groupset usually consists of a number of parts. There are not many tools, and they are generally not that expensive. With all the resources out there (youtube, sheldon brown website, etc) and basic mechanical aptitude it isn't a difficult task. You need basic hand/bike tools, (hammer, metric allen keys/drivers, screwdrivers, pliers, socket set, torque wrench, etc) In terms of specific tools for those components: 

The ANT+ lights standard allows for "0" switches to turn on/off bike lights. (Besides the initial power on of the head unit) I run a bontrager flare rt with my edge 820 and it works great. Completely wireless, it automatically adjusts brightness, and even has a "brake light mode". 

I have two sets of wheels, both laced to surly singlespeed hubs (the older "new" hubs, not the "ultra new" hubs which seem to make this process much easier). Anyway the wheelset I like better has a quick release rear, and the other has a nutted axle. After riding the QR for a year, I've found I don't really like it. I wanted to go QR for easier on-trail flat changing, but since switching to the new (tubeless) wheels I haven't had a single flat. So I'm wishing I had the nutted axle on my newer wheels, as it felt a lot stronger. What I'm wondering is if there's a way I can disassemble the hubs and get the nutted axle onto my new wheels. I haven't taken apart a hub before but as I understand it these hubs use cartridge bearings, which I suspect makes the process a bit easier. 

Any used ten speed that fits should work for a commuter. Just examine the frame for cracks, and also for exposed rust or bubbles under the paint job. I think you would benefit from a steel frame, both for longevity and smoothing out the potholes. If its' longer than 10 miles or so one way a lighter weight bike might be a higher priority depending on your level of fitness.