Condoms are clearly effective in decreasing the odds of being infected, but, clearly they are not absolutely effective. It appears, though, that the risk of infection from an HIV viruses making its way through a non-defective, non-compromised condom is de minimis. One, however, should not be entirely sanguine about the effectiveness of condoms under all circumstances. 

Anyone who has sampled the liquor Pernod has a good idea that absinthe got its reputation from its remarkably high alcohol content rather than any psychedelic in the oil of wormwood extract that distinguishes Pernod from absinthe. This article from Science Daily explains: 

At the upper limit of 89.5% a person would essentially be drinking "torpedo juice", which could certainly explain the reputation that absinthe earned. 

This seems to be the an article on the original report on holes in latex gloves. So, the point that HIV molecules are larger than water is a “red herring” with respect to determining whether condoms are useful to preventing the transmission of HIV. Second, and a more precise question is, can HIV pass through latex condoms? As the Straight Dope quote indicates, there was an FDA report indicating that under extreme test conditions – certainly unlikely to replicated in actual performance - HIV viruses were found to have passed through latex condoms. Internet literature from AIDS information sites - that do not seem to have an "anti-condom" agenda - seem to agree that the “pores” in latex condoms are approximately .5 microns in size, whereas the HIV virus size is .1 microns. See this Arizona health site for corroboration. There seems to be some dispute as to whether infection can occur through the virus alone. According to Straight Dope: 

If this information is outdated it would be nice to know. A lot of internet sources quote the “factoid” that condoms have “pores” of .5 microns in size. I suspect from my efforts to chase down the source of this information that it may come from the 1992 report based on an examination of latex gloves noted above. This site directly addresses the “pore hypothesis” and concludes that the double layers of latex in condoms prevents the formation of holes or pores that go through the entire condoms. That seems to be the best explanation for the anomaly of HIV not passing through condoms like "bullets through a netting." So, the answer seems to be that outside of artificially created circumstances and assuming properly manufactured, non-defective, non-deteriorated condoms, the HIV virus will not pass through latex condoms. Third, an even more precise question, is whether HIV can pass through condoms under ordinary usage? A caveat to arguments about the effectiveness of condoms is always that they have to be used properly and invariably. Proper usage involves more than mechanics. Health sites often contain warnings that deterioration, and opening up condom practices with teeth or nails, can introduce tears into the condoms. For example, Health Communities.com states: 

Pernod - which is perfectly legal is, in fact, simply absinthe without the wormwood and, apparently, a lower alcohol content: 

In order to interpret the scientific evidence properly, it's necessary to understand some scientific background about Giardia and giardiasis. The human gut is naturally teeming with microorganisms. These are known as your gut flora or gut microbiome. Most of these are bacteria, but quite a few are other organisms, including protozoans such as Giardia. Some of these critters in your intestines are beneficial or even necessary for your metabolism, while others may be neutral or harmful. People tend to develop tolerance for their own gut flora, but can get sick from other people's. The gut microbiome tends to be more diverse among people in the developing world, less so in the developed world, and this decreased diversity may actually be a bad thing. Giardia is present in about 3-7% of adults in the US, about 30% in the developing world.[Auerbach 2012] Among toddlers in the US, roughly a third have it.[Ish-Horowicz 1989] Most people who have Giardia as part of their gut flora have no symptoms at all. Among people who do have symptoms, the condition is normally mild and self-limiting. For unknown reasons, there is a small portion of the population that tolerates Giardia badly if newly introduced to it, and these people have unpleasant diarrhea for some period of time. Giardia is present in surface water in the form of dormant cysts. These cysts tend to resist being killed by chlorine. You can pick up Giardia by drinking water that contains cysts, but what was not realized in the 1970s, during the initial Giardia public-health panic, was that Giardia is also transmissible through hand-to-mouth contamination. In the context of backpacking, this would something like the following. A and B go backpacking together. A has Giardia in her gut microbiome, and she tolerates it and has never had any symptoms. B doesn't have it. A poops and doesn't wash her hands, and then A and B have dinner together and share pots and pans. B eats food that is contaminated with A's Giardia. You may hear backpackers claim that they "got Giardia," when all they really know is that they got sick. They could have had some other condition, they could have had giardiasis but contracted it somewhere else, or they could have gotten a bug through hand-to-mouth contamination from their hiking partners. Often people will make this claim when they got sick during the hike. This is unlikely. When an animal is infected by a parasite, there's a prepatent period, which is the time from infection with a parasite to when the bugs reach a life stage where they can be detected by a lab test. There's also an incubation period, which is the time from infection to symptoms. For most parasites, the prepatent period is shorter than the incubation period, but for Giardia it's often longer. A 1954 study on prison volunteers showed an average prepatent period of 9 days, but there's a wide range of variation, and the incubation period can be as long as months. In a study of travelers to the Soviet Union, the typical time until acute symptoms occurred was found to be a couple of weeks. In about two thirds of patients, the prepatency period was longer than the incubation period by a week or more. In summary, if someone gets backpacker's diarrhea while on a weekend backpacking trip, it's very unlikely that it was caused by giardiasis that they acquired during the trip. The question asks specifically about pristine backcountry areas in North America. Some studies have surveyed water in these areas for Giardia.[Suk 1986],[Jaret 2003] The water was extremely clean, and huge volumes of it had to be filtered in order to pick up any detectable number of Giardia cysts. For example, there were sites in the Sierra where they filtered 100 gallons of water and didn't detect a single Giardia cyst left over in the filter. In most of the locations where cysts were detected, the concentrations were so low that they have to be expressed in scientific notation. In low-use areas, they ranged from zero to about 5x10^-3 per liter, while one high-use area had about 0.1 per liter. Elsewhere in the U.S., similar testing also found extremely low concentrations all of the backcountry locations tested: West Beaver Creek, AZ; Merced River, CA; Chattooga River, NC; Neversink River, NY; White Pine Lake, UT; Greenwater River, WA; and Renard Lake, WI. From these studies, it appears that if you spend a weekend drinking untreated water in pristine backcountry areas in the US, you will typically not ingest a single Giardia cyst. We then need to do a risk-benefit analysis. This raises the question of how many cysts you need to swallow in order to have a certain chance of getting infected, as well as the chance that this will cause symptoms. The best single source of information on the first question is a 1954 study by Rendtorff that used prison volunteers; the data are summarized and analyzed further by [Cox 2002] and [Rose 1991]. Roughly speaking, you have to ingest about 20-30 cysts to be likely to get an infection. It would be interesting to know whether there is a threshold effect, i.e., whether or not there is some chance, however small, of getting sick by swallowing a single cyst. Since Rendtorff never tested such small doses, the data are not sufficient to determine this directly.[Rose 1991] Rose introduces a mathematical model in which it is assumed that each cyst has some probability p of setting up shop in your gut, but this is an assumption of the model, and is not testable based on the data, which used higher doses. Rose's model is also not consistent with data showing that even when people drink very highly contaminated water, there is still only about a 50% chance of contracting giardiasis.[Wilkerson 1992] In this type of study, one of the confounding factors is that the minimum infectious dose can vary depending on the strain of the microorganism. If you do pick up a giardia infection, and if you weren't already an asymptomatic carrier, then it appears that your chance of developing symptoms is about one in 10.[Wilkerson 1992] Based on these numbers, we can make at least a rough order-of-magnitude estimate of the risk associated with drinking backcountry water. Suppose you go on a weekend hiking trip in the Sierra and drink 6 liters of untreated water. In low-use areas, the concentration of Giardia cysts in your water appears to average about 3x10^-3 per liter. Based on Rose's model, take the probability of infection to be about p=.02 per cyst. If infection occurs, the chance of getting symptoms (which are in most cases mild) is on the order of 0.1. Multiplying these factors, we arrive at a probability of about 4x10^-5 that you will get Giardia symptoms. That is, under these assumptions, out of a million people who do this, about 40 are expected to get diarrhea. This estimate appears to conflict with a study by Zell,[Zell 1993] which states: 

This question is difficult to answer, partly because different nations record demographic data at different times and in different ways, and partly because some don't even bother. France for one doesn't record its citizens ethnicity, so we don't know how many French citizens are ethnically French. There are estimates of course, so we can know roughly, but not precisely. But then there's even more problems when it comes to the new world, where the question of whiteness becomes more cultural and less obvious. How do we define whiteness? How do we define non-whiteness? Barack Obama has a black father and white mother, and identifies as, and is identified as, black. It seems in north America whiteness is exclusive, while in Latin America this is less so. 47% of Brazilians identify as white, though most Brazilians have a colourful and diverse ancestry. This, incidentally, is part of why Spain's colonial empire fell apart. It became impossible to enforce the casta system after a few generations of blacks, natives, whites, and others blending their ancestries. So how we're meant to make heads or tails of it is anyone's guess. For simplicity we're going to just go on self identification and census records. Still, the question remains. What is whiteness? I'm going to assume that whiteness means European ancestry, and so (minus colonies) it stops at the straights of Gibraltar, Bosporus, Caucuses, and Urals. Again, the best we can get is rough estimates. If we go on the largest ethnic groups, including significant white minorities, then it seems that around 90% of most EU states are white, while Russia is 80% white. So, this would mean that given the EU's population of 510m, plus Russia, Ukraine, and Belarus' combined of about 200m, assuming Russia 80% white, while Ukraine and Belarus 90%... leaves us with a grand total of about 624m white Europeans. Outside of Europe, from the populations of former colonies, this data suggests the total white population is about 480m. So the total white population of the world is roughly speaking 1,102m. Now, I am going to assume that "white women" basically translates as "females of majority European ancestry". And I'm going to assume a 50-50 gender split, which isn't going to be exactly true, but close enough. So in that case we're left with a world population of white females of roughly 550m. Out of a world population which is presently 7,400m. This means that we can estimate that 7-8% of the world's population are "white women". In conclusion and according to the stated assumptions: almost double the initial figure, but still a very small group against the world population. And yet to imply five hundred million people aren't numerous enough to support "diversity" (of what?), I don't know. That's still a lot of people, even if a small proportion of the whole. 

Though the answers so far have done a good job of pointing out the numerical facts of the matter, the political context needs elaboration. The question cannot be answered alone by proving or disproving the stated fact, but by giving context to the things implied from this fact. At the time of the 2010 general election the government was reeling from the financial crisis of 2007-8. The Conservatives blamed the national debt on the Labour government. They claimed it was Labour spending which had triggered the crisis (and thus created much of the debt they inherited). This then formed the basis of Conservative strategy; they would cut public spending with a policy of austerity to reduce the deficit. However, it's more complicated than that. Firstly, they specified that they would cut the deficit, (not the debt) and this is an important distinction. Public debt being the total the government owes, and the deficit being the fact their revenue is negative: the difference between income and spending. Of course, one needs to fix the deficit before they can service the debt; but the Conservatives only pledged to improve the deficit. Secondly, their claim that the crisis was due to government spending was rebuked by senior civil servants, and plainly false. Before the crisis (as other answers point out) public debt was 35% of GDP, and this increased significantly after the government was forced to purchase large corporations which would otherwise have imploded - as the government feared a second great depression. The implication that Labour are better economically than Conservatives, owing to better public debt figures, is short-sighted or deceptive. It's true that under New Labour Britain enjoyed its longest economic boom. But this is less to do with their leadership and more to do with the economic climate. To understand this, we need to go back to the Winter of Discontent. In 1979 Margret Thatcher won the general election for the Conservative party, promising to end British socialism; hoping to reverse a prolonged period of economic disorder and decline. She liberalised the economy, selling off and closing state industries, and deregulating the financial sector. By the time of the 1997 general election the seeds of boom and bust sown by Thatcher in 1979 had blossomed. This was the high point of economic growth between two low points of economic decline. It's also worth noting that the issue is further complicated by another unstated fact. The present leader of the Labour party, Jeremy Corbyn, is an "old Labour" socialist, contrasting "new Labour" of 1997-2010. They had abandoned socialism and adopted Thatcherism. The Labour party of today is not ideologically consistent with the new Labour of the past... or even the Labour party just before Corbyn became leader. In conclusion, the stated fact is true, but any implication drawn from it is false. Labour's boom and bust, and the consequences for the Conservative government which followed, were because of an economic environment independent of their leadership. It was a high growth environment back then, which enabled relatively low public debt. Additionally the implication that the Labour party was better, so we should have a Labour government now, is a deceptive supposition, because the Labour party of today is not the same as then. 

Although none of the people in the study who had Giardia got symptoms, this rate of infection is many orders of magnitude higher than would have been expected from water contamination based on the Rendroff-Rose data and modeling. Unfortunately the Zell article is paywalled, so I can only see the abstract, but it appears that he would have had no way to tell whether the people who acquired infections got them from contaminated water or from hand-to-mouth contamination. In any case, Zell's conclusion is that water treatment is of marginal cost-effectiveness, given the low risk and the fact that the infection is self-limiting and usually asymptomatic. Another reality check we can do is to compare the concentrations of Giardia in backcountry water with the concentrations in city tap water. This is complicated by the fact that Giardia cysts, whether found in backcountry water or tap water, may be nonviable, and surveys cannot usually determine their viability. Historically, city tap water has been getting cleaner and cleaner, especially in the developed world. However, it appears to have been normal in 20th-century America for city tap water to contain concentrations of Giardia cysts that are similar to or greater than the concentrations found in backcountry areas of the US.[Rockwell 2002] It would be interesting to get more detailed information on this from someone who has professional-level knowledge of US water supplies and their history. A meta-analysis of the literature in 2000 concluded that "the evidence for an association between drinking backcountry water and acquiring giardiasis is minimal."[Welch 2000] When people do actually contract backpacker's diarrhea from exposure during a hiking trip, by far the most common reason is hand-to-mouth contamination.[Welch 1995] Auerbach 2012 - Paul S. Auerbach, Wilderness Medicine (6th ed., 2012), ch. 68 Cox 2002 - Cox, F.E.G. (2002). History of Human Parasitology. Clin. Microbiol. Rev. 15(4): 595 Erlandsen 1984 - Erlandsen, Giardia and giardiasis: biology, pathogenesis, and epidemiology, 1984. Ish-Horowicz 1989 - Ish-Horowicz et al., "Asymptomatic giardiasis in children," Pediatr Infect Dis J. 1989 Nov;8(11):773-9. Jaret 2003 - Peter Jaret, "What's In the Water?," Backpacker, Dec. 2003, p. 45. Jokipii, The Lancet, Volume 309:1095. Rockwell 2002 - Robert L. Rockwell, Sierra Nature Notes, Volume 2, January 2002, $URL$ Rose 1991 - Rose, Haas, and Regli, "Risk assessment and control of waterborne Giardiasis," Am J Public Health 81 (1991) 709, $URL$ Suk 1986 - Map cited as reference 17 in S.C. Zell, "Epidemiology of wilderness-acquired diarrhea: implications for prevention and treatment," Wilderness and Environmental Medicine 3 (1992) 241, $URL$ Welch 1995 - Thomas R. Welch and Timothy P. Welch, "Giardiasis as a threat to backpackers in the United States: a survey of state health departments," Wilderness and Environmental Medicine, 6 (1995) 162, $URL$ Welch 2000 - Welch, T.P. "Risk of giardiasis from consumption of wilderness water in North America: a systematic review of epidemiologic data," Int J Infect Dis. 2000;4:103100, $URL$ Wilkerson 1992 - Wilkerson, James A., MD: Medicine for Mountaineering and Other Wilderness Activities. The Mountaineers, 4th edition, 1992 (referenced in Rockwell, $URL$ ) Zell 1993 - Zell and Sorenson, "Cyst acquisition rate for Giardia lamblia in backcountry travelers to Desolation Wilderness, Lake Tahoe," Journal of Wilderness Medicine 4 (1993) 147.