Do this, else you will continue to be at the mercy of your HR rep's ignorance with you W-4, and potentially other matters that are of greater importance e.g. pre-natal care for your wife if you have major medical, or your bonus/ profit sharing distribution. Also consider the fact that you may be penalized by the IRS for underpaying your income taxes, due to inadequate withholding. This IRS guide specifically describes the scenario which pertains to your situation, that of filing jointly rather than separately, given the amount of income earned by the employee and spouse. 

That's good that you have a contact phone number with someone at company. You should definitely call them, as it takes minimal effort. It also demonstrates your enthusiasm. You should say, 

Does your HR rep have a supervisor? You could speak with that person. You could talk with your own manager. It is part of his job to help you with such matters, once you have gone through proper channels. If there is a more senior person at the company, who is "in the know", you could casually ask what he or she would suggest, without going into particulars of your withholding particulars. This should be done as a last resort, as people have a tendency to gossip. Your boss, and the HR rep's supervisor, will not gossip about you. 

Do not include the projects that pertain to Y before your actual job-related projects about X. It doesn't matter if you made money from your projects on Y. You were employed by your company to work on X, and that is what you should display first. Even if you do display the Y projects first, the interviewer will ask you, "Were these projects what you did at work?" You can't lie because it will be easily discovered, not to mention dishonest. So then what is the point of putting the Y projects first? It will only get in the way for the interviewer, who will say, "What did you do at work?" Definitely include your project work on Y, especially if it were compensated. Even there you need to be a little careful, as you don't want to give the impression that you do a lot of moonlighting. But it is very helpful to include the Y related projects, as long as you actually accomplished something and can use them to demonstrate some familiarity with Y. Make sure that they appear after your current experience, and just before, or after, your education, depending on how much emphasis you want to give to that. 

Print out this question Tape it to his monitor after he goes home Buy a package of "Bean-o" Let shame do its thing. 

Unfortunately, you can't just say "Well, if you think it can be done in 2 hours, I'd love to see you try!" The truth is that in order to get projects approved, one often needs to underestimate the project. Once approved, the developers want a cushion. This expands the estimate. The conflict between these two imperatives is inextricably part of the estimate negotiation between you and your manager. One of the most successful tactics I've found is to expand the Work Breakdown Structure (WBS). In project management, this is a list of the tasks that must be performed, presented in an outline form. When initially recievieng the estimate, you probably have 3 levels of WBS. PMP Methodology says you can have up to 6. By enumerating all of the tasks, you can build in a better margin, spread out over more tasks. Not only is it easier to estimate a smaller unit of work, but by defining more of what must occur, you can justify it more easily too. Within each of these tasks, however, its also easier to "hide the camel." Is it really going to take you 1 hour to update DNS for these new websites? No. It'll probably take about 5 minutes. The rest of the hour is all research. The downside, of course, is that it is very hard to say agile when expanding the tree. As such, just putting it all out there, even if informally, is your best defense. 

*Clarification, based on a good comment. If, after you have gotten through the interview, and been given a job, you may be asked to complete an application that says "Please list all jobs." If you are feeling particularly supercilious, you should probably list it at that time - on the off chance somebody decides to do a full life audit. At worst, the hiring manager may ask, "What's this?" You say: "It's a job I held for two weeks. It really wasn't worth mentioning, because ..." and you then explain. The resume is about the first impression here - the application comes when it is pretty much a done deal. 

What does it matter? You seem to be under the impression that the fact that the possible employee had his/her parent at the interview indicates a lack of maturity but that may very easily not be the case. Why is it though that a parent bringing a child to an interview is more of a problem than a cabby bringing him? If the cabby was willing to wait an hour before taking the interviewer home would that have been a problem for you? Even if the whole premise of your argument is true and this is one massive mommies-boy who will suck at the teat of his parents for the rest of his life, what does this matter? Are his qualifications and experience predicated on what you consider to be "mature"? You are there to make a decision on whether this person is the ideal candidate for a job listing, not to make judgments on what you perceive to be a lack of maturity, if this is the type of thing that bothers you from a programmer then you are going to find it hard to find a candidate. Most programmers I know are a-social, borderline sociopaths with a god-complex dependant on the level of salary. Having mommy issues would be appropriate. 

I don't see the need to burn any bridges here. If the person was asking for a recommendation then your professional image would be on the line and then you would have to think twice but as it is, you could easily with one little email send the person the details of the manager or even just a link to the job posting. This makes you seem like the helpful one and even if it does happen that the person is not suitable, you are not the bad guy. It is after all not your job to do the hiring. Maybe you are not even able to judge a worthy candidate seeing as there may be mitigating circumstances to this person hiring that you may simply be unaware of. 

The only "bad" answer here is to use generic adjectives that don't set you apart or boring, vapid ones that say "He's a muggle." (Obviously, you don't want to get too wild and wooly - "hard-drinking, life of the party, etc..." But an interesting adjective has a lot to commend itself.) Oh, and you don't need 5 - you just need one really, really good one. (And 4 backups, in case you don't wow them on the first.) Everybody is "smart," "hard-working," and "creative." If you choose interesting adjectives and can back them up this is an opportunity to set you apart. 

Really it matters less whether you use past or present tense than if you are consistent in your use of the same tense. As an advertisement for your services, a resume is just a document that highlights things about you, such as your attention to detail. The old advice about "always use past tense" is more about looking consistent and "style guide correct" than anything else. If only to show your new employer that you are already in the mindset of working for them, I would suggest being consistent in the past tense- but only to the extent that it seems natural. I doubt anyone reading the resume will even notice what you do there. 

Why do you feel compelled to list a job that only lasted two weeks? A resume is not a legal document. It is an advertisement. When you list your qualifications, typically listing job experience is a part of that. You are under no compulsion to list all of them. If you need to explain a large gap, that's a thing, but assuming the gap is short, you are probably best off never mentioning it all. Now, you are down to two jobs in a year and a small gap- may not be great, but it is fewer questions to answer. 

Generally speaking, no full-time employment will commence without a work contract in place. In most cases what your employer expects from you will be made plain. So except maybe if it is expressly mentioned that wages will be reduced for slow work what he is doing is most probably a breach of contract. Even if tardiness is mentioned in the contract, contract law does provide the remedy that if a contract is deemed to be grossly unfair to one party then a petition can be made to make it invalid. I think you would have a decent case for that. Remember that a work contract is like any other, both parties have the right to have it enforced. You may want to employ the council of a labor attorney or at the very least a union rep, this seems to be exactly the type of exploitive behavior they fight against. 

Computer works should not be impossible, I have found typing is OK. Writing by hand is really hard though. A good spell checker like Grammarly will sure up many of your spelling difficulties. As always, pick trough the things you type with a small toothed comb. Don't type important things too fast and read through the things you write multiple times. When you have to read things, read slowly and make sure you don't read what you think the message is but what is actually written on the page. Discuss the issue with HR manager, not with any other management. This is a personal issue, the HR people will be more likely to handle it with the necessary sensitivity. Discussing it at least with someone at the company will also have the added benefit of promoting a feeling of mutual trust with your employer. Divulging such personal details just in case it may affect your work will at the very least give the impression that you take your work seriously.