We have this disease that says that once something intellectual actually works, it must be science and until then it is one of the humanities. But from the point of view of any existing social science, that is obvious nonsense. We can say history is in the humanities, and political science is in the social sciences, but they are the same thing -- they just have a range of competing methods, some of which work slightly better than others, but address less interesting questions. There is even clear acknowledgement from historians of science. From the POV of Kuhn every science proceeds out of a state of 'protoscience', which is entirely philosophical. The sciences, contrary to a lot of chest-pounding to the contrary about methods, which not all of them use (qv Feyerabend), and the standards for what are facts, which all of them violate (qv Lakatos), have nothing else in common than being varieties of philosophy that come to produce results we can agree upon. From that point forward, they have a paradigm, and voi-la, a Science is born. So yeah, all the useful parts work. If you never want any new useful parts, you can throw out all the rest. There are obviously parts of philosophy that will never be sciences, either, because the subject matter is itself simply too broad, too subjective, or too unstable. But even if there weren't, no human being can tell what parts of the rest are going to be sciences, or whether they actually already are sciences and we have just not noticed. To draw this distinction as completely as people who write questions like this insist is just pointless. 

Mathematics never predicts how nature is, only how it might be. As @JoWehler pointed out, physics then has to select from the ways it might be the ones that have anything to do with what it appears to be, and refine those into approximations of what it is. One way of looking at mathematics is as the combination of basic shared human logic with itself in all forms, as completely as possible. In that sense, mathematics contains the set of all clear descriptions consistent with those human understandings that are reliably shared between individuals. If that is, in fact, what mathematics is, it should not surprise us that when we dream up systems of possible physics and communicate them, they are composed of clear concepts we can reliably share. We have no choice but to base science on mathematics, as otherwise it would be either idiosyncratic, or impossible to communicate beyond a certain audience. So from that perspective, the fact we find mathematics everywhere has nothing to do with nature, and everything to do with us, instead. 

From a modern, non-Platonic, axiomatic point of view, mathematics does not collect facts, it studies the implications of groups of axioms. We obviously make up the axioms themselves. And our sense of which axioms-sets matter is derived from human intuition. The idea of Euclidean space, for instance, is not a fact. If you consider the theory of relativity valid, we never encounter Euclidean space. The space we are in is never empty, and therefore never flat. But our intuition has evolved a very effective approximation to most of the space we encounter, and that approximation is Euclidean geometry. The way we choose to model space involves infinite divisibility, but that does not mean that anything infinitely divisible actually exists. Chemistry seems to disagree, and physical theories like 'quantum foam' disagree even more profoundly. The easiest way for use to think of solids is as something infinitely divisible. But we know they are atomic. Even the underlying space may ultimately not be infinitely divisible. So to think of the Real numbers as a factual thing that we are 'grasping' is not any more warranted than the idea that we live in Euclidean space. Imagination can create models that do not fit reality, but are useful. That does not mean that what we imagine is knowledge. Our capacity to hold onto our natural notions in spite of reality, and in spite of the fact that the idea requires things that are larger than reality can possibly be, does not mean that we really know, or even imagine anything truly more complex than reality itself. 

So one can consider it totally natural. It is in fact so natural to so many of us that it is reasonable to follow that impulse into a moral system, via the Golden Rule, or its mostly-debugged rewrite, which is Kant's Categorical Imperative. What flies directly in the face of this notion of "There but for the grace of God, go I." is inherently wrong. It provides an anodyne to runaway Utilitarian thinking. We know, regardless of its utility, murder is wrong, as we would not accept being killed for utilitarian reasons, unless they were exceptionally strong. Therefore one must allocate a much higher utility than would naturally balance a killing, in order to justify it. I would let myself die to protect my husband, but not just because I am taking up space someone else wants. So you may feel free to kill me in a war for survival of my people or my culture, but not to kill me just because you want my land, whatever the utility my land might provide you. This does not do away with the reference to utility entirely. But it makes it a secondary consideration under the principle of fairness, and it so outweighs measured utility that it shortcuts the computation completely in a lot of cases. For instance: It provides U.S. society very little added utility to arrange its social institutions around the possibility of people being gay. And there is a lot of utility to spend in making those arrangements. Among other things, the tax code is shaped to encourage a certain type of marriage, which has a certain biological role that gay folks will not generally fulfill. (It overtaxes couples with equally high incomes, to allow for non-working spouses and the experience gap temporary absence from the workforce causes.) Making that subsidy less efficient wastes utility. But we are going to do all of that re-arranging, eventually, just because you might have been me. We do not need to do the math, because the math does not obviate that possibility. Utility would have to really mount up to matter, and the differences are not great enough. Likewise, most of our criminal laws exist primarily because the victim "might have been me". Libertarians are not idiots -- they can do math. It is not, in general, worth paying for most laws in a strictly person-to-person economic computation. But there is more data. We do not want to deal with the fear that we might end up in the victim's place, so we establish authorities to keep us safe. Dispelling that fear increases the efficiency of the whole system enough that it offsets the expenditures. The return on investment is so great that most of economic history has been a succession of protection rackets. Insurance has a huge profit margin. Still, we would never have discovered that, if our thinking were primarily utilitarian by nature. Each cave-man would think (rightly) that he was best off keeping his own kill and defending his own cave, or maybe stealing what he needed. Instead, he looked at the things happening to others, saw that he was not so special, and agreed that it would be better if none of the worst ones were allowed. 

If the measurement does not precipitate a decision, then the information about the decision has been made when the particles were together, and is carried with them as state. I think this is the framing of QFT, but that means all kinds of historical information can be bound up in a particle when it coheres with others. There is not more information here, of the form "as this particle is treated, so all these others will respond", there is less information, the coherent particles somehow actually share a quantum number. So entanglement is not a source of complexity, it is an economy of information. If the wave-equation is your main point of reference, then the collection of particles does not so much travel, as it spreads. Since, in the dual model, the observation is what makes them back into particles to begin with, they are free to come "back" into being with this encoded information, which has been stored all along in their shared state. Because underlying their state as particles is a continuous potentiality distribution that indirectly indicates the likelihood of so many of them with such-and-such a distribution of quantum numbers, and not a real collection of separable entities, to begin with. From a computational standpoint, we can look at this as an of object class with inherited properties. Given so straightforward a model, it is hard to see the effect as any more or less incomputable than the case where every particle fends for itself. As a lame analog, consider a class in an object/class language (like Python) with a class-level cached property. The first time you access it, it has no value, so it finds one, then every instance will have that value for the property. But information has not been transmitted between instances, at faster-than-light or any other speed. So, whatever other aspects of physics this interaction offends, computability is not one of them. 

Unfortunately, these criteria are not true of one another or of themselves. So when we have a crisis of belief in an underlying theory, these principles go to war with one another, with different preferences favoring different candidates for future research directions. 

Second guessing your question away, I think this is not about collectivism or individualism, it is about sense and sentimentalism. The most collectivist thing one might be able to do in a world where everyone encounters the dying might be to tone down your reaction to death, so that fewer of those around you feel guilty about it. This may not be individualism, and in fact, expecting others to care about your dead may simply be selfish, if there is no chance that all the dead can be adequately considered. You might want to look at this from a sort of 'Desmond Morris' point of view. What is the cultural and biological message sent by sensitivity to the dead and dying. I would suggest that it is a sign that one's lineage has the luxury of demanding unnecessary actions of individuals to protect the group. We carefully process the dead and dying because they are a public health risk. But sending that signal is unwise when it stops being true. At that point, it is equally collectivist to require this natural impulse be suppressed. We like to think of the harshness of traditional masculinity as a form of individualism, if not outright selfishness. But from a point of view put forward by pacifist feminists like Starhawk, it arises most clearly in the context of the service of war, which is a gift of oneself to an extraordinary level of collectivism. Putting these two (who would probably never agree) together, sentimentalism has a social purpose, and so does resisting it. The former sends the message "We have resources that will go to waste unless we share them", the latter sends the message "We need to ration logically, even if that logic is somewhat inhumane." They are both empathic, one directly and the other less so. But both are collectivist impulses, and both limit genuine individualism. Returning to the original perspective, modern cosmopolitan society is, from Starhawk's point of view, brainwashed into an impending feeling that scarcity lurks around every corner, and efficiency is therefore required for the common good. So it chooses the path of limiting oneself prematurely, chooses rights over responsibilities, and delays attending to broader shared needs. But that is a communal position. It presses those with more idiosyncratic individual impulses to deny them. These people are in line to get money, they have resources, they could spend those resources on removing the obstacles presented to those who are more subject to their externalizing impulses. But they don't -- it would not be efficient, there will just be more dead bodies tomorrow -- and they have the right to pursue their chosen responsibilities first. They are communally choosing to make a space where that right is honored. If one of them broke from the mold, they would all be less stable. So I would argue that we are not already desensitized, or that everyone is, and the choice indicates something different. As the documentary 'Cowspiracy' demonstrates graphically, those in prior eras would expect any grown man to be able to behead a chicken without a second thought. And most of our modern, cosmopolitan peers just can't. At the same time, most ancient folks would never sacrifice their religious solidarity and walk past a dead body just to get something practical, unless under severe duress. Their shared responsibility to God trumps efficiency, the same way our shared responsibility to efficiency makes us explain away our natural revulsion as superstitious.