Note that Blackburn states "empirical laws such as Boyle's law can be derived from the nature of the mechanism". Thus, molecular theory suffices to explain and replace a number of physical laws and theories of which Boyle's law is just one example; replacing them all with a single theory. In this way, it "reduces the number of independent assumptions we need to make" by making independent laws/theories derivable from a single theory or mechanism. Perhaps the best example of such a reduction could be found in the successful formulation "theory of everything". Such a theory would replace our existing theories of the four forces with a single theory. 

If I am not mistaken, this statement is the computability-theoretic equivalent of the Gödel sentence "This statement is not provable". The Gödel sentence of a formal system is the sentence that Gödel encoded into a statement about sets of natural numbers in order to prove his Incompleteness Theorem. The proof shows that the Gödel sentence is not decidable. By an analogous proof in computability theory, your statement P1 (in its modified form) is not decidable, meaning there is no algorithm to determine if its either valid or not valid - i.e., either true of false. If this is correct, then you are correct to call P1 "NaB". However, as I say, I'm not an expert in this area so maybe someone can correct me. So that would be a formal treatment of the statement P1. If we wish to look at P1 informally, then I believe the usual way of dealing with it is deny that P1 has any meaningful content. 

Firstly, the possible objection you raise does not really hold up since the market should price in such perceived liquidity issues, forcing the initial offer price of company Y to be as attractive as company Z. There is a third scenario which you do not mention. Buying shares in evil company X allows you to do two things : 

As Dave has pointed out in his comment to your OP, it is not technically the case that your examples represent fallacies. Such beliefs/"fallacies" are related to The Law of Truly Large Numbers which states that, give a large enough sample size, anything, no matter how outrageously unlikely, will likely happen. In the case of the lottery, if the odds of winning are, say, fourteen million to one, then if fourteen million tickets are sold, each using a different combination, then all combinations are used and therefore a winner will occur with certainty. This does not in anyway enhance the outrageously unlikely event that your ticket is the winner. The odds of a particular instance of an X-ray scan causing cancer are remote, however given enough such scans, the instances of resulting cancers would appear to be inevitable. Similarly, the preposterously large odds that all the necessary events occur in order to create intelligent life in the universe may be matched by the vast size and age of the universe. Yet many naively insist that the fact that intelligent life exists on earth implies that the universe must be teaming with life. 

I think your argument may fail because neither of the premises relate directly to the conclusion, since the conclusion assumes both the target size and the bullet size are altered together. Premise 1 asserts only that the probability decreases as the target size decreases. There is no reference to the bullet size so nothing is being asserted about any change in probability if both the bullet size and target size is changed. Similarly, premise two deals with the case where only the bullet size is changed. EDIT I think, perhaps, that the reasoning you are using in your argument is better suited to a static, mathematical structure than a dynamic, physical system. In a physical system, the implications of altering one variable may not apply if we alter more than one variable. 

Let's expand @nir 's posted answer. The so-called particle-wave duality of quantum physics does appear to be a real paradox. How can something be simultaneously a particle and a wave - simultaneously both discreet and diffuse. One might try to argue that this apparently impossible state of affair would be resolved if we either extended quantum theory in some way, or if quantum theory was not a complete view of the situation. But it would appear that neither of these options would succeed, at least not in the mainstream, Copenhagen interpretation of quantum theory. A result in quantum theory know as Bell's Theorem tell's us that, as far as quantum theory is concerned, there is no information missing from our picture of this state of affairs; i.e., there are no hidden variables. One might say that our quantum description is complete. Similarly, completeness means (by definition) that no extension of quantum theory will resolve this apparent paradox. All of this appears to leave us in a position of having to reject quantum theory as the only way of resolving this paradox. Given the observable quantized nature of energy, this would also appear not to be an option for science. 

Note that he is using the word identify here in the sense of equality - to identify one expressed fact with another expressed fact as being one and the same fact. He is asking "how do we know when we are expressing the same fact in two different ways" so that we may correctly count them and distinguish them. With this in mind, it should be clear how the example given highlights this problem. (Note that "there is an animal in my house" does not necessarily entail "the cat is on the mat".) 

Ramachandran then goes on to suggest that, rather than free will, we should be talking about "free won't" - i.e., the power to reject solutions proposed by the nonconscious parts of the neocortex. 

I am guessing that what Dawkins is getting at is that there is evidence to suggest that cause and effect is not universal. There are effects that have no cause. This is the mainstream view of quantum physics which posits that there are no hidden variables in our quantum description of reality. In our quantum theory, quantum entities are popping in and out of existence all over the place. Therefore, whatever quantum fluctuations may have caused our universe to appear, they did not require any god-like ("terminator") qualities to create them. I have read a couple of Dawkins' earlier books, but not this one. I assume that "terminator" is his term, as the terminus of the causal chain - a classic Dawkins provocation. 

I read your question as being about the relation between access consciousness and subjective time. The literal notion of now has no temporal extension, so it would appear to be trivially true that "the mind only conceives of one object at a time". However, the subjective time notion of now does have a temporal extension. According to my reading on the subject, most cognitive scientists and philosophers place a value of between two and three seconds of subjective time on the "now". In my experience, the subjective now can be shorter in duration depending on the circumstance. Consider the example where one if faced with a life threatening situation. I was once climbing a rock face without any safety equipment when I started to lose my balance. Within the subjective now - i.e., in no more that one second - I had to conceive of many objects in my environment as well as many abstract objects. I was able to make the decision to lower my centre of gravity in order to regain my footing. After taking appropriate action, all that was left for me to do was to clean my underpants. 

Here we are assuming the natural "order topology" is used. The result for cardinals follows from the result for ordinals since an infinite cardinal must be a limit ordinal. If λ is a limit ordinal, then λ+1 is a "one-point compactification" of λ which we might loosely express as : 

Because the two copies must breath air, the two would instantly become physically different. This is because, although their lungs may be identical to start with, the air they breath will contain different distributions of oxygen atoms and therefore their bodies would absorb different numbers of oxygen atoms the moment they breath. Thus, they are identifiable as two separate individuals and would act accordingly. EDIT See my comments below, in reply to your comments. I should have edited these comments into this answer. EDIT As per you request, I have copied my comments into my answer. How one answers this depends on whether one believes that reality is entirely material and determinate. If you hold such a view, then in the absence of any external forces all of the trajectories and the observable behaviour of the particles which make up the two copies would continue to evolve in exactly the same manner in accordance with the applicable deterministic laws. Therefore, any action taken by one of the copies would simultaneously be taken by the other. They would act in exact unison - saying “hello” simultaneously and continuing in unison. On the other hand, if you do not believe that reality is material and deterministic, then there is room for variance in the absence of external forces. For example, free will, chance, etc.. 

How one answers such questions obviously depends on ones philosophical views. A realist in truth-value such as Quine or Putnam, will argue that AC has an objective truth value independent of the language, mind, or mathematician reflecting on the question. On the other hand, a non-realist in truth-value will argue that AC is independent of set theory and therefore has no objective truth value. More generally, the view of axioms as self-evident truths is one that is not in favour with mathematicians today. Contemporary mathematics now view axioms as "defining conditions" for a theory. For example, a modern set theorist is happy to study both ZF (set theory) with AC and ZF with ¬AC. Obviously one cannot view both AC and ¬AC as self-evident truths. 

(All quotes given are taken from “Intuitionism and Formalism” by L.E.J. Brouwer.) Brouwer gives a name to this concept (that of the falling apart of moments and reuniting them). He calls it two-oneness (and we note this concept is clearly analogous to collectivisation - i.e., set formation). Brouwer then states his two acts of intuitionism. The first act gives rise to the natural numbers, while the second act gives rise to the continuum. Again quoting Brouwer : 

The most compelling argument against Wittgenstein's view is surely that given by Gödel in his famous theorems of Mathematical Logic. What Gödel proved was that mathematical truth cannot in principle be confined to a formal system. In other words, truth is not reducible to proof. This is equivalent to saying that syntax cannot supplant semantics. 

EDIT (Way TL;DR) I have managed to locate this paper which discusses Brassier’s Nihil Unbounded. In your comment following my answer, you state that Brassier goes on to say : 

I hate to rain on your parade ( I hope it was good stuff ), but our science and philosophy posits a formal law called The Second Law of Thermodynamics. This law says that our universe is moving from a state of order to a state of disorder, or chaos. Although nature (or ourselves) can intervene locally to impose order on the environment, the universe as a whole is becoming more chaotic as time passes. It follows that the ratio of chaos to order increases as the age of the universe increases. The 2nd Law of Thermodynamics is sometimes refered to as The Arrow of Time. This is because it is the only part of mainstream science that allows us to identify a direction of time. All other mainstream theories are time-symmetric, meaning that they work equally well whether time is moving forward or backward. So yes, it may be fair to say that there is a battle between order and chaos taking place in our universe, but ultimately chaos must win. Regarding your question on other universes with different laws and ratios, there are scientists who theorise about such universes. 

Throughout, I use the word conspiracy in the sense you have intended, not in a dictionary sense of the word. I believe this may be a valid example. In the early days of the Watergate scandal, before the facts were known to the general public, it could be said that the Washington Post started a conspiracy to bring down Nixon. If the patriot and reactionary public were to get wind of the fact that a bunch of punk journalists were trying to bring down our beloved president, then I believe they would refer to these activities as a "conspiracy". If you accept that this is a valid use of the word "conspiracy" in the sense you have intended in your question, then you would have to say that once the facts were known by the public the label "conspiracy" would need to be rejected. 

The posted answers provide some valuable guidance. On a more practical note, I would suggest that you have a look at the Oxford University Press Very Short Introduction series. There are almost a hundred books in their philosophy series. These include books on almost all of the major philosophers, schools, and subjects. Here is a link to their philosophy offerings. They are reasonably cheap at $10 - $11 on amazon, where they appear to be popular and well reviewed. I must confess that I have not read any books in the philosophy series, but I have read many in their science series and they are generally very well written distillations by well regarded experts in each area. 

The general view amongst Cosmologists is that the fate of the Universe depends on its overall shape or geometry. The shape of the universe depends on the density of matter contained therein and is usually expressed using a parameter called the density parameter, which is the ratio of the observed density to the critical density. (Naively, one might say the more matter the more gravitational pull, while a smaller density of matter means there is not enough gravity to pull it all back together.) The critical density is currently estimated to be approximately 5 atoms (of hydrogen) per cubic meter. The observed density of ordinary matter is estimated at 0.2 atoms per cubic meters. This leaves us having to estimate the density of the exotic dark energy. If the ratio is greater than 1 (high density, positive curvature), then the geometry of space is closed, meaning that it has a finite future. This case corresponds to our universe having a spherical shape. If the ratio is less than 1 (low density, negative curvature), then the geometry of space is open, meaning that it has an infinite future. This case corresponds to a saddle shaped universe. Finally, if the ratio equals 1 (the "Goldilocks" scenario, no curvature), then the geometry of space is flat, as in the Euclidean geometry we learned in school. Here, the universe expands forever, but the rate of expansion decreases and asymptotically (tends to) zero (over time). When dark energy estimates are included, our current best guess is that our universe is within 0.4% of being flat, implying an infinite future. Regarding the past, our science and observation strongly suggest that our universe has a finite past. 

The mathematical study of probability does not tell us what probability means. The problem of how we interpret probability, like most philosophical problems, cannot be answered mathematically. The concept of probability is certainly problematic from a philosophical point of view. This is because there appears to be two distinctly different ways of defining probability; either as a logical concept in terms of frequency, or as a subjective concept as the strength of personal opinions. The subjective interpretation of probability implies that there are no objective facts about probability, only what people believe. For example, I could say that there is a high probability that the big bang model of creation is true, while you could say that there is a low probability that it is true. Neither of us would be right or wrong. We are simply stating how strongly we believe the statement. This interpretation of probability is not saying that there is no objective fact that determines the truth of the statement, only that there is no objective fact about how probable it is. It is in this context that, as you say, “it makes no sense to assign a probability”. The logical interpretation of probability rejects this interpretation. It says that the probability that the big bang model is true is objectively true or false according to a specified body of evidence. In other words, a statement’s probability is a measure of the strength of evidence in its favour. In the case of the big bang model, the evidence consists of such objective evidence as the observed uniform expansion of the universe, the cosmic background radiation, etc.. The logical interpretation of probability asserts that a probability can always be assigned based on the available evidence. (This contracts with the subjective interpretation where "it makes no sense to assign a probability".) The concept of probability is obviously important scientifically since it is at the heart of many of our scientific theories - e.g., quantum theory and genetics. It is also philosophically important because it may shed some light on the problem of inductive inference which lies at the heart of our scientific theories. (Regarding Cantor’s claims that “infinities are no obstacle to probabilistic calculations”, I believe this would follow from the simple fact that the theory of transfinite numbers ( the ordinals and cardinals of set theory) includes a well-defined transfinite arithmetic. Thus, the same mathematical methods that apply to the finite arithmetic of probability would carry a transfinite interpretation.)