I am interested in current estimate of distribution of planets of various radii in various distances from their parent star. There is many sources, where one can find database of presently known exoplanets, for example exoplanets.org, www.openexoplanetcatalogue.com and others. However, the known exoplanets are, of course, subject to conditional probability of detection by various methods. One cannot take the database as representative distribution, because, for example, hot Jupiters or big planets in general would be greatly overestimated. What are the best resources to obtain current unbiased estimates of exoplanet radii and distances? 

This fits perfectly with the fickleness of Venus in the sky. It took a long time for humanity to realise that the morning star and the evening star are even the same object, which appears briefly in twilight and even then is sometimes gone (behind the sun). It was very well known in ancient times, for example see Isaiah 14:12 in the Bible, which mentions the fickleness of the morning star. (And is probably the source of the name "Lucifer" for the devil, Lucifer or "Bringer of Light" being an alternative Roman name for the planet Venus.) 

Your question is difficult to answer exactly, because it touches the question of consciousness, which is problematic in general. But the answer is basically this: Theory of relativity describes the space-time as four-dimensional space that exists as a whole. You are described by a world-line, which contains all states you go through from birth to death. There is many slices, which describe "you" in different times. What you can see is given by what information reached your sensory inputs (your senses) and how they are processed by your brain. The brain creates a model of reality based on your sensory inputs, which is stored in space-like slice of your world-line in the space-time, which we call present. This is what "you" can see. So the reason basically is in how the brain processes the data it is getting. Along you world-line, there is many versions of you at different ages and each version feels its own present and the versions more in the future also have memories of the past (because the brain stores the past sensory inputs). There is no single "present time" in the theory of relativity, only the space-time as a whole. But you should't forget that the theory of relativity is still only a very well working model. Even within the theory of relativity, the question whether space-time exists as a whole, or whether there is "present state", which evolves in time, is rather philosophical than scientific, because there is no observable difference between the two. 

The ancient Mesopotamian astrologers associated each of the known moving lights in the sky (the five planets, sun and moon) with one of their gods. You can see their names, in the case of Babylon, here. The days of the week are all named after these lights, although in English they often use the name of the closest Germanic god. (This practice of associating gods across cultures will become a theme.) The ancient Greeks learned much from Babylon, but were very much not a culture of religious freedom. Impiety was a crime for which one could be executed in Athens, for example, and importing foreign religion was not allowed in at least some cases. It is therefore unsurprising that when the Greeks borrowed the Babylonian knowledge of the planets, they justified it by replacing each god with whichever Greek god seemed most similar. Nergal, a god associated with war and plague, was for example replaced with the Greek war god Ares. Ishtar, a goddes of love, sex and war, was replaced with Aphrodite. The resident god of Babylon and chief god at the time, Marduk, became Zeus. Romans, on the other hand, did generally have religious freedom. The ancient Romans in general held the belief that, since the gods they worship are real, similar gods of other cultures must simply be the same gods by other names. It should be stressed that despite this the practices and myths were different, even between Greece and Rome. The Romans therefore thought nothing of calling the planets by the name of whichever god of theirs they felt the Greek name referred to, Venus in the case of Aphrodite. Having gotten that far, we now need to establish why Ishtar (Venus) is the brightest planet and not Marduk (Jupiter), the chief god of Babylon. Firstly, Marduk was only in later Babylonian times the chief deity. In earlier periods when Ur was in its prime, the chief god was Sin, the moon god, whose daughter was Ishtar according to Wikipedia. (My copy of Gilgamesh lists Anu as the father of Ishtar. This is likely to have been changed by Babylonian times, in keeping with the local god of Babylon, Marduk, displacing Anu who was father of the gods in Sumerian times.) Marduk was a minor god at the time when the Epic of Gilgamesh was written. In fact, every one of the gods we call the "chief god" was really just the chief god when his city reigned supreme. Ishtar was also a very fickle goddess. Consider this partial summary of Tablet VI of the Standard Version of the Epic of Gilgamesh, taken from The Epic of Gilgamesh: A New Translation by Andrew George (1999, Penguin, ISBN 0-14-044721-0, p. 47): 

I suppose we don't actually know for sure. But I can't think of any process whereby a stationary spherical body can emit regular pulses of radiation. 

Not to my knowledge. Where did you hear that? I don't think it's true, because if it was you could make the same claim about any massive body. 

By measuring the CMBR. There isn't much radiation compared to other stuff. The universe review dark energy article says radiation comprises only about 0.005% of the mass-energy of the universe. * Whilst conservation of p=mv momentum means there was an effect on the Earth, it's very slight. The KE=½mv² kinetic energy is not shared equally because the Earth didn't move in any detectable fashion. 

Gravity is an effect of the stress-energy tensor. Put differently, energy and momentum (they're related concepts) are the cause of gravity in general relativity. A fully charged electric battery has a very slightly stronger gravitational field than a depleted one. You may have heard that $E = mc^2$ or in as the terms are more descriptively defined in modern usage, $E^2 = m^2c^4 + p^2c^2$ . Just thinking about these equations from special relativity, you can see that more energy means more mass, which means more gravity. Beyond that, gravitational waves carry energy. You may remember the recent discovery of gravitational waves from a black hole collision, in which about three solar masses worth of energy were calculated to have been given off as gravitational waves. Getting back to plain old Newtonian mechanics, when masses move around in a gravitational field energy is converted from one form to another as Dean noted in their comment on the question. For example when a comet is near the sun on its highly elliptic orbit, it has high kinetic energy and low potential energy. It loses kinetic energy as it moves outward, being slowed by gravitational energy, but gains gravitational potential energy. This potential is, quite simply, a representation of the fact that it can get its "lost" kinetic energy back when it falls in again on the inbound leg of its orbit, being helped along by gravity instead of hindered when inbound. 

I'm afraid it isn't. Check out Is The Speed of Light Everywhere the Same? on the PhysicsFAQ website: "Does the speed of light change in air or water? Yes. Light is slowed down in transparent media such as air, water and glass." "These gyroscopes send light around a closed loop, and if the loop rotates, an observer riding on the loop will measure light to travel more slowly when it traverses the loop in one direction than when it traverses the loop in the opposite direction." "In this passage, Einstein is not talking about a freely falling frame, but rather about a frame at rest relative to a source of gravity. In such a frame, the not-quite-well-defined "speed" of light can differ from c, basically because of the effect of gravity (spacetime curvature) on clocks and rulers." The answer is no. The speed of light is not everywhere the same. But you measure the local speed of light to be the same because you define our seconds and your metres using light. So when you use them to measure the speed of that light, you always get the same answer. See Comments on "Note on varying speed of light theories" by Joao Magueijo and John Moffat. 

However, it must be said that some scientists suspect that dark matter is made of primordial black holes in the first place. There is also the theory of MACHOs (Massive Compact Halo Objects), that dark matter is composed of large compact bodies such as black holes, but it is believed by most that this theory can not account for the dark matter in the universe. 

You could take a more serious course. Formal education is always an option if you have the time and money and there are many good MOOCs in astronomy. For example, this Introduction to Astronomy MOOC started today. 

Is there freely available and reliable source, where one can find positions of planets and moons of the Solar system at given time in cartesian coordinates? (I am writing a simple gravity simulator and it would save me a lot of work with conversion.) 

There is an interesting discussion about whether there could be life on Saturn's moon Titan. (For example here.) The life could use reaction of hydrogen and acetylene which are being produced by photolysis in Titan's atmosphere. I would like to know what total energy is available for such life per square meter per day, or at least how much hydrogen is produced in Titan's atmosphere per day. There are some estimates in article McKay and Smith, Icarus, 2005, but I have problem translating the quantities they use for the estimate to total amount of hydrogen produced per unit of time or energy produced per unit of time. 

That's right, it uses gravity to "explain" gravity, so it isn't ideal. However there is a way to understand it, and IMHO it's simpler than you think. 

Nothing. The coordinate speed of light is zero at that location, which means that by our clocks, it takes forever to see anything. So the falling observer hasn't seen anything yet, and he never ever will. IMHO it's worth reading the mathspages Formation and Growth of Black Holes and paying attention to the frozen star interpretation: "Incidentally, we should perhaps qualify our dismissal of the 'frozen star' interpretation, because it does (arguably) give a servicable account of phenomena outside the event horizon, at least for an eternal static configuration. Historically the two most common conceptual models for general relativity have been the "geometric interpretation" (as originally conceived by Einstein) and the "field interpretation" (patterned after the quantum field theories of the other fundamental interactions). These two views are operationally equivalent outside event horizons, but they tend to lead to different conceptions of the limit of gravitational collapse. According to the field interpretation, a clock runs increasingly slowly as it approaches the event horizon (due to the strength of the field), and the natural "limit" of this process is that the clock asymptotically approaches "full stop" (i.e., running at a rate of zero). It continues to exist for the rest of time, but it's "frozen" due to the strength of the gravitational field. Within this conceptual framework there's nothing more to be said about the clock's existence..." The author doesn't favour it, but it squares with what Einstein said about the speed of light varying with gravitational potential. The other interpretation doesn't. And note that Einstein didn't refer to the "coordinate" speed of light. He simply referred to the speed of light. So we can reasonably say that at the event horizon, the speed of light is zero, and that this is why a vertical light beam can't get out. The distant observer sees the infalling observer freeze at the event horizon. But the infalling observer doesn't see himself as frozen, because the speed of light at that location is zero. He sees nothing. NB: SR time dilation is symmetrical, but GR time dilation isn't. If you and I passed each other in gravity-free space at some relativistic speed, we would each claim that the other's clock was slower. But when we're at different elevations, we both agree that the lower clock is going slower. 

What they're saying here is that there used to exist some asteroids of some particular type (here they mean formed from the pieces of a single body). After some time all asteroids of that type were destroyed in collisions, fell on planets or into the sun or were ejected from the solar system. Some of the pieces fell on Earth. As far as we can tell there are no pieces left in solar orbit and so none of these type of meteorite fall on Earth any more, hence it is called "extinct". Since the Barbarian asteroids currently exist, they are by definition not extinct.