[Edit: At first, I completely misread this question as asking about voiced aspirates. Sorry about that!] 

You can see more description of these kinds of alternations and linguistic analysis of them in "English Syllable Structure and Vowel Shortening" by Balogné Bérces Katalin (1998). Of course, the presence of alternations between [eɪ] and [æ] doesn't require us to analyze words pronounced with [eɪ] like "sane" as underlyingly having the phoneme /aː/. People differ with regard to how much they think the phonology should account for alternations like this. From user6726's answer to my question "What are current perspectives on analyzing word-final /i/ in English words like “potency” as synchronically derived from /j/?": 

When glossing a logical proposition with English words, we are not really using the English language system; it's just a way to represent the unambiguous mathematical concepts in a mnemonic and easy-to-pronounce manner. For this reason, mathematicians and logicians like to present specialized definitions of the words they use. That is what is being done in this passage. You'll only confuse yourself if you try to use the ordinary meaning of English words in this context. I find this a rather poor definition for an introductory text; I'm not a mathematician, so it may in fact not be unambiguous, but I find myself unsure if the author means for this to represent exclusive disjunction or inclusive disjunction. It seems to me to technically be a definition of inclusive disjunction. Usually in logic, the phrase "Either A or B" is taken to mean that exactly one of the following 3 propositions is true: 

An example of an areal grammar feature is the "have"-perfect in Western European languages. The verbs involved (reflexes of Germanic *habjaną and Latin habeo) are not cognates, so it's impossible for the structure to be inherited from a common ancestor. 

In German, attributive adjectives agree in number and gender, while predicative adjectives (which are used with a copulative verb) do not, and are invariable. In fact, some analyses of German consider the predicative adjectives and deadjectival adverbs to in fact belong to the same category of speech, since an adjective used as an adverb also does not agree and takes the same "default" form. In Arabic, adjectives agree in number, gender, and case with their referents, but attributive adjectives are distinguished from predicative adjectives by also needing to agree in definiteness. In predicative sentences with adjectives, there is no overt copula for the present tense, so a sequence of definite noun + attributive adjective is distinguishable from an equational sentence consisting of a definite noun + indefinite predicative adjective. (Predicative adjectives can also be marked for definiteness when the semantics of the sentence calls for it.) 

Wells does not argue that the sequences /dr/ and /tr/ are indivisible. What he argues is that the presence of affrication in /dr/ or /tr/ implies that there is not a syllable boundary between /d/ or /t/ and a following /r/. Whether /dr/ and /tr/ are pronounced with affrication cannot be deduced just from knowing the sequence of phonemes: it must be determined empirically by listening to how people pronounce them. Presumably, Wells did not include transcriptions like /ˈwʊdr.əʊ/, /ˈwʊdr.ʌf/, and /ˈmɪdr.ɪf/ for one or more of the following reasons: 

The rest of that page and the following few pages also seem to have a lot of relevant information, so I would encourage checking it out (I don't know how to summarize it, and I don't want to quote paragraphs upon paragraphs). 

Yes. To give a modern example, French often has a sequence or diphthong (depending on how you analyse it) [ɥi] (which is equivalent to [y̯i]), as in the word nuit /nɥi/ "night." This goes from a front high rounded glide to a front high unrounded vowel. Old English dialects are theorized to have had a whole set of "height-harmonic" diphthongs, one of which may have been realized as [i͡y]. More generally, any language with /ɥ/ and /i/ as phonemes will possibly also have the sequence /ɥi/; I don't know if that counts for you. Same for /j/ and /y/. 

Compare the use of the in my view semantically similar "seems based on a true story" in the following quote: 

There are no "logographic languages" in the sense that you seem to be thinking of (systems of pictures that represent ideas directly). As you seem to be aware, such a system would be very limited in its expressivity—it would not really be "writing" or "language" at all (or not human language as we know it), but some kind of cartoon or diagram. Written Chinese, Japanese, Ancient Egyptian etc. are in fact written forms of spoken languages. These scripts are often inaccurately described as logographic, but in fact none of these writing systems (nor any known) are purely logographic. All of them have significant phonetic components, and morphological components (a "morpheme" is a linguistic unit of meaning, but it is not an idea—for example, the English morpheme "pseudo-" is distinct from the morpheme "fake" and the morpheme "ersatz" even though they all mean approximately the same thing. You can think of a morpheme as being a "word root"). In written Japanese, there are actually two approximately phonetic scripts that are used alongside the more morpheme-oriented characters. In written Chinese, there is almost always a one-to-one correspondence between a spoken syllable and a written character. So these scripts very closely represent specific sequences of words in the spoken languages. And all spoken languages have synonyms and alternative grammatical structures that can be used to re-word an idea. Different definitions of plagiarism exist for cultural reasons, and are not necessitated by the nature of any particular scripts. 

I am trying to understand the following passages from The Sound Pattern of English, by Noam Chomsky and Morris Halle. 

I would say each language family has its own path. If you look at the Wikipedia page on Proto-Germanic, it actually calls Grimm's Law one of the defining features of the Germanic languages. So, it is not shared with any other languages. It's likely similar changes have occurred in some other languages, but if so, this wouldn't be called an extension of Grimm's Law. It would be considered an independent sound law. 

This question seems confused. For one thing, you never define what you mean by “such languages”. A precise formulation of the concepts is important. No reasonable linguist would support the idea that, e.g. the resemblance between English “brother” and Latin “frater” (and contemporary French “frère” etc.) is just due to chance. There are too many parallel cases of words with similar meaning in English and Latin that look very similar if you just apply some (relatively) simply formulated sound laws; we call these words "cognates". (If you’re interested in historical linguistics, you need to familiarize yourself with the concepts of sound laws and cognacy if you haven’t already.) So, we’ve established these resemblances are not due to chance. The simplest remaining explanation is that these similar words originally come from one source. (There are other conceivable explanations for non-chance resemblances, e.g. “contact caused convergence of these words’ forms”, but that’s prima facie less likely and there’s no reason to suppose that is the explanation in general.) Obviously, how these words came to be in multiple extant languages from one original source is a complicated issue. Pretty much everyone agrees that languages, in general, seem to change continuously. For example, there is a language called “English” today, that is a continuation of a language that existed 200 years ago that was also called “English” which was slightly different. Also, it doesn’t seem to be common for languages to just appear out of thin air (the only examples that I know of of this apparently happening are sign languages, such as Nicaraguan Sign Language). So it seems reasonable to suppose that the spoken languages we see today did not originate de novo any time recently, but developed somehow from past languages, and probably they developed specifically by processes of continuous change. If English developed from past languages by continuous change, and Latin developed from past languages by continuous change, the simplest way of explaining a body of shared vocabulary is to say that if you go far enough back, the language that was going to develop into English was the same as the language that was going to develop into Latin. Radically different hypotheses like “mass borrowing of the lexicon from one language to another distinct language” are more complicated and would have to be justified by some kind of evidence of this process occuring. But we don’t have evidence that indicates that English was aways a distinct language from Latin, or that the English words cognate to Latin words were borrowed into English at some point. Obviously there are disputes about the details, like “tree models” vs. “wave models” but these should not be misunderstood as disputes about the existence of a relationship between languages in the same family; they are just different models of how the languages diverged and diversified over time. Just as how disputes in biology about the mechanisms of evolution don’t affect the consensus that it occured, disputes in linguistics about the mechanisms of language change don’t affect the consensus that Indo-European languages are all related. Also, linguists are extremely aware that reconstructions, e.g. forms like *bʰréh₂tēr for the common ancestor of "brother" and "frère", don't give a perfect description of an actually existing past language. That is the point bytebuster is making in the comments; nobody maintains that our reconstruction actually existed as a real language at some point in prehistory. The reconstruction, if it is done correctly, represents some information about prehistoric spoken forms that has been preserved in extant languages. It's unfortunate that the "Proto-X" names are often used for both concepts; I believe the hypothesized actual spoken language/dialect group is sometimes distinguished with the name of "Common X" (e.g. "Proto-Indo-European" would be our reconstruction of "Common Indo-European", which is whatever was actually spoken). I guess another related issue is how variable the common spoken source was e.g. is it more accurate to call Common Indo-European a "language" or a "dialect continuum", but that's just dealing with a matter that is fuzzy even today: the distinction between "language" and "dialect". 

The "indefinite article" is called that because it is an article* and it is used with indefinite noun phrases. It certainly isn't a necessary part of all indefinite noun phrases: the English indefinite article is specifially a singular article, unlike the definite article, so it isn't used with plural or non-count nouns. As you've noted, not all indefinite noun phrases have "a/an", so in most contexts the presence of the indefinite article doesn't exactly mark indefiniteness. Rather, in many contexts indefiniteness in English is indicated mainly by the absence of the definite article. The presence of the indefinite article with an indefinite common noun indicates that the noun phrase is grammatically singular and count. When the indefinite article is absent, a noun phrase is usually interpreted as plural or indefininte noncount (e.g. the difference between "a stone" and "stones" or "stone"); if that interpretation is impossible, the noun phrase will just seem to be ungrammatical (as in your example "*I made mistake"). The indefinite article does serve as a marker of indefiniteness when it appears before proper nouns that usually lack a definite article even when they are definite, like people's given names. A noun phrase like "Sandy" is definite; a noun phrase like "a Sandy" is indefinite. *The definition of "article" The definition of the word "article" seems to be somewhat unclear. Its application to "a/an" is traditional, not necessarily based on any deep underlying connection between this word and "the" (although they do have similarities; they are both determiners). For example, Wikipedia says that "The articles in English grammar are the and a/an, and in certain contexts some", whereas another source refers to some as an "article equivalent". Obviously, these are not particularly advanced linguistic sources; I just am trying to make the point that at least some people seem to be confused about, or disagree about, what exactly the word "article" refers to. So you shouldn't necessarily expect the terminology in this area to have much explanatory value. A point similar to the one that you seem to be making was made in "On the Article in English", by David M. Perlmutter, in 1970. Perlmutter says that 

A language where the only targets of gender agreement are the pronouns can be said to have a "pronominal gender system". Such languages are fairly rare, but there definitely do seem to be examples other than English. Anna Kibort and Greville G. Corbett give the example of "Defaka (Niger-Congo, Nigeria; Jenewari 1983:103-106)" (7 January 2008, "Gender" (Grammatical Features)). I haven't been able to find a detailed grammatical description of the Defaka pronoun system, but what I have found seems to indicate that the distinction is only marked in the 3rd-person singular, as in English. Some languages may have gender marking on other types of pronouns (with or without more typical patterns of gender agreement on non-pronominal targets). A few more possible examples are discussed in "Reinventing Pronoun Gender", by Jenny Audring (which I only skimmed). 

Araucaria's answer to "Is this Adverbial a complement or an adjunct?" on ELU seems to say that an adverbial adjunct should be equally acceptable if a verb and direct object are replaced with "do it", giving the example "They played football in the park / They did it in the park". This suggests to me that "in his desk" is not an adjunct, because we can't say "He did it in his desk" to mean "He kept a black book in his desk". Have I been interpreting these tests correctly? Are there any other tests I should be using? 

"Diaphonemes" are related to dialects, as you mentioned. Diaphonemes form a system that allows you to describe all of the phonemic contrasts in whatever set of dialects you are concerned with, even if no one dialect makes all the contrasts. A well-known example is John Well's lexical sets for British RP and General American: in RP, there is a split between TRAP and BATH, and a merger of BATH, PALM, and START; in General American, TRAP and BATH are the same, but there is a merger of LOT and PALM. Neither dialect distinguishes all sets from each other. But if we use a diaphonemic system, we can represent the pronunciation in both dialects using one set of symbols. Here's an ad-hoc example: /træp/, /baˑθ/, /pɑːm/, /stɑrt/, /lɒt/. Here, I used the allophonic notation /aˑ/ to represent a sound that corresponds to /æ/ in one dialect and /ɑː/ in another. (I haven't seen anyone actually use this notation for English in real life.) The phonemes in RP could be written as /træp/, /bɑːθ/, /pɑːm/, /stɑːt/, /lɒt/ and those in GA could be written as /træp/, /bæθ/, /pɑm/, /stɑrt/, /lɑt/. The idea that "[pʰ] (as in pin) and [p] (as in spin) are allophones" in English doesn't really have much to do with diaphonemes. It's just about regular allophony, and as far as I can tell, the statement is mainly based on the spelling and historical development of these sounds, rather than dialect comparisons. The sounds are in complementary distribution (if we discount possible devoicing of /b/ to [p] when adjacent to voiceless sounds) which is a common condition given for describing a pair of sounds as allophonic.