To add to the list of horribly dangerous chemicals... Hydrofluoric Acid There are plenty of acids that are more dangerous than HF, but it would probably be significantly harder for your heroes to get their hands on fluoroantimonic acid, triflic acid or the like. And HF is plenty dangerous on its own. From the Wikipedia article: 

You all are picking boring animals. Let's go look at the extinct list! I'd start with a glyptodont. It's basically a giant armadillo. It's strong but slow, and a quick shaman with a knife should be able to get past its armor without trouble. Now that you are invulnerable from the neck down, it's time for some strength. Bears are the obvious choice, but I think that they are probably outmatched by the 1,000 kg giant ground sloth. Now it's time to get some speed and endurance. Here the pronghorn is probably your best bet, if you can catch one. Sneaking up on one in the open plains where they live might be difficult, though, so you might turn instead to the majestic moose, which can clock in at 35 mph for over 500 m are excellent swimmers and can kick in every direction. For stealth and a wicked pouncing leap it's time to go jaguar hunting. And now you're ready to face your mammoth! 

I've been thinking about a cyberpunk universe where nanobots are a universal force capable of achieving many things, examples include: 

[This just includes motion stuff, I'd expect door, lights, air locks, life support etc to all be simply plugged into some power supply and left to run, turned on and off light light switches.] We need to be able to control these and make calculations about how to move the ship. So we need to know a few things: 

Note: I haven't included communication with other humans in my answer, I'm assuming the ship being at the Oort cloud cannot communicate with other ships. Context It's possible for the human brain to solve these problems quite easily, as can be seen by playing Kerbal Space Program and the Apollo moon landing was achieved with roughly the computation power of a calculator. Scanning The question is, what does the computer need to know. Assuming it has a radar that can output 3D vectors of solid objects you then to store these vectors. You need to decide some resolution and range for the radar. The distance to the moon is 384,000km so we'll make sure the range is big enough to encompass that, let's say 400,000km. (I'm making the assumption here that you don't want your radar to be able to track as far as the Oort cloud, you just want to be able to process reactions to collisions.) We'll want to be able to pick up fairly small objects on this radar and avoid them so we can split that into units, being practical the 67P/Churyumov–Gerasimenko comet we just landed on is about 4km accross, so we'll want to pick up on that. That means at maximum that we have 100,000^3 units of scanning data to store. Assuming the positions are measured as integers that's 1.2x10^16 bits of data, or 1.5x10^15 bytes (That's 1500 Terrabytes!) if the entire field of view is covered in matter. The ship is probably not going to be surrounded by objects so we can give it some kind of buffer and say that it can store maybe 100 points, which is of course a lot less, about 150 bytes. Which is really easy to handle. Control That's just for the scanning data. My calculator can only store about 70 numbers which means it probably can't do what you want. Lets assume a minimal computer with 1Kb of RAM which is 1024 bytes. That's a bit more than we need so it leaves us with a healthy 874 bytes to play with. What do we need to do with this? Here you need to consider the structure of the ship. I'm going to go with the simplest possible configuration (based on Kerbal Space Program missions): 

So other than walking on the soles of the feet (plantigrade), humanoid & clutch size, an Ostrich. Other than hole nesting (which as you point out has implications for the egg not rolling away & the necessity (or rather the lack of any) of shapes that avoid that) your criteria have no implications for egg shape (well not much worth speaking of). Typical clutch size can have some implications for the potential size of individual eggs, but not really for shape (if you only lay one egg you can put more resources in it). It's not one of your criteria but the size of the birth canal (or whatever we call the bit an egg passes through) does have implications, you're laying one egg at a time so you'll want to put as much into that one egg as you can to allow for larger better developed offspring with the best chance of survival at hatching & an oval shape will allow a bigger egg to pass through the pelvic bones. Other than that it will conform to the rounded oval structure of most eggs (simply because a sphere provides the most strength for the shell, & an oval is the closest you can get to that while allowing it to be longer than it's wide so you can have a bigger egg for the size of the pelvis). The same as many other eggs it might be a little thinner at one end so it will roll in a circle instead of rolling away (just in case it is ever out of the nest hole). The long & the short is that nature has had a long time to perfect the design & barring a very few outlying examples has chosen much the same design for almost every egg laying species eggs.. So it will be (really big surprise) egg shaped, meaning a slightly asymmetrical oval. 

These need to be pretty damn precise so lets make them big numbers and say that we need 160 bytes for these! So we're left with 714 bytes to play with. Now we need to do some maths. Assuming the ship knows its own mass it probably only needs to do $F = ma$ and $F = G({m_1 m_2}/{r^2})$ a lot to avoid an object. It might also want to then store a few values about its positions after a move its going to make, validate whether or not that leads to crashing into another different object and try again. So we can add another 100 position values or 150 bytes bring us to, 564 bytes left. These remaining 500ish bytes of RAM must simply contain some basic logic about the process I described above. 

Alternatively, if you are interested in lighting the werewolf on fire you can always go for dioxygen difluoride. 

Really, all these great answers and nobody's mentioned EULAs yet? The corporation isn't the Cult's end goal - the product is. Cthulhu Corporation produces a seemingly innocuous software product, with a clause in the EULA (End User License Agreement) that collects the soul of every user and uses them to fuel the summoning of Eldritch Horrors. 

Defensive Teleportation A bomb can easily be teleported onto a ship, but the defending ship can just as easily teleport it off again. Ship teleportation systems are programmed to identify high energy reactions and teleport them as far away as possible. Unfortunately, this autonomous system only works because explosions have a 'loud' energy signature that the teleportation can lock on to. Human boarders cannot be as easily identified, and therefore have a chance to gain control of the ship without being spaced. 

Look ahead some amount and predict a crash Try a move and see where it takes the ship If that's no good try another maybe in the other direction Try and correct movement towards some target vector if the ship has a destination 

I love developing complex languages for stories and worlds, I'm not much of a language expert though and on top of this I struggle to store all the necessary information to help me work with the language. It's difficult to find words that you've previously defined or to create language structure without a good organisation system. Does anyone know of any tools that can be used to aid with recording your own language? Is it as simple as a good spreadsheet or are there more suitable methods? 

It could go either way, but I'd lean towards cooperation. I saw a documentary a few years back (which I unfortunately can't find at the moment) about a group of Israeli and Palestinian kids who were brought together for a while. As best I remember it, the kids entered with the prejudices they inherited from their parents, but upon meeting each other they abandoned them pretty quickly and became friends. I don't remember if any of the kids had been directly impacted by the conflict. I also don't remember the ages of the kids. What I understood from that was that the hatred and prejudice that fuel the conflict are taught to the youth at a very young age. But at the same time they are more flexible and will more quickly forget their differences than adults would in the right circumstances. And external threats are excellent at uniting people. 

The Humble Hamster (Without genetic engineering) Seriously, how fun would it be to have lots of little hamsters rolling around the generation ship in space age hamster balls? This would be even more awesome in a 0g environment! They could have specially designed 0g hamster balls and tunnel mazes to play in. They're small and don't require a lot of food, the food they do require is easy to produce. They don't produce a lot of waste and they're great fun for kids. Only issue is that you might lose them (hamsters are great at escaping) and you will need a significant population to keep them going as they only live for a few years. But I think the super fun benefits out-weight the problems. 

How about a custard filled ballistic vest? What you may be looking for is a non newtonian fluid, something that stiffens when sudden kinetic force is applied to it (like custard). So you might imagine a vest made of sealed sections (pockets or cells) & each of these sections filled with such a fluid. You couldn't shoot the wearer (through the vest) but you could stab him (through the vest), if you stab slowly enough (this is almost exactly the effect of the shields in Dune). For the actual material of the vest you probably can't beat Demigan's suggested spider silk, but I wouldn't know which of our currently available non newtonian fluids is best to fill it's pockets with. It probably won't stop the effect of a bullet completely but it will take some of the kinetic force out (redistribute it sideways) & the forward force that's left (probably most of it?) will be spread over a much larger area of the body so it'll be (a little bit) more like being hit by a flat plank of wood than shot with a bullet (so sort of a full body airbag for bullets), a lot less lethal. On the down side I'm not sure we have anything right now that would provide sufficient stopping power for what you want to it's own weight in ratios that would make such an armor even slightly reasonable for a person to wear & move in though. Edit: rereading your question, my answer will only fit the bullets in your question.. if you really mean to include tanks & gas & weren't just getting a little excited & giving way to a touch of hyperbole as you typed then there's nothing, you want magic. It seems this idea was already very much in the design stage if not in production as far back as 2006 (see Liquid Bullet-Proof Armour), and it seems much lighter & more flexible than I thought it could be with currently available materials (while still retaining adequate utility). 

Tar pits Why invent a new trap when nature has one that it's been using for thousands of years? And they're self concealing! A few years of dust and no one will ever suspect that the bones of a few dozen explorers lie beneath their feet until it is too late. 

Emphasis mine. Wikipedia also provides a quick how-to on where you an acquire some if you can't find any in the lab. 

Noninterference clause The gods are bound by a set of complex and mostly unknown god-rules. One of the primary rules is that a god cannot directly interfere with the chosen of other gods. The noble god interprets this rule much more strictly than the duplicitous god does. 

All of this can achieved with very little memory. Processor I don't know a lot about processors, but these calculations use very small volumes of data. My calculator lags when I press the button and we don't want that, so something in the range of 100+Mhz would probably be okay. Answer This all assumes that the calculations are this simple, I've literally stripped the system to its bare minimum. You could say that a few Mb of RAM would be enough for a simple purpose computer and a processor that runs at about 1Ghz. This would not be fast by our current day standards as my phone has 1Gb of RAM and 2.4Ghz clock rate for its processor. Adding more processing would allow for better gravitational calculations and collision prediction.