Putting "mild" studded tires on my Kona, like Nokian A10 32mm, and keep the fenders on Getting a Craigslist or Pawn Shop MTB and putting aggressive studded tires on it as a snow bike Getting a Craigslist or Pawn Shop MTB and putting aggressive winter tires on it as a snow bike 

I'm trying to put myself into your shoes if this were to happen to me with the LBS that I frequent. I own two bikes, which almost sounds like the start of an inverse Twelve Step Program--one that increases one's bike purchases. My Kona Dew is a 2007 that I bought in mid 2008. That was a different LBS from the one I frequent now. Nothing wrong with the LBS, but I'm living about 40 miles away so I no longer go there. I don't recall if the tag indicated it was a 2007, and I don't recall them telling me it was a 2007 model. It ain't like with automobiles. The product turnover isn't the same, and there are no laws that I am aware of governing the sale of bikes and the publishing of the model year. If the bike was not previously owned when you bought it, then it was technically new. It is not unheard of for a new bike to be sold out of an LBS, even though the bike is several model years old. There is another LBS near me from which I have heard tales of brand new, still in the box, bikes in their inventory that are 10 or more years old. It is an odd place. 30% off of the original price doesn't strike me as unreasonable, if the bike was not previously owned when you bought it. If the bike has been good to you, you are happy with it, and otherwise happy with the LBS, then don't sour that. I would recommend that you visit the LBS, with the bike. Be honest and polite and just ask. Don't go in with an attitude or making any threatening sounding noise, like asking to speak with a Manager or the Owner. That tends to make any business more on guard and defensive. If you treat the conversation casually, then it's more likely that the LBS will. "Heh, I bought this bike back in June, and I've been very happy with it. I went to register the frame on the Moots website, and I learned it is a 2012 frame. I just wanted to ask whether it was previously owned." Then shut up and let them talk. The person you talk with likely won't know, so give them a break if they say, "I really don't know." Remain polite, but be a little persistent. "That's cool. Is there any way you can check?" Maybe they have a computer system with sales and inventory and they can look up the purchase, the bike, or both. Maybe they haven't joined the Paperless Society and everything is in filing cabinets. Whatever the case, gently push to find out if the bike was previously owned. If it was previously owned, then you have to consider whether the price you paid was a fair one or not. I would not expect the LBS to offer you up any money to offset what you paid for a used bike. They might be willing to inspect the bike for any signs of serious wear, but even if they are then they are entering into a very delicate area. For argument's sake, let's say the bike was previously owned and there is noticeable wear. Now what. Did you put that wear on the bike or did the previous owner? There's probably no way to tell. Again, if the bike was not previously owned, then in my view 30% off of the original price is a fair deal. If so, call it good. 

I second @Mac's answer, however, there is something you need to know about clipless pedals: they are not all the same. I ride with Time ATAC pedals and I think they are fantastic. The ones I use are the basic ones that look like this: 

Balance is what is needed to stay on the rollers, also a wall (as per featured video) comes in handy. Rollers are used for training purposes although they can also be used for demonstrations at trade shows etc. When riding rollers instead of an exercise bike you do need to balance as well as push the pedals, you can therefore improve your riding, not just your strength/endurance. 

We have all been cycling up a hill at a 'snail's pace' to be huffing and puffing, sweating out of every pore, with heart mouth, to pass pedestrians/joggers that are making good progress without showing any signs of being on the verge of a heart attack. Arguably half-marathon by foot in flat terrain is going to be approximately as challenging as 13 miles cycled up an Alp. Therefore you are not able to compare apples and banana here, there is no distance or time comparison you can make. However, as a rule of thumb, cycling is four times as efficient as walking. A lot of sportive events around here send you up and down the big hills and the hills with challenging gradients. Although there is a descent for every ascent you don't make up on the freewheeling what you lost on the agonising climb. Some cycle events offer a variety of courses, you can sign up for the easy event and, part way through, if you are feeling good, take the full course loop. The Wiggle 'Dragon' event in South Wales the other week has the difficult 'valleys' it also has the extended loop. The middle 120km distance in that terrain is more like your half marathon, the 200km more like your full marathon. 

It's likely the cable and not the shifter. I have Shimano Rapidfire shifters, and I've dropped my commuter bike a few times--both with and without me. More than once I thought I had a shifter problem, but when the LBS looked at it the problem was the cable. Cables take a real beating with an index shifter as opposed to a friction shifter. Being a year round commuter, I have my shifter cables replaced every two years. It is sometimes said that if you talk to three different bike mechanics about anything that you are likely to get at least four answers. However, in talking with mechanics, I've found they tend to bet on the cable as the problem. 

This is one of those questions that can start arguments between bike mechanics--to cross or not to cross the derailer cables. Crossing appears to be becoming more common on new bikes, if the cables aren't internal, but it's also going to depend upon the bike. Smoother shifting is reported by some from crossed cables. I would talk to the mechanic at your LBS about it. There could be manufacturer recommendations or anecdotal experience driving the decision. 

Difficult and vintage are relative terms, and I think that relativity can vary depending upon the mechanic and LBS in question. Old and vintage may at times be interchangeable, but vintage generally translates as not only old but also good or special or rare or loved. There are shops that regard bikes from the 90s as vintage, and still others that regard anything steel as vintage. My steel (not cromoly) '86 Schwinn World is probably vintage to some, but there's not really anything special or rare about it. 27" wheels and freewheels are common on vintage bikes, so the availability of replacement parts can be challenging. There is actually a wealth of wheel and tire sizes that are no longer used on production bikes, but the tires and tubes at least are still available. I'd love to meet the marketing genius who decided there needed to be both a 26 x 1.75 and a 26 x 1-3/4 wheel that were different sizes. If one is keeping it vintage, then it's simply a matter of finding a replacement part and replacing it. Over time crud builds up on vintage bikes, which can make the maintenance work more challenging. If one is upgrading a vintage bike, then the calculus gets more involved. Took my old Schwinn to my LBS last year, told them I wanted to upgrade, so look it over and give me some options. For safety, there were things I needed. For maintenance, there were still other things I needed. From there, I assessed what I wanted done and what I'd wait on. I went for a cartridge bottom bracket, triple crank, front and rear derailer, new brake levers, and new cables (both brake and shifter). One of the things recommended to me for safety and comfort was a wider handlebar. This shop deals in some used parts, and this was only $15. It was well worth it, but the stem also had to be replaced when the handlebar was replaced. When I put fenders on the bike, I discovered that 5mm eyelets are the norm, but my Schwinn has 6mm eyelets. Some light drilling of the plastic fender clips, and 6mm bolts fit just fine. After blowing out two vintage rear 27" wheels--old bike wheels are no match for old bikes and old bicyclists--I bought a new wheel. Mine was bolt-on, but I wanted a quick release. The LBS had to cut the new wheel down because of the vintage (read narrower) hub spacing. Next thing I eventually plan to do is move to 700Cs, a cassette (maybe), and Dia-Compe Centerpull Brakes (I like their vintage look). Frame will need to be coldset if I go for a cassette, but this LBS can handle it. That I think is the real key. One LBS may not want to touch a vintage bike whereas another LBS has vintage bikes in their business model. The former would regard a vintage bike as difficult whereas the latter would see it as an opportunity. 

The Highway Code comes in handy with this question... In London drivers of all buses are exceptionally well trained and likely to be highly experienced. They know every part of their route and have 'dealt with' plenty of cyclists before. They will always indicate when they are pulling over and indicate again when they are going to pull out. It is highly unlikely that you will be in their 'blind spot' at any stage of your overtaking manoeuvre. It all depends on the traffic situation, how much speed you have and how important your journey is. Sometimes you can look through the back of the bus and see how many people are to dismount/catch the bus - if the stop looks like a busy one then you should overtake the bus, in part this is to clarify your intentions to road users behind you that may be 'waiting' for you to overtake before they do likewise. Conversely, if the bus is only dropping off one person, and, if the terrain does not suit you, then it can be advantageous to let the bus go, to 'draft' it and get a good, maintainable tow along the road. Some bus stops, e.g. on a narrow road with a curve to the left may not allow you to see the oncoming traffic. It may be advisable to hold back in these situations, even if the traffic coming the other way is bumper to bumper. This is because a motorbike or other cyclist may be using the gap between the bus and the cars coming the other way and, once you have committed to overtaking the bus, you cannot duck in to the side again. There is the Highway Code and you are supposed to let bus drivers pull out. Normal car drivers know this better than most cyclists although not all of them will let the bus out first as they do not want to be stuck behind it. As a cyclist you do not necessarily have the same need to overtake as the bus is likely to be faster than you between stops. Hence, as a general rule, you should overtake the bus if the general situation is safe AND the bus does not have its right hand turn indicators on. If the bus does have the right hand turn indicators on and you overtake then that is against the spirit of the Highway Code.