These lines alliterate on p. As you can see, there are several words between the alliterating words. The important factor is not so much the number of words but the alliteration between stressed syllables (as determined by the meter). I have never seen a definite number of syllables that can be between alliterating syllables. (As others on this site have observed, literary theory is not an exact science.) In the tree lines from The Rime of the Ancient Mariner quoted in the question, there is quite some "distance" (measured in syllables) between "free" and "first". However, Coleridge put so many words beginning with "f" in the first two lines that the effect still lingers on in the third line. For this reason, claiming that "first" still alliterates with "free", sounds uncontroversial to me. However, the effect of the internal rhyme between "first" and "burst" in the third line sounds at least as strong. 

In W. H. Stevenson's edition of Blake's poems, the editor explains that the charters (see the definition in DukeZhou's answer) used to represent a source of freedom. One of the charters that are relevant to London is the charter that William the Conqueror granted to the city in 1067, "which upheld previous Saxon rights, privileges and laws" (Wikipedia: Norman and Medieval London). Stevenson does not mention any particular charter but points out that, 

Philip Gardner (one of the interviewers) points out that there are occasions when French verse comes very close to English, e.g. some of the poems in Théophile Gautier's Émaux et Camées. Apparently, in some of the poems, the stresses fall exactly where you would expect them in English octosyllabic lines. Although this is interesting, it lacks some detail and precision. 

The editors add that "Cristofre" means "St. Christopher medal". Nevill Coghill translated the relevant lines as follows: 

Since the play was probably written around 1570, it predates John Lyly's play Gallathea, which was written around 1588, and in which two women disguise as men. (Gallathea was the earliest example I was aware of when I posted the question.) 

So Le Guin does not really explain why humans cannot lie in True Speech, and the dragons' claim that they can has apparently not been verified by humans. This seems to be why Le Guin resorts to a variation on the liar's paradox (see the bolded text in the above quote). If a dragon were to say, "I am lying", and he/she is indeed lying, then the dragon is telling the truth, which means that it is actually lying. (The problem here is that the statement works both at the level of "object language" and at the level of "meta language"; one might argue that the two levels should be kept apart.) Le Guin plays a logical game with the claim instead of explaining whether the dragons can lie or not. Update in response to a comment: The quote from A Wizard of Earthsea, may look like a direct statement that the dragons can lie, but I consider that as written from the point of view that is inside the Earthsea universe, while "A Description of Earthsea" is written by an outside observer of that same universe. This outside view can be seen in statements such as "while the Hardic runes, like Chinese characters, can accommodate widely varying pronunciations and shifts of meaning" (in the section "Literature and the Sources of History"). 

In spite of the research I have done, I have not been able to find an edition or even an anthology of Kenneth Muir's poetry. In the absence of that, has anybody ever compiled a bibliography listing his poems? 

The Shakespeare Miscellany also lists these words; the first category on pages 108–109; the second category on pages 114–117. The sum of the first two categories is 1392; if you add the third, which is more doubtful, you get 2034 new words. There are two provisos: 

Based on their appearance, they clearly stand apart from normal human beings. Giving them tetrameter to speak instead of iambic pentameter carries over this "weirdness" into the verse. What's more, many (though clearly not all) of their lines also rhyme. This can be seen in the first examples quoted in the question. There are also a few examples in Act 1, scene 3, before the arrival of Macbeth and Banquo: 

So what Blake hears in people's cries and voices are expressions of these fetters that are a product of oppression. With regard to the punctuation (which was discussed in several comments): Stevenson's edition doesn't have a colon but an m-dash (). Stevenson provides a modernised text, since the original doesn't have a punctuation mark at the end of that line. 

I recently read Sinclair Lewis's 1935 novel It Can't Happen Here. The novel appeared on Amazon.com's list of bestselling books after the 2016 USA presidential elections, along with George Orwell's Nineteen Eighty-Four and, lower down the list, Margaret Atwood's The Handmaid's Tale, Ray Bradbury's Fahrenheit 451 and Orwell's Animal Farm. In an article in The New York Times Book Review titled "Reading the Classic Novel That Predicted Trump", professor Beverly Gage (who did not necessarily choose the article's title), wrote, 

I consulted Heinrich Heine: Sämtliche Werke. Düsseldorfer Ausgabe, in 16 volumes, published bei Hoffmann und Campe in the 1990s. The register of titles and first lines (in volume 16) does not list "Frühlingsbotschaft", but it does list the first line "Leise zieht durch mein Gemüth". The poem starting with the line "Leise zieht durch mein Gemüt" is poem VI of Neuer Frühling, which was included in the Neue Gedichte, published by Hoffmann und Campe in 1844. So you could find the poem via the wikisource page that was referenced in the question. In the Düsseldorfer Ausgabe, the poem is on page 14 of volume 2 (Neue Gedichte). According to the notes and comments (page 350f), the poem was probably written between the winter of 1830/1831 and May 1831. The poem may have had a third stanza, which was apparently dropped. Since the text is in the public domain by now, you can find the entire text below: 

There is one important difference between Mollie and the Russian aristocracy: the aristocrats fled Russia mostly in order to survive, whereas Mollie left Animal Farm before Napoleon and his dogs start killing suspected dissenters. 

This is simply known as third-person narration. This technique is far from new. A notable user of third-person narration was Julius Caesar in his Commentarii de Bello Gallico / Commentaries on the Gallic War, written in the first centure BCE. For a slightly older example, see Xenophon's Anabasis, written in the fourth century BCE. Both are autobiographical narratives using a third-person perspective. 

When asked, "Have you ever thought (...), when you were translating from French tragedy ... Did you get anywhere near seeing why the alexandrine became as it were the "natural" form of expression in French verse, whereas only a ten-syllable line is the national expression in English? What is it to do with the nature of the languages?" Muir responds: 

Before the rebellion, Mollie is a vain horse that likes eating sugar and wearing ribbons in her manes. (She has a lump of sugar at the time of the first meeting.) After the rebellion, she still wants to wear ribbons and she tries to avoid work (by showing up late and leaving early). She is very unlike Boxer, whose motto is, "I will work harder." In other words, there shows no real change in attitude after the rebellion. Eventually, she disappears; the pigeons later report that she has been seen wearing a ribbon and eating lumps of sugar. This shows again that she has not changed since the rebellion. Mollie represents those in Russian society who did not want to change for the sake of the Socialist cause, who wanted to keep the luxury they knew before the Russian Revolution and went into exile. This corresponds to many people in the Russian aristocracy and bourgeosie. However, she does not join something like a white émigré organisation, something that would have made sense if Snowball had joined her later. The fact that she is seen pulling a cart can be interpreted in two ways: 

The section "A Description of Earthsea" at the end of Tales from Earthsea (2001) is explicit about the hierarchy: 

Crossdressing may have been a feature of a number of plays from classical antiquity, but this is only of limited relevance to my question. A thousand years passed between the end of classical antiquity and the beginning of the English Renaissance. The theatrical tradition had been interrupted; the most common types of plays in Medieval England were mystery plays and morality plays, which were based on a Christian tradition and far removed from the ancient Greek and Roman plays. Cross-dressing seems innocuous now (at least in the West), but this was not the case in Shakespeare's time. 

(You can find the same blurb on the website of PenguinRandomHouse, which distributes Shambhala's books.) The above description of the translation process is rather vague, so I would like to know if any further details are available, such as: 

Edward de Vere, 17th Earl of Oxford (1550–1604) was a courtier who wrote a number of love poems. Several of his poems appeared in print in a number of anthologies and miscellanies (according to Wikipedia), e.g. in The Paradise of Dainty Devises (1576), The Phoenix Nest (1593), England's Helicon (1600) and The Teares of Fancie (1593). What I haven't been able to find, however, is when his (surviving) poems were first published together in single volume, possibly with just his poems. I assume this would have been after his death, but I would like to know whether this was before or after that infamous conspiracy theory reared its head in the 1920s. 

Die Gedichte, edited by Volker Michels (Berlin: Suhrkamp, 1953; reprinted in 1977 and again with an afterword and dates in 1992). Die Gedichte, Volume 10 in: Hermann Hesse: Sämtliche Werke (Berlin: Suhrkamp, 2002; this is part of a 20-volume edition of Hesse's works, edited by Volker Michels). 

According to W. H. Stevenson's edition of Blake's complete poems (in the series Longman Annotated English Poets), the original phrase was "german-forged manacles", "suggesting the strength of skilled workmanship" (Stevenson, p. 220). By contrast, "mind-forged", according to Stevenson, 

As already mentioned in the question, these numbers are based on comparisons with the first recorded usage recorded in the Oxford English Dictionary and may therefore need to be revised when other Early Modern English texts are found and analysed. (See The Shakespeare Miscellany, p. 64.) The number is also influenced by what scholars include in the Shakespeare canon. For example, Eric Sams' edition of Edward III, a play that was traditionally not part of the Shakespeare canon, contains a painstaking analysis of words in the play that predate the first recorded usage in the OED. For example, The Shakespeare Miscellany does not treat Edward III as part of the Shakespeare canon, but the play was included in the second edition of the Oxford Complete Works of Shakespeare (2005). (Another can of worms is scenes in Shakespeare plays that may have been written by other dramatists, such as Christopher Marlowe, George Peele and George Wilkins.) 

(from L. Kip Wheeler's glossary of literary terms), you get a very broad definition that also covers epic poetry, e.g. Derek Walcott's Omeros (1990, the most recent example I'm aware of) and verse drama, e.g. Mike Barlett's King Charles III (2014). (I mention these recent examples to show that these genres are not really dead or can be revived at any moment.) Epic poetry and verse drama cannot simply be reduced to "giving different names to the same thing". Since they are examples of poetry, poetry in general cannot be reduced to "giving different names to the same thing".