Did the CIA follow a documented set of criteria when determining targets for political assassination during the Cold War, especially in regards to foreign heads of state or government? There have been examples from history where the CIA assassinated foreign leaders, "on orders from the White House", but would they have always been blind orders, or was a defined, protocols-based evaluation process implemented first? 

In most societies today, keeping one's nails trimmed within a few mms of the top of the nail plate is the grooming standard. Do we have evidence that clipping nails when they reached a certain length was a regular grooming ritual in ancient societies? By "ancient societies", I'm referring to the societies that popularly come to mind: Ancient Rome, Greece, Egypt, and the successive Mesopotamian empires of the Biblical Old Testament. Would nail clipping have been performed with some type of crude file or a knife perhaps? 

This is a question I've never heard asked about the English Civil War (+1 for thoughtfulness and creativity!), but perhaps for the reason that it's not relevant to the conflict. The overwhelming present-day historical consensus holds that the tensions and causes of eventual warfare between Charles I, Parliament, and the realms over which they ruled were homegrown. In short, they had as much to do with Charles' personality and horrible crisis management abilities as the political and religious ideals of Parliament and the Roundheads. The form of "Republicanism" that emerged under Cromwell--and the constitutional monarchy formed after the Glorious Revolution--were sui generis to 17th century Britain, as were the Protestant faith traditions that underpinned them... No political incenctives for intervention As the OP and commenters have pointed out, the military conflicts that were sapping the Continent at the time meant that there was absolutely no incentive for foreign intervention from polities that--in times of peace--would have had an interest in stirring the English pot. (I'm referring to the Dutch, France, Spain, or Sweden.) Consider as well that just because England was a "Republican Commonwealth" under Cromwell does not mean that the Dutch or semi-democratic city-states of Italy considered it worthy of ideological support or even lip-service, in the way that America today might provide to other liberal democracies. A Protestant Civil War It's also important to note that from a religious standpoint, this was very much an intra-Protestant conflict. The factions had no sympathetic parallels on the Continent. Charles I subscribed to "High Anglicanism", which may have been Catholicism in form and function, but hardly in affiliation. Hence no Catholic countries would have been religiously motivated to support the Royalists. Conversely, the Presbyterian Scots and Puritan Roundheads adhered to largely grassroots, English sects of Protestantism. Sure, they shared some common doctrines with German/Swedish Lutheranism, the Dutch Anabaptists, or France's embattled Huguenot minority, but not in ways that would underpin meaningful political support or a productive, cross-Channel military alliance. A word on schools of interpretation There have been a lot of competing schools of interpretation concerning the English Civil War's ideological motivations over the years. Describing them here is outside the scope of the question, but I mention them since most have at one time or another claimed ideological sympathy with contemporary thinkers on the Continent. A good example is Thomas Hobbes' commentary that the war was a clash between those who ascribed to an emergent scientific worldview and the forces of traditionalist religion (see the "Behemoth" excerpt from Robert Kraynak's History and Modernity in the Thought of Thomas Hobbes). Hobbes openly expressed that his view was shared by other intellectuals both in England and abroad. However, let's take a step back and observe that the current "overwhelming historical consensus" on the conflict's causes that I allude to in the first paragraph is scarcely 20 years old. Any theories devised earlier have been more or less discarded, whether for imposing values upon the conflict's factions that are anachronistic (in the case of the Whig School), incompatible with 17th century English societal dynamics (see class-based and Marxist interpretations), or too personality-driven (i.e. Hobbes). Unfortunately for Hobbes, and the Whigs, Marxists, and Revisionists who came after him, most professional historians today hold to an interpretation that puts the Crown's difficult relations with the polities of Scotland, Ireland, and "Parliamentary" England front and center. 

The Government of Tamil Nadu (A state in India) follows Tiruvalluvar year. This calendar will have the year 31 BC as the year Tiruvalluvar might have possibly existed; So, the calculation would be 31 years ahead of Gregorian calendar. The Tamil Calendar also have 12 months which starts from Chitirai followed by 11 other Tamil months. This calendar also has leap year adjustment in the month of Aadi (July-Aug of Gregorian calendar) The Tamil Nadu government officially adapted the Tiruvalluvar year calendar in 1972. Key point here to note is the Tamil Nadu government calendar is different from the official Indian calendar Saka. The peoples of Tamil Nadu still celebrate their new year in the Tamil month of Chitirai 1 which would fall by 14th April of Gregorian calendar. Source: $URL$ $URL$ $URL$ 

As for as my knowledge Heydrich was serving under Himmler from 1931 as head of SS-Reichssicherheitshauptamt; head office of Reich Security. Himmler is also one of the most powerful man in the Nazi party and one of the key associate of Adolf Hitler. Since, Himmler personally controlled most of the SS operations and activites, its most likely that Heydrich would have take direct orders from Himmler. 

As per my knowledge, Brahmi Script is developed from Indus valley script. The facts supporting this point are: 1. The earliest known script is found on the pottery remains of Harappa and across various parts of the world which dates around 1000 BCE to 500 BCE. and, These scripts resembles to Tamil language (Which is also a part of Indus language family) of that time. 2. Iravatham Mahadevan one of the prominent research scholar in languages has given various proof that the Brahmi language originated from Tamil. 3. Research work by Richard Salomon also states that its most likely that Brahmi originated from Tamil. 4. The archeological evidences found in Kodumanal, Chennimalai near Erode (500 BCE). Porunthal site, Palani (500 BCE). Tissamaharama, Sri Lanka (200 BCE). Tirupparankundram hill, Madurai (1 BCE). Quseir-al-Qadim, Egypt (1 BCE) suggest that the script is Tamil Brahmi script. Based on the above facts my belief is that Brahmi is a form of Tamil which is widely in use during 500 BCE. So,this leads me to a conclusion that Brahmi is developed from Indus valley script. Source/Further Reading 1. Corpus of Tamil-Brahmi inscriptions by Iravatham Mahadevan 2. Akam and Puram : ‘Address’ Signs of the Indus Script by Iravatham Mahadevan 3. $URL$ 4. Indian Epigraphy: A Guide to the Study of Inscriptions in Sanskrit, Prakrit, and the other Indo-Aryan Languages by Richard Salomon 5.Tamil litrature by Kamil Zvelebil 

In terms of paleolithic food in Indian subcontinent there are few classical Tamil Litratures like "Purananuru" & "Madurai Kanchi" and relegious tamil Litrature "Devaram" and "Tiruvasakam" gives more information about the paleolithic food. As per these literatures some of which are dated back to 600 BCE suggests that the peoples used to hunt for their food and they also domesticated animals like chicken and goat which were used as food. Rice cultivation was also present at that time. But, due to unpredictability of rain which remains the one of the few source for water at that time. The peoples have a alternate dry crops like millets which was eaten by boiling, streaming and eaten raw as well. Per the documented evidences, we may conclude that the peoples of Indian subcontinent not only used rice as their staple food. But, also other forms of millets. 

The best barometer we have of the attitude of the general population of the Irish Free State towards the Anglo-Irish Treaty are the "Pact Elections" of 16 June 1922. They occurred twelve days before the commencement of hostilities in the Irish Civil War. As the linked Wikipedia article points out, 75% percent of the electorate supported pro-Treaty parties. We can also bear witness to the Irish electorate's overwhelming and uninterrupted support of Charles Stewart Parnell's Irish Parliamentary Party from the 1870s through WWI, during which time Parnell and his successor John Redmond advocated for a much more conservative form of Irish home rule than was stipulated in the Anglo-Irish Treaty. I think it's still within the scope of your question to discuss why you are asking it in the first place (i.e., Why, if the Irish electorate overwhelming supported the treaty, did civil war break out?) In his excellent biography on Michael Collins, TP Coogan makes a convincing argument that the Irish Civil War was less a "civil war" than a conflict between highly factionalized professionals (i.e. opposing members of the Irish political establishment and their respective supporters in the Republican Army). On the one side, you had Michael Collins and the other "compromisers" who genuinely believed that they had, through tireless negotiation with their haughty British overlords, finally delivered to Ireland the "freedom to achieve her freedom". And on the other side, you had the majority of the Republican Army, whose members, for practical and logistical reasons, had been left out of the negotiating process and whose fiercely anti-British ideology prevented them from accepting anything less than total independence (which you point out in your question). Since both groups were heavily armed and seasoned veterans from years of conflict with the British, a violent clash of ideology vs. compromise was pretty much a foregone conclusion. Yet according to Coogan, in this time period, everyday Irish citizens prioritized their confessional and economic freedom over unadulterated Irish nationalism (though this would shift later in the century as unification with North Ireland emerged as a major political cause celebre), hence, they did not feel drawn to engage in partisan violence. This summary is grossly over-simplified for the sake of space. If you haven't already, I'd suggest you explore biographies of both Michael Collins (see TP Coogan's) and Eamon de Valera (a great one also written by Coogan). Both of these men had an insane amount of influence on the process of shaping modern Ireland. In fact, if it weren't for de Valera's public repudiation of the Treaty, the Republican Army would have had little pretext to do the same, and the Irish Civil War probably wouldn't have happened. 

This is pretty much the historical consensus. I've read the speech, and I get that Lincoln had a perfectly-tailored message for his audience (i.e. a bunch of skeptical New York elites, many of whom were more antagonistic towards the abolitionist movement than they were to Southern slaveholders). But I'm not clear on the mechanics of how the speech's printing and dissemination to the general public created such a groundswell of Northern support for Lincoln's nomination and eventual presidential victory. Can the answer be found by looking more closely at the major influencers in the nominating process for the Republican Party in the 1860 campaign? What about by digging through the primary-source evidence demonstrating just how concerned the Northern public was about the spread of slavery in that season? Or was Lincoln's reputation and stature already great enough at the time of the speech that sheer social momentum was enough to carry his campaign through (kind of like how Trump's built-in name recognition has been a big part of his success in our current election cycle)? Any thoughtful leads are appreciated.