The earth is under attack by aliens but they don't know it. It all began during the 1900's, a lone alien was sent to earth. His mission was to destabilise the earth's government so that the aliens can take over without any resistance. The alien, a master of disguise, lodged himself firmly in the government and started to cause havoc, untraceable to him of course. Through various means, he caused world wars 1 & 2, aided the development of the nuclear bomb and when the bomb was perfected, ignited world war 3 - the final war - apocalypse. The humans have been reduced to his slaves and he is just waiting for the aliens to arrive take over. To show off his prowess, he has commissioned the creation of a mansion which will highlight the best things available on earth, according to him. The mansion is going to be the most exquisite mansion ever built, displaying the riches and power he commands, extravagant. The pillars of the mansion are carved from ivory, inlaid with gold, studded with diamonds. Exquisite paintings hang from his wall. His wines are the best, the costliest. His food is made from animals long thought extinct. Over his one and a half century long stay, he has amassed all these things through various means and is now putting it on display. He wants the mansion to be plush and comfortable, filled with elegant, wonderful unique things. What are some of the things that have to be present in the mansion ? Note: As it is a mansion, size limitations obviously apply. Also the alien abhors technology and wants to avoid it if possible but if he cannot then he wants the best. 

The creature adapts to the knowledge around it. One can imagine a magical creature that, as a defense mechanism, instinctively absorbs the magical knowledge of its surroundings to be able to counteract spells cast upon it. (Think Borg, but magical instead of scientific.) Of course, a library is supposed to be a repository of as much knowledge as possible, meaning only obscure, exotic, secret or brand new spells can affect it since those are less likely to be found in the libraries. This also explains why it's primarily found in libraries; few other places have enough information for the parasite to be able to defend against even weak/apprentice wizards. 

One may imagine storing information on some comb-like biological structure such as the (small but very numerous) ribs of some common animal. (Another possibility is to use some kind of bush, the branches of which grow in very regular patterns, but that wouldn't last as long.) The creatures could break off certain ribs and, by touch, count how many there are between each gap. This forms a unary number system that can be used to encode data. A basic alphabet or syllabary system could be used to "write" down data. 1 rib - gap - 2 ribs - gap - 1 rib might for instance represent a "sha" sound or something. Furthermore, gaps of more than one rib may be used to separate words while even longer gaps could also be used to separate chapters, allowing the creatures to drag their fingers/whatever quickly across a text to find the start of the next chapter and more easily navigate through the text. Several rib cages can be strung together with some kind of thread (to keep long texts in order) and folded/rolled up into something similar to a book/scroll. Furthermore, if you want a bit more of a strange or "alien" feel to it, you can have the two sides of the rib cage encode different but connected information. Perhaps the vowels are on the left side while the consonants are on the right side, having the creatures use two fingers/whatever to read both sides at once. 

Apologies for any formatting issues, I'm using the Android app, feel free to correct any errors you see. 

It is the typical Middle Ages. Simple bow and sword wielding peasants. They have basic medical skills, can stitch wounds, amputate, etc. In this age, will it be possible to do a blood transfusion? If so, how can it be made possible? [Ignore issues with Incompatible blood types or any complications which can arise. I'm just looking to see if it would be possible to set up] One of the references is this and this which mention that it was possible but I'm not sure just how. 

Humans have lost the ability to create explosives. Will it be possible for them to re-create any explosive ? If yes, then what is the basest explosive that they can create ? Basest means minimum expertise and using naturally available materials. It would be appreciated if you could provide some details, like detonation time, impact, maximum capacity or such. As a special case, can gunpowder be completely eliminated ? 

Apocalypse. Nuclear war. Destruction. Human extinction. Well almost. A few thousands have survived, residing in a small town they have built from scratch, salvaging whatever they can. Human progress has taken quite a hit. With no technology to help them and no one to recreate the technology, humans have regressed to a medieval way of life. No electricity, no internet, no democracy. The survivors are basically small bands of humans living together to protect themselves against the unnamed mutant horrors. In this scenario, how feasible is it that - 

Suppose that you woke up tomorrow and the world had lost all memory of written communication including how to make paper and how to use pen, pencil, typewriters, colors, keyboards, basically any means of written communication (A selective amnesia kind of a thing). How would the world be affected ? They could still read and whatever written accounts are there, they still exist but the people cannot make paper or use anything to write even if they read the procedure to create it. 

Bending or somehow repelling light wouldn't work. Light isn't a property of an area of space, it's something traveling through said area. As such, such measures would only change its direction, meaning light will still seemingly originate from or pass through this area. It can however be used if it's acceptable that it's still visible from, say, a single direction. Imagine some magic field that redirects all photons inside it straight upwards. From any other angle, it would look pitch black as no photons arrive from that direction. From above however, it would be considerably brighter as the light from all other directions is basically summed up into a single bright beam. In order to be truly black from any angle, some way to ensure that none of the light entering the field leaves it, at least none of the visible light. Such a thing exists in reality: a black hole. However, assuming that no matter is involved in or affected by this field, that obviously isn't viable. One could instead imagine other alternatives: changing the frequencies of light passing through it to be beyond the human spectrum, use some magic wormhole that redirects light to some far-off place or another dimension, convert it into magical energy and route it to your own "mana", turn the light into heat (not sure how quickly the air would heat up from that tbh), just destroying it (if conservation of energy isn't your thing) or somehow cancel it out with something else. Or maybe just say "a wizard did it"? :) 

One can simply give AIs a fundamental tactical weakness over organic pilots. For instance, let's say that all species' AI technology is based on electronics (as no other efficient and reliable method has been discovered.) In battle situations, these systems could be knocked out by an EMP or similar weapons (that are presumably unblockable or whatever) while keeping organic and mechanical systems intact. (The ships used for battles might therefore rely on more primitive/restrictive technologies; a hyper-advanced megaship full of electronics and AIs that can be knocked out by a single small organo-chemo-mechanical ship piloted by an organic being carrying an EMP wouldn't be worth the trouble. All species might have to resort to these "futuristic steampunk" solutions without AIs and/or fancy targeting systems to overcome such a massive tactical weakness.) This would allow AIs to be used for everyday peaceful things while being completely useless in combat situations.