I don't see any reason anything bad would happen. It seems odd that no government from the magical side would make contact with any large government on out side. If this happened then everything would work out pretty well. In general if they look like us, and speak like use and for all we can tell they are like us, it wouldn't cause much issue. Humanity isn't nearly as prone to try to conquer people these days. The reaction around the world would be as varied as the world itself. Some would welcome our new friends with open arms, others would be distrustful, others would want them to leave. Religions would spring up, established religions would get mad and so on an so forth. There'd be some fighting here and there that's for sure. Some people wouldn't take kindly to these people. Other issues would pop up like this magic mountain would be a HUGE security risk for every country that it pops up in. If the magic side just forces itself onto our side, it would make relations worse. If the Magic side was willing to talk and sort things out then that might happen. The situation would be so varied and complex. If you want to pick certain areas or people in the world I'd gladly give even more info, but I don't want to write a book just on this question :D 

Some sufficiently advanced species has decided they will move planets. Let's assume earth-like, life sustaining worlds. The only real way to do this as far as I know is using "gravity tugs" or messing with orbital trajectories (slingshot), again using gravity. They want this done in a reasonable amount of time (not millennia). So they build a ship, with the front being a giant ball of something sufficiently massive (and super dense to save space) to have the required gravity. So how small can we make a ship massive enough to move worlds? You can address the feasibility, rarity of material, speeds and times, all you want but the Question at hand here is the size of the ship. I don't have any real specifics to share here. the galaxy is huge and they might want all kinds of planets from all over the place. Don't break the planet and get it there within the next thousand years or so is all that really matters. Ideally the gravity of the ship is enough to select a planet to move without disrupting the entire solar system, so not as massive as a star obviously. 

If time weren't an issue and you really need to move Earth, using the moon to move it would be the "easiest" method. Less danger this way. You don't have to worry so much about killing everyone on the surface of the moon if you fowl something up. Move the moon in a bit closer and drag Earth away with it. This still wouldn't be easy at all. The most practical solution at the moment would be Ion Thrusters probably. You need a whole lot of them and a whole lot of power to get it all working. Again none of this would be quick, easy or cheap. Stick to moving the dangerous space rocks instead. 

You could combine shielding with the ability to repair DNA, regenerate quickly to help and maybe keep something alive for a longer time, but it wouldn't be pretty. The creature would still likely die a painful and horrible death. 

Some numbers to start: Human hair has a tensile strength of about 350-400 MPa. Spider Silk has a tensile strength of about 1000-1500 MPa. Typical 2x4s weigh about 1.5lbs/ft, so about 6lbs per sqft. There are approximately 150,000 strands on the average human head. Each strand can support almost 100g. Be conservative and safe, say 50g per strand. That's about 7,500,000g or about 16,500lbs! That's for a rope the size of the average girls braided pony tail. That rope could support about 2750sqft of flooring! And that's at HALF CAPACITY! Keep in mind human hair is about as strong as aluminum weight for weight. You could maybe base your totals off of aluminum cable. You can figure out some measurements from that. I like the idea and I don't see why it wouldn't work. You see people support themselves from their hair in circus acts and such. You see other pull vehicles with their hair. These aren't even straining the hair at all. I don't think you'd need to magically change the hair except for the growth rate really. So many textiles are made from different hair that the idea isn't so out of this world when you think about it. I also don't think you'd need to add anything to the hair to help it. Once the hair is braided into a rope it would be rather strong. You could mix all kinds of things to make it stronger or to basically laminate it. All of this isn't needed tho. The architecture would be simple just have a few points of anchor, and have a few ropes support the structures. The more hair ropes you have the bigger and crazier the structure can get. You could even use the hair as building material. Ropes to keep boards together. Mix the hair with things like mud or sap to make shapes for walls or roofs and so on. Picking how to build the actual structures I'll leave up to you since I don't want to take away from your idea and imagination. As for the trees you could use. There are many. Redwoods, Giant Sequoia, Baobab, Eucalyptus, so on. These are all very tall and strong trees that could easily support the structures. If the trees don't need to be as tall, you could easily use things like Banyan trees or coconut palms. It really depends where geographically you'd want the elves. Most trees as long as they are packed closely enough would be able to support structures as long as the load is spread out. The first list could support MASSIVE structures on their own too. As far as how much weight a specific tree can hold, that's really complicated. There are so many variables to think about here. I'd say that the elves most likely wouldn't bother with the physics so much as understanding innately what a tree can take. 

Water Bears! are a great place to start. They are the only know creature on earth that can survive unaided in the vacuum. There are a few ways something could survive a vacuum. With air, even a Human being could do it. The oxygen tank and mask help a lot here. It wouldn't feel great for a person, they'd slowly freeze or get sunburned or maybe both depending on where they are. They'd swell up significantly and lose moisture if the mask doesn't cover the face. The eyes would warp and vision would become a problem and the eyes could be permanently damaged. If its a made up creature there are tons of ways for them to survive. Having pressurized air to breath covers the biggest initial concern. After that you only need the creature to be able to deal with radiation/heat and cold. Many insects can deal with radiation. Heat and cold can be dealt with with any kind of insulation. Our skin does a decent job but anything thicker and furry would likely do even better for longer. 

The majority of people would be "technically" unaffected. The obviously weird situation would be the main concern but in general most people wouldn't be in any life threatening situations. Think massive hurricane and how they affect the area (more on this later.) All vehicles would stop, this wouldn't cause that many automotive accidents as they'd just slowly come to a stop. Breaks and steering are mechanical so that would still work. Boats would stop, but that wouldn't affect much except being at the mercy of currents. Bigger boats could have bigger issues if near ports or other objects are their momentum would carry them on for a bit. Airplanes are tricky. Some planes (even large passenger planes) can glide mechanically, others can't. Power stations are interesting. Most have multiple fail-safes. Nuclear included. for example, many nuclear plants have the control rods held out WITH power, so when they lose power the control rods drop and reaction stops. It isn't all that likely that any of these would fail catastrophically, they might fail, but not with a bang. So where are the real problems? Medical care. Any patient being kept alive with the help of an electric device. Pacemakers, insulin pumps, air pumps, IV feeds, and so on. Granted many of these are in care settings like hospitals and health-care buildings, but there aren't enough health-care providers to deal with all of these. Certain other utilities could suffer decent problem, but likely not life threatening or catastrophic. Say sewage or drain pumps, there might be a decent bit of flooding in some tunnels. Another concern would be the lack of communication. This could cause problems such as panic, rioting and looting, or it could change nothing. Location and societal differences would change the outcome here. Keep in mind this is still just one day. The lack of communication makes organization very difficult. The government can't do much to help, people don't know what to do or where to go. Some go home, some go wild. It would take time for people to go crazy without knowing if this is the new way of the world or not, and how far reaching the effect is. At the end of the day it would be a freak occurrence everyone would remember and loss of life would likely be high, but it wouldn't be nearly as catastrophic as you'd imagine. Bringing up the hurricane from the beginning. There is a bit of everything when a hurricane comes through and wrecks the infrastructure of a place. In general people try to keep their lives intact. Power and utilities fail. Communication becomes difficult or impossible (except radio). Looting does occur, some people do commit crimes. The first day is rarely the worst, however. OH! Also fringe case. Everyone dies. Electricity with the brain and heart stop too, so all life stops. 

Famine. You could have food become nearly impossible. Something that wipes out crops wouldn't be too hard to do since a lot of crops are very very similar genetically speaking. Massive plankton die-off. Kill the oceans and the ability for the planet to keep sustaining so much stuff starts to dwindle. It wouldn't be instant, and it wouldn't kill everything, but it could surely cut down on how many people are still around to survive it.. 

The unfortunate thing about hair growth is that it tens to grow at about the same rate for most animals. Hair goes in cycles, Anagen, Catagen, Telogen. These are roughly, Growth, Transition and Pause phases. The first step to faster hair growth is to skip these other two. The first phase lasts 2-6 years. Catagen is short and lasts a couple weeks at best. The last can be up to 4 months. So if you got those out you get constant growth, since this last phase is usually when you shed hair. This could be a genetic quirk lets say. Moving on to the next issue. Hair grows at about 15cm (~6inches) per year. There aren't really any weird quirks that change this. You could simply claim genetics or magic for faster growth, or you could use some kind of substance. Genetics would mean that the elves have more blood flow to the follicles and more nutrient delivery. You could then balance this with the lack of any hair on their bodies, or maybe lack of finger nails or any other similar lack. Honestly you could just avoid all that tho because it doesn't take much in the grande scheme to feed hair. They could simply eat a tiny bit more. I hate hair so I'd go with the lack of any other hair on the body :D Magic, is magic so no explanation needed. As for substances, in the real world there are some hair growth stimulants. Minoxidile is one. This one works as a vasodilator, it opens up the veins. This helps but it also seems to trigger the hair cycles to shift. So hair sheds and starts to grow again. There however isn't really a faster hair growth compound out there. That doesn't mean you can't have a substances that's made up that helps the elves grow their hair thicker, faster, stronger, and maybe even magically infused or capable of storing magic. This is a Fantasy story after all.