What are the nature of the meetings and complaints, and who are the outsiders? Sometimes newbies can be overzealous, and a team "casualizing" these events is just a reflection of the importance of the issue to the company. That said, they could also be heavily disrespecting you and actively parking the bus on top of you. It really depends on the specifics, but they're really begging for a lawsuit like that. 

Emulate your colleagues' approaches to interpersonal conflict and matters of professional respect. This is a universal thing, not tied strictly to gender, race, or even humans. Try to map out the escalation of conflicts with regards to volume, directness, negativity (or lack thereof), and sarcasm/humor used in communications, then try to see where you fit. If they engage in back-and-forth razzing with each other, match the tempo and duration. For example, if it's "Poke," "Zing," chuckle chuckle, follow suit. If you zing someone back and they try to keep at you, admonish or deflect based on the social norms. Enforcing the social rules correctly and appropriately shows you understand them and care about them, making you more welcome. Two final points: This is advice on how to fit in. Remember, you don't have to fit in. You will do your best work and be happiest in a place already aligned with most of your values, where you can be yourself, and where who you are is accepted and valued. Find that place and worry about fitting in there; everything else is a temporary solution at best. Women are better at emotional communication than men. Women in general are better at detecting and transmitting emotional content. Men, being less sensitive to emotions, can be unaware of the emotional subtext they are sending. Women are likely to hear it, even though it can be unintentional, misconstrued, or outright false. Women are capable of expressing a linguistic and emotional message at the same time, while men will only perceive the linguistic message and any overlap. For you, this means that despite 8 months of torture, they might genuinely still think it's playful ribbing that you are graciously accepting. Many groups have a "Milhouse," a submissive member who is the butt of many jokes, teased relentlessly, but a beloved and (secretly) respected member nonetheless. You don't have to be a "Milhouse," and you have a social and personal imperative to not be a "skirt." Stand up for yourself, command respect, but keep in mind that your gender and experience may simply be topics and not the cause. 

Your manager is a human being and it is more or less impossible to plot how he makes decisions or how he or she will make a particular decision The company for which you work is subject to extreme pressure from management, the board, and shareholders, and may act in such a manner that it seems to be acting against itself or towards no good purpose You can never truly change the minds of others The only thing you are really in control of is your own personal attitude and mind 

I would go and see the Citizens Advice Bureau or preferably your trade union if you are member and suggest that they get a lawyer to set up a compromise agreement. You have written evidence of libel and threats of giving a bad reference which you could use as leverage. You could also risk going to work if they do strike or threaten do not retaliate call 999 (911) and report an assault - note any break in the skin makes it GBH 

I have interviewed for hundreds of jobs, and been accepted for dozens, but not ever have I got a call back to let me know I was not chosen. It sounds like they have not gotten back to you for a while. This means that they are not going to hire you. Odds are, as amazingly well as you did on your exam, someone else did better, or was a better fit over all. The appropriate action to take at this time is nothing. Move on to the next interview. 

What privacy is violated by using CCTV to check when they entered and exited the building the build or are at their desk or not? Employers do have a right to check up on hours worked and in some country’s not logging OT hours correctly can get the employer fined. What code of conduct for CCTV are you referring to? And its not like you have been asked to look at the content of their email account which would be a privacy violation. You seem concerned about your relationship with other employees is there a culture of falsifying time sheets at your company – what I might term “Spanish” practices. Just get all HR requests in writing and make sure you conform this with your boss. 

First, decide if you really want to be an insider. Are these generally likeable people with whom you want to work? Assuming they aren't rampant sexists, a likely explanation is that they are just trying to vet you. They want to know who they're working with and whether they fit in. The fact that you're a woman and relatively inexperienced are what make you different. Noticeable differences are the most obvious candidates for why someone may not fit in with a certain social group, and naturally the first things to be scrutinized. From mhwombat's answer: 

Your resume should be tailored to the field you are applying for. For example, if you were applying for a sales rep at a shoe store, you would include all the sales experience you have, but omit say, your computer programming experience. Since I can't imagine being on a reality show like that being applicable for any job, I think you should omit it. 

I have been in this situation a few times. If company (A) sends you to company (B), the following things may occur: 

You can ask but asking for relocation for 25 miles might raise some eyebrows - relocation is normally offered for cases where you have to move a long distance and 25 miles isn't a long commute. 

So they changed the T&C /Benefits between your offer letter and your joining? If the conditions where in writing I would talk to a lawyer about your options. Id view this as a breach of trust (if not contract) and would start looking for another Job. Basically this job is over and you need to treat it as such. 

I recently had a chat with a potential client who said that occasional travel would be required to interface with the client. I told them that would be fine, but that all airfare would need to be business class. The client said, to my surprise, that they usually only do economy class to fly around their contractors. Is this reasonable? It seems like business class travel would be the standard, as it has business right in the title. If not, why are the better tickets even called business class anyways? 

Yes it doesn't give a very professional impression especially for a senior employee. For a senior Employee in the UK 3 months is not unusual and as going from 1 months to 3 months you wouldn't stand a very good chance in court. If you need to leave most employees will offer pay in lieu any how so what is the main issue here. 

No outside of special cases such as those covered by the official secrets Act (our your country's equivalent) there is no legal way to restrict candidates from disclosing this. 

The trick is to neither lie nor tell excessive amounts of the truth - you should selectively tell the truth. "I was in the position for about a month... I didn't find it overly challenging." OR "It was a very interesting learning experience. I feel like it's really prepared me for where I am now." OR "It was really challenging. I learned a lot about the importance of taking initiative!" Basically, keep it all very glossy and positive. If they try to press, continue being glossy and positive. "What was it about it that was so challenging?" "Well, it was very early in my career. I hadn't really learned to take initiative yet. So there were times when I wasn't at my full potential." In conclusion, don't lie, but don't say anything negative, especially about your coworkers at the time.