But between lunges, front squats, and hack squats, you're bound to find something that while not perfect at least gets you closer than you would be if you just ignored the issue entirely. 

Stick with strong lifts. If you're not recovering enough, make sure you're getting enough sleep, eating enough (especially protein), and consider hopping on some creatine. Eventually you'll max out on your daily progress and need to switch to an intermediate program (5x5, Texas, 5/3/1, etc), but that's normally after ~9 months of novice programming (which is what strong lifts is). 

I can only offer this as to what worked for me. I ran 5k and 800m competitively in high school and college, and then moved onto half marathons before getting out of competitive running entirely. When I started strength training during running I felt a lot more "stable" on my runs. I know that endurance and speed increase by running longer and running faster, but I anecdotally I found increases in my overall leg control and stability. When coming down on a weird landing, or just basically anything other than a simple straight forward stride, my legs tended to be a lot more solid. If you can imagine that legs-crumble feeling you get at the end of a race or when landing weird, I was able to delay/minimize that. With no particular evidence to back up why, I was doing this (half marathon training): 

Bodybuilders are more concerned with isolation work than strength athletes are. Body building, at it's core, is about body modification. With dumbbells you can get a lot more specific and target certain things in very specific ways. Barbells shine in certain key areas however: 

Based on you not knowing what your shoulder muscles are called, I'm going to take a guess that you're not really doing any shoulder exercises to speak of, or at least over-emphasizing your bench press. A good rule of thumb for shoulder health is to overhead press at least as often, and more like twice as often, as you bench press. Additionally, you'll want to be exercising the back of your shoulder (posterior deltoid) via things like the rear delt raise and bent over row. Most of the shoulder pain I've seen in the gym traces back to poor shoulder development. EXRX has a good page on common muscular weaknesses, roughly half of which are related to shoulders. In short, to fix your bench press, you should look towards your shoulder strength. 

I really didn't get serious about strength training until thirty, and if you look around you'll see people setting records and being incredibly fit in their 40's (and beyond). A good friend of mine is a spokes-model for a supplement company, and his <5% bodyfat shirtless image is on posters in a lot of supplement chain stores. He's 46 this year. In short, it's is absolutely not too late. You have, probably, several decades left of strength training. I'd really recommend starting with a program like Starting Strength. Grab the book, it will the best money you ever spend in fitness. 

It's a deadlift, meaning the weight should be dead on the floor. Touch-and-go or otherwise bouncing around is not a deadlift. Personally, I relax my grip and reset on every rep. My hands don't come off the bar, but I open my fingers, ensuring that the weight is indeed dead on the floor. The extra second this adds to each set is negligible and the benefit to ensuring proper form far outweighs any loss. You also need to breathe between reps, and the bottom relaxed position is the perfect spot to dump the air in your lungs, get a nice breath, breath that out, then get another, hold it in, tighten the abs, get your chest up, and pull. From Mark Rippetoe: 

Most male gymnasts are short, but muscle and strength wise they are phenomenal. If you hang out with some contemporary dance guys you'll start noticing that the good ones are pretty damn ripped. Aesthetics matter in that field, so being fat-strong doesn't work, they dance for hours a day, and if they screw up a move they can hurt themselves or someone else. 

Specifically targeting the muscle recruitment of the lift. If you're doing squats, do some overhead squats, Turkish get-ups, and lunges. Keep the weight really light. Focus on the muscles and force you want to recruit. For cleans, I find doing box jumps very handy because it gets you into the mode of exploding. For bench pressing, abs-glutes-stiff-as-a-board pushups are a nice way to ready your arms and chest. For deadlifts and squats, glute bridges can remind you what your glutes feel like and how to activate them. Start with an empty bar, and ramp the weights. I can squat 2x my bodyweight, and have never started with more than an empty bar. After that, it's still 45's on the side, and up and up it goes. 

Answering the question directly: Generally speaking effective weight training increases your metabolic rate and yoga will decrease it. Yoga is primarily an aerobic activity and can be strenuous or easy, and it can be for short or long intervals. Weight training can target multiple large muscles several times a week, or it can be a hodge-podge of random exercises in a gym (which is unfortunately very common). A large advantage in weight training (resistance training) is that your basal metabolic rate will increase, you can read up on it in this 1998 study. 

Yup. The hardest thing about olympic lifting is that there's no time to adjust. Once you start, you're committed, that's it. It's more akin to throwing a baseball where you have two dozen things to keep track of but you can't consciously think of all of them mid-pitch. You need to have a lot of the movement locked into muscle memory so that you can free up your mind to focus on individual aspects and not have to keep the whole thing in your head. This question reminded me of a youtube video I posted a few years ago when I was learning the clean, and a good lifting friend of mine was able to give me some advice and tell me where I was screwing up. I'd really recommend getting some video of you, from an angle like mine there, so people can see your profile as it relates to the bar. You'll be able to get some good suggestions that way. I think fitness.stackexchange.com would be a great place for critiques. 

I'm sure there are other things at work as well, like stress released cortisol you mentioned, and those certainly have a documented catabolic and inflammatory result. What I found so remarkable about Kahnman's work however is the direct linkage between "a hard day at the office" resulting in poor athletic performance that same day. 

Honestly, 11 days isn't going to destroy your gains and you may even benefit from the break. Consider just going for a run, to keep on schedule and not feel like garbage. You could also drop ~$30 on a knock-off TRX, or run to a playground somewhere and knock out some pullups. Or rig up the suspension trainer on a nearby tree. If you're doing real strength training in a gym, you're not going to be able to simulate that in any practical sense without a gym. Another real option, if you have the cash to drop (or have them already) would be a couple of heavy kettlebells. I'll use my 53LB for swings, snatches, and other such lifts. Tossing in some sprints, pushups, and pullups, it's not a bad workout. 

Keep up on the research, but right now there is no evidence based reason to even slightly consider artificial sweeteners as harmful. If you want to give into anecdotal doubt and general dietary mysticism, you can, but the best that anti-artificial-sweetener folks can drum up is an extremely small handful of non-causal studies that are in the face of mountains of research to suggest safety. 

First off, excellent work on taking charge of your fitness. If weight loss is a big goal, make sure you double your efforts in the diet and nutrition area. Eating 500 calories is very easy, but burning 500 calories via exercise is very hard. As an example, an average blueberry muffin has 426 calories. Meanwhile, at 300lbs, you would need to run for two miles at a 10mph pace to burn that muffin off. Never underestimate the amount of calories in food and the work involved in burning them off. Specifically answering your question: Your heart rate can stay elevated after exercise, usually as a result of EPOC (excess post exercise oxygen consumption) or because of excessive waste products that need to be removed from tissues. I don't think there is a lot of quality research in this area to be concrete about time lengths, but it looks like you can have an increased heart rate somewhere in the 10% range even a couple of hours out. More than heart rate, you might also have increased blood pressure, adrenal activity, and all the other normal results of exercise. A lot of people (myself included) don't do well exercising close to bed time. The middle of the day is best for me, the early morning I can pull off but I don't like it, and the evening is bad (especially for hard workouts). You should run your results past your doctor for sure, but don't give up and great work on taking a big step towards fitness. 

Your routine will not target your largest muscles, and is unbalanced. As such you actually have lower protein requirements than someone doing more serious strength training. More broadly, protein supplements are for those who don't have enough protein in their diet otherwise. You'd be better off using real food sources (meat, eggs, etc) because they are slower to digest and contain other essentials (vitamins, creatine, etc). But high quality real-food protein is expensive and tough to get constantly, so people will pad their daily values with protein powders. 

Rest days are incorporated to give your body time to heal from activities that break down a lot of tissues or otherwise generate waste products. A proper training plan will keep you on the edge of what you can just barely do and provide for enough rest that you will heal and progress. While your workout is light years better than nothing, it's a far cry from a real training program. Your best bet is something that uses barbells, but if you're confined to just bodyweight there are programs out there as well. A quick check to whether or not you need a rest day is if you can't do as much as you did the day before. Example: you do what you mentioned above on Tuesday, and then on Wednesday you can only knock out 15 burpees and you fall out of your plank before a minute is up. That's your body not being rested/repaired enough. The odds are that the exercises you listed aren't nearly enough to cause your body to need 24 hours to repair. 

I'm not a high level runner, and this training was in use maybe 15 years ago so perhaps things have gotten different. But in my experience I was trying to build endurance and speed at the same time just spread across different workouts. 

Thanks for showing a great example of what's known via studies: strength training provides exceptional fat loss, more so than aerobic activity. That linked answer has most of the tidbits, but the short version is that muscle is extremely expensive for your body to maintain. Plus, during those 8-12 hours a week your heart is pumping and you're in a low level aerobic range as well. Also, you're (probably) not eating during those times. Putting it all together (muscle gain) + (aerobic activity) + (less time eating) = better body composition towards lean muscles and less body fat. Good work! 

If you really are eating "no carbs", you'll be in ketosis. Although pretty grueling for the first 48-72 hours, your blood sugar will quickly level out and you'll have a much more balanced energy level throughout the day. You'll want to really avoid high glycemic index foods. That would include (basically) any carbohydrate that is not found in its natural state. If it went through a factory of any type before you ate it, chances are it's been "processed", stripping away natural fibers and husks. The more pre-digestion that happens in a factory (such as smashing wheat into flour), the less your body has to do, and the quicker it can be absorbed into your blood. That in turn spikes your blood sugar, dumps insulin, and enhances fat storage. If fat loss is your goal, you should: 

It's the straight arm lateral pulldown. It primarily targets the latissimus dorsi, but as it's a compound exercise movement it will engage a variety of other muscles. I'm not sure why this person is hinged at the hip, as most instructions I've seen this for have you vertical or mostly-vertical. There are literally dozens of variations on the pulldown: seated, standing, with handles, with a bar, alternating one hand, kneeling, on one foot, etc. For a laugh, check out this version. 

That's important, because "icing the injury" isn't simply about putting ice on it all the time. The current advice I operate under is to ice sprains and strains as much as you can in the first 48 hours after an injury, for roughly ten minutes (not exceeding 15), and re-applying after the area has achieved normal body temperature. A lot of the studies I read seem to indicate that there simply aren't good double blind peer reviewed looks at cryotherapy. The goal, as to your question, is to reduce inflammation and ease pain. As referenced by the NIH: 

Form. Record your form with your compound lifts and find someone (this site works) to critique it. Increase the weight, but don't go full-dumb-dumb. You want to challenge yourself but don't wreck yourself. Follow the plan. This is hard when you start feeling like Superman. Rest. Make sure you sleep good every night. Don't sweat a bad night's sleep, but don't let it get out of control. Eat. Your diet sounds pretty good, but just make sure you pay attention to overall calories and macros. As you progress the difference between 100g and 150g of daily protein really can make a difference in the long run. 

I think it's hit or miss and mostly related to the manufacturers. I've had great luck with some brands (like New Balance), and then the next model would seriously disappoint me. Even in the same model, small manufacturing chances can happen over each year (like the Brooks Cascadia series). Ironically enough I've had better longevity from minimalist shoes than their more built-up counterparts. I have a set of Nike Free 5.0's that out lasted two other pairs of more expensive shoes that are much more supportive. That's not really a plug for that shoe so much, because even that model has undergone a lot of changes since when I bought my pair and I have no idea if they're really improved. The only real solution I know of is to buy your shoes from a place that has a 100% return policy (like REI, and I'm sure others). I don't have a problem paying north of $100USD for a pair of shoes, but if they start to break apart within a couple of months (of not-so-frequent-use) I'm taking them back.