Many research papers make mention of a "neutral regional accent", as mainly defined with regard to these two characteristics (moderately rhotic consonants, vowels that tend toward pure vowels and diphthongs that tend to get monophthongized). At the same time, the standard Western view on good singing diction encourages pure vowels and clearly enunciated consonants, removing many of the degrees of freedom differentiating between regional accents. And thus, there is an objective, phonetics-based, rationale for singing accents' tendency to converge toward a "neutral" accent (perhaps misidentified as "American", due to some of the neutral features of Western and Northeastern American dialects, compared to the strongly non-rhottic UK and Australian dialects). While I would expect there to be some scientific literature detailing the topic, this is not my field and all I was able to find through a cursory search on Google Scholar was this musicology article: "Vocal Diction" -- In a Nutshell, by T. Campbell Young. London, 1932 Ancient as it may be, it seems its musicology/phonetics contents should still hold by modern scientific standards. Its lengthy technical description of diction standards of sung English is introduced by the following general remark: 

DOTS, like lots of other tracking devices are passive. Most of the time DOTS will be passive (not emitting light or even using power, like an RFID chip) and they only become active when interrogated by a laser with the correct code. Once correctly interrogated, the tags will begin to modulate and retro-reflect the incoming beam for a brief period of time. For further information on tracking technology, read the Summary of the Sensing and Positioning Technology Workshop of the Committee on Nanotechnology for the Intelligence Community: Interim Report. The military has had a long time and spent a lot of money developing reliable systems, however from time to time there are huge oversights. Like when insurgents have used programs like SkyGrabber — a program that allows for satellite data capture — to obtain access into the drone’s video feed. 

I was waiting for somebody with much better understanding of linguistics theory to take a stab at this. But no one has come forth and, in the meantime, many people have started questioning the pertinence of the question itself, so let me give it a try: First off (contrary to what many of the comments above have suggested): dialectal accents are extremely well defined in linguistics. There is such a thing as an "objective" classification of regional English accents, based on well-defined phonetic criteria. Two of the most common (and strongest) differences between English accents are: 

This, along with the above notes on the phonetics of regional accents, will hopefully do as a placeholder answer, until somebody with much deeper knowledge of linguistics than I, cares to step in and give some stronger references. 

It is reasonably easy to establish whether an eclipse (lunar or solar) occurred at a specific date in the past. The main problem, here, is to agree on what that date is. The commonly-held date of "33 AD" for this event, relies on the accuracy of the Anno Domini system, itself based on the hotly-debated year of Jesus' birth (relative to us). Its epoch was devised long after its reported occurrence, in 525 AD. It is now generally agreed by historians that, had this event occurred, its date would be off by at least 4 years (but beyond the existence of an error, no strong consensus exists on what the accurate year may be). Based on this uncertainty, it seems difficult to answer your question in a scientifically satisfying way: you could of course work from a table of astronomically-predicted historical eclipses, to find a potential candidate year, but this would obviously fail the standard of rigorous hypothesis testing (since you would incorporate the desired result in your prior probability). Note that both the above NASA reference and Wikipedia have discussions on the potential conjunction of these events (but both fail at establishing the necessary independent statistical hypothesis, so could not constitute a scientific argument for the accuracy of the events reported in religious texts). 

As others have pointed out, there are problems with the original questions, but that does not invalidate the original idea. A primary usage of contraceptives is to prevent children, and we know they are rather effective at this. And apparently "The divorce rate among couples with children is 40 percent lower than couples without children" []. I have been unable to find any data on how that changes with more vs less children, but the number of children in the parents families also have a large effect on their future divorce risk []. So, as contraceptives are used and are so effective at preventing children, it would seem that they do increase divorce rates, indirectly. Unfortunately, I can not find any data on if their is perhaps more infidelity in marriages that eventually end up divorcing, but it would not be an unreasonable hypothesis to suggest that something that weakens marriage would also increase infidelity. 

If these infrared units are actually in use and constantly emitting then yes (this is the reason such devices are not used.) A lot of cameras can detect the infrared spectrum, especially black and white security cameras. This is why you can see your remote control's ir signal through a black and white camera, or detect security cameras that have ir emitters. The military and drones do use ir for tagging targets (in some situations,) and this can be detected by some cameras however a target will only be ir tagged for a very short time (like to guide a missile, or to detect a dynamic optical tag and track the vehicle by another method.) However it is extremely unlikely that these devices, the bulky 9 volt ir emitter you linked to, are used by the military. The story you quoted about the 19 year old planting these devices, is more than likely just propaganda that aims to show that the US doesn't put much thought or care into what and who their drones destroy. The other part of the article, where "Mr. Rehman explained that the camera could somehow detect otherwise invisible signals from the ... electronic tracking devices that ... guide American missiles," is possibly true (like in that extremely brief time frame I mentioned above,) but it is most likely either just thought to be true, perhaps from looking at recordings of targets being destroyed and/or it is method to make other terrorist's feel like they have some control or protection from being killed by a drone. The military has many different types of tagging tracking and locating (TTL) devices. From actual cellphones to radar responsive devices, infrared tracking and targeting devices all of which have been used to help defeat terrorist networks. Drones have multi-spectral targeting and tracking systems that include electro-optical, infrared, laser designation, laser illumination, synthetic aperture radar (SAR), ground moving target indicator (GMTI) and Electro-optical (EO)/Infrared (IR) Full Motion Video cameras. So drones are able to detect an infra-red beacon like the one you mentioned. And as mentioned above a camera that could detect ir would also see the beacon, however it is very unlikely that the 9 volt device would be used, because it is very detectable and presumably always on, limited battery life (military trackers usually aren't self powered or are at least triggered to turn on,) and more importantly it has the possibility of causing a large amount of false positives. It is just a cheap infrared light, it can be cheaply and easily reproduced by other parties, or its light could be reflected making pinpointing harder, etc. Optical device that are known to be used in this type of a situation are dynamic optical tags. 

Sperm are intricately adapted to existing alongside millions of their peers at all times, but is simply unknown if they can survive and achieve success without these peers. There simply is not enough research to know. Specifically, no one has ever tried a series of billions of trials in which they introduced a single sperm and checked if it created a pregnancy. But, there is some research into sperm cooperation which gives us a method though which one might theorize that the answer to that question could be NO. Reproductive success is best predicted by the mobility of sperm [1], which is known to be affected by sperm cooperation [2]. So we know for a fact, at least in many species, a single sperm introduced into a female will be facing a greater challenge than if it were one of many. Furthermore, some researchers have even theorized about the existence of different classes of sperm which exist specifically to help the fertilizing sperm succeed [3]. Whether, in some species, this journey taken alone is simply insurmountable or not has never been researched (as far as I can tell). 

-Methvin, Eugene H. (May 1990). "Scientology: Anatomy of a Frightening Cult". Reader's Digest. pp. 16. According to this. Numerous people report the same or similar statement at the time: 

It doesn't appear that he wrote it, however many sources say he did say it, or something very similar at a sci fi convention in 1948. 

$URL$ Virological evaluation lab test results, Pureit is Unit 8 (Chlorine levels not tested.) So in conclusion, if you exclude the first batch of water produced, as the company says to do, it does seem like this unit filters out very close if not all of the chlorine it introduces in the stage before the polisher. It seems it's virus filtering ability is the most serious potential flaw in the unit, as this is the majority of the articles I read focused on. Sorry if this wasn't very helpful, it isn't easy finding much unbiased information on the subject.