Parents do not speak each others first languages and communicate using a third language. One of the parents speaks a language of the other parent who does not speak the language of the first parent. The children are only exposed to the language of the other parent. Parents only speak a third language to their children to speed up their integration and/or promote their linguistic skills in another language. 

The problem with the question as posed is that it cannot be easily answered empirically. Dialects are subject to many more processes than simply exposure to media. They have been nivelized long before the presence of mass media. English appears to be in a state of dialect leveling at the moment but that is as much a result of politics as media. They just happen to be happening at the same time. (Mass) media can be just as much agents of dialect differentiation as disappearance. For instance, local mass media can give a dialect a legitimacy it would otherwise lack or even result in the creation of new languages. For instance, the constant tug of war between Croatian and Serbian could over time result in the transformation of dialect into language - mass media are as likely to support as inhibit this process. Plus the process you describe (i.e. the dialect of the center serving as the foundation of an ever expanding standard) has happened long before the presence of mass media. You could say the invention of the idea of a nation state had even more of an impact. A century and a half ago, Czech and Slovak all consisted of a continuum of dialects and it would have been easy to create one standard against which all the dialects would be measured. But due to political influences, this did not happen. Things like literacy and media were used as tools in achieving this outcome but we not just some passive presence that played a role in either direction. So in any individual case, mass media cannot be predicted to have one result or another. However, the case could be made that overall the presence of unifying communication platforms (literacy, media, internet), the number of dialects decreases as more 'standards' are established and promoted. But these things haven't been around for long enough to be able to say. We don't have good enough records about the past across languages and cultures to have enough data and it is very dangerous to extrapolate from the current state. It may also be worth bringing up the 'punctuated equilibrium' thesis which RMW Dixon adapted from biology to language. Which could just mean that the apparent slow down of language change some people posit is simply a temporary phenomenon. 

As a translator, I can assure you that English is no more efficient than other languages. First, subtitles often miss out whole bits of dialogue and definitely leave out swathes of meaning. Second, there is no recognized measure of language efficiency. I did a comparative study of cohesion in English and Czech and found that word counts were very unreliable. There is no clear definition of what a word is and most words in any sentence only serve the function of holding the text together. And all languages have different rules. For instance, German or Czech will use more connectives where English will rely on the reader to make the connections in their head. Information density is a very discipline-specific concept. There is loads of 'information' conveyed by any one word that would not be captured by this notion. Third, many bilingual speakers will tell you that there are certainly areas in which one language feels more expressive than another. So it's true that English adjective chain formation makes saying some things much easier (kind of like German word formation). But a language like Czech can express many things more efficiently thanks to its aspect or case markings. So overall, all languages are probably equally efficient. 

So now I'm not only stuck on finding an answer to my original question (as imperfect as it may be), I'm also stuck on a way of formulating the question itself. Should we be asking about the size of an individual's phonemic inventory? Or should we be asking about different lects. How about the size of passive vs active inventory (or the nature of perception of phonemic contrasts in other dialects by speakers with dialects without those contrasts - e.g. children in Newcastle watching a US movie or listening to West Coast rap)? This seems to be a minefield. But it's not just a theoretical preoccupation, there are also some practical applications that would benefit from having a clearer picture: 

This is not a question which can be answered with a yes/no answer. Music is like a natural language in some respects and very much unlike one in others. Here are some suggested similarities and dissimilarities. Music is like (a) language in that: 

Few linguists would call themselves structuralists, today (although some still would admit that heritage when asked). Structuralism was an explicit theoretical framework (most cogently expressed by the Prague Circle in their Theses from 1929) in its most productive phase but for many it descended into a few random prescriptions. Saussure does not represent the entirety of structuralism. He is indeed probably wrong on most things, however, he still represents a good starting point to introducing people to the study of language and I find Mark Turner's comment very injudicious. Structural analysis of language is still the go to method for most language researchers even if they don't subscribe to the theoretical assumptions behind it. Indeed, Chomsky has been rightly called a structuralist (by Frederick Newmeyer) even if he started out in opposition to the structuralist establishment of his day. Many of Saussure's views are simply assumed by many modern linguists but it is important to understand they were formulated for the purpose of introductory lectures and published by his students from their notes. Many linguists would benefit greatly from engaging with many structuralist classics more deeply. I'd recommend Jakobson, Hjelmslev, even Saussure's course, itself. Definitely read the Prague Circle Theses. I found some of the most starkly formulated ideas about structuralism in Mukarovsky (although I'm not sure about the translation status). Of course, probably the most accessible (both in terms of language and ease of obtaining the text) would be Bloomfield's language, a founding text of American descriptivism. Combining it with Sapir's language will give you a pretty solid idea of how actual structuralists thought about language. [Although neither was an out and out structuralist, you can easily read them side by side with people from Prague, Copenhagen or Paris and see huge affinities.] Not only is structuralism still alive in much of modern analytic work, so is its precursor, Russian formalism. You could do a lot worse than read Propp's Morphology of the Fairytale. It is true that much of the structuralist agenda got mangled by incautious non-empiricist applications in other disciplines such as literary theory or philosophy. But I'd still recommend that good structuralist literary analysis is probably the best place to start. My tentative personal recommendation would be to start all undergrad students of linguistics on a dose of structuralism and slowly dismantle it over the course of their study. I find that going in the opposite direction does not necessarily work, as well. 

Since this question was recently resurrected, I'd like to provide a broader perspective. The problem is that the question of the evolution of language is often confused between three quite independent (although related) issues. 

So, your anecdotes have a good experimental foundation to them. However, I think there's a huge value to collecting anecdotes such as yours, as well. They give examples of how the interface between orthography, phonological representation and normative judgements which would be hard to reveal in a controlled environment. Some other anecdotes, I've found revealing: 

Not only does that perfectly formed sentence not produce two meanings. It struggles to produce one. This is because in the frame of not eating chicken, the love of all chickens and not chicken as a dish is what matters. So we can have: 

He's referring to the fact that all languages exhibit sufficient syntactic and morphological complexity to be put to any use a human mind can put them. However, that does not necessarily mean that all languages will have developed the vocabulary to describe some of the issues that Plato or Confucius deal with. But that has little to do with complexity. Many of the languages that used to be called primitive address vast biological taxonomies, kinship structures with fine distinctions and subtle cosmogonies. All of these Plato or Confucius would find difficult to address. Also, we should not confuse specialised vocabulary (such as that used by theologians, nuclear physicists or chartered accountants) with complexity. All this obviously applies historically as well synchronically. Therefore, not only was Sanskrit not the first 'complex' language, it was not anywhere near the stage where language first achieved the structure and complexity it has now. No language prior to about 6000 years ago has been recorded but the material culture in evidence suggest complex communication tens of thousands of years into the past. However, this brings us to questions of the evolution of language complexity in general which are far outside what can be addressed in this context. There have been some attempts recently to slightly soften this strict commensurability stance but certainly not to the degree your question expects. 

The problem is with your assumption that the senses listed in the OED are unrelated. This is often the cases when one reads dictionary definitions but in fact, it's not very difficult to see the connections. The original meaning seemed to be one of affirmative manner (so) and it is easy to see how it could acquire a temporal meaning since manner describes events. Temporal meanings often translate into causality (e.g. since) and it is also easy to see the connection of manner or causality and similarity. So you can see that the semantic field of 'as' is actually quite tight and it is not difficult to see a connection between sentences such as: 

Why not VP NP or just VP? All of those could be defaults if you started with another language or did not choose to think of a simple declarative sentence as the core of language. Also, in this scheme, a sentence like 'They like Joan.' may appear as somehow more basic than 'Joan likes them.' which seemingly introduces morphology while starting with other languages morphology would be the default. When applied to language acquisition this results in undue focus on the learning of syntax which in some languages pales in comparison to the complexity of the morphology that has to be acquired - much of with complex and subtle semantics combining both syntactic and pragmatic meanings (think evidentiality or classification systems). This is by no means just a problem with Chomskean linguistics. I've criticised some concepts in construction grammar and functionalist grammar for the same reasons. Another issue is that Chomsky (as do most linguists) assumes monolingualism is the natural and default state of language speakers. Whereas about half the world's population is multilingual (and probably even more were so historically). But this is not by any means the fundamental flaw of Chomsky's (and by extension Pinker's) approach. Just something critics occasionally trot out to bolster their argument. There many much more intrinsic issues that have been covered extensively elsewhere. Postscript: There is no virtue or rigor to the statement "Learning a new language can be a transformational experience. Monolinguals are in a state of non-transformation in this respect." It's just an empty cliche which in this case can be even more confusing because it uses the word transformation (perhaps in subtle reference to transformational grammar which of course has nothing to do with this at all). People put about a lot of platitudes about language learning and they are rarely helpful and never in any way measurable or easy to capture in a systematic manner. 

(PS: I understand, that this is very sketchy and welcome any comments of people who have thought harder about this than over a short breakfast.) 

You ask introduction to 'hieroglyphs' but that's just the writing system. What you really mean when you want to read text is understanding of Ancient Egyptian. This is a Hamito-Semitic language (now called Afro-Asiatic) which means it shares some features with Hebrew and Arabic - so it helps a little if you already have some familiarity with those but not much when it comes to any of the details. Ancient Egyptian is not a single language just like Old English and Modern English are not the same language. So you need to pick a time you want to study. Gardiner is an introduction to the language of the 'Middle Kingdom' which will enable you to read some famous stories like Sinuhe but also later texts written in the form (different from language spoken at the time). Hieroglyphics is just one of three scripts in which Ancient Egyptian was written. The others being Hieratic and later Demotic. (It would be four, if you count Coptic which was written in a modified version of the Greek alphabet.) So your focus should vary depending on the period you want to study and the types of texts you want to study. 

This is really a question at the intersection of language and culture. It has nothing to do with proto-language or much to do with language as such. When you ask for words for 'hello' or 'thank you', you really encounter a whole lot of ways for people to manage interactions that gave rise to how those words are used in present-day English. Every culture has to manage contexts where people acknowledge each others' actions. This could be simply coming into each other's presence or exchanging gifts, asking for assistance, etc. The situations will vary and the cultural means will vary. In some cultures, it is impolite to acknowledge certain acts (e.g. by some expression of gratitude) but it maybe equally impolite not to reciprocate that action. Conversely, in other cultures profuse verbal thanks are the norm even in acknowledgements of mundane interpersonal acts. One example of this is the US where many Europeans end up being slightly rude simply by not saying thank you as often. This is not a clear difference between having or not having an expression or even a shared context of using it - it is simply a question of degree which can cumulatively impact interpersonal relationships. The same goes for things like greetings. It is not just a matter of having a word for 'hello'. It is also a question of when you use it, to whom and how. For instance, in many European cultures it is expected that one says 'hello' when entering public spaces (waiting rooms, smaller shops) with a smaller number of other people to utter a formal greeting (not just a universal 'hello') and to say some form of 'good bye' on leaving. No other interaction is expected. For instance, in the Czech culture it is common (less so now under Western influences) to join people at a table in a full restaurant. It is obligatory to say hello and good bye (both formal) but no other words maybe exchanged. In American English, for instance, a greeting is almost always used as a prelude to some social interaction. So when you say is there a word for 'hello' in both languages it may seem yes on the surface but when you look at the variation in usage and forms (Czech has more contextual ways) you must really say no. These differences become much more pronounced when it comes to language whose cultures have had less contact. And of course, you also need to take into account gestures and facial expressions that need to accompany these cultural acts of interaction. As far as etymologies go, if you look across languages you will see that there is an enormous amount of borrowing and analogies in forms for greetings. They usually derive from some sort of wish of good fortune or health (bonjour, guttentag, zdravstvujte) or inquiry after well-being (ni hao) on the more formal end. On the more informal end you see some expression of solidarity or subservience (servus, ciao) or getting attention (hello, ahoy) but also often borrowing (ciao or hi is becoming popular across some cultures). Religious origins can also be seen in some greetings (good bye, Grüß Gott). The forms for thanking are much more complex because expressions of gratitude are much more complex and varied across languages than simple greetings (which are complex enough).