The fact that this is on Wikipedia might indicate that this is trivia by the standards of history SE. 

Re "deception was common in the market place" - both the cities and the guilds fiercely controlled the quality of merchandise offered. Since you mentioned bread, punishments for cheating about the weight of bread included having literally to wade through shit in front of the public, or being locked into a cage and being dunked into water while being mocked by the assembled crowd. This does not sound like cheating was considered acceptable. The TV documentation (German) "Ein Tag im Mittelalter" (a day in the middle ages) explains a bit about guild regulations (starting at 34.55). Punishment for the violation of guild rules (which includes deviating from the quality standards set by the "Zünfte", the guilds) is explicitly referred to as "Ehrenstrafen", i.e. "dishonoring punishment". So apart from tangible consequences (which might very well exclude being barred from your profession and/or exile) public humiliation was intended to be a huge part of your punishment. This might indicate that violations were not that rare, but it certainly means they were not considered acceptable. 

"Styles" here refers to the "manner of address". Note that the above is speculation by the author of the essay, not necessarily fact. The trivia given as the reason for the close votes is the claim in Wikipedia that 

Of course, as noted by the comments (and the fact that I needed to explain my points) Twitter might not be the best tool for historical courses. 

I feel that answers linking crime to ethnicity should at least try to provide some documentation relative to the ethnicity of union ranks. I would say that the factor more important was the use of organized crime (which existed before trade unions) to suppress worker movement. Organized was a more important force in USA than in UK. In the USA, the organized crime intervened often in the laboral relations, with the clear example of the Pinkertons (that, while claiming to be "detectives", were often just band of thugs used to violently break strikes), initially to break strikes and teach "manners" to protesting workers. In this aspect, once the leadership of a (once) demanding trade union was killed, jailed, or beaten enough to renounce their position, it just made sense replacing them with pliable men. Of course, even with the mob controlling the trade unions, the workers need some improvents or there is always the risk of new trade unions being formed by disatisfied workers, so some improvements must be achieved. And, in order to ensure that no other trade union could replace the old one (due to the ineffectivenes of latter), you could make union membership mandatory (which explains the creation of union shops and even closed shops in a country that declares itself "the paradise of free enterprise"). Additionally, trade union outside the protection of "controlled" trade unions continues to be very heavily punished1. Finally, once the mob controls the trade unions, it is not a great leap to search profit (more) from other opportunities that would arise from the situation. In short, trade unions are corrupt because they were assaulted by the organized crime as a mean of forbidding representative trade unions from being formed/effectual. That is not news to the USA, many dictatorships (from Franco's Spain to those behind the Iron Curtain) had trade unions for exactly the same purpose. 1: To illustrate my point, go to this category page in the Wikipedia and click links at random; check how many do include strikers being wounded or killed with nobody being held accountable. NOTE: Yes I see the lack of citations, but the mob rarely makes their business agreements public (and when they do, there is a shocking lack of documental support). Given that, I understand (from what I have seen in previous answers) that there is a bit more leniency in the documentation part. What is real and documented was the mob role (including Pinkertons) against the workers'rights movements, and what happened to the honest leaders that defied them. And well, the other answer include even less citations. 

This is not a "retroactive" collection - the mission to collect all published German works actually started in 1913. Even in Nazi Germany a copy of each dissertation would have to be delivered to the Nationalbibliothek, so they should have a fairly complete set. And they have an online catalogue, so you do not have to travel to Berlin (although our fair city is always worth a visit). 

Your friend should look up "Anhalter Bahnhof", the grand terminus in Berlin. Berlin was at the time the capital of the German "Reich", and the idea the Kaiser would want to punish his own capital is a bit ludicrous. In fact the Anhalter Bahnhof, hailed as the "Gate to the South", was magnificent beyond compare and was used by Emporer Wilhelm II. for state receptions. Unfortunaltely very little is left (but should you ever come to Berlin, the Museum of Technology has a wonderful model of how Anhalter Bahnhof used to look like). The German Wikipedia article on "Kopfbahnhöfe" suggests that they were build that way to emphasize the role of the city center (passengers could not simply pass through), which is more or less the opposite of what your friend claims. 

As per Elizabethan Gleanings, by F. W. Maitland in The English Historical Review - Vol. 15, No. 57 (Jan., 1900), pp. 120-124, the suffix "and so forth" (or "&c" respectively) has been first used by Queen Elizabeth I to circumnavigate the difficult question of religious affiliation (emphasis mine): 

All of this caused the Timurids to become progressively more and more "Persianized", and that tradition was transmitted to the Mughal Empire. The above explained process was far from unique; almost everytime a nomad society conquered a civilized one, it ended with the nomad society adopting the culture of the conquered society. The Mongols alone offer plenty of examples: the Timurids in Persia, the Golden Horde in Russia, the Yuan dinasty in China, all became "local" very quickly. The Germanic invasion of the Roman Empire is another classical example. Even when the difference of civilization level was not as important, in situations of a small force dominating a big population of a different culture, many times the invading force became very influenced by the local population (Macedonian rulers of Persia and Egypt, Crusader kingdoms, etc.) 

I am restricting this to rulers titles; there are some families were one of the sons gets the name of the father and so use numerals, but they are out of scope. It is not "William I" or "William I", but "William I of Germany" and "William I of England". The number is used to indicate between different holders of the same title and same name. So, if we are talking about English Monarchy, the numbering of Georges will count only those who were Kings of England (sorry, G. Washington). Also, since the same person could hold more than one title, it is possible that he was the first person of that name to hold title A and the fifth person of that name to hold title B. So, it was Charles I of Castille and V of Germany (because there was no previous king named Charles in Castille and there were four previous German Emperor named Charles). Things to take into account: 

Yes, but this was a rare exception rather than a rule. The Roman aqueduct-bridge of Pont d'Ael (which not only allowed water to cross, but also people) was funded privately by Caius Avillius Caimus. He charged a toll for everyone who wanted to cross the bridge (so admittedly the profit did not come from the aqueduct bit, at least as far as I know). I visited the site some three year ago while it was in the middle of the reconstruction work and the archaeologist supervising the work was kind enough to show us around; she actually claimed that this was the only privately funded aqueduct known. 

Adding two things to some good points from the other answers: 1) While the Nazis as an organization did horrible things they did not at all encourage individual cruelty as they understood it (i.e. as a Nazi you were supposed to kill Jews as a "necessity" but not supposed to have fun with it). There was a certain fear that exposing the general population to mass murders executed in the streets would corrupt the (alleged) higher morality of the german "Volk" [a]. So the murder of Jews from the area of the "Reich" was relegated to an elite force (which was lauded by Himmler in one of his "Posen speeches" for "having done that [killing the jews] while still remaining decent people"). Note that outside the area of the Reich the Nazis didn't much bother, at least 1,25 mio Jews were rounded up, shot and buried on the spot in the occuppied eastern terriories, and another ca. 400 000 killed in gas wagons [b]. 2) Another important factor was disposal of the bodys. There did not exist any facilities that could have dealt with additional (to natural deaths) millions of bodys. This lead to the constructions of the notorious "ovens" in the annihilation camps. The engineers at the german company Topf und Söhne constructed a crematory that could completely incinerate a human body with as little as four kilograms of fuel (coke). This worked only as long as the bodys where properly stacked and the oven was not allowed to go cold, so an influx of bodys at a predictable rate was needed. So one of the purposes of concentration camps relating to the holocaust was to have a buffer of future victims that could be funneled into the annihilation process according to available capacities for disposal (certainly there were other goals, especially since not everyone who went into a concentration camp was destined to go to a death camp; e.g. the non-jewish inmates would often be places in forced labour camps. For jewish victims forced labour usually meant "Vernichtung durch Arbeit" (annihilation by labour), i.e. they were given jobs that would most certainly kill them). This applied till end of 1943/ beginning 1944 - when the Nazis realized the war effort wasn't going well they decided to kill as many jews as possible before they lost the war, and the destruction process became a lot more haphazardly (i.e. people were shot and burned in masses under the open sky because victims arrived quicker than they could be disposed in the previously employed manner). -- [a] Individual Motivations probably did not always match the ideological framework - for example Eichmann, who for a long time was portrayed as a bureaucratic figure, was later revealed to hold a visceral hatred against jews. [b] Benz, Graml, Weiß (Editors), "Enzyklopädie des Nationalsozialismus" , München 1997, Page 50ff