I, and many of my palaeomagnetist colleagues, often use thermal demagnetization (potentially up to 800°C) in our studies. Usually a stepwise technique is employed, so each sample is heated -- often 20 or more times -- to progressively higher temperatures. This can become a problem with jointed or friable samples: the pieces have to be glued together in order to make a measurement, but there are very few adhesives which are both heatproof and non-magnetic. By ‘non-magnetic’ I mean that it should carry as little remanence as possible; while it would also be nice if it had a negligible magnetic susceptibility, this is a less important factor. In my search for an adhesive which is heatproof as well as non-magnetic, I've looked at: 

As Sabre Tooth mentions in the comments, vehicle emissions have a negligible effect on stratospheric ozone. (Note that while vehicle emissions can lead to ozone production at ground level, the ozone layer is several kilometres above the Earth's surface and isn't really affected by variation in ground-level ozone. The EPA has published a guide entitled Ozone: good up high, bad nearby which explains the distinction in more detail.) Even the most dramatic attempt to reduce driving in the USA, the National Maximum Speed Law of 1974, only produced a 1% (or less) reduction in fuel consumption; we can assume that reductions in emissions would have been of similar magnitude. Even in 1974, there were a lot of vehicles outside the USA, diluting the global impact of any changes in driving habits within the USA. 

The structure looks similar to this photograph of a "Japanese land retention system" mentioned in passing towards the bottom of this webpage. From the linked page: 

References Allaby, M. ed., 2008. A Dictionary of Earth Sciences 3rd ed., Oxford: Oxford University Press. Nichols, G., 2009. Sedimentology and Stratigraphy 2nd ed., Chichester: Wiley-Blackwell. 

Of those, [9] seems the most obviously relevant, although it covers more techniques than just SAI. One particularly relevant passage from [9] reads: 

The same author has written a book entitled The Vortex of Life – again, not related to meteorology – suggesting to me that he may be quite keen on the word ‘vortex’, perhaps in a broader or more unusual sense than one might find in the mainstream of scientific literature. In short: the word ‘polar’ may or may not have been added in error by a Wikipedia editor, but in either case I am fairly confident that the ‘polar vortices’ referred to here have nothing to do with meteorology. 

The "precipitation rate" part is easy to answer, at least to a first approximation. We have 40 days and nights (960 hours) in which to raise sea level above the peak of Mount Everest (let's round up and call it 9000m). Thus, we need a precipitation rate of around 9000/960 =~ 9.4 metres per hour. For comparison, the largest rainfall ever recorded over an hour is 305mm. So a Noachian flood would require a precipitation rate over 30 times greater than the highest-ever recorded one-hour rate at a single site, sustained continuously over every point on the globe for the entire 40 days and nights. 

In general, material removed from a piece of rock will not be repaired by natural processes. In some natural environments, new minerals may precipitate in a crack left by abrasive damage, but this won't happen to a piece of rock sitting on a shelf in your house :). In the natural course of the rock cycle, an abraded fragment of rock may eventually be ‘recycled’ rather than being ‘repaired’ -- for example, it may be incorporated into a conglomerate, or buried, melted, and recrystallized as a new igneous rock. 

This is not really my specialism, but in the absence of other answers so far, I'll give it a go. Firstly, to simplify the terms of the question a little bit, flint is a form of chert, so we don't need to distinguish the two terms: we can just talk about chert in general. Also, I'll ignore chert beds formed in siliceous oozes, since you're specifically asking how cherts form in carbonate beds. Nichols (2009) gives a concise explanation, and I don't think I can do better than to quote it: 

(I assume that there's a typo somewhere in the 650°C column, since it implies a 110.5% yield.) The yield is 78.91% at 550°C, so maybe we could expect some identifiable plastic residue (though probably no actual plastic) to remain at that point. By 600°C, there's already a 95.51% yield; unfortunately the missing char figures prevent us from quantifying the yield at higher temperatures, but it seems likely that we’d be approaching 100% by 700°C. There are a few pages of analyses of the products, but they’re mainly focused on their suitability as fuels rather than whether they’re found in nature. Considering the wide variety of compounds found it crude oil, I think it’s plausible that all the plastic pyrolysis products have naturally occurring counterparts, but it would be a significant research project to establish this beyond all doubt. Putting it together Referencing the pyrolysis temperatures back to the metamorphic facies, it looks as though the amphibolite facies corresponds reasonably to the range over which common plastics are completely, or near-completely, decomposed by temperature. So, when the aliens land in a few million years and start investigating the Anthropocene, they might well find some of our old rubbish in prehnite-pumpellyite (P-P) facies rocks, but there won't be much to see in the granulites. Here are some examples of metamorphic rocks from those grades. 

Stromatolites have indeed been used in palaeoclimatic investigations. Here are a couple of papers I found through Google Scholar: Paul I. Abell, Stanley M. Awramik, Robert H. Osborne, Sterling Tomellini, Plio-pleistocene lacustrine stromatolites from lake Turkana, Kenya: Morphology, stratigraphy and stable isotopes, Sedimentary Geology, Volume 32, Issues 1–2, May 1982, Pages 1-26, ISSN 0037-0738, $URL$ Andrews, J. E. and Brasier, A. T. (2005), Seasonal records of climatic change in annually laminated tufas: short review and future prospects. J. Quaternary Sci., 20: 411–421. doi: 10.1002/jqs.942 $URL$ As you'll notice, though, these are both relatively young records. I don't know if similar studies have been attempted for Precambrian stromatolites. 

I haven't yet heard of anyone actually doing this, but it certainly seems worth trying. They also write that 

Your question is almost a duplicate of What is the difference between eluvium and alluvium?, but you also ask about colluvial deposits. The accepted answer for that question references this convenient guide from the Australian Museum, which also covers colluvial deposits: 

Some simplifying assumptions This is quite a broad and complex question to answer, so I'm going to simplify it shamelessly to make it a little more answerable. Firstly, there are a huge number of different plastics with a huge variety of physical characteristics. You mention that you're interested in ‘the most common type of plastics’, so I'm going to ignore exotic, high-temperature specialist polymers. Secondly, you specified that by ‘destroy’, you mean ‘chemically convert the plastic to a molecular form that is found in "nature"’. This could be tricky to guarantee completely: to be really sure you'd have to do a thorough analysis of all the molecular structures in the altered plastic, and make sure that none of them occur in nature. I'm going to reference research on pyrolysis of plastics which classifies end products as gas, wax, oil, and char, and assume that these products contain little or no material which couldn’t be found in nature. Thirdly, I’m going to ignore metamorphic conditions other than temperature. Temperature will, I’m fairly sure, have the biggest effect on the breakdown of plastics. The chemical environment might make the plastic break down more quickly (by providing reactants), but I don’t think that it will make the plastic break down any more slowly than it would at the same temperature in an inert atmosphere or vacuum. I’ll also ignore any pressure effects. Grades of metamorphism Here’s a helpful diagram of metamorphic facies, temperatures, and pressures (source: Wikimedia). 

As you can see, nothing spectacular or even noticeable happens at the reversals (the black/white boundaries along the bottom of the plot). They don't seem to correspond to any particular point in the glacial/interglacial cycle. Of course, it's likely that geomagnetic field strength has some influence on climate, and that these effects are simply swamped by other influences on the spatial and temporal scales we're looking at here. The first possible effect that came to my mind was the geomagnetic field's influence on the amount of incoming cosmic rays, which in turn has an effect on cloud formation. And sure enough, it turns out that Vieira and da Silva (2006) have found such an effect. But I suspect that once you start looking at >10kyr timescales and global signals, such effects get averaged out. 

This seems to correspond roughly to the structure in the question, although the "waffle-grid structure" is only evident in some parts. I've been unable to find any more details online about these land retention structures and their design. As farrenthorpe writes in a comment, the three-dimensional view is probably more informative: 

Given the subject matter of the paper, I'd assume that it stands for carbon, and the whole expression refers to milligrams of carbon (or organic carbon) per litre of lake water. 

Doell, R. R. and Cox, A. (1967). Analysis of palaeomagnetic data. In Collinson, D. W., Creer, K. M. and Runcorn, S. K., editors, Methods in Palaeomagnetism, number 3 in Developments in Solid Earth Geophysics, pages 340–346. Amsterdam: Elsevier. Kennett, J. P., & Watkins, N. D. (1974). Late Miocene—Early Pliocene paleomagnetic stratigraphy, paleoclimatology, and biostratigraphy in New Zealand. Geological Society of America Bulletin, 85(9), 1385-1398. Kent, J. T., Briden, J. C., & Mardia, K. V. (1983). Linear and planar structure in ordered multivariate data as applied to progressive demagnetization of palaeomagnetic remanence. Geophysical Journal International, 75(3), 593-621. Kirschvink, J. L. (1980). The least-squares line and plane and the analysis of palaeomagnetic data. Geophysical Journal International, 62(3), 699-718. McFadden, P. L., & McElhinny, M. W. (1988). The combined analysis of remagnetization circles and direct observations in palaeomagnetism. Earth and Planetary Science Letters, 87(1), 161-172. Turner, G. M., Roberts, A. P., Laj, C., Kissel, C., Mazaud, A., Guitton, S., & Christoffel, D. A. (1989). New paleomagnetic results from Blind River: Revised magnetostratigraphy and tectonic rotation of the Marlborough region, South Island, New Zealand. New Zealand journal of geology and geophysics, 32(2), 191-196.