Nothing in the universe stands still. It's always on its way from somewhere to somewhere. A black hole follows a trajectory through the universe, moving from one locus in spacetime to another locus. Deep inside each black hole is a point that we've never been able to characterize.My question is, does the singularity, and possibly the powerful gravitational fields around the singularity have any measurable effect on the area of spacetime it passed through? One imagines an undeformed area of spacetime. After some time, a black hole passes through this spacetime, then moves on. Does the spacetime it passed through simply go back to being everyday, garden variety undeformed spacetime? 

As a guess, I'd say you were probably looking at a group of aircraft flying together, possibly helicopters. Usually you can tell aircraft at night because the have red and green lights and anti collision lights that blink, but I have occasionally observed aircraft flying with landing lights on, and could not make out the other lights until they were closer, or they had changed direction, making them stand out.I've never seen a UFO, although I once mistook Venus for one. 

Mercury's surface was virtually unknown until Mariner 10 flew by and Venus is covered in clouds. Of the terrestrial planets, that leaves Mars. It was likely Christiaan Huygens in November 1659 who first realised Mars was rotating when he tried to map it. His estimate of roughly 24 hours was fairly close. I believe Galileo's earlier observations on Jupiter were with a telescope not powerful enough to resolve smaller 'surface' features (like the Great Red Spot), which may have either proven that Jupiter rotates, or at least that something on the surface is moving across it. 

I don't know what could cause Upsilon Scorpii to appear red as it is not noted as being a highly variable star. It's spectral type is B2, which implies it would be blue/white in colour. If you know the spectral type of a star, which many stellar databases will note, you can work out its colour from this. 

The Andromeda Galaxy's angular size is about 178x63 arc-minutes and the Moon is about 31 arc-minutes wide. Relatively speaking, the Andromeda Galaxy's apparent size is nearly 6x2 Moons. So from the photo, their relative sizes in the sky appears to be very roughly accurate. The galaxy appears to have been superimposed from another image just to show what the galaxy might look like in the sky if it were brighter. 

If all of the mass and energy in the universe was in a point smaller than the size of an electron at one time, why did it expand? Did it necessarily expand immediately on formation, or could it have remained in an initial state for some length of time until some phase threshold was reached? 

When I was very young, I didn't know that the sun in the sky was just another example of the stars I saw at night. I just wasn't surrounded by people who talked about such things. Later, when I learned that the sun was also a star, I was glad to know there was a star close enough to study. The term 'sun' was used to describe our star, even before people realized it was a star. So the term 'sun' is a generic word that might follow us to the stars and be used in everyday conversation to refer to the local day stars. 'Sol' is what the Romans would say whenever they talked about the sun. Currently 'sol' is being used to refer to a rotation of a planet other than Earth in our solar system. For instance on Mars a 'sol' is about 24 hours and 38 minutes, and on Jupiter a 'sol' would be about 9 hours and 50 something minutes. There's no reason why we can't refer to a rotation of the Earth as a 'sol', but we already call it a 'day'. 

Honestly, I hadn't heard the term 'zero age main sequence' until this question came along. The Wikipedia page you linked mentions the zero age term and provides a link to an explanation. Zero Age Main Sequence refers more to a specific point in a star's life. When determining the age of a star, astronomers will sometimes start counting from when it joins the main sequence (so it would be 'zero years old' when it does so). Before this time in this case, the object would be considered a protostar. 

When it was 5700km from Earth, the Rosetta spacecraft was misidentified briefly as an asteroid as it flew by Earth for a gravity assist. I cannot find any more information on other spacecraft observed without radio from further away (I'm happy to be corrected!). If landers count; as mentioned in the comments, spacecraft orbiting Mars have observed their lander brethren on the surface. 

It seems Walter Baade and Fritz Zwicky may have coined the term in 1934 (see here) and the name stuck around. I've known some astronomers to label them 'stellar remnants' for the reason you gave; they are not stars in the sense they do not produce energy via nuclear fusion, and that they are not made entirely of neutrons as the name would suggest. They seem to be called stars for lack of another layman's term (from our point of view on Earth, not all neutron stars are pulsars), and that they still share some characteristics of stars: they emit their own light, they have masses greater than the Sun and can even have planets orbiting them. 

I have a homework question in which I need to estimate a parameter known as $\beta_{P}$ and also the core temperature, both for the Sun. However, prior to doing this I need to know the mean molecular weight of the Sun. First question is, how would I go about doing this. Second question is, can I assume that it is about 70% hydrogen and 30% Helium? 

I have a homework assignment question on accretions discs (essentially an estimation of the number of electron scatterings, but this is just for background). There are a few parameters, one of them being $L$, which is the linear size of the medium (the medium in this case being an accretion disc around a blackhole) Now, I have been given the mass of the black hole. Other than that, nothing else which could give me the linear size of the accretion disc. Could I assume that the linear extent of the accretion disc is perhaps of the order of a few Schwarzschild radii? Which could be calculated from the mass, which is given. If anyone could shed some light on this I would be very appreciative. I need a nudge in the right direction on this. 

Mercury rotates three times for every two revolutions around the Sun, apparently due to a gravitational resonance with the Sun.Venus takes about 225 days to rotate, and rotates in the opposite direction of any of the inner planets. Maybe because its extreme nature makes it ornery.Earth rotates once every 24 hours, a condition caused by the tidal interaction between Earth and its Moon. It's believed that the Earth was rotating about once every 5 hours before the theorized collision with a Mars sized coorbiting object referred to as Theia.Mars shows no signs of a similar collision. Its two moons appear to be asteroids that were captured from the asteroid belt. So how did Mars come to have a day so close to the length of an Earth day? 

I live in an 'L' shaped building on the 14th floor, so I have a pretty clear view of the horizon. Up until March 20th of this year, the sun was setting behind the other wing of the building. My living room window faces roughly NW, and on March 21st, I was able to see the sun at the horizon for the first time this year. Each day, the sun will set a little further northwest until it's setting almost directly opposite my window. Then it will begin to retreat until one day in September, when it will begin to set behind the other wing of the building again.This is the first year I took note of the day that sunset was first visible, and I'm planning to note which day is the last day I can see the sun set. 

Mercury's surface was not mapped up-close until Mariner 10 passed by in 1974. This was followed by MESSENGER in 2008. I have seen several attempts of mapping Mars that came before space exploration, such as Schiaparelli's maps from 1877. With regards to Mercury, were there any documented attempts to map its surface with ground-based observations prior to unmanned space exploration? If so, however unlikely, did any observed features from Earth match up with Mariner or MESSENGER close-ups? 

To terraform Mars, broadly speaking would make it more like an analogy of Earth. As you say, it might be a little colder, but we would expect a terraformed Mars to have oceans, snow and maybe some imported plant life. How would Mars look from Earth? A good starting point would be to see it the opposite way around. Here is how Earth looks from Mars. Like Earth from a distance, a terraformed Mars would likely appear as a pale blue or white dot. If you want more snow or ice than water, it would surely lean towards white rather than a deep blue. 

I'm designing an amateur astronomy observational plan for GCSE Astronomy students here in the UK. I would like some advise to the suitability of what I have selected as the content. 

Just a quick question relating to the thermal Blackbody temperature of a celestial object. In the c.g.s regime of astrophysics, is it more 'sophisticated' to quote the thermal Blackbody temperature in units of Kelvin ($\mathrm{K}$) or in units of $\mathrm{keV}$? That is to say to use $k_{B}T_{\mathrm{bb}}$ and convert to an energy? 

Hopefully the title is very self-explanatory. I was wondering if there were any non-stellar objects, such as bright galaxies, which when looking with the naked eye were mistaken for stars in the time when asterisms were documented and catalogued... For example, within the Big Dipper I believe it is Mizar which is in fact a binary star system. (Correct me if I am wrong!) I was hoping perhaps for distant yet bright Messier objects being mistaken for stars... 

I'm quite certain that there isn't any actual images of a transitory event of Jupiter or Saturn across the solar disk from say e.g.,s the Voyager probe, Pioneer 10/11 or even recent New Horizons mission? Another related question I have, what would the approximate transit of Jupiter look like as seen from Saturn. The distance between Saturn and Jupiter is approximately 4-5AU, and the diameter of Jupiter is one tenth that of the Sun's. Are we looking at perhaps a transit which covers 10-15% of the solar disk? N.B. Please note I understand that to observe a transit of Jupiter we have to be superior to it in the Solar System, hence I am asking for images taken by deep Solar System probes only.