It's important for everyone, especially those with potentially fatal food allergies, to weed out and penalize the "drama queens" who exaggerate allergies and other conditions either for attention or just to bully. There is a lot of cynism about food allergies precisely because the average person probably runs into 20 drama queens for every real person at risk. This cry wolf phenomenon is very dangerous to the people actually beset by wolves. It's pretty easy to tell how serious a person's allergies are. People with with serious allergies carry epipens If a person doesn't, then they don't really think they have a potentially fatal allergy. Few things in life are more frightening than the idea that almost anything you encounter could be covered in an invisible poison that could kill you horribly in minutes. It kind of seizes your attention. People with real, potentially fatal allergies just don't screw around, they carry the technology that will keep them alive. If someone doesn't, then they aren't that afraid. I pretty sure that under US law, any company with more than 50 employees will have to have to identify people at risk and have an emergency plan in place to deal with them coming in contact with an allergen, just like they do with diabetics and other people with sudden onset health issues. That will include epipens in all first aid kits as well as personnel trained and assigned to their use and aware of which individuals will may need care. The steps suggested in the email are actually not sufficient to protect a person with severe peanut allergies. People have died from coming into contact with the dust from crushed peanuts in an discarded candy bar that rolled under a desk. Likewise, you could kill them just by shaking hands after having eaten anything with peanuts hours before. The only real protection is not trying to remove all peanut proteins from an area, an impossible task because they are a common food, but to prepare for the certain eventuality that they the allergic will come in contact and have an attack. In a severe attack, you will have as little as 4 minutes to understand what is going on and administer the epiniphrine. If your not prepared to respond before the attack occurs, you probably won't make it. Your employer should require the at risk employee to carry an epipen at all times as well as make sure that the employee is identified to at least several members of management (so someone onsite will always know) and any designated onsite first responders (which you should have in every work place.) Likewise, if the allergy is not severe, then the employee in question needs education on how they endanger others by crying wolf, not to mention the corrosive effects such behavior has on team cohesion. 

The tech round alone took me two all-nighters, so about 4-5MDs of work to complete, not to the full extent of the assignment by the deadline, but enough to pass the round apparently. The last round involved a total of 8 hours of a train ride. My impression from it was it wasn’t really a test to pass anymore, as much as getting more details on what I’d be doing and to get the usual talk about the perks, which I believe strongly hints I’m going to get some offer. The HR lady did ask me about my money expectation, I said my numbers which research tells me aren’t outlandish. In other interviews, by this point, I’d get some sort of feedback to the tune of “oh that sounds doable.” Here the HR lady segued to “what else besides money would motivate you to move across a country?” Now, I’m not a twenty-something that just needs to drop a lease and pack a duffle bag. I’d be moving for the third time in four years: crashing on somebody’s couch in a new city until I find a place there; pay three months’ rent or so just to get the keys to that; keep paying the rent on my home until I’m certain I’m established and staying for a while; and then sublet my home, possibly at a loss to keep it occupied. And as cynical about capitalism as I am, I think it’s disingenuous to talk about moving for a new job as if it’s a fun adventure they’re letting me have and not fundamentally a business transaction where they offer me money for my skilled efforts and I weigh that against the costs incurred by me. Am I just being paranoid and is what I saw as evasive behavior just standard HR nonsense where said person just wanted to do her thing of gauging my attitude? Were they simply being oblivious of my part of the equation? Or is the lack of transparency a sign that they aim to try and lowball me? 

By your tone in your question I sense that its not a lack of technical experience you miss, but a lack of experience to be in a managed role in an enterprise. As first if they ask to complete a technical test, they mean it. Refusing it make you look you will not follow a manager directive. Secondly the fact you passed the first interview show me your technical experience and skill look good, be proud of it, and show them. The best advice I can tell is to try to get more confidence into you, and be ready to accept their way to hire, as you can't change that. 

I would play it lightly. Answer the offer email first to them only. After you send another email to the recruiter alone to tell him thanks for the contact, as you have accepted their offer, for a great place it look like, etc.. (and that you didn't needed to contact him afterhand, because they offered you what you wanted). In any case if the recruiter forward your email to the HR to negotiate something, you will not look bad at all. 

Offer your boss to do overtime job, it would be a lot more ethical. In the comment you tell they want to outsource it to go a little faster. I have difficulty to think that they didn't offered you overtime at first, are you sure you can actually make that project faster ? as for me your management think not. 

Try to go there openminded. I never heard the term PIP in a negative way where I work, but we got at each year performance meeting called like that. The goal is to see where Iam and what can be done to be more on track versus my job reports/metric in place that I got to follow. Its a place to discuss what I want as training and such. It get bad at my job when we got recovery plan meeting. I tell you my answer as every business got their own way to manage HR, but never forget that usually they could fired you rightaway to prevent you to sabotage your workspace. I see a planned meeting as less negative than getting fired, but I might be wrong. 

A quick “resume buzzwords” screening call with the recruiter. A 45-minute tech screening call with a senior developer to test me on platform basics. An in-depth tech round, administered as an assignment to do a full-stack vertical slice of code. An in-person interview with the CTO and a HR person. 

I'm new on a project full of messy legacy nonsense, so I tend to be stuck on something that involves information kept around as "folk wisdom" regularly. I'm currently hung up on being unable to get FooApp to run, and now deploying my first changes to BarApp to the test machine. I asked the coworker that's to onboard me to check if FooApp even runs for him to see if it's just me, and he's been putting it away since last week, and now found out it indeed doesn't run from a clean checkout with the docs he's written, and is determined to resolve that with a senior. I've asked him to just let me talk to the senior in question since I know as much about that issue as he does, if the extent of what he knows is some documentation that hasn't really been verified, and to take over the deployment since that's what he does regularly. This after checking with the supervisor if that's a good idea, who told me that that's what how actually meant us to do things in the first place - the coworker wasn't to take over the FooApp issue entirely, just do a sanity check for me if it's my setup given that the issue I've been facing doesn't seem related to it. I've now flat out told my coworker the boss said we're to switch tasks, and he said no, and probably flat out made up an excuse - blaming the senior setting some vaguely defined conditions on helping us out - to justify this; this while passively aggressively telling me I can just message the senior myself, without sharing anything they've found out so far with me. (I did message said senior, all he had to say is "well it works on my machine I dunno what more I can tell you", so I suppose I'm not missing out on much.) Earlier the coworker also tried to get me to verbally approve that it's right of him to focus on FooApp first, because the senior is leaving the company soon; I've refused him because it came across as wanting to cover his ass by shifting some of the blame for acting willfully. I'm kind of exasperated, it's clear the coworker is being obstinate for whichever reason, and don't know what other options I have beyond either doing the same thing he does in parallel to "race" him to a fix; or pressing the issue to the supervisor to get him to tell the coworker to do the other thing. The latter feels like a political move, especially if the coworker's job is already precarious because of a history of playing fast and loose with responsibility. (FWIW I'm leaving the company soon because I just don't feel like dealing with this sort of nonsense, I just need some survival tips until my notice is due.)