I have been very unsatisfied with the quality of the free, open-source textbooks in logic I have found so far. Some, like P. D. Magnus's and the wikibooks Formal Logic text seem overly mathematical and too fast paced. Others, like Velleman's , don't seem to be available in book form. There are plenty of nice introductory books in logic, like Barwise & Etchemendy, Hurley, Copi & Cohen, etc. But those are all prohibitively expensive. What I am proposing to do is to write a such a textbook and release it for free in pdf and latex source code with a creative commons license (CC-BY-NC-SA probably). I want to cover basically the same information as Barwise & Etchemendy, and at about the same pace. The class I am envisioning is a standard 1 semester class in first order logic through identity. What I want to know is which features the community here think make for an excellent introductory textbook? Here are some specific things I'd like feedback on: 

Yes it is possible to derive an from an . Arthur Prior first pointed out the fact that the wasn't a fallacy in a book called "Logic and the Basis of Ethics" which is from the 30s or 40s. Here's an example: (1) He is a sea-captain. (2) Therefore, he should do whatever a sea-captain should do. (2) clearly follows from (1), and yet (1) is a descriptive claim, and (2) a normative one. Two things to note about this example. First, the concept is a functional concept. There is something that sea-captains do, and it is perfectly objective whether some sea-captain is doing a good job as captain. Second, the fact that the inference from (1) to (2) cannot be proven valid in ordinary first-order logic does not imply that that the inference isn't valid. Obviously, it is. Rather, one should simply say that the logic of normative inferences is just vastly, vastly more complicated than the baby logic everyone learns as an undergrad. This won't be surprising to people that have done graduate work in logic, or people who have done work in linguistics. But all the reasons to think that you can't derive an from and turn out to just be working with a really impoverished logic. Just because you can't prove the fundamental theorem of calculus with arithmetic doesn't mean it isn't true. It just means you need better tools. The same holds true here. 

The haze in Singapore causes problems for the capitalist economic system. (Premise) The haze in Singapore is caused by the capitalistic system. (Premise) If the haze in Singapore causes problems for the capitalist economic system and the haze in Singapore is caused by the capitalist economic system, then the capitalist economic system is self-defeating. (Premise) The haze in Singapore causes problems for the capitalist economic system and the haze in Singapore is caused by the capitalist economic system. (conjunction intro 1, 2) Therefore, the capitalist economic system is self-defeating. (conditional elimination 3, 4) 

Think of some examples. Here's a classic Thomist "analogical" term: "healthy". Properly speaking it is only bodies that are healthy, and for a body to be healthy is for it to be in good working order. For medicine to be healthy isn't for the medicine to be in good working order, it is for the medicine to have the power to put bodies into good working order. So here we clearly have two distinct but senses of "healthy". So let's consider an example of a syllogism. (1) If something is healthy, it is good. (2) This medicine is healthy. (3) Therefore, this medicine is good. Understand the occurrence of "healthy" in the first line as meaning healthy in the sense that bodies are healthy. Do we have a valid syllogism here? According to Thomists yes; according to Scotists and those who are suspicious of analogy no. 

The answer is "Not at all." The problem of other minds is a metaphysical and epistemological question: "How do I know that there are other minds?" I can directly observe behavior of other humans, but to infer mentality from behavior in the case of others is to make an inference, and therefore the question arises whether the inference is a good one. The question about The Other, so far as I can tell, is ethical. "What should I do to/for/with the Other?" Of course, the complicating factor is that sometimes authors like Levinas tend to make (seemingly implausible) claims about The Other that look metaphysical, like, "You can't be a self until you encounter an Other." I am not qualified to speak to what the reasons for such claims might be, however. EDIT Let me expand upon why I think the metaphysical claims that the encounter with the Other being a transcendental condition of the possibility of your own subjecthood is implausible. Doing so might help explain why analytic philosophers aren't inclined to think "the Other", as Lacan and Levinas describe it, is in fact a useful category at all. Here's the argument: (1) If encountering an other is a condition of the possibility of subjecthood, then you can't be a person without encountering the other. (2) But you can be a person without encountering the other. (3) Therefore, encountering the other is not a condition of the possibility of subject hood. (1) is just a definition that expresses the meaning of the phrase "condition of the possibility". We can support (2) in two different ways. First, by thinking of the case of severely autistic people. Autism is a spectrum disorder that involves impairment to one 'theory of mind' i.e. with one's ability to recognize and perceive that other people are people, as opposed to mere objects. At the far end of that spectrum, it looks like we have individuals who genuinely could not ever "encounter an other". Such individuals tend to suffer a number of really heart-breaking impairments, but it is obviously absurd to say that they aren't subjects at all. The second way that we could support (2) would be to appeal to conceivability/possibility arguments. Suppose you don't buy the autism case in the case of humans. Ok. If it is conceivable without contradiction that there exist any kind of subject (aliens, God, whatever) that does not encounter an other, then it is possible to be a subject without encountering an other, just as (2) says. (3) follows from (1) and (2) by modus ponens, so the argument is valid. It looks sound to me as well. I'll admit that I've never seen anybody explicitly run this argument in print, but I am quite certain it's the first thing that an analytically trained philosopher of mind reading Levinas is going to think. I would also be surprised if any argument like this had ever been published in the Levinas literature either---continental papers don't tend to criticize the great names in the canon, or object to their theses, or try to defend those theses from the objections of others. I'd be happy for somebody cite me an article to show I'm wrong in this case. 

This is kind of an old thread, but I want to post my $0.02 here too because most of the answers above don't really address the question--they advise one to read the history of philosophy, or they give lists oriented around continental philosophy. What I will do instead is give a list of some of the most important works a reading of which is necessary to understand the kind of mainstream analytic philosophy that is going on in the US, England, Australia and elsewhere today. I want to recommend two books. 

In that story B is suggesting that the lottery in which some become kings, some are executed, etc is an intensification of chance in the sense that makes the normal, chancy events of human life happen more quickly and in a single lifetime rather than over generations. There's nothing specially mathematical or philosophical about it. 

If what you want is a standard introduction to the philosophy of mind that includes both eliminativist and non-eliminitivist theories, then I recommend William Jaworski, "Philosophy of Mind," Blackwell 2012. It's an excellent, lucidly written guide to the literature. For more advanced books that are pushing a specifically eliminativist line, then you'll have to go look for work by the Churchlands. "Neurophilosophy" is a good read and I think it's still the usual place to go, even though it's now pretty old. 

The expression is meaningful, because the meaning of a sentence is a function of the meaning of its parts, as long as those parts are put together in the right way. "A and not-A" is a conjunction of "A" and "not A". A is a meaningful sentence, not-A is a meaningful sentence, and if you conjoin two meaningful sentences, you still get a meaningful sentence in return; hence "A and not-A" is meaningful, even when we mean exactly the same thing by "A" in both hands of the conjunction (avoiding the worries about indexicality you mention), it just happens to be false. Indeed, the sentence is necessarily false. But there's no general rule to the effect that necessary falsehoods are meaningless. Sometimes mathematical conjectures turn out to be false. But if a mathematical conjecture is false, it is necessarily false. But the research mathematicians who were working on the conjecture were clearly treating it as meaningful all along. A final example, consider a sentence that is a tautology rather than a contradiction: "A or not A." This sentence is true, and indeed necessarily true. But the fact that it is a necessary truth still entails that it is meaningful utterance to make, even if we don't often have occasion to utter tautologies in ordinary language very often.