This is also something to consider. If you can not experience whatever you experienced again and easily, it is a sign that it is not a jhana. 

special in that it is neither a main mind nor a mental factor realizes an apprehender (i.e. another consciousness) in a direct and non-dualistic way one entity with the consciousness it knows. 

Additionally, according to Prasangika, if a phenomena was inherently existent, then it would have to appear the way it exists (i.e. it would have a truly existent phenomena). According to Svatantrikas, however, conventional truths are empty of true existence (i.e. they do not exist the way they appear) but are not empty of inherent existence conventionally. When Prasangika say that a phenomena does not exist inherently, they mean that if you look for it with a mind analyzing the ultimate, you do not find it. Svatantrika mean something else, since they posit both that (1) they exist inherently and (2) they do not withstand ultimate analysis. In the introduction to Mipham's commentary to Shantarakshita, it says: 

In several instances, "reality" refers to "ultimate truth". You will find it so meaning in expressions such as "concealing reality", "seeing reality", "understanding or ascertaining the meaning of reality". It seems it is also how Sankha Kulathantille understood it, since he gave the Vaibhashika definition of ultimate truth. I will indicate how Geluk presentations of tenets (grub mtha') define ultimate truth in relation to different philosophical school. My main sources here are Jetsun Chokyi Gyaltsen's Presentation of Tenets and Geshe Sopa's Cutting Through Appearances. These sources are more "doxographical" than they are philosophical. Vaïbashika definition [of ultimate truth] : A phenomenon that is such that, if it were broken or mentally separated into parts, the mind apprehending that object would not cease. Ex.: directionally partless particles, temporally partless moments of consciousness, uncompounded space, any of the five aggreegates. Sautrantika definition: A phenomenon that is able to perform a function ultimately. Ex.: Any impermanent phenomenon. (That is to say an appearing object of a conceptual consciousness is not an ultimate truth, and a conceptual consciousness is necessarily mistaken with regard to its appearing object) Cittamatrin definition: That which is realized by means of a valid direct perceiver that realizes it clearly without dualistic appearance. Ex.: An emptiness that is a form and its form-apprehending valid cognizer’s emptiness of being other substances, and an emptiness that is a form’s emptiness of existing by way of its own characteristics as a base for assigning the term ‘form’. Madhyamika-Svatantrika definition: An object that is realized in a non-dualistic manner by the direct valid cognizer that directly realizes it. Ex.: A pot’s emptiness of true existence. Madhyamika-Prasangika definition: An object which is found by a valid cognizer analyzing the final mode of existence and with respect to which a valid cognizer analyzing the final mode of existence become a valid cognizer analyzing for the final mode of existence. Ex.: A pot’s emptiness of inherent existence. The Prasangika stand is, in brief: anytime a conventional truth appears to the mind of a sentient being (i.e. a non-buddha), it appears together with the appearance of inherent existence. Thus, all conventional cognizers in the continuum of a sentient being are mistaken with regard, not to the thing, but to the mode of existence [of things]. Innate ignorance is the mistaken conception of true existence that conceals reality (i.e. emptiness which is the absence of inherent existence) and is the opposite of wisdom directly realizing emptiness (which is the absence of inherent existence). 

Followed by a section where the word luminosity is used a lot, A vivid "visual" experience accompanied by a loud sound. The sound and "visual" are intangible as you do not have a body at this time. I do not know what to call this stage. The first day 

In most traditions of Buddhism there is talk of the Buddha, or various Bodhisattvas talking about their past lives. At what point in the path to enlightenment is the ability to remember ones past lives gained? 

While this answer might be controversial on this site I myself have struggled with this question for a long time. This is my perspective, nothing more. The answer is no, currently, there is not a proof of karma or reincarnation that I have found to be convincing. However, the inverse is also true... there is not a proof that eliminates the possibility of karma or reincarnation that I have found to be convincing. The conclusion I came to was that the timetables involved of lifetimes of rebirth made it impossible to set up an experiment that proved the issue one way or another. Believe me, I tried, for ~3 years I made myself the experiment. It was an existential adventure I do not regret. Now it is said that some people after a certain point in the path remember all their past lives, and to them, that would be a personal proof. But to me it is anecdotal, and I could not accept it as proof unless I myself experienced it. Even if I experienced it myself, I would not consider it a proof for other people for the same reasons. 

By looking for "phenomena are of one taste", and "in emptiness, everything has one taste", you might find additional material. 

You can think of it this way: you enter a crowded room, you look at people and you immediately have “I like this one... I like that one... I don't like this one... and so forth” in dependence upon pleasant and unpleasant feelings. There also will be plenty of people you will not have really noticed, you are indifferent to, your attention wasn't drawn towards, because of neutral feelings. Another more abstract examples of arising of neutral feeling (which is other than neither-pleasant-nor-unpleasant feeling arising in the 4th concentration of the form realm) is: the conception of the body as permanent , that produces neutral feeling and increases ignorance. Tsongkhapa also adds in the Lam Rim Chen Mo that: 

Effortless Action: Wu-wei As Conceptual Metaphor. By Slingerland. Yongming Yanshou's Conception of Chan, by Albert Welter. Collected Works of Chinul, Robert E. Buswell Jr. 

There are four terminological divisions of nirvana, and none of them is mara. Non-duality does not mean “that opposing terms depend upon each other”. Rather, we posit three types of dualistic appearances : 

In other words, dream-blue is not actual blue. It is not form but phenomena source. Thus, 'seeing blue' in a dream is the function of a mental consciousness and one is not actually seeing. 

Since this question is epistemological, I will speak of knowers rather than objects of knowledge. The Mahayana abhidharma defines seven types of consciousnesses. Lati Rinpoche says: 

I feel like this is a good place to start. I've also heard it translated as the "in-between" the state between states if you will. In my question however I was specifically asking about From death, which the Tibetan Buddhists will always be kind enough to remind you is a certainty in life... , what directions can you "flow" through your karmic river? Not a trivial question, and for schools outside of the Mahayana, sometimes deemed a meaningless question. At which point both schools tend to stagnate in circles of missing each others points. Continuing from the commentary though I will go through the stages in order. 

Some kind of increase in intelligence and awareness is described here...Exact details aren't written here, but it seems to be of some magnitude, and I have heard in one lecture 9x the living intellect is assumed. 

No. Consider the phrase "revenge is like a boomarang, it just keeps coming back" In fact from a karmic view point revenge is just ensuring you will experience like in the future. 

An audio class on it can be found here. Typed notes of this audio lecture can be found here A useful chart can be found here. It is in the reading as well, but in a less readable format. The Tibetans believed that the purification of karma was possible. The Karmic Purification process has 4 steps. There is a class on that too on the same site. (acidharma.org) I will provide a brief summary of the process. The first step is to take refuge in the 3 jewels, in your knowledge of karma and emptiness. I will not go to into depth on this step. The second step is called "Destruction Force" 

To summarize, nirvana depends on factors that it is not, and without which it would not exist. You can apply this to any phenomena, including permanent phenomena: the person depends on factors (the body, consciousnesses, etc) that the person is not, but without which the person wouldn't be what it is. 

The wisdom truth body, which is the omniscient mind of a buddha. As it is a mind, it is impermanent, it is compounded The nature truth body, which is the emptiness of the omniscient mind of a buddha. As it is an emptiness - suchness without defilement - it is permanent and uncompounded 

There is Pa-auk Forest Monastery in Myanmar (Burma). A good friend just spent a year there. He did a fair amount of research before settling for Myanmar and he also spent months in a temple in Thailand beforehand. According to him, various monks from Korea as well as Sri Lanka, etc. go to Myanmar thinking that qualified Dharma teachers are difficult to come by in their countries. It seems likes "The place to be." He also said that "Most practitioners require between three and eight years of dedicated effort to obtain the full set of jhanas." I do not know much about Pa-Auk though. For instance, I do not know whether they train lay people as well. 

In addition, according to Mahayana, a buddha obtained the four bodies (kayas). There are ways of dividing the kayas into two, three, four, or five but we generally speak of four. A buddha has a mental body that is seen only by Mahayana aryas and that teaches them only the Mahayana Dharma. It is called Enjoyment body (Sambhogakāya). A buddha has body that is seen even by ordinary beings and this is the Emanation body (Nirmanakaya). We say that Shakyamuni Buddha was a supreme emanation body because he taught he possessed the 32 marks and the 80 signs. A buddha has an omniscient mind that we call "wisdom truth body". It gives birth to the teachings that emanate from it, like the rays of the sun emanate from the sun. It is by emanating in this way that he benefits all sentient beings (even though not all sentient beings interact with his teachings, but that is another subject of debate.) 

The manji (Japanese Buddhism) is said to represent love and mercy, in certain situations. This symbol should not be confused with the swastika, which is completely different. 

It is worth noting, in conjunction with the other answers provided, that the fetus in question is going through karma from it's past lives in a scenario like this. 

Now, this can be seen in the Tibetian Wheel of Life Illustration, but I do not have the memory or resources to know if any sutras flat out say it. I think it is worth noting that the drop from heaven to hell is not guaranteed by even this belief, as it is in accordance with the "individuals" karma. However in most cases after a birth in heaven, the next rebirth will tend to be in the lower realms, either animal, hungry ghost, or hell being. 

I once read a commentary by a Rinpoche talking about how the karma of killing a single fly grew at an exponential rate. Since negative karma grows so quickly, what actions, and what amount of those actions, makes rebirth in a hell realm inevitable? 

In general, the process of the Bardo can last between 7 - 49 days with a chance of rebirth or liberation every 7 days. Depending on your friend's knowledge of the Bardo he could either still be in the Bardo, or in the process of seeing his next life / being reborn / in utero. 

In Buddhism there are different levels of motivation, on the "lower" levels of motivation are the range of goals to escape suffering for oneself only. In "higher" scopes of motivation there is the goal to not only escape suffering, but to help others escape as well. The "highest" scope would be a goal to help all beings escape suffering (Bodhichitta) I put the words lower, higher, and highest in parenthesis as they are what I believe to be part of a false critique the mahayana/vajrayana holds of the other schools. In reality the other schools are a prereq to even attempting Mahayana practices in most cases. I don't like or agree with the critique but it helps to explain. The Bodhisattva vows and the goal of the higher schools could be considered a mission. But is not a requirement in Buddhism.