Assumption 1 is almost impossible to guarantee. I fell into that trap when I first got started on Nietzsche. Your best bet, short of investing in reading the original, is making sure that you examine several (as independent from each other as possible) sources on the same topic/philosopher. The originals are usually cheaper than the modern guides to them, because the copyrights have expired. In my case, on the Amazon Kindle, the originals are free, compared to modern commentary on them which can be quite pricey. Try to go through some overview courses on a specific topic, then choose which original you want to read. You won't be able to cover everything in one lifetime. I am sure that you can find short lists of necessary reads for a given topic. 

In purely formal logic Joe's and Alice's claims are invalid. In the real world, when the existence of something would very likely have caused evidence about it to be available, and no evidence is available, then that is a strong indicator of non-existence. This is what's implied by Bob's claim when it's interpreted as being about the real world. That's because you know that in the real world the existence of unicorns would likely have produced a lot of evidence about them. There would have been a whole industry providing unicorn pictures and stories etc. to fans of unicorns. I.e. the feeling of different strengths of arguments stem from interpreting the claims not as pure logic where the statements are all that is, but as real-world claims, with associated facts and inferences. To formalize this I think one would need to replace the word "evidence", which has different meanings in the real word and in pure logic, with e.g. "reports". Then one can say (P1) if unicorns exist then the probability of having seen at least one unicorn-existence-report would be >0.998, (P2) if unicorns don't exist the probability of having seen at least one unicorn-non-existence report would be <0.001. And with these (or other better) probabilities one can reason about the above Joe and Alice claims. 

Assuming you can engage in any form of logical debate with a racist at all, you will have 2 possible approaches: 

When did it do so and what result or publication marked the event? Is it really the latest? What about social studies, anthropology? are they not considered sciences (especially if psychology is)? Is psychology really a science at all? Does is make accurate testable or falsifiable predictions? 

As Jo Wehler pointed out, Quantum Mechanics made Laplace's demon impossible based on empirical evidence. But if we ignore QM, your line of reasoning becomes very interesting: Isn't there a contradiction in the fact that if Laplace's demon could predict future events, she could also changes those events based on that knowledge so that the prediction is invalidated? In fact mathematician David Woplert used reasoning similar to yours to prove that Laplace's demon is impossible, no matter which laws of physics govern the universe. In a nutshell, he proved that no entity could ever fully predict a universe that it is part of. The only way Laplace's demon could pull this off is if they were outside of the universe (whatever outside of the uinverse means). The idea is the following: Both observation and prediction are formalized in the concept of inference device, and he defines strong (i.e. universal) inference devices and self aware inference devices. Using what he calls inference complexity, he shows that there are limits to what such devices can predict, similar to the way the halting problem shows the limits of universal Turing machines. His result is analogous in a way to Godel's "No theory can prove it's own consistency", in that he shows that no universe can completely predict itself (since physical inference devices are embedded within this universe). Here's the original article and a general explanation of the idea. 

Not quite arbitrary association 1: PβQ≡Q can be viewed as a special case of an indexing operation choose(F,P,Q)≡Q and choose(T,P,Q)≡P. I.e., the first argument decides which of the two following arguments should be the result. All binary logical functions can be expressed in terms of such indexing, e.g. P∧Q≡choose(P,Q,F). And this connection is used in many scripting languages to represent the result of a logical expression as one of the argument objects. E.g., in Javascript, IIRC, 

Not quite arbitrary association 2: In pixel based graphics there is an operation that takes an area of one image, and an area of another, and applies an arbitrary bit-level combination specified as a truth table. It was a result of the Smalltalk project at Xerox Parc, where it was identified as one of the crucial elements required to implement a graphical user interface. At that time it was called “bitblt”, short for “bit block transfer”, and e.g. the Windows API has a function, plus a number of variations & extensions. 

A clarification based on some of the answers I've received: I'm not looking for the psychological factors that cause people to hold such beliefs, or a pragmatic method of dealing with them. I am asking about the epistemic grounds for refuting them and considering their views invalid, given the underdetermination of data, although obviously there could be overlap between such epistemic justification and the pragmatic solution to dealing with them. 

From an epistemology point of view, is there a difference between "knowing" and "understanding"? How would one represent the ability to internalize a concept? How does reality have to be mirrored in the mind, beyond a simple linguistic correspondence for a concept to be internalized, for a person to get it? Does this "understanding" vs "knowing" difference strengthen John Searle's Chinese room argument against strong A.I.? Have any philosophers worked on this issue? 

1) John Searle: “I don’t read much philosophy, it upsets me when I read the nonsense written by my contemporaries”, in an interview with New Philosopher Jan 25th 2014. 

Several organized or semi-organized groups of people in the world have really horrendous ideas, and react disproportionally strongly to any critique. I think most readers can agree with that statement, although we might disagree about which groups constitute examples of this. My set of such groups currently include militant Islamists like ISIS, the far right and far left political fringes in the West, the fanatically pro-Israeli (who tend to label any criticism as anti-Semitic), the fanatic Palestinians, and, yes, the typical modern day philosophers who, according to highly respected philosopher John Searle, make a living producing a lot of (quote) (1)“nonsense”. Now my general approach to such groups is to not accept or bow to their rules. 

I usually scoff at mentions of QM in philosophy discussions. Most of the time they are a sign that the discussion is going to head into Deepak Chopra territory very soon. But the question you asked might be the one case where it would be justified to invoke Quantum Strangeness: One might be able to reconcile a universe governed by the laws of science with a god having the ability to intervene at will in its course of affairs by allowing the deity to intervene via quantum indeterminacy. The randomness of quantum outcomes might be the one place where a deity could nudge the universe into the direction it wanted to move in. A similar form of interventionism might be implemented via statistical mechanics and thermodynamics, with the deity intervening, Maxwell's demon like, to cause statistically improbable but still mathematically possible outcomes and stir the universe in that fashion. 

In other news, … I find it noteworthy that the notion of practically irreducible complexity is not one of the "two positions" you list, namely (1) the supernatural and (2) the view that some things just can't be understood. If there ever was false dichotomy it must be this, with both branches just childish nonsense. Is it really true that modern adult philosophers in general think one has to choose between the childish nonsense options (1) and (2)? 

E.g. I don't accept that criticism of Israel is criticism of Jews or is anti-Semitic. And e.g. I don't accept that one should discourage people from drawing caricatures of Mohammed. And in particular I don't accept that one should refrain from calling a spade a spade when it comes to nonsense philosophy . For example, I think it's right and necessary to dismiss Kurt Gödel's proof of the Christian faith's god as nonsense (it can be applied to any other incompatible god), and idiotic nonsense at that, but that doesn't mean that it would be right to say that Gödel, a mathematical genius if there ever was one, was dumb or idiotic. Geniuses can maintain idiotic things, and as I see it, I should not be so afraid of being labeled this and that that I should in any way refrain from treating the idiotic nonsense with the simple lack of respect that it does deserve, while treating the man with the enormous respect that he truly deserves (in particular for his completeness theorems, and his incompleteness theorems). Of course, in the case of groups such as ISIS, the individual persons will probably not deserve any respect; I'm not dogmatic about respecting people. I guess that there must be some established philosophy about this, and I guess that I would have to go in that direction in order to frame a useful question that can be simply answered, instead of as in philosophy, discussed. So, tentatively I'm asking if the approach outlined about is morally defensible?