Print your faces and stick on cardboard. They last a lot longer. Waterproof paper might help if you're planning to shoot in not so fair weather. 

As other aspects of Archery, there is no rule of the thumb to choose release aids. I don't use trigger release but a back tension one. If we compare all types of release aids, you would have a few different options to try and choose from but narrowing down to thumb/trigger releases, I'd say the best you can do is to try a few different ones from friends that use them. Archery shops could also have a few to try. Personally, I'd go for the cheapest to start. :) 

If you want to go the DIY route, use a stationary/bench grinder. These often have adjustable guides to help you set an angle equal to the original. After getting the angle back on both sides of the knife and getting rid of all the dents in the blade you can use a whetstone to sharpen the rest of the knife. 

I use a 'pod' hammock tent for backpacking and enjoy it a lot. This bigger tree tent wouldn't be for backpacking but for car camping with friends or family. Sleeping in a suspended tent is clean, dry and more comfortable then sleeping on the ground. (everything being subject to your own opinion) 

I used to have a Subaru Forester Turbo. I crossed rivers, drove up on mountains covered in snow (no chains), 4x4 tracks where other "passagers" car would be struggle. Driving up the mountain to the sky field, people where parking down the mountain while a 4wd was picking up people and taking up to the sky field. I remember the guy saying, "you will struggle to get there" and I reply "that is enough for me" :) The bottom line is, I knew the car and what I was doing (mostly :) ) and I have experience with Utes off road. Driving off road, you go as far as you think you can. You will build up experience and go further next time. Just don't be silly to go to far and get stuck... It might be a long walk back. 

I've seen people use a soldering iron and a piece kf abs plastic to repair tears in the hull but the best answer is short and simple to use for small holes: epoxy putty. just follow instructions on the packaging, fill the hole with a small (few mm) overlap inside and out and if you want sand down when hard and paint. 

Just to add to Liams answer: Plan your trip and search for natural campsites (so don't go for the busy familily and tourist ones). I found they mostly have two parts, one open-ish field and a forest part with 'normal' tree spacing. Since I mostly go car camping I will often hang one side of my hammock of the roof of my jeep thus requiring one less tree. You should also consider using a tree protector of some sorts (a dirty t-shirt does the trick), this get's any tree huggers at ease. People (and most importantly the grounds keeper) never seem to mind it that much, they'll more often be intrigued about my setup then annoyed. Happy camping! 

Backpacks are primarily designed to be carried out therefore they need to be light. They also need to be tough so they can endure the trips the specified weights for a long time. Although we do get rained out every now and again no one plans a trip around raining days (Oh look, it's raining let's go hiking). So it's more "efficient" to keep the packs light using a lighter material and just put a simple rain cover in case of rain than make the packs heavier with waterproof material. There are waterproof packs in the market. I own a couple myself. My petzl portage 30 looks more like a drybag with shoulder straps but I use that one specific for canyoning. I also have a my hiking/trekking pack that uses c-canvas that is waterproof but then my pack weights 3kgs alone. Cactus Foray My wife has an Osprey Ariel 50 and it's a whole kg lighter than mine. Even if we compare a pack the same size as mine (70L), the Osprey one still a good 800gr lighter and that includes the cover that comes with the pack. So, in summary... 

I always keep a folded parka or thick contractor garbage bag in the bottom of my pack - rain or shine. My pack is designed such that I can get into the bottom through a zipper quickly. Find any way to suspend it above you. Put two sticks in it on the sides and hold the sticks up. Or I prefer to tie/tuck one end on the top of my pack and hold it up the front while I pack on down the trail. 

I really hate to mention Walmart but I saw a collapsible rod for gear fishing there that collapses down to about 16" and extends to around 5'. It was really light and I think it cost about $20. I had one of these a while back and it worked great on hikes. At $20 I felt comfortable taking it out hiking without the fear of breaking it. You'll also need a lightweight reel, a couple small rooster tails, and a hook. Use what ever bait and weight you can find in the environment. Trout love grasshoppers and beetles. Usually mountain lakes are small and have smaller trout in them so you don't need anything heavy duty. Tenkara is great for streams but I wouldn't want to fish from the shore of a lake with one. 

There it is. You get one of those and you can bake anything you want. I've used before and it's awesome. Edit --- Just updated with a link to MEC website. They seem to have it in stock Outback oven Below is how it works. 

Chest guards works as the same of arm guards. It protects the archer from get the sting from the string. Although, when an archer shoots his/her arm, it's more likely it's related to his/her form while shooting his/her chest is a natural body shape fact. (not an actual problem, just as it is.) It's also very commonly used by girls for obvious reason but some guys with a slightly longer draw length might use it as well. 

I almost never leave my DSLR behind, when hiking, biking or climbing I use both a camera sling and a small (as possible) camera bag. The bag fits just my camera with attached lens, some spare batteries and one or two circular filters. I have the sling attached to the side of the body of the camera instead of the bottom. Both straps are padded and allow for some comfort, when the camera is in the bag I simply leave the sling attached. This allows me to unzip the bag and take out the camera without any risk of it falling. I found it best to have the bag carrying the weight of the camera when it's inside and leave the sling a bit longer. 

I've tanned some hides before. I believe you want to do only half the process otherwise you lose the fur. Basically, you flay the animal (remove the skin). Then wash all the blood and stuff. Get it nice and clean and let it dry. I found direct sun dried is better. Also, if you can tie it up really stretched it will be better. It's not a very complex process but you need to keep an eye to see how it goes. It's kind of like cooking, after you get the idea you know when it's good. Practice takes you to perfection. :)