Quoted in Dallek and also in Manuel E. Falcon, Bay of Pigs and the Cuban Missile Crisis Dulles 'resignation' was accepted on November 29. Kennedy had inherited Dulles from President Eisenhower, who had appointed him in 1953, and had kept him on despite the 'embarrassment' of the 1960 U-2 incident. Although Dulles 'left quietly', 

The crusades do seem an obvious place to look - but also monarchs going to the Holy Land on a pilgrimage. One such was Eric I of Denmark who died in Paphos, Cyprus in 1103. 

HISTORICAL (NAMED) ANIMALS Alexander the Great, in addition to naming numerous cities after himself, also named cities after his horse, Bucephalus, (example: Alexandria Bucephalous and Phalia), and one city after his dog, Peritas. This is also cited by John Kistler: 

Later the same year, Augustus’ nephew Marcellus fell ill. He was given the same treatment by the same doctor (Musa) as his uncle but did not survive. Musa must have seen similar symptoms and Rome was in the grip of an epidemic so it wouldn’t be a surprise if uncle and nephew got it too (whatever it was). On the other hand, if uncle and nephew suffered from the same illness, it seems strange that the younger, healthier man should die – but then Augustus lived to the then ripe old age of 75 so he must have been pretty tough despite all his afflictions. 3. A combination of work stress and a lifetime of poor health. Werner Eck, in The Age of Augustus suggests that Augustus’ illness may have been work-related. 

cited in Jeffrey Meyers, Orwell: Life and Art and this private use is most graphically illustrated by his gravestone: 

For Toghril / Ong Khan, there was not just the fact that Temujin (and his two brothers who were also accepted as ‘foster sons’ at the same time) was the son of his anda; he was also a young man with a growing reputation for daring and initiative. Toghril had plenty of enemies, including members of his own family, and saw enough in Temujin to offer him the leadership of a group of young warriors (which Temujin declined). Accepting Temujin proved to be a smart move for, when Toghril was later deposed by an uncle, Temujin helped him regain his position. Prior to that, Toghril had helped Temujin when his wife had been taken captive. 

There are a number of references to European mercenaries serving in various Muslim armies, but in most cases it is unclear whether any of them were knights and many of the examples are after the start of the Crusades. However, one good example of Christian knights serving a Muslim ruler is this one 

Exercise was thus not just recommended for athletes, but for everyone. Anton Powell, in Athens and Sparta: Constructing Greek Political and Social History from 478 BC, cites Xenophon's Oikonomikos, in which he relates this to housewives; those who want to be the 'model wife' are 

Detailed answer Many of the African political leaders who emerged in the 1940s & 1950s (e.g. Felix Houphouet-Boigny in Cote d'Ivoire and Sekou Toure in Guinea) were charismatic figures who were seen to stand up to the colonial powers on issues of vital concern to the local populations. 

Source: R. Cribb & A. Kahin – Historical Dictionary of Indonesia Things improved when the Dutch government took over but it was only in 1860 that secondary schools (HBS) and in 1867 that European Lower Schools (ELS) were set up. These followed the Dutch curriculum and enabled graduates to attend universities in the Netherlands. Although aimed at Dutch residents’ children, in 1891 the ELS allowed Indonesians and 1,870 had enrolled by 1900. However, only those from upper class, wealthy backgrounds could attend. Whether they were segregated or not is unclear but it seems likely as (referring to the new First Schools set up for Indonesians in 1907 to relieve the pressure on the ELS) 

Universities in Europe changed little during the early modern period and, in many respects, resembled the institutions of the late medieval period. 

Source: Cristina González and Funie Hsu, Education and Empire: Colonial Universities in Mexico, India and the United States Thus, the Spanish saw educating the 'locals' as a way of strengthening their empire. To this end, they set up universities in their colonies. Following the reconquest of the Iberian peninsula from the Muslims, the Spanish had set up universities in towns like Sevilla and Osuna (among others). Thus, the Spanish 

Note: Although the article does not state it, this did not include the Kingdom of England. Unfortunately for Friso, five of the seven Dutch provinces did not follow William III's will so his 

SHORT ANSWER Most battles were short and thus the shield did not have to be held for long in combat. Also, Spartans who survived the training which began in early childhood were extremely tough both physically and mentally. Lastly, most historians of ancient Greek warfare have estimated that the shield used in classical times weighed between 13.5 lbs / 6.12 kgs and 18 lbs / 8.16 kgs (i.e. 30 lbs is most likely an extreme limit, if not an exaggeration). 

Two others from whom Kennedy sought advice were his long-time friend John Kenneth Galbraith and Dean Acheson. Galbraith told the President that 

By Mentnafunangann (Own work) [CC BY-SA 3.0 ($URL$ via Wikimedia Commons Impressive though this tunnel is, Seneca seems to have had a rather dim view of it: 

It is possible that Germany obtained a very small amount of US-controlled oil exports from (1) neutral ships seized by Germany, and (2) from Spain, but in neither case could one say that the US government 'helped' or 'assisted' in supplying oil to Germany during WWII. The 'Russian guy on BBC Radio 5' may have got his 'information' from a Charles Higham book which makes various claims about US businesses in Nazi Germany. I've commented on this at the end of my answer. 

Is there anything in the historical record to tell us how long it took news of the sighting of the Spanish Armada to get from Land’s End to London? If not, has anyone with an in-depth knowledge of the Elizabethan beacon system, the terrain, the weather and any other relevant factors come up with an estimate? 

If the first statement is referring to the Aesculapium on Tiber Island, then the second statement doesn't make much sense as the Aesculapium was built in 293 BC, and it appears that others soon followed. Concerning medical facilities for Roman citizens (and others?), it was not until 219 BC that the state seems to have done anything in the way of funding (though that is not to say that medical care was not available to those who could afford it): 

when the news reached London on the 20th of January 1774. Thus, the ‘average British person’ would probably not even have known about it when it was first reported. Further, even if he / she did see or hear about the reports, the significance of the Boston Tea Party would not have been immediately evident to most people and would not have appeared to be as serious as the 1770 Boston Massacre which involved loss of life, or perhaps even the Gaspee Affair of 1772 when a Royal Navy ship was looted and burned. This, as already noted by the OP, was not the case with Parliament, where the majority of MPs’ reaction was to support stern measures against the Bostonians. Parliament, though, was concerned with protecting its own authority and was not elected by a representative cross-section of the British population, voters being males over 21 who met minimum property requirements. In the election of October – November 1774, even this limited electorate (unlike those they elected) had other priorities: 

Source: Deac Rossell, Exploding Teeth, Unbreakable Sheets and Continuous Casting: Nitrocellulose from Gun-cotton to Early Cinema With the onset of World War I and the resulting loss of industrial production and shortages of raw materials, requisitioning was common in all the European countries at war. Melies was by this time bankrupt and no longer producing films, his career derailed by his failure to adapt to changing tastes, the death of his brother and business partner and brother, and a series of bad business decisions. 

As if being called 'Lackland' and 'Softsword' was not bad enough, King John also acquired the very unflattering-sounding name 'Dollheart'. This is mentioned on this University of Sheffield page, in this blog and also in this article Royal Nicknames. None of them, though, give any further information. The Wikipedia page John, King of England doesn't even mention 'Dollheart'. When did John acquire this name, and do we know who first used it? It might also be worth confirming if the 'doll' part is a reference to the children's toy, or if it has some other meaning. 

Of course, this did not go unnoticed in Germany. Writing on the Hamburg raids of July/August 1943, Richard J. Evans states: 

The numbers involved in Viking raids on 9th and 10th century England are not easy to gauge, but it is possible to come up with some estimates. First though, it is useful to get a clearer overall picture of the raids. DIFFERENT PHASES OF RAIDS AND THEIR FREQUENCY AND SCALE According M & H. Whittock in ‘The Viking Blitzkrieg AD 789 – 1098’ (referring to England): 

At the time of his death Friso was, technically at least, still William III's heir. His posthumous son, William IV, was born six weeks later and, in 1747 became the first hereditary stadtholder of all the provinces. 

Is there anything in the historical record about whether the well pre-dates the pump (i.e. the water was brought up with buckets on a rope)? Also, for how long has it had a thatched roof? 

My reason for asking this (perhaps seemingly obscure) question is that I spent much of my childhood in this village. Unfortunately, none of the people I knew there at the time are still there (and I now live on the other side of the world).