This means that homeopathy has been shown to be no different from a placebo (i.e. a negative control treatment). This implies that the only effects generated by the homeopathic "treatment" are due to the placebo, and not the "treatment" itself. As mentioned in the comments, from a chemical viewpoint, any dilution above 12C contains such a low dilution that no molecules of the original chemical remain in the supposed "medicine", and therefore there is no scientific basis for homeopathy being a plausible remedy. IMO, the best counter to any homeopath is that tap water is an unimaginably strong homeopathic remedy of literally everything possible, including dinosaurs. 

The existence of the lawsuit was also verified this time by Johnson & Johnson itself on its corporate site. It officially denied that the two forms of contact lenses are identical, but settled the lawsuit anyway: 

I recently saw this Reddit comment claiming that roosters are seen as gallant because they let their hens eat first: 

I recently found this video, which purports to show the Muslim cleric Bandar al-Khaibari denying heliocentrism. $URL$ I am skeptical that the person depicted in the video is actually displaying such an egregious degree of ignorance of physics, and find it more likely that the video was either mistranslated or taken out of context. There were a number of sources covering the issue, but all of them seemed to depend on that one single translation. Is the translation of this video valid, given the context in which the cleric was speaking? 

An older article lists various doctors and tube drivers salaries together. The chart says that tube drivers earn £50k - £60k per year but the source says: 

This is a case of cherry picking. You have chosen the highest number on the page, regardless of its relevance and failed to mention that in the same group in following years the ratio was reversed. More people who were not given the advice died than those who were given it in some time periods. The paper includes comments on this table: 

A blog post by Zoë Harcombe details a long list of problems with the conclusions of this study. She doesn't raise any problems with the methodology of the study, just the conclusions that have been drawn from it. Specifically to answer your question, no protein does not increase the risk of cancer. The study only claims that it does within a certain age group and within the other age group, it is actually associated with a lower risk of cancer. Many conclusions can be drawn from the study but only the ones that make animal protein sound bad actually were, which is suspicious: 

The Center for Immigration Studies released a study in 2009 which makes the claim given in the question. Its claim was misquoted (as 57/76 instead of 57% of 76): 

This Facebook post by 9gag.com makes the claim that customers of A&W thought that A&W's 1/3 pound burgers weighed less than McDonald's 1/4 pound burgers, and preferred to buy the McDonald's burgers due to them thinking that a 1/4 pound burger has more meat than a 1/3 pound burger. 

This image from Facebook claims that "George Bush had America on autopilot for more than a year", followed by a number of presidential vacation days for various American presidents, with the Democrat presidents (Obama: 160, Clinton: 174) having less than half the vacation days as the Republican presidents (Bush: 405, Reagan: 349). 

Due to the difficulty of performing research on this topic, all the sources cited in this answer derive from anti-government sources, as the extent of censorship in China makes it very difficult, if not impossible, to obtain information from official sources. While it is impossible to prove that nobody executed during the 1989 Tiananmen protests had bullet fees charged to their relatives, it is unlikely that any such cases existed in a verifiable manner, due to there being no mention of incidents in 1989 from multiple anti-governmental secondary sources. If such a case existed, it would reasonably be widely communicated as another example of governmental brutality. That being said, however, the bullet fee practices of the Chinese government have been well documented by various sources, most cases of which occurred during the Cultural Revolution period. For example, this article from the Hong Kong based Epoch Times cites a number of cases where a bullet fee was charged to relatives, none of which occurred in the vicinity of the 1989 protests. The tone of this article clearly shows that the writer is anti-government, and therefore is unlikely to omit cases of bullet fees being charged during the 1989 protests that were known to him. 

Elsewhere, a specific value for top of the salary scale for tube drivers is listed as £49,673. ASLEF (the train driver's union) lists it as £48,133 Various sources state that London Tube drivers salaries do not change based on the time spent in the role. The chart states that doctors work "min 48" hours per week however the source document says 48 hours per week in one part and the maximum is 48 hours further down the page. 

This also implies that you do not have a license to practice medicine until after the two-year foundation programme which makes calling the salary you earn during this time a starting salary inaccurate. The source states directly after the starting salaries: 

The sources appear to be these for train driver and hospital doctor. Neither of the source documents are specific to London, these are for hospital doctors and generic train drivers across the entire United Kingdom, not specifically London Tube drivers or London doctors. NHS employees in inner London get 20% extra pay up to a maximum of £6,342. Outer London NHS employees get 15% extra. The chart says the "starting salary" for a doctor is £22,636 but the source says this salary is for a "junior hospital trainee". Immediately after that figure it says: 

The LA Weekly's piece on Ray Bradbury (which includes an interview) corroborates the claim that Ray Bradbury walked out on a college lecture where he was misinterpreted: 

This article from the Telegraph makes the claim that Adolf Hitler's infamous manifesto, Mein Kampf is a bestseller in the Palestinian territories: 

Additionally, she claims that the language does contain a (vulgar) word for the vagina, and that technical words for the vagina exist. 

It has been hypothesised from experimental evidence that the shorter syllable lengths of words in Chinese allow one to memorise larger numbers than one would otherwise be able to in English (all Chinese number terms from 1-10 are monosyllabic) 

Regarding your second question, according to EnergyTransition.de quoting Agora Energiewende, the renewable power production reached 95% during noon on 8th May 2016, driven by the massive amounts of solar energy production. 

They then clarified their intent in their press release (emphasis mine), which implies that the Bible defined marriage as involving three goats and a cow. However, they did not provide a Bible citation for that claim. 

In the years where the number of attacks was not broken down by religion, the number of deaths was, and it always exceeded 50%. While the breakdown by number of attacks was not stated in the reports from 2005-2008, they stated in their 2010 report that Sunni terrorists made 60% of attacks in 2010, and caused 70% of all terrorism-related deaths.: 

Amongst other errors such as severely underestimating the value for the carbon footprint of the car's manufacture. They also suggest that the authors have not included "indirect impact like roads, bridges, and fuel infrastructure." An article on Grist compounds up all these errors and adds a few more to calculate that the book authors are off by a factor of 18. 

The Car Connection points out that the book authors have used a yearly travel distance that is around half the U.S national average: 

As you can see, the answer "No religion" is trending upwards at around 10% per decade. Christianity is trending downwards at about the same rate. The total of the categories "No religion", "Object to answering" and "Not stated" is at around 50% of the population in New Zealand. Christianity makes up about 43% of the total population in New Zealand. If the rates stay constant, we would expect that after 36 years, the percentage of Christians in New Zealand will have dropped by 36% which would leave 8% of the population left as Christians. The same would be true for the No Religion group in the reverse direction, going up by 36% to 74%. The percentage of non-Christian religions has been growing over the last four censuses, however the rate of change is smaller than the other two groups. At about 2% per decade, by 2050 they would make up 13% of the population, outnumbering Christians. From this simple projection, they along with the "Object to answering" and "Not stated" groups would make up the remainder of the population. This is a simple projection from existing trends and is not highly likely to be precisely correct however it does suggest that the prediction of less than 10% religious by 2050 is close to what we should expect. 

In any case, the most comprehensive study I was able to find is Pharmacologically screened aphrodisiac plant-A review of current scientific literature Patel DK, Kumar R, Prasad SK, Hemalatha S - 28 June 2011 which reviews the studies about 30+ plants a and concludes with : 

Anyway, I would like to point out that the primary hazard is chemical and not radioactive (from the same page) 

and Antioxidant, anti-inflammatory, and antimicrobial properties of garlic and onions (abstract only) 

It appears that the research on the subject is still quite active, and pretty much inconclusive. For example, I present the case of the studies regarding the Tribulus terrestris : Aphrodisiac properties of Tribulus Terrestris extract (Protodioscin) in normal and castrated rats - K Gauthaman, P.G Adaikan, R.N.V Prasad - 9 August 2002 

regarding this case in particular the claim that he survived for two months on snow alone is somewhat contested. Swedish man was not trapped in his car 

I would add that some doctors are forwarding a kind of hibernation theory regarding survival in low temperatures, as in the case of Mitsutaka Uchikoshi Injured hiker survived 24 days on mountain by 'hibernating' 

Yes, DNA sequencing labs monitor sequences ordered for certain "sequences of concern". At least two gene synthesis companies claim to follow the U.S. governmental Screening Framework Guidance for Synthetic Double-stranded DNA Providers, which recommends that providers screen both customers and sequences, and that they ask additional questions if a potentially dangerous DNA sequence is ordered: 

I found these images on this image aggregator, which states that the photo credit is unknown for both images. The tortoises are implied to have become deformed from growing up inside the rings of plastic. Are these images authentic, and is it in fact possible for tortoises to become deformed in such a manner? 

According to the American National Counterterrorism Center (NCTC), the majority of terrorist deaths with known perpetrators worldwide between 2005 to 2010 were caused by Sunni Muslim terrorists. For years where it also reported the number of attacks (2009-2010), Sunni Muslim terrorist attacks also made up a majority. The NCTC used to publish yearly reports via the Worldwide Incidents Tracking System (WITS), which indicated the religion group of perpetrators of terrorist attacks worldwide. This service was discontinued in 2012, however all of their reports have been archived. For the purposes of this analysis, the NCTC used the following definition of "terrorist": 

According to CyberBunker, a Dutch Police SWAT team attempted a raid on their property but were so unsuccessful in gaining entry that staff didn't even notice the attempts until they reviewed the security footage later that afternoon. After the DDoS attacks aimed at Spamhaus last year, many stories were written about CyberBunker which repeated this claim. 

It is likely that they did a simple projection of the current trends into the future to make this prediction. On the regular census that the New Zealand Government runs, they ask each citizen what their religious affiliation is. Here are the results for the last four censuses. 

The results showed that high protein diets are associated with higher life expectancy in over-65s. This means that low protein diets must be associated with lower life expectancy since the average over the entire data set was no association: 

The future is difficult to predict which is why we tend to avoid it here at Skeptics. These trends show what will happen if the forces at work do not change and the rates stay constant. Predicting for certain that the rates will stay constant until 2050 is beyond the abilities of science. 

However, this claim is unsourced, and this The Straight Dope article claims that there is no proof that this theory is correct. 

Microsoft claims in their Windows 10 press release that drawing diagrams leads to 36% higher scores when solving science problems. 

Turkish fans were said to have whistled and shouted "Allahu akbar" (God is great) during a moment of silence for the Paris attacks during a Turkey-Greece friendly football match. The Daily Mail reports on the issue: 

The Blarney Stone is a stone set into the wall of a castle in Ireland. There is a local tradition that kissing the stone will grant eloquence. I was told by the tour guides in multiple locations in Ireland (Dublin, Cork, Galway) that locals urinate on the stone, and this can be corroborated in many (relatively unreliable) sources online, such as Snopes Boards, Yahoo Answers and some blogs. In any case, I did not partake in the tradition not because of that but because of the fear of saliva-borne disease. Are there any reliable sources that show this? I initially wanted to post this on Travel, but I think it can already be answered there with the sources given.