Radiation is going to be your biggest hazard to habitability, both from the gas giant’s radiation belts and from flares on the red dwarf. Your planet needs to be quite far out from the gas giant, which is unlikely but not impossible, and you need to allow for frequent solar flares. Your inhabitants may be happier underground or under water. 

The oxygen and methane are irrelevant to this question. The chemical energy released by them combining will be insignificant compared to the kinetic energy of the collision. So you observe this collision in the same way as any other planetary collision. 

Let's run a few numbers. We'll assume that 10% of the energy from the explosion is radiated as visible light -- that's a good enough estimate for this purpose. 10% of 200 megatons is 84,000,000,000,000,000 joules, or 8.4E16. Figure it lasts for ten seconds, and that's 8.4E15 watts. The Moon (and Earth) get about 1,360 watts/sq.m of solar radiation. Let's assume 50% of that is visible light, 680 watts/sq.m. The Moon's albedo is 0.12, so 12% of that gets reflected, 82 watts/sq.m. We'll call it 84, or 8.4E1, because it makes the sums ever so much easier. So, the bomb will emit about as much light as 1E14 sq.m of lunar surface. The radius of the Moon is 1,700,000 metres, so the area of the disc of the full Moon is 9E12 square metres. Call it 1E13. Therefore, for a few seconds the bomb will be something like 10 times as bright as the full Moon, and will thus be easily visible, but not immensely dramatic. There won't be any dust clouds (for more than a minute or two), because there's no atmosphere to hold them up. The dust will fall back to the surface as quickly as any larger ejecta. There would be no long-term effects other than a small (not visible without a pretty good telescope) new crater. There have been many thousands of bigger meteorite impacts on the Moon. 

The planet is actually a moon in orbit around a large gas giant, almost a brown dwarf, that emits a lot of infrared but negligible visible light. The gas giant in turn orbits a regular bright star at a very great distance. The only visible light comes from the star, but is dim because of the distance, and contributes next to nothing to the planet's heat budget. The planet is of course tidally locked to the gas giant, and has an eccentric orbit, so that for one side of the planet its orbit is closer to the gas giant, and thus warmer, when it's facing away from the star (and so it's night). Which side of the planet it is will change over time, but if it's sufficiently far from the star it will take centuries or even millennia. 

Prohibit anyone other than the government from selling alcohol. Put your government alcohol outlets in dingy warehouses on out-of-town industrial estates, staffed by civil servants who have customer service skills that are too poor for them to work anywhere else. That is pretty much guaranteed to make alcohol deeply unfashionable, while preventing large-scale black market sales, since its availability from the government will cap the prices that black market dealers can get. 

Some countries have laws allowing you to ride a bicycle at night without lights, but only when there's a full moon. Those laws would probably change. 

Just declare that your system of travelling faster than light has the properties that you want. You need FTL travel for the universe you want, there's no really scientifically respectable way of achieving it based on what we currently know, and so you can have your ships sideslip into another universe where there's no debris and no light speed limit, or whatever else you want. 

They wouldn't be "merchants, farmers and upholsterers". They'd all be lawyers. In a fully libertarian society, you can't (for example) build a house without negotiating a separate contract with every other landowner within 200 miles in which they agree not to let their land be used for a polluting activity, and to include that provision in any sale of their land. That's a lot of legal contracts. 

Read the novel Mirkheim by Poul Anderson. It concerns a planet that was just far enough away from a supernova explosion to survive, but acquired a significant amount of super-heavy elements in the (hypothetical to modern-day science) island of stability, that were created in the explosion. You need FTL interstellar travel for that, of course; a planet in our solar system won't fit the bill. 

Diversity of neural architectures. We keep natural varieties of our crop plants, because they have a greater genetic diversity and so if we need new traits like disease resistance we're more likely to find them in the original wild species. We may presume that digitised minds will all have the same architecture, while natural ones are more diverse, and so similar arguments apply. 

We'd have a lot more telescopes, because they would be much more useful, and they'd be fitted with FTL drives. Just for example, imagine a fleet of telescopes searching for a visual signature associated with the recent gravitational wave detection. Just going there wouldn't be possible, because we don't know where it is and it would still take over a million years at 1,000 times the speed of light, but we could move steadily further from Earth and examine different parts of the sky at the exact instant. 

If it vanishes when it's not spent, then it's not a store of value, and so it's not money. What happens in a society without money is that people invent money. 

A butterfly has a mass of around 0.1g. Figure it's not going to scrape away more than a millionth of its own mass in metal from one landing, so that's 0.1 of a microgramme every hundred years, or a gramme every billion years (1E9). The mass of the Earth is 6E24g, and since the Earth is mostly made of metal, that's close enough. It will thus take about 6E33 years, or six decillion. 

Set up a numbered Swiss bank account. It has no name on the account to be wiped, and you'll still know the number, so you'll still be able to access the account. 

It's negligible. If star B is the same luminosity as star A but is at 20AU from the planet instead of 1AU, then it provides 1/400th as much heat as star A does. It's a simple inverse square law. It will light the planet pretty well, because our eyes are very sensitive, but it won't provide any appreciable heat. 

Hunter-gatherers already have some advantages over agriculture -- in fertile areas, they need less work to produce the same amount of food. Agriculture's advantages are that it allows food to be stored to get you through seasonal or meteorological fluctuations in the availability of food, and it needs less land. So if your planet has a stable predictable climate with an all-year growing season (like the tropics on Earth, outside hurricane areas) and is sparsely populated, there's no particular advantage to agriculture. 

All that's needed is a chunk of matter with a rest mass that's 0.3x the mass of Sol, but that's moving at 0.9999c. It doesn't really matter if it's neutronium, condensed matter or just regular matter -- hit the sun with it, and there won't be much left over. It will take a whole lot less than three years -- it will all be over in a matter of seconds (plus travel time, so we have to assume it's already in the right place and moving in the right direction, which is allowed for in your scenario).