As others have mentioned it increases IAP. An effect of it is that it may also allow your core muscles to fire harder by giving your CNS a reason to reduce limits on certain muscles. It probably isn't cheating I disagree with the apparently common belief that wearing a belt will reduce the opportunity for the lower back to get stronger. Numerous studies have found no significant decrease in spinal erector activity when training with a belt compared to without, in actuality one study found an increase in muscle activity. Sources at end. Add to that the anecdotal point that getting stronger with a belt also increases your beltless strength more or less directly, even if you don't train beltless during that time period. Wear it. Most of the time On the whole, wearing a belt increases your performance in the gym, which will help you achieve the goals of muscular size and strength. There are a few instances where it would be better to train beltless (if you train for a sport that doesn't depend on lifting maximal weights for example), but the bulk of your training should probably be done belted. It isn't cheating. For a more detailed and highly recommended write up, refer to: $URL$ Studies about spinal erector activity with and without a belt: $URL$ $URL$ $URL$ $URL$ $URL$ 

Then follow the guidelines on what you should do if long/short femured/torsoed. Again, use such recommendations as a starting point, but be sure to experiment and find out what works for you and allows you to feel strong and squat to depth. I should also mention that your "best" squat form can and often does change over time as you train. 

having said that, it also worries me for the effect it has on body. What should i do to torch up my body fat and get shredded. 

If I am right, it means I need to multiply 1.8 with my body weight (in pounds)? If so then why in example, it says 1.18 and other place .18? 

Recently i been getting a lot of cramps. In my calf, feet and even hand. Its like if i curl my feet or hand, a little i get cramp. When i stretch my leg, i get it in my calf. I been a constant trainer but during last three months, i have cut off my training as it got more and more serious. Could it because of bad form,none training or my muscles are going weak? Should i be concern? I want to resume my training, but scared as if i get it when squatting, i might hurt myself real bad. 

Working on a plan and working hard in gym and is more of connected to food and how much calories you take in. Sometime buying all supplements can shrink your budget. Given that, can i substitute protein shake for fish or chicken, for every meal? If not protein shake, then what can i do to make food replacement (protein & carb) cheap? Assuming i take the the said amount. Does it has any pros and cons? How does we calculate "1g of protein per pound of body weight" if we substitute. 

Diet Look I'm going to be honest, the biggest factor in you losing weight will be your diet. Cardio helps, doing weights helps, but the primary factor is always diet. A lot of cardio and weights cannot overcome a bad diet. But that doesn't mean ignore them - they are important to complement a good diet and will help your results! With that out of the way, doing more weights than cardio is fine. Once diet is on plan, you should find the combination of weights and cardio that helps you stay motivated and reach your goals. Some Suggestions I strongly suggest using heavier weights for sets of 5 - 15. Low weights for lots of reps is going to waste your time. You need to build serious muscle, it will help you look in shape much faster. The plan Noshii outlined in his(?) answer is a good start, but don't feel limited to lifting only a few times a week. If you like it then lift as much as you want. 5 times a week, 6 times, 7 times a week is fine. You can aim for a minimum of cardio (twice a week is great) and lift as much as you like. 

I sincerely hope no-one reading these answers in the future get's the wrong idea here. Hence I feel the need, four years after the original asker was here, to add some context. What Starting Strength does Starting Strength is designed to add maximal strength as quickly as possible whilst not specifically building hypertrophy or work capacity. It does this very well and if that's what you want do it but stick precisely to the program, it works. FYI the program lasts no longer than a month or three for most people. What Starting Strength doesn't do What it doesn't do for the average person is build a nice physique, or prepare you for the best strength progress in your future lifting career. It's very much a one-trick pony. If you want to be better, be stronger, and look better than the average person who wants a bit of strength, you would be well advised to do a lot more work. Build yourself a base of work capacity, and focus on the one aspect of your training career that anyone aiming for maximal strength or maximal muscle should be focusing on: building muscle mass. How to understand the other answers here All these answers above about how the three day setup in starting strength is somehow better or more effective are correct ONLY if your goal is as much immediate strength as possible in the next few months, and you don't care about slowing down your long term strength and physique potential by having to backtrack and work on building a base later on once those beginner gains die and you are left stalling like a grounded whale. tl, dr; if you feel you can do more and you want to actually make long term progress, then please do what your brain is telling you and do more. If anyone wants further advice, how to build more work capacity, how to set up a routine to do more work etc, feel free to ask. Edit addition: So what else can I do? What program lets me do more? $URL$ Check the link in that article to download the complete package of programs, which has a well laid out beginners program that has you training 4 days a week and doing 4 main lifts (S/B/D/OHP) in each session plus accessories. If you want to do more, here you go. And through that link you'll find a powerlifting world record holder's informed take on how to master your training career to get as strong and as big as possible. Covers beginners, intermediates and advanced. To anyone confused by my views, this should be an interesting read. Hope it's enlightening. Do you have anything else? I don't jive with that program This one here is another awesome program and just so happens to be Mon - Fri: $URL$ 

I been on a plan for 6 months, i eat according to the nutrition and also the supplement. Although it is 12 weeks program but as for me its been 6 months and i am hardly seeing any results. Now i have come to a point where my motivation is going below due to results. The belly fat is still there. However i do have increase in strength according to my gym, as they run assessment like how much pushup in 1 minute or crunches and my score has improved but not as much as i wanted (i had fat of 24% in Nov.14 and 22% in Dec.14). According to the plan, if your not sore from previous day workout, it means it wasn't a good working (meaning you didn't push yourself). However i use to have "sore days" but not anymore. Just light or not at all. So all of my motivation is coming down as i don't see any big changes. Like for 6 months or more, i been taking 

I saw change in food and added supplements. So if I increase my food my current program will not work. As it's size of fist portion of protein and crabs. So what should I do,"? EDIT : I want to gain muscle and get fuller look. While not getting weak. 

Total : 714 But if we do 714*6 = 4,284. That is like double of what he mentioned for training day. Am i doing the maths wrong or there is any typo? 

For anyone actually wanting to do that workout None of these answers are correct when applied to the workout linked above. The bodybuilding.com email response is also wrong when applied to this workout, I assume they have given a generic answer on what 5 x 3,2,1 means but it has nothing to do with the workout linked. The workout calls for five sets of 3,2,1 reps in a rest-pause style of training. This means you use a heavy weight that you could do for about 3-4 reps max, and crank out 3 difficult reps (you can just manage to do them). Then to get your breath back you rest for just a few seconds (10 seconds or so), then force 2 more reps. Then you rest a few more seconds, and do the final rep. It's a way of pushing you to do (3+2+1=6) reps with a weight that normally you can only do 3-4 reps with. That is one set. You repeat this process 5 times to do 5 sets. Note, this isn't the usual meaning of 5 sets of 3,2,1, but this is the meaning in this context and for this workout. 

The number of sets you do increases what we call the total volume of work being done. The more volume of work you do, the stronger signal your body gets that it needs to grow. If you do only one set, you aren't giving your body a very strong signal to grow. If the set is heavier than last time (even if you push it to failure), you give a slightly stronger signal to grow, but at one point that just won't be enough. Your body will need a stronger stimulus. So what do we do? We add sets. That produces enough of a stimulus so you will continue to grow. Background Basically, every time you exercise you do a certain amount of work. Then you rest for a day or whatever, and meanwhile your body responds to the work and grows. Now, that amount of work you do has to meet a minimum requirement to be effective. There is a minimum threshold. If you do a little bit of work, but you fall short of that threshold, your body won't get stronger/bigger (much or at all). The interesting thing is, that minimal threshold constantly changes. As you get stronger the minimal threshold also increases. So you need to do more work to get even stronger. Think about it, you can't keep doing the same amount of work and expect to keep growing (otherwise everyone would be walking around jacked af). How do you meet that minimal threshold? How do you do more work? The basic methods are you either lift heavier weight, or you do more sets. If you're new, just adding weight will work for a short while, but at one point you'll find that it's no longer enough to get you stronger. That's when you'll need to add sets. There's a lot more to it, but you're better off doing some research yourself. What we've discussed here is volume. It's part of a few variables that determine how much and how well you grow. Look up volume, intensity and frequency. Do some googling.