You believe it, and it does not need to be proved It is, at root, abstract nonsense that does not really matter, and You intend to pass it on to your children. 

(As a neo-intuitionist) I would suggest the only place for logic to ever go for grounding is psychology. And (having a fondness for Lacan) I would suggest that 'possible', as used in logic, is really a generalization of 'fully conceivable', meaning something that some human should be able to hold in his mind in a way robust enough to explore. We cannot ever generate 'possible' worlds as test cases, only 'fully conceivable' ones, because we are us. So it is pretentious for us to imagine the less restrictive word 'possible' has any more content than the more confining psychological notion of imagination. I would go so far as to contend that only the latter term has any definition, and the one we use is an inappropriate attempt to dodge human identity, pushing possibility up into the mind of God, or out into the universe under the assumption that the universe is comprehensible, but ultimately coming down to human psychology. What we are really after when we use this modality is acknowledging the human capacity for imagination and internal modeling, and estimating bounds on the flexibility of that process. 

I would argue that there is some particular part of you that de-parallelizes your processing and binds your referents to externals. That is the monad, the wrapper that allows you to safely have external referents upon which you can have predictable, lasting effects without being permanently bound to them or containing them. That it is not all of you, much of you has other purposes. It is just the interface of consciousness. So consciousness is the monad, most of your brain activity is a largely pure process. (Most thoughts only have effects within the brain, and not on anything else, the same way a pure process only affects processor state, not the outside world.) Then you, as the application of a (somewhat) pure process via a monad, are a process with effects. 

It is largely assumed that the universe is finite, and that makes application of First Order Logic to it massive overkill. What is true of the universe could be established by exhaustion, so the relevant problem isn't logical completeness, it is something like P=NP. Sure, we can intuit halting, but so can heuristic algorithms that examine the state. They cannot be absolutely always correct, and neither can we. There is no problem here. Imperfect answers do not contradict the impossibility of a perfect answer. The fact that we can apply experience in a way that the algorithm can't doesn't mean anything about logical possibility. It is just that nature, including our brains, seems to easily evade the distinction between P and NP most of the time. Gravity optimizes differential equations too quickly, bubbles solve complex problems of graph theory that computers don't handle very well. Nature gets to use quantum computing to place the atoms in its molecules; we don't have that power yet, and we may not ever manage it. So yeah, I think you are misunderstanding the relationship of math to reality here. The perfection of mathematics is incomplete. The mind cannot know all of its own expectations, and that is weird. But it is largely not a limitation on us. No problem that can actually arise is affected by those limitations. Such problems can always be addressed by brute force, and somehow we manage to pull out bigger guns than we expect to be carrying. If you are a making a fool of yourself, you are in excellent company. This question comes up in a profusion of different forms, all with the same basic gap in understanding. 

(My vocabulary here is probably far off. I have not actually read any Kant for thirty years. Don't pounce.) I would suggest this is where the difference between actual deductions and 'schemata' come in. Pure reason is meant to be the same for everyone. But it will be played out in different forms that are accessible to the different kinds of minds. If time is a form of human intuition, it is not real for angels. So clearly discursive arguments are not the way they are going to make decisions. But the concepts established in the schemata of an idea represent that idea faithfully for the relevant species, in order for the actual pure idea to be the same across species. So however they do play out an argument, the decisions will be comparable, when they are being truly reasonable. In my ongoing re-embedding of Kant in terms I can not hate, this is parallel to the kinds of arguments that use different actual species of beings. Would intelligent ants (Maybe a la O Scott Card) abhor murder? Well, surely not of individuals, they willingly use one another as tools, even when a lot of death is the obvious result, and the ants dying don't mind. But surely destruction of an entire hill is something they would revolt against. So can we still say the duty against murder is universal? Yes, but that murder has to actually have the right meaning, with comparable 'consequences', for different holders of the duty. Each species should have a schema-appropriate argument for it. And in interactions between species, somehow this awareness of relativity needs to play a central role. So, for instance, while it might be wrong to detain a human eternally without adequate cause, an angel might have no problem with never being able to move, since space is mostly real just for us. It is not an important aspect of the angel's view of freedom. In fact our entire view of autonomy would not be an aspect of his view of freedom, as means-ends arguments go. Outside time 'will' must map to something entirely different (perhaps 'extent of ones appointed domain'). But, in order for Kant's equivalence proof to hold in his schema, he would have to have the equivalent notion to autonomy, and Satan's adoption of a what humans consider their due autonomy would have to be a violation of that notion. 

This may be bleed-in from the rest of mathematics. Modern mathematics consists almost entirely of the study of Categories of objects that are interpretations of axioms. Even in Analysis, formalizations like Banach spaces abstract the domain into one with variable models, instead of focussing upon the single model of the Complex or Real numbers. And Topology pressures Geometry to follow suit by reducing a Geometry to the extension of a Topology by a measure. Establishing this model-theoretic interpretation of formal logic just brings it into line with Abstract Algebra, Topology and Computation Theory as the study of axiomatic systems through their models, and joins in the ongoing 'Categorification' of Analysis and Geometry. 

I find myself again facing a gap in definitions with a given range of philosophical schools. So at the risk of "pushing agenda" or "simply requesting opinion" I would like to ask for other ways of looking at this impasse. I subscribe rather firmly to a psychoanalytic notion of thinking, wherein thought is composed of information, intention and symbolism (captured most clearly via Lacan's three worlds, but going back to Freud's "Ich", "Es" and "Sie" selves, which are moderately oversimplified). Anything without all three is not thinking. I understand that the definition comes from a biased field, which is not really even a science by many modern standards, and that cannot presume to define philosophical terms for everyone else. The specific question is about 'intention'. 

I don't follow your exact objection. It seems like taken seriously, your objection would rule out proofs by contradiction altogether. From Q(x) -> ~Q(x), we do not deduce Q(x) is not a meaningful statement, only that the statement is not true. And that is exactly what Berkeley is after, for your Q not to be true of any x. But back off and look at examples. By Berkeley's argument, as you have presented it, the bicycle had been conceived of before fire was discovered. Once any caveman reached the concept that there were things of which he had not yet conceived, every one of those things was immediately conceived of, at least in the sense Berkeley seems to be using here. So this first human to doubt his own omniscience, at that very time, conceived of bicycles and microwave ovens? That is clearly nonsense. The problem is that conceiving of something is not transitive (or more formally 'idempotent'): conceiving of conceiving of something is not the same thing as conceiving of it. I can conceive of conceiving of the most important technological innovation for the next thousand years. But I cannot conceive of the innovation itself, or I would be able to start development on it right now. I would at least be able to tell you the basic idea. And I can't. Any attempt to formalize the argument is going to show the telescoping of two nested "failures to conceive" into one, and point up the flaw in the argument.