Australia calls Elisabeth II "Her Majesty Elizabeth the Second, by the Grace of God, Queen of Australia and Her other Realms and Territories, Head of the Commonwealth." This formula does not mention that the Queen of Australia is also Queen of England. If the British ruling dynasty is overthrown in one of her realms, in theory that does not affect her standing in the other realms. In practice England is not quite comparable to the other realms of the Queen. 

Watching from Europe, sometimes I wonder about both sides. Trying to build the higher flagpole? Loudspeakers with music? The ROK has good reasons to be scared of the DPRK, but if they were less scared, we might have had another war by now. 

Don't forget rationing. Prices under wartime conditions were artificial. Also the answer varied from country to country. 

Stalin was concerned about Stalin and the fate of the Marxist-Leninist-Stalinist world revolution. The success of a Marxist-Leninist-Trotskyist movement would have endangered both his physical survival and his political legacy. 

I think you have to distinguish between trying to control migration, and doing so with a system of passports and visa. That requires widespread literacy, especially in an age before photo IDs. Doug B mentioned the Romans, let me add the Great Wall a few centuries earlier. The Romans permitted the transit of merchants and presumably some migrants while they tried to stop marauding warriors. 

There is a difference between translation and transliteration. The Чайко́вский example obviously had to be transliterated, and there are different transliteration conventions in different languages. Interestingly, the cities München, Nürnberg and Köln usually get translated, while Berlin or Hamburg don't. Does the diaeresis have anything to do with it? 

The German unification was a drawn-out process.The Holy Roman Empire had several hundred "sovereign nations" in the middle ages, that was slowly concentrated into fewer, larger nations, and finally into one. In the end it came down to a Lesser German Solution under the leadership of Prussia, or a Greater German Solution under the leadership of Austria with Prussia playing second fiddle. The Austro-Prussian War settled this for the Lesser German Solution. Ever since the Napoleonic Wars, there was widespread sentiment towards unification. What the English wikipedia calls the German Campaign of 1813 are the Liberation Wars in Germany, that has a completely different ring. Patriotic Germans were ambivalent between support for their sovereign or support for the idea of Germany which transcended the petty state. The German Anthem was a desperate call for the states to unify, have a look at the first two stanzas in the context of not having a German nation. 

The French revolution was truly revolutionary, it replaced the monarchy with a regime based on popular support. A king had to hire mercenaries, the revolutionary regime could draft patriotic citizens in a levee en masse. (Sure, not all draftees were entirely enthusiastic. But it made a notable difference.) In some parts of Europe, anti-monarchist patriots were inclined to support the republican/revoutionary French. In others, they were merely inclined to not give their utmost in the support of their king. 

A tachanka is a cart with a machine gun mounted on it. What makes you think that cannon were not mounted that way? 

Medieval times span ten centuries and a continent. An English village in 1400 would be far from a Norwegian village in 500. That makes generalizations difficult. Here I'm thinking of the 11th or 12th century, England, France or the HRE. 

Regarding the comments to the question, this goes to the core to what history and historical research are, and possibly appropriate to history stack exchange for this reason. An event took place before you were born, how can you know that it really happened? 

The Machtergreifung was in 1933, not 1932. The 1933 election was the last one where multiple parties could run, but even so it did not come close to democratic standards. The Nazi party thugs were openly present in the polling stations. Look at the published results of the 1936 election, for instance, or the ballot. Not democratic at all. 

The preponderance of evidence seems to show that Mohammed did exist. I'd call it about as strong as the evidence for Jesus. What Mohammed did, what he wrote and what he taught is another matter, where faith enters the question. 

Clarification: I see Stalin as a paranoid tyrant who did take power by force, and was afraid that others would do the same to him. He reacted forcefully to potential rivals, and even more forcefully to actual rivals, which Trotsky was. Trotsky provided a slightly different interpretation of Marxism-Leninism, which was a threat for Stalin who derived his legitimacy from claiming Lenin's heritage. 

As it happens, I'm getting partly paid in food today. There is a system to record how often I go to the staff canteen, and the next month that is deducted from my payslip. Of course that's only a small percentage of the total. And I'm not really forced to go to the canteen, if I don't go there nothing is deducted. But there are days where the schedule makes buying lunch elsewhere impractical. In addition, there is free coffee and tea. That isn't tracked on an individual basis, but it gets mentioned during hiring interviews, so it could be seen as part of the total compensation package. A colleague of mine once worked in a company where part of the "compensation package" for overtime was that the employer would hire a cleaning service for the employee's housing -- he wanted them in front of their computer screen, not doing the laundry at home. So there are two extremes, and a big gray area in between: 

Since you're asking on History SE, remember the most important rule: Put your sources into context: Who wrote them and why? It might seem odd to apply this rule to something as objective as the top speed of warships, but it remains true even here. 

Christianity got established in both capitals of the Roman Empire. The two parts of the Roman Empire split. The people around the capital of the Eastern Empire became Orthodox, those around the capital of the Western Empire became what would be called Catholic later on. Constantinople "fell". That left Rome. 

You have to see it in the historical context. Compared to the Communists, they were "free" indeed, even as a military dictatorship. For suitable meanings of "free," which was mostly defined as being against the Communists. 

Fighter aircraft could and did intercept airships, but that required luck and skill. Heavier than air aviation had a greater development potential and fewer operational problems, so they overshadowed lighter than air after WWI. 

Helmet spikes and flanges were originally intended to deflect saber blows. Those on the Pickelhaube are somewhat stylized, but they still served the original purpose. Source: German Wikipedia. I thought I remembered something similar from the English Civil War, but a bit of googling got me nothing. 

You are asking several questions in your post and the subject line which have to be answered separately: 

I remember a news report on the radio, decades ago (so I can't provide a source, sorry). Parents went on a long holiday trip and gave their 16 to 18 year old children the house keys, a phone number for emergencies, and money for groceries etc. The children decided to spend that money on pasta and rock records -- most of the money went to records. Malnutrition did happen. The news report quoted a physician: "If they had purchased ketchup to go with their pasta, it wouldn't have been quite as bad." 

The US did notice the preparations at the time. I believe that the exact details of the diplomatic communications are still controversial. And of course the Iraqi decisionmaking structures were somewhat dysfunctional. Regarding your second question, the current US intelligence sources are obviously classified, but I would assume that current intelligence on the Iranian forces is no worse than 1990s intelligence on the Iraqis. I'm not prepared to guess about the Saudis. 

I think your question is based on false assumptions. Not all immigrants are illegal and nothing was "simple" about citizenship, anyway. Look at the map of Europe at the beginning or the end of World War One. Poland was split between her major neighbours. The Treaty of Versailles recreated Poland with aftershocks for many decades. Many ethnic Poles had migrated to big cities and industrial areas of Germany at the end of the 19th century. 

The question of responsibility for the first World War is sufficiently unclear to count as "primarily opinion-based". Most nations could have acted better, and who was worst is a value judgement.