The minutes of the Constitutional Convention were suppressed; the participants agreed to never reveal what was said. Some people took notes, and some have survived. The best source is probably the Federalist papers, closely followed by the notes taken at the state ratifying conventions. More than one representative opposed enumeration of rights. The chief opponent was Madison, who was also the man who proposed the Bill of Rights. That is the kind of story that happens only in history. The best source I've found to combine and summarize all this is Ratification: The People Debate the Constitution - a deep and insightful analysis of who said and thought what. There is also a nice set of audio lectures by Jack Rakove available on iTunes; the last third of the lectures and the panel discussion touch on the topics you're interested in. I don't remember a thorough discussion of the second amendment - the topic doesn't interest me. But that would be the place to start. 

The mind boggglingly short sighted Smoot Hawley act inhibited trade with other nations, further inhibiting the ability of US industry to recover from the depression. Smoot-Hawley vies with the gold standard for the title of "Stupidest economic policy of all time!". 

Whaling halted in 1972; however as the article makes clear, whaling started again in the 21st century when the population recovered, then halted again. There is no simple answer. 

Wow - it would take me a long time to find the appropriate sources to answer this the way I want to. I also feel obliged to admit that I have an opinion on this topic, and I hope that @Samuel Russell or someone from the other side of the aisle will contribute to counterbalance me. @John Craven is correct that the great depression was a complex, global phenomenon, and Roosevelt's policies are only one factor. I'll agree with Mr. Craven that it would be absurd to credit Roosevelt with sole agency in either direction. With that disclaimer out of the way, I'll once again reference Niall Ferguson's Ascent of Money. Ferguson points out that the stock market returned to reasonable levels rather quickly. The driver of the depression wasn't the stock market crash, but the US government policy of minimizing liquidity. Banks couldn't loan money to start a business that would employ people. And US Government policy was directly responsible for that. The government feared bank failure more than they feared continued depression, and they required that banks build up and maintain reserves of currency. Banks were unable to lend money, which prolonged the depression. 

This pattern isn't about east-west or north south or climate - it is about the emotional/spiritual needs of the people engaged in economic activity. I'm doing a horrible injustice by summarizing huge bodies of theory in a couple of paragraphs (and I haven't researched this area in 20 years, so there is doubtless new theory available). Most important takeaway - ignore everything else I've said and just go read some of the material cited below. It is accessible, fascinating, eye opening, clearer than my summary and you'll be glad that you did. I can't provide a pithy quote, but you may find it useful to consult 

A Maryland paper as quoted in "The Opposition Press of the Federalist period" Well managed scrip might have provided an alternative to barter the trick was finding someone with the discipline to manage the scrip. Nobody understood monetary theory or inflation, so nobody had the intellectual tools needed to effectively manage scrip. The new states (particularly Rhode Island) had very bad experiences with scrip. Speculators bought up scrip during an inflationary period and a small minority found themselves in effective possession of the entire state of Rhode Island. It is difficult for modern minds to appreciate just how deeply the new Americans distrusted scrip. Pauline Maier's "Ratification: the People debate the constitution" is probably the best source I've read on this, although anything about Jefferson will reveal the level of irrational fear. (OK, perhaps Jefferson's as America's leading deficit spender was justified in fearing commercial interests, but that is a separate topic). 

The Quarterly Journal of Economics (available from the unciteable Google Books) cites the following primary sources: 

Review the definition of Human Shield in wikipedia; there are multiple examples of countries using their own population, or that of their allies as human shields. Note that almost every example is contested by one side or the other. This is in part because it would violate the Geneva convention. During interrogation by Allied intelligence officers in Nuremberg in October 1945, General Berger of the SS stated that Germany had contemplated the use of human shields, but discarded the notion in part because they realized that 

Talked with my favorite professional historian (who is also a professional equestrienne). She pointed to the Tevis Cup as one source that might be instructive. Most of the Tevis competitors are Arabians, who have been bred to run fast and hard on minimal water & care. They shed heat well, but they can't carry the weight of someone in armor. (There is a reason you'll find few suits of Bedouin plate mail.) Depending on your interest, you may also want to search for the Mongol Derby (friend of a friend rode that last year) as an example of endurance riding. They don't "march" - and their travel distance isn't limited by political conflict, as much as it is by fodder and terrain. It is an error to assume that larger horses can carry more; larger horses are generally built for pulling. The Royal Armouries use a 15.2 hands Lithuanian heavy draught as their model for displaying 15 &16th century heavy horse armor because it fits well; that may be useful as a visual model. Note that the picture of the Ardennes horse does not even remotely look like a contemporary Ardennes horse. The breed shifted dramatically in the 19th century. She concurs with the wikipedia article that during the middle ages they conceived of "breeds" rather differently, and tended to categorize the horse by use rather than by genetics. That article may answer many of your questions. She also strongly objected to comparing a knight's horse with a messengers'; that is a little like comparing the Chevy 2500 she uses to haul her horse trailer with my ex-wife's old Fiat. Sure they both have 4 wheels, but if you hook the fiat up to the trailer, all you're going to get is laughter. The Knight may charge into battle atop a destrier that is some form of draft horse, but he will ride a smaller horse to battle (a "rouncy"), and include a few pack horses in the train. The fuel consumption for the draft horse is going to be rather different than that for the rouncy. The typical formula for the capacity of a riding horse is 20-30% of the horses weight, assuming the horse has been bred for riding, not pulling. (This is a general principle; horse people will argue with me on this.) Riding Horses are built to tolerate a load on their back; pulling horses are bred to apply force through a horse collar or yoke. They have different anatomical structures. She also objected, as I did, to comparing horses across the range of human history excluding only the past 100 years. She said that comparing horses across all geography is probably even more absurd. Native Americans riding horses across what came to be Kansas have different challenges than trying to cross the alps, or ride into Russia in winter. There is another reason why your question is difficult to answer; take for example your question about their top speed while charging. They lie. THey didn't have speedometers, and contemporary estimates of speed are going to be in units that emphasize poetry over accuracy. There is no real reason to record a horses charging speed; if you're in front of the horse, it is too fast. It isn't running as fast as a race horse. Generally H:SE prefers that you consult wikipedia and other common sources before you ask questions here, but I thought perhaps her comments and some sources might be useful to you. If you are interested, I can reach out to another contact who is a professional jouster. A few sources: 

I believe the rotation in battle is commonly accepted - most sources I've read reference it, although my research in Roman history is mostly secondary and tertiary sources, so I'm not an authority. With that as a preface/caveat: Wikipedia to the rescue wikipedia 1 describes using the intervals between troops to execute a refresh and support continuous fighting. 

Don't forget the Jay treaty; differences in the relative value of trade and negotiation during the Articles of Confederation were one of the proximate causes of the US Constitutional Convention. One could make the case that these different perspectives on the role of the Mississippi were one of the causes of the Civil War. Modern Americans tend to forget just how pervasive and long lived the North South divide was in the formation of the Republic. 

At the time, Arms Control was a significant national issue; today's problems blind us to how important we perceived the issue at the time. In short the man had the ability to deliver votes, the ability to deliver votes from a key constituency, and some experience to bring to the ticket. He wasn't an entirely irrational choice given what was known at the time. 

Today the political parties nominate candidates; in the early days of the Republic nominations arose from caucus'. The election of 1824, in which the party nominated multiple candidates and as a consequence lost the election, shaped the current system. I can't find a clear reference, but the ballots are printed by state board of elections, generally under the supervision of the State's Secretary of State. Candidates qualify by submitting a nomination petition. 

Excellent point - I believe that the tax collection powers of a sovereign republic (vice the subordinate republics you mention) affect the competitiveness of credit. Development of that thesis in the context of your observation would, I think, be interesting, but outside the scope of OP's question. The new country rapidly demonstrated a thorough and complete inability to collect taxes. Any state could veto any tax collection, or could vote yes and simply fail to provide any money. Functionally the Articles of Confederation was what we would now call a failed state. Given those things, who in their right mind would lend to the new country? Hamilton consolidated the debt and organized the revenue service to begin to make payments on the debt. He created a national bank to stabilize the money supply. American credit had been a bad junk bond; after Hamilton, our was competitive with other countries. We were still a huge credit risk, but Hamilton raised our credit rating to the point where we could borrow. 

You may also wish to check tariffs on Italian leather shoes - I don't have anything immediately to hand, but the US has traditionally levied tariffs on Italian shoes to protect domestic industry. I believe that Steel was protected in the 1970's against German imports Ethnicity is a distraction here; protectionism is an attempt to promote domestic industry and workers at the expense of foreign workers. It doesn't matter what color those workers are, the goal is to make sure that domestic workers are rich and foreign workers are impoverished. If you want to research the question, I'd focus your attention on core domestic industries. (Defined as either (a) Industries with disproportionately large lobbying groups, or (b) designated strategic industries. There will be an overlap). The USA for example wants to maintain a strategic advantage in aerospace, and fears the French and British (particularly when allied). You limited the question to "manufacturing" - there are a host of counter-market regulations in the farm and service sector. Almost every country has a ridiculous policy about farm products - from Japanese Rice, to US Sugar and Maize to French... well everything (IIRC, Brazil may be an exception). And the current US-European trade treaty will fail because France has imposed protectionist requirements on the entertainment sector. 

Two very good answers while I was thinking about this and trying to find sources. I cannot match the scholarship of either of the other answers, but I want to provide some contextual backdrop. These are some lessons I've learned over my years of studying the American Revolution; things that surprised me because I hadn't put them together. Great Britain had just finished the Seven Years War (known in the colonies as the French and Indian War). This was arguably the first world war - pretty much every nation that had the ability to project power beyond their borders was involved. Although the war was over, each of the nations retained the desire to create, maintain and exploit colonies. (There is an easy book here on the history of empire). 1. Britain acquired an Empire. Defeat of the French on North America (Quebec) can be considered the beginning of the British Empire. There was a huge difference in the obligation to protect colonies against indigenous forces vs the requirement to protect colonies against other superpowers. The French/Indian alliance also made it clear that although the American Indians didn't have artillery, they could still participate in logistics and in what would later become known as asymmetrical warfare. 2. Britain acquired the deficit spending that comes with Empire. The seven years war cost Britain so much money that the resulting economic crisis lasted until the Napoleonic wars. 3. Britain had to demobilized a huge military force. Although they didn't have modern economic theory, they knew that demobilization can lead to social instability. Furthermore, every officer had to be placed on half pay or retired. (Everyone with an interest in history should read the Aubrey/Maturin novels that detail Jack Aubrey's pathetic existence on half pay; it sounds like a good solution, but it wasn't.) One solution was to move the most valuable units to North America, use them to defend the colonies against the Native Americans and as a guard against the colonial ambitions of France (et. al.). The nice part being that the colonies could be convinced (forced by fiat) to pay for the support of the troops. 4. Remember that the Glorious Revolution wasn't that long ago. England hadn't yet finished designing the parliamentary government. Issues like the King's right to a standing army, and "taxes are the free gift of the people to the government" were far from settled. The King and Parliament were not arguing from a particularly long precedent, and precedent is much more important in the English "pure common law" system than it is in the American constitutional system that we have today. One last point - OP asks if England benefitted economically; I think that is an unanswerable question. At the time England's economic policy was mercantilist. Mercantilists understand economic benefits in a way that doesn't map very well to our modern notion (informed by Smith, Keynes et. al.) I think it is safe to say that shifting the costs of troop maintenance to the colonies seemed to Parliament to be a solution to a problem. I think it overstates things to say that this was a policy. 

Gordon Wood's The Radicalism of the American Revolution contains a long discussion of this concept. (personal opinion, the discussion extends longer than useful, and seems focused on responding to an argument that isn't in the book). I believe the question is founded on (one or more) false assumption; "The United States is a class-less society" is a conclusion, not a pre-existing idea. (others have discussed ad nauseum the imprecision involved in "class-less"). During the 1740's to 1780's, the institution of "class" was dysfunctional in the united states. (Here, I reject the marxist definition as lacking in utility; I refer to the more contemporary notion of gentry class vs commoner). The things that made that institution work in Britain (including the presence and active intervention of a King, a populist Tory party, and a strongly established Church of England) were absent in America. One could argue that classlessness is an artifact of Republicanism of the period, but even Republicanism was fundamentally oligarchic. (one of the reasons for the failure of the Articles of Confederation was the "licentiousness" of the American populace. Writers of the period lamented the notion that craftsmen and tradesmen and merchants were involving themselves in politics, which was unacceptable). But Republicanism within the British constitution (such as it was at the time) was different from Republicanism in the Netherlands or in Switzerland - I think the argument very quickly drowns under the difficulty of defining Republicanism and Classlessness.