Measure your activities in time allocated to certain duties and report this towards your manager together with things you could have been doing in this time. Once he can see for himself that the procedures are only holding you back without any benefit for the company, he should start to reconsider. If he does not, he's not managing you, he's simply delegating commands at you. Procedures are set in place to streamline the time that people spend. However, the whole double checking things falls under the whole "auditing" department. Which is extremely useful in areas that handle primary processes or handle some form of money. Your department does not do any of this. To have an audit for a department that is purely made to support other departments is only useful if you were picking your nose all day, which you're obviously not. Now, it's important that you somehow break it to your manager that the company is going have increased expenses due to you having to do this extra work. Also, you need to make sure that the extra auditing has little to no benefit. Give him an example where you'd be making an error. How much money/time would be lost because of this error? Then compare this to how much money/time the whole auditing costs. You should most likely see that the cost to benefit ratio is rediculous. Give him an example with a very high impact and one with a low impact. Then tell him how likely it is that such errors could possibly occur. Right there you will have a risk analysis that you could convince him with. If he's still not convinced, you've got the most stubborn manager I've ever heard of in my life. In short: Show him the benefits of auditing through risk management. Because the benefits he speaks of are far outweighed by the disadvantages. 

I can see how it could be a little awkward for colleagues if you're in the middle of a conversation and then you need to go to the bathroom. But I doubt that's the case. And when it does happen, it's not like you look any less professional. You're human after all. Personally I drink lots and lots of water throughout the whole day because it cools me down. Obviously it has the same side effect that you have. Whenever I need to go while I'm in the middle of a conversation, I politely interrupt them and ask them to hold their thought as I excuse myself to go to the bathroom. It becomes unprofessional and concerning if you need to go to the bathroom literally every 30 minutes. Not because of the frequent "breaks" you'd be taking, but due to the reduced possibility to talk to you without being interrupted. Which means that @VarunAgw's eye stretching breaks are still fine. Seeing as you say you go to the bathroom around 4 times a day, you should easily be fine. Even if that number were to double. TL;DR, Things are fine, just excuse yourself. Going to the bathroom makes you more human, not less professional. 

So what you're doing is making sure your program is operational. Not only that, you also have to update it and possibly upgrade it for any unforeseen changes that happen within the company. You could argue that the company could give this responsibility to someone else in the company, However that simply means they would lose control of the program, as you're the one who developed it. Depending on the size of the program you have, x amount of responsibility is placed on you. Added responsibility often equals an increase in salary. In the end, will you be able to deduct this from your hours made? possibly yes, possibly not. However, it could still give an increase in salary as you've taken the responsibility to develop such a key aspect of your job. Talk to your manager/boss, tell him about the development of this program and the added responsibility you now have for maintaining it. In your next salary negotiations you should ABSOLUTELY mention this. You might even be given more responsibilities based off of your initiative. 

I'd say there are two(or more) directions you can go to as a web developer. 1) you can become better at coding, php, javascript, ajax, SQL, etc. going straight into OOP as Frisbee suggested may be a bit too intimidating at first. but that wouldn't be a bad step after knowing the basic coding. 2) Improve at designing. This would mean things like photoshop, illustrator, etc. Making your websites looks better than other websites. Nearly every occupation out there has ways to develop into other jobs. Employees can become project leaders and eventually managers. You yourself could start as a web developer into a web software engineer, or web designer. You may be really good at what you do, and that has a value in it's own. However I'd always recommend anyone to keep developing themselves. 

Do customers walk around the company in the hours you're playing games? Do other employees know of your hours? Does it matter? How strict is the business culture? 

What you do outside of your working hours is up to you. It doesn't matter what or how you do it. The only thing you need to keep in mind is that you have an obligation to arrive appropriately at work in the morning. Having that been said, I would also advise against having an escort inside your lodging over the night. Your lodging could also be considered your working environment. You know, mentioning this just in case. 

The problem is of little concern. You'll be gone from this company after your internship anyway. Right now you just need to inform your boss correctly. You can tell him things along the lines of 

Ask her "Why do we do this project?" and when she replies that it's unstable and is becoming more unstable just ask again "Is it really?". At that point she will need to think about it clearly and admit that it wouldn't describe the problem correctly. Once she understands that the description isn't accurate you can counter her with a suggestion such as the following: 

You can always ask whether it would be ok for you to receive an android phone instead. However expect to have this request be denied. It's not impolite to ask. However some companies will try to give their employees the same hardware so that whenever there are complications with their phones, they only need to take a single brand/phone into account. Nevertheless, not asking at all gives you a no, asking could turn this into a yes. I don't think they would care much about the costs of the phone if they took an apple phone as the default phone. 

This mean you will be unlikely to convince them to turn it off. Replacing an AC would be a company expense that the company is very unlikely willing to pay for. However, if you do wish for that to happen, you'd need to take it up with your manager/boss. Expect to have your request denied though. If you still think you can somehow convince your co-workers you'd need to talk to them separately. Asking your boss/manager to turn off the AC to save money or resources is not going to sit well with your co-workers, so don't do that unless you don't mint a hostile environment to work in. Instead, try to find common ground where both you and your co-workers can be happy with. Possibly set the AC lower. I would say that it would be much more likely that you would need to find other options to cancel out the noise instead. For example earplugs, headphones, etc. And moving to the other location could also work obviously. But these would be your options in case that new location has the same issues. 

"Is it professional of me to play games" This alone results in a "no". However, whatever you do in your own time is up to you. However when you use your free time at work, it might get complicated. It depends on the company. you'd need to ask yourself several questions. 

I don't know how badly the other company wants you and how easy it is for you to find a different job in general. The main thing you need to worry about is having your new job go back on their offer. If you think this chance is negligible, then you don’t need to wait for the papers to clear. If you're financially stable enough to take the brunt of being un-employed for a few days up to a month. Then you could announce that you're leaving right now. The main reason why people wait for papers is because no-one likes to take the risk of not getting that other job and then be unemployed. Just think of how much this would impact your life. If it impacts you very little, then obviously you would be capable of taking this risk casually. And feel free to send that letter to ask when you could be expected to work. Or at-least ask for an indication. If you know in which week you'll start working but not the day, will still help you a long way. 

Seeing as one of your tags is colleagues I'll assume that you're not in a position to force managerial policies. As Kilisi's answer suggests, it would be smart to take it up with your manager. However, the manager may not see this as a problem as he has never heard complaints from others and could see this as you stirring up trouble. To prevent this, I'd suggest giving the manager a suggestion on what could be done. You could suggest that a "cleaning up for yourself" policy is instated where you are required to clean up after yourself directly after or during the use of this station. Hereby it's important to note that this is to keep a safe and clean environment that is pleasant to work with. If you ARE in a manager position, you can still do the above suggestion and emphasize on the safety issue. A clean environment is a safe environment. If you don't have a managerial option or don't wish for this to go through any sort of management. Then you'd need to convince a large group of colleagues who don't care for this situation. It'll be like talking to a wall or swimming up a waterfall. I'm not saying it's impossible though. For this you need to make sure they understand your predicament and you wish for this to be a professional workplace at all times. If they don't understand your problem, they wont be willing to accept any changes. You'd need to "talk" to them, take them aside for a second. Tell them your story and ask for their opinion. Asking for their opinion will make them think more objectively on the subject and lets you know how much or how little they value this problem. If they actually care about this, it won't be a problem to get this to work. If they don't care, then the only person who can change anything would be a manager.