Through complete serendipity I have found another answer to my question, on this page, which at least seems to apply to Japan; 

You have various options, mostly depending on your local regulation, facilities and length of your parking time: 

Therefore I am thinking of replacing it. Can I replace only the fixture, or do I need to replace the entire pipe? Also, is it a specific type that I need to ask for when buying the spare? 

Lately I am wearing my helmet also on my daily commute to work. Of course I don't wear it while sitting at my desk, and it sits on a drawer next to the window, where in the afternoon it is exposed to sunlight with little or no air flow. Can this lead to long term damage of the helmet? The helmet shell is white. 

Talking with a friend about maintenance on bikes, he told me he uses white spirit to degrease the chain, as it is effective and also offer some kind of waterproofing in case one forgets to lubricate the chain again. Talking with my bike dealer he advised to not use it, as it is too aggressive and would also remove the lubrification from within the chain bearings. He suggested using a dedicated soap. Who is right? 

On old bikes usually the (steel) frame was used as second wire for closing the circuit. The old dynamo have one wire going out and some sort of built in electrical continuity with the frame. First of all check that the bulb works, by using a trusted electricity source. Then: 

What you have is basically a cylinder of rubber. When you lift the lever, the cylinder is compressed on the circular faces. This results in the sides expansion, which will "hug" the valve giving the sealing effect. 

When it comes to winter time, it is always a tough time for cyclists. In order to keep a decent tone and shape, what is better? 

Until I used clip less pedals I could easily put my foot on the ground in case of necessity, but now the concern of having locked feet adds another source of uncertainty. I have tried releasing one foot during the climb, but it goes without saying that pedaling gets way more clumsy. What is a good technique to climb steep road with cleats and back panniers? 

Since then I have noticed a different behavior when I bend to turn. While with the old tyres I had to "push in the curve" to keep the bike into the turn, with the new tyres I have to "pull out the curve" to keep the turn. In other words, with the old tyres the turning bike had the tendency to go back straight, while with the new tyres it has the tendency to close the turn. Is this normal and will fade with some wear of the tyres, or do different tyres affect the bike dynamics? 

In principle yes, but keep in mind that, while you will be using public places you will be likely meet other cyclists who are not there to train and will act, to your eyes, just like moving obstacles: kids riding and suddenly stopping or turning, flocks of teens looking at their phones while riding one hand and then suddenly stopping their bike across the lane, elderly people just taking a ride to enjoy the sun, etc. You, while busy in training, might even call them like CSO (Cyclist Shaped Object), but in reality they are as legitimate users as you are. And I know fellow amateur cyclists who prefer to practice peloton techniques on the highway rather than on a cycling lane (dumb, isn't it?). With that in mind, how heavily will that affect your training schedule? If you are really chasing the numbers and the performance I assume the impact will be heavy, and maybe it is better if you look for a better place (either less used or dedicated to training). If you just want to put some more effort, go for it and take it as a good chance to also improve your reflexes. 

It sounds like the same path I took when starting to cycle again after puberty. I initially started with very short rides (about 10 km in 1 hour) on Saturday, then, as I felt I could try a bit more, I went further and further, increasing both distance and time of riding. Then I started using my bike to commute (back then I worked 5 km from home and I had a fantastic countryside road where the only danger would have been some sheeps) and that summed up to my weekend ride. In this way I ended up riding 8000 km in 1 year. It's a good way to start, then I would suggest you to 

I have noticed that on all the tandems I have seen the pedals are mounted in the same position. i.e. while the front right one is up, so is the rear right one, and not front right up and rear right down. Is there a specific reason for this? 

On my bike I have installed an handlebar bag (the Ortlieb Ultimate 5). Since I am also considering installing lights on the handlebar, I am afraid they will be simply shielded by the bag. The clerk of the bike shop where I asked for information assured me the handlebar bags are designed to ensure handlebar lights can be used, but I am not sure and I don't want to try it by buying an expensive light that I cannot then use. In the picture you can see the bag holder as installed on the handlebar. The bag will exceed its level of few centimeters. 

Due to (understandably) large wear after 16 years of usage, I wanted to replace sprocket, chainwheel and chain on my byke. With my surprise the workshop where I took my byke was not able to find a spare for the sprocket, a 6 speed Maillard, and told that in the Netherlands they are pretty rare. They tried to install a 6 speed Shimano but it did not fit. I did also a quick search on some spare parts dealers in Italy, and also they didn't have it. Is it really that rare, or I have been simply out of luck?