outside of a black hole, continuous acceleration would never lead to a speed greater than C. You can accelerate for billions and trillions of years and all you'd do is just add more 9s to the right of the decimal point. You seem to be assuming that inside a black hole this can happen, but I'm not sure why you'd assume that. "continuous gravitational acceleration" - no matter how strong, is no guarantee for faster than light travel. That's logically inconsistent with the laws of relativity. 

So what effect does Earth's periodic 0.0679 eccentricity have? Apart from triggering or perhaps ending an ice age, not that much.. You could push Earth's eccentricity pretty far without much danger to Earth, though past a certain point, crashing into Venus might become a concern. Lets have some fun and push Earth's eccentricity up to 0.15 (that's about half way between Mars' and Mercury's eccentricity. 

The question is strange, but I think, answerable to a point. The biggest question in astronomy today, hands down, is whether there is life out there. Answering that question alone would be answering the single biggest question. This is something that maybe the James Webb Space Telescope will be able to answer. It's a huge question. Answering it, IMHO, would be the top scientific discovery in my lifetime. Bigger than Higgs. Answering a key question tends to raise other questions. That's the nature of discovery. You should probably ask what questions it would raise not what questions it would answer, and even that might get closed for being too general and too dependent on what exactly is discovered. What we'll be able to answer after would depend on how good a look we have at what we discovered and if we have a sample. This is too generalized to give a real answer. Finding life on other planets would raise questions such as "what kind of life?", "How advanced?", "How did it form?" "How long has it been there?" "How similar to live on Earth?" "Warm or cold blooded?" "How common is life on other planets", "How abundant on that planet?" "Can we talk to them?/Do they have language?" "Should we talk to them?" "Will they try to eat us if we get too close?" "How can we study them further?". "Do they have technology and if so, how advanced?" "Are they friendly?" and probably several more. Discoveries lead to more questions as a general rule of science. Answers to the new questions can be answered in their own time. Depending on how easy the study is. To your specific questions: 

This does make defining an outermost orbit somewhat difficult, as the most distant orbits take millions of years to reach their closest point from their most distant point, and they run a pretty good chance of being perturbed within a single orbit. Stars likely play Frisbee with their outer-most orbiting objects all the time. Picking an outermost stable orbit is impossible. A curious sidebar on Scholz, is that, it may have sent a bunch of outer comets and oort cloud objects heading towards the inner solar system. We wont find out how many for another 2 million years or so. That's how long it will take any objects that were sent towards the inner solar-system to reach it. 

I realize this is kind of general as it would depend on the size of the white dwarf and the rate of accrual. The general idea I got thinking about is what would happen if a white dwarf star - lets say 0.8 solar mass, well below Chandrasekhar was to accrue a bunch of hydrogen rather quickly. I thought it might be get very hot and bright, perhaps similar to a red giant for a relatively brief period of time. Mostly White dwarfs add mass by siphoning from the outer layer from a near by co-orbiting star, but I imagine, that mostly happens quite slowly, not fast enough to make the white dwarf shine like a main sequence star. Are there studies on how quickly mass can be added in this way and how bright it makes the white dwarf? Does Hydrogen quickly fuse on the surface of a white dwarf or does it need to build up to a certain thickness first, perhaps creating a mini flash? or does the fusion happen rather quickly. A very rough calculation, the escape velocity of a white dwarf, which would be similar to the terminal velocity of matter (mostly hydrogen) falling into it is about 5,500,000 meters/second for a 1 solar mass white dwarf. Source. The velocity needed for hydrogen fusion is about 20,000,000 meters per second. Source (under the what makes fusion hard section). So, white dwarf's aren't massive enough to create fusion upon impact, but the high density and high heat of impact seems like it could create fusion relatively quickly as matter builds up around them, perhaps creating something that perhaps glows like a star and expands rather rapidly - assuming there's a sustained burn and not a kind of very quick explosion of sorts. I think it could glow very hot and perhaps expand rather large, but I'm just kind of guessing. If a white dwarf was to crash into, say, a brown dwarf or very low mass star, hydrogen rich, say about .1 solar mass? Such a brown dwarf would be much larger than the white dwarf but also quite a bit lighter, probably light enough to get penetrated completely though the impact would also likely create fusion and it's difficult for me to imagine what would happen with so violent a crash. It seems to me that the density of the white dwarf, if it could retain most of the matter from the brown dwarf would be sufficient that you'd be left with a fast burning light weight fusion star, with a very dense core. This might be an impossible question, but how quickly would a .8 solar mass white dwarf consume the hydrogen from a .1 solar mass brown dwarf, should this rare kind of collision happen. Would it actually form a star-like object for a period of time, say a million years or so, or would the enormous energy of impact basically blow it apart no new star? Perhaps a near miss and an inside the Roche limit approach would be better than a direct impact for new star formation. Thanks. 

Probably not without a sample. That would require a close look at the chemistry to see if it's a similar enough pattern to have a shared origin. 

There are a few ways that a gigantic ring system outside the Roche limit might be possible. Ring systems can extend well past the Roche limit if they are very faint or very young. A faint/light ring system doesn't have enough mass to coalesce and a young system might not have enough time. Young small moons with lots internal heat of formation can be volcanically active too, feeding a ring system. Saturn's E ring is well outside it's Roche limit. $URL$ The most likely explanation for it's enormous and very dense rings, however is that J1407b is very young and a lot of it's ring system will likely to coalesce into moons in time. The breaks in it's ring system suggests that some moons are already clearing paths in it's rings. It's mass is also very significant. While difficult to estimate, it's thought to be about 10-40 Jupiters in mass. Source. That would give it a mass in the range of 33 to 130 Saturns and a Roche limit some 3 to 5 times (cube root of the mass), distance to Saturn's center, perhaps 6-10 times the distance from the surface surface. Because it's ring system is about 200 times the size of Saturn's rings, the mass alone wouldn't explains part of it. Mostly likely it's a combination of very massive planet/perhaps a brown dwarf star and young plant/star with a satellite system still in formation. There might also be a very powerful magnetic field at play that helps prevent the ring debris from forming into satellites, but that's just speculation on my part. 

The primary effects wouldn't be the things you ask about. First, an object the size of Jupiter would change the day and night sky drastically. The sky now is basically, Sun, Moon and a bunch of yellow dots (and one reddish dot) mostly fixed, 4 move around visibly to the naked eye (Venus, Mars, Jupiter, Saturn). Venus stands out a little as larger and brighter, but it looks pretty much like an abnormally bright star. All that changes if you put a Jupiter sized planet in the orbits around where Mercury or Venus are. Jupiter is about 1/10th the diameter of the Sun. If you put it about midway between Earth and the Sun it would be about 1/5th the diameter and transits over the sun would be obvious, unlike Venus transits which are observable (not a good idea without protective lenses), but easily missed. Jupiter in an orbit between the Earth and the Sun would have apparent phases like the Moon and visible size variation. It's likely that in such a scenario, the geocentric model would never have been adapted, cause Jupiter would raise too many questions in this hypothetical. Aristotle and Ptolomy were smart. This situation would have been enough to perhaps look at things differently. There's also the 3 body gravitation problem. Jupiter inside the Earth's orbit might wreck havoc with the Earth's orbit. Earth's eccentricity might vary a lot more perhaps leading to more extreme climate change periods. There's a good chance an Earth like planet's relatively stable orbit would be subject too a lot of undesirable changes with a hot Jupiter between it and the sun. Comet impacts could be a problem too. A distant Jupiter changing the orbit of passing comets helps the Earth avoid comet impacts. A Jupiter that close to the sun could do the opposite. There's also the migration problem. If Jupiter forms out far from the sun and migrates inwards, that would wreck havoc with any planet orbits it passes. So there's a huge gravity problem with your scenario. If you're looking for Earth like planets, solar-systems with hot Jupiters are probably not the best place to look. 

Interesting question. I did a bit of reading and gave it some thought and and I can sort of give an answer, though I invite corrections and input from anyone more knowledgeable than me. First, those 2 galaxies are enormous. I didn't see specific sizes listed, but per this paper: 

We don't know, but general relativity implies that no force can stop the object from shrinking to infinitesimally small. Quantum Mechanics is more uncertain. I just want to point out that 10 solar masses would have a radius 29.53 km at the event horizon, not 1 KM. A Neutron Star is pretty close to its event horizon already. The problem with "some distinct size inside the event horizon" is that things change when the acceleration is greater than the speed of light. If the acceleration is strong enough that the gluons are drawn towards the center faster than they an move (speed of light), then it's entirely reasonable that the structure wouldn't hold. Another way of saying this is that the gravity becomes stronger than the Neutron Degeneracy Pressure and there's no known force that would prevent continued shrinkage once the Neutron Degeneracy Pressure is overcome. The Pauli exclusion principal says that two neutrons can't occupy the same space, but this can be overcome somewhat by the weight and pressure approaching infinity. The neutrons can get closer and closer as their momentum approaches infinity and that happens at the singularity. So, both relativity and QM (the two best theories for dealing with this question) say that a ridiculously small object may exist at the singuarity, not meters, but maybe the size of an atomic nucleus or size of a quark or even, possibly zero size, but without a quantum field theory of gravity it's impossible to say with much confidence. Other possibilities exist like space might get stretched into some very strange properties, where virtual particles become real but fall back towards the singularity, similar to hawking radiation but without the escape, or, the angular momentum could form into a ring or band, not a point but all that is just guesses. The mathematics of the two main theories both say that a very tiny point is entirely reasonable and the argument for what you suggest, an object with a distinct radius of say 1 meter, is far less supported by current theories. That's my layman's answer anyway. I can delete this if I got too much of the physics wrong, but I thought I'd give you a quick answer. 

Technically those aren't "geysers" on Europa, they're cryovolcanos. Though that definition may be a bit imprecise as well, but the 100 km eruptions on Europa probably have more in common with volcanic eruptions on Earth than geysers. Europa undergoes significant tidal flexing which, in combination to it's solid icy crust, could be compared to explosive volcanic eruptions on Earth and not the cyclic geysers, which are far smaller. Volcanoes on Earth can shoot material high into the atmosphere on Earth but volcanic ash isn't a good example because it's not so much "shot" into the air as it rides rising hot air to altitudes 30 and 40 KM high. Magma fountains on Earth can reach a few hundred meters and Tephra (anything larger than Ash, from pebbles to large rocks/boulders) can be found as far as a mile from a volcano and can exit the volcano at several hundred meters per second. From the Tephra article: