While I support your remarks about the interpretation of probably as a supposed NP modifier, CGEL might still be right about the syntax. Following McCawley's analysis of only as a syntactic modifier which has a semantic focus somewhere within the constituent it modifies, it seems we must distinguish between the syntax and the semantics of such modifiers. Perhaps here probably is indeed a syntactic modifier of a NP, but which has the interpretation of modifying some smaller part of that NP. Consider what only goes with in 

Making usual assumptions about how the symbols are interpreted, your 31a (with the existential quantifier) is a proposition, which can be true or false, but 31b (without any quantifier for x) is a propositional function, which is a function from individuals to truth values. It does not have a unique truth value. I don't find the parts you quoted from your authority to be terribly clear, but I think perhaps the "x" of 31b is intended to be a "parameter" in the sense Richmond Thomason uses that term in his textbook Symbolic Logic: An Introduction. A parameter can refer to an individual with the understanding that the choice of which individual it does refer to is arbitrary (or the choice could be subject to assumptions about what predicates hold true of that individual). Thomason uses a different set of symbols to represent parameters, u, v, ..., to keep them apart from variables, x, y, ... and constants, a, b, .... 

There is no general agreement about how or whether to distinguish these terms. In some discussions, I use them interchangeably. My preference is to make a distinction between "grammar" and "syntax" parallel to logicians' terms "morphology" and "logical syntax", where grammar tells you what sentences are in a language and syntax tells you about the relations among those sentences (such as paraphrase). This is my understanding of the way McCawley uses the terms in TSPE (and he disparages the study of "grammar"). In the agent forms, "grammarian" tends to be reserved for amateurs who have come to regard themselves as arbiters of some sort on style and usage, while "syntactician" refers to professional descriptive linguists. 

An archiphoneme is really not a phonetic entity. Trubetzkoy distinguished his archiphoneme from its surface manifestation, which he called the archiphoneme representative (Vertreter). However, there is a natural phonetic representation available for the typical case where the phonemes which are neutralized have all the possible values for some phonetic features: just give a feature representation for the archiphoneme which omits those features which differ among the neutralized sounds. 

Chomsky proposed that linguistics should be explanatory rather than taxonomic, and mostly, modern linguists have agreed with him. Taxonomic linguistics endeavors to develop a framework of terminology that is sufficient to describe facts of natural language, as we encounter them. This is the sort of thing that preoccupied linguists in the midst of the 20th century, and led to, e.g., tagmemics, or stratificational grammar. Under Chomsky's influence, we don't do that anymore. It appears to me, you are asking a taxonomical question. Not wishing to sound mean, but my answer is: Who cares? 

This paper proposes that fundamental aspects of morphological systems and syntactic systems also are influenced by rhythm, specifically fore-stress versus end-stress. I don't have a personal opinion about whether it is a true explanation, since I don't know enough about the relevant areas. But it is an explanatory theory which has been fairly influential. Here is an online version of the Donegan-Stampe paper: Rhythm and the holistic organization of language structure. 

Let me introduce you to the David Stampe's Natural Phonology theory of morpheme structure -- i.e. what patterns of segments in morphemes are possible. It's simple and elegant. The possible phonological processes in human language are universal among languages, but we don't necessarily apply all of them, so languages differ in regard to which processes children must suppress, or "unlearn", in order to master their native languages. A particular pronunciation will be impossible in a language if it would be changed to something else by a phonological process which remains unsuppressed in that language. If a speaker is confronted with the problem of pronouncing a word of some language he doesn't know, he will adapt the word to his own native language by applying to it all those phonological processes which he never had to suppress when he learned his own language. So the problem of describing morpheme structure for a language is essentially the same as the problem of describing how loan words will be adapted to a language. The morphemes of the language may have any form which will not be altered by any of the processes which have not been suppressed in that language. Finally getting around to the initial question, "How can I use C's and V's to describe syllable structures in a way that rules out highly unlikely syllable structures?", the answer is that you find those phonological processes which would be applicable to unlikely syllable structures in a language so as to change them to some different pronunciation, but which cannot apply to any native admissible syllable structure of the language. For instance, for a language with all open syllables, which of the universal processes would be inapplicable to any open syllable? Those are the processes which children learning the language never had to unlearn, and so continue to be active in the phonological systems of adults. Those would include processes that delete syllable offset consonants and processes that epenthesize vowels in syllable final consonant clusters or after syllable final consonants. It's not possible in Natural Phonology to formulate a theory of admissibility without at the same time giving a theory of loan phonology. The syllable patterns that fail to occur in a language's words are those which would be altered when a word is borrowed from another language. 

It's not about "poverty of the stimulus". It's about the creativity of human language. Humans have both an evolved grammatical mechanism and an intellectual capacity which they bring to language communication. These are separate. In acquiring the capacity for language, people don't use their intellects to figure out a grammatical system -- that's just not possible (the "poverty of stimulus" argument establishes this). But they do use their intellects and knowledge of the world to fit what they need to say into the grammatical system they have inherited. And to understand what others' communicative intentions are. Your examples about the interpretation of the verbs "cow" or "shelve", in my opinion, have to do with using the intellect to arrive at some creative solution to solve the problems of interpreting verbs meaning "perform some action centrally connected with nouns "cow" or "shelve"". I see no reason to think that this is otherwise dictated by the grammatical system of one's language. This is the creative part of language use.