People ask others for help if they think the other person can help them. If they're asking you for knowledge all the time, it means they think you're knowledgeable. This is good. If you know off the top of your head, then they made the right move asking you. It's quicker than looking, and they can be more confident in your answer than whatever some random guy on the internet says. Verifying the information you get from a Google search can take a while. Asking someone you trust is much more efficient. Throughout my career, I've often been asked questions I don't know the answer to, simply because of how often I do know the answer to other questions. When I don't know it immediately, the person usually just says "oh, okay", and then tries to figure it out themselves. If they've already tried to figure it out, and need help, then I give it to them. If possible, this will consist of advice on how to find it on their own. As a manager, this is the advice I would give my employees. Refusing to answer a question to which you know the answer is not only uncooperative, but also rude. If you're spending too much of your time answering simple questions, that's something to mention to your supervisor. It's their job to manage talent. 

Whenever you're writing something, especially professionally, consider how it would sound if read aloud. Exclamation points indicate the emphasis that comes from raising your voice or even yelling, as opposed to the emphasis indicated by italics, which is still at a normal volume but simply emphasized. Raised voices and yelling are generally considered unprofessional at work. Don't add an exclamation point to something unless it would sound perfectly natural to say it in a raised voice standing among all the cubes in your office. When I read an email with exclamation points, the writer often sounds manic. In your example, I would finish the first sentence and wonder why you're yelling at me. Be very careful with them. 

All the answers here are correct that you should be concerned. They don't try to improve your performance unless your performance needs improving. That being said, they may not be trying to fire you, but actually trying to improve your performance. We're working on an improvement plan for one of my employees, and everyone involved genuinely wants to help this guy get better. We'll give him all the support we can and make our expectations very clear, but if he can't or won't improve, termination would be the eventual logical conclusion. So, yes, be concerned, but if you look at the plan and think you can achieve it, then focus on that, not worries about being fired. A Note on Contracts At my company, everyone is employed "at-will". This means that any employee can quit whenever they want without giving a reason. It also means that the company can fire anybody whenever they want without cause (although there's still some potential legal liability if it looks like the company has discriminated against a protected class). So, if we wanted to fire someone, we could fire them with significantly less effort than a formal PIP. The fact that we're going to all the effort to put together an improvement plan indicates just how strongly we don't want to fire him. 

I would make sure you recognize that different people will interpret this request differently. You're likely to get a range of interpretation from earnest naivete all the way to blatant sycophancy. Like mhoran alludes to, I would start with the folks that you have more regular interactions with and save the more senior people for another time. As long as you're sincere, most people would be more than willing to spend an hour over lunch discussing things with you. Just make sure that you have some specific questions and topics to cover. If the crux of your questions are "How can I be successful at Company X?" you're odds of getting something beyond "Work hard and get your stuff done on time" aren't going to be that high, unless you get really lucky with the person you select. Think about what you want to get out of the exchange before you even broach having the exchange. 

If I'm evaluating candidates I first narrow down the list based solely on resume content. After that first pass, I'll begin looking for other information that may or may not help me make my decision. If a candidate has a link anywhere on their resume, I will go to it at this point. This link could be a personal website, a portfolio site or perhaps a third-party website upon which they claim to have worked. All of that data is valuable. If the candidate does not have a link on their resume, I will Google them and see what comes up. So, if I were to receive your resume for a position and you passed my initial screen, I would absolutely follow the link and see what was there. 

I believe that people who are angry or otherwise dissatisfied with their employment experience are much more likely to put a review on a site like Glassdoor than those who are quite happy with their employment. So, I would take this information with a grain of salt and only let it dissuade you if there is a proliferation of it. For example, if there were only one negative review, I'd likely not care. But, if there are more than that, especially if they're discussing similar issues, I'd proceed more cautiously. You should not explicitly state, in an interview, "I saw someone on Glassdoor complain about this, please respond." Rather, you should approach it a little more delicately by more generically bringing up the scenario that gives you pause. For example, if the complaint is "This place sucks because I have to clock in and out to go to the bathroom." You can get your concerns addressed by asking about the day to day comings and goings for the average employee or how they track hours in the office, etc... 

The communities in which we work throughout our lives are generally pretty small. You never know when you might come across some of the same folks you're working with now. And you can't predict if they'll be in a position to decide whether or not you get some job or some promotion. You don't say how much time you have left on your notice period, but if it's just a couple of weeks, I'd suck it up and power through. Make sure all of your work is done, any transition stuff is prepared, etc... Your manager is treating you differently because they're likely taking your departure personally. This happens all the time and I'd just ignore it, do your job and thinking about how great things are going to be in your new gig in a couple of weeks. 

I would not ignore and pretend nothing happened. Then you give them an actual reason to be dissatisfied with your service; as of now you've gone above and beyond to help them, ignoring them would be rude even if they are being unreasonable. Computer and technical problems can be really frustrating and this customer is just taking it out on you unfairly. I would politely say something to the effect that you apologize that your service was not adequate for their needs and you did your best, however, your services are not specific to the needs they are trying to address, and then offer to follow up with their technical support team. Provide the contact info of their technical support team and also offer to contact the technical support team yourself and relay their issue and difficulties. Then call their tech support, ask someone to contact the customer, (or email so you can show that you followed through in case of future issues with this customer); then send follow up/call customer and confirm that you relayed the message and who you spoke to. Even if you may want to reply with the same attitude they're giving you, difficult people usually calm down when someone seems to be paying attention to them and with customers like that, killing them with kindness really is the way to go. Responding in any other way will just fire them up even more. By replying politely, and including the fact that although you are willing to do everything within your power to help but are not the appropriate party to turn to for help with this particular issue, you are also covering yourself in case this person really flies off the handle and tries to sue someone. And you give yourself closure, no more wondering what to do, you offered to do the only thing you can, reach out to someone who can actually solve the problem...now the ball is in everyone else's court (minus the phone call to the customer's tech support on their behalf). 

I had an interview yesterday and I do not think it went well because it was very short. It was with two people; the hiring manager and someone who works under him who would be a peer to whoever is hired for the position. I normally interview well, and I am not sure if I said something wrong, or if they were busy, but they wrapped it up very quickly an there was no real substance to the interview. Both people interviewed me at the same time, so no individual discussions. I have written a compelling follow up to the hiring manager selling myself and my skills, etc. I know that the best thing to do is to send an individualized letter to each of the interviewers, but due to the interview's lack of depth, there are no points that I can isolate that would apply to one or the other. The only thing I am fairly certain of is that the hiring manager is concerned that my experience may not be specific enough to their particular department. Would it be ok in this instance to copy the employee who sat in on the interview on the letter? And say "Dear Bob, It was a pleasure meeting you and Billy today..." rather than an individualized letter to both? The letter is also long for a follow up, but it's my only chance at recovery, and it's a good letter. If I wrote a tailored thank you to the employee who interviewed me along with the hiring manager, it would be 3 sentences long as opposed to my 3 (ok, 5-ish) paragraph long follow up to the hiring manager. I know that it's completely impolite not to thank the other guy for his time too, and it would be really tacky to just copy and paste and change the name, but I don't know what to do; I don't have anything to say to one that I wouldn't say to the other, and the hiring manager would be the obvious choice, if I have to choose. Please help...