Wait wait wait... While resources and stuff has been addressed already (I'm voting for fusion reactor btw.... I wonder if you can grab/soak/inhale new fusion material while drifting through suns corona...) something just spoke of in a comment @Dan Bryant and @Euphoric is pretty vital to the whole story. Rendezvous with the asteroid so... I do not know what kind of future advanced technology your civilization does own, but if they cannot offer vessel that has a deltaV of... huh... 

my first thought after reading your description was "Ghastly, i choose you!". Or even better: Haunter. The third evolution is considered ugly from my side so I already forget his name ;) Interesting side-note: my browsers dictionary seems to know at least the names of the first 151... except Mewtwo... anyway; I'm drifting. What was I up to? thinking Ah! I was wondering if I should comment on LL mcLarry Post, but decided to answer this with a real answer. I vote for a collective intelligence made from single-cellular lifeforms that happen to produce methanol as their... well, that was is left when stuff has been eaten. But they don't release this, but keep it in their cell. And because a single cell is weak, they will stick together and create a kind of aerosol made from single-cellular beeings that happens to be afloat in air thanks to their own storage of lighter-than-air gas. Now the hard-science problems start. How does these guys keep themselves from being blown apart when a storm kicks in? Good question. He... no, they should try to find their niche where no heavy winds do blow. And - even more interesting - how do they move? Um... well... you know... at all they are a collective of dudes with unsolved flatulent problems that keeps them afloat in air. And now you know why this is a dangerous creature that does eat people who felt unconscious when it is near them. This idea does have a lot of holes in it, like the explaination for "so how do they manage to stack in a swarm?" I doubt these little hairs used by bacteria to move in the primal soup can establish a link strong enough to keep them together in rough conditions, but... well... the more of these guys do hold hands, the more intelligent this may become. They could exchange sensual impressions (is that the correct term?) using these holding-hand-hairs-I-still-fail-to-find-the-correct-name-for to conduct electric charges like the synapses inside a brain do. Well, enough brain-storming. This might not be a gas-creature (just an aerosol one), but it might fit your request if you add some wild ideas. 

Well... you should be aware of the huge differences that will occur when such a craft crashes down to earth with a huge load of civil observers either in country A and in country B. And it will be completely different in country C. So while the most common place for alien-actions (the USA) may have a plan for stuff like this happen, many other nations are not prepared for this. For example in Germany a spaceship that parks itself in front of the Bundestag (where our chancellor is dwelling around) will most likely receive a traffic ticket for not owning license plate, dangerous intervention into air traffic, parking at a disabled parking location and piloting a not TÜV-approved (TÜV forbid you to use your car if its a piece of rubbish) vehicle without a flight license. Further, the aliens may get a lawsuit for illegal immigration and running around naked in public. But in your case you claimed that this was a crash. And its clear that everyone who did observe this did notice. So the case may develop different for they following major cases: 

short answer from me this time: place your planet in a brown dwarfs orbit. While it will heat up your planet up to the temperature you require if close enough, it wont emit.... wait, maybe it glows a bit... or... no, it won't. Anyway, if you choose this one, you need a whole new evolution line, especially for plants, because there will be no visible light to do the stuff plants usually do (cracking CO2 into O2 and C (and adding some water and dead animals to make sugar out of the C)... but evolution is pretty... creative in its ways (if you can so so), so maybe you plant life using infra red light to do what these plants usually do (which is... another question). if you add a thick atmosphere to keep the heat, you will get a pretty warm and maybe moisty planet, which may be counted as a swamp planet. But as nigel222 already noted, there is no "pure" swamp planet. Pure barren is okay, because there is no climate when you have no atmophere... but the have a swamp like place you'll need an atmosphere, which means you get a climate which means other regions on your planet may be less swampy. For additional heat consider tidal forces. Friction can create much heat (just touch your cars breaks after stopping from 100mph to zero) and if you get a big moon it could add some surplus degree of warmth if your central brown dwarf isn't hot enough by friction heat your water bodys... well, that one degree... no, forget about this. Another Idea, before I answer this, might be an enclosing nebula around your central star which does eat visible light but not infra red light. This... may need some more thinking I'm afraid. EDIT: Just after clicking "answer" I started wondering about this. Solar winds would blow away such nebula when they are this close in the time it would take to spwan intelligent life at a planet orbiting this star. So do not consider this until you can explain why this nebula wont get blown away. One to go: Your alien world is a secondary evolution. The first kind disappeared millenias ago; all they left is a dyson-sphere that eat all but the most red light to radio broadcast the first evolution guys favourite music into the space. 

So... while there is already a fine answer, I used my lunch break to try to figure out "what is with the ocean trenches?". They are not inserted yet, so I tried to figure out how the continental and ocean plates do look after all... which wasn't as clear as I hoped at the beginning. plate tectonics You have mountain ranges which look like they were created by plate uplift, you have hills that might be the result of an ice age glacier action and some might even be volcanoes, which love to pop up at plate rifts. My picture does look... well... I have no idea how the plates are drifting and so at the moment I can't tell where rifts in the ocean might be after all. If you extend the orange lines you should find stuff like underwater mountains (volcanoes) OR deep rifts. The read lines are much more likely to result in high places under water, but still... I got the feeling your world rips itself apart at this long rift right in the middle, BUT because there are volcanoes this might mean that the ocean isn't pretty deep after all. Even more, I think this might be a pangea which was struck by unexplainable hot weather which resulted in an overall rise of water. Which means: Some of the even important parts of the landmasses are hidden below the ocean surface. So you would end up with swallow water between the continents and more deep water outside the "where the pangea had its beaches" point. Anyway, you are beyond the point where a restructuring would make sense. When I'm right with my outlining, you will end up with a greater body of water between a northern and southern group of continents, while the mountains might grow and the land start to extent at the water ends of the red lines. In many centuries.... weather impact Due to swallow water, not much currents would form between the continents, but if we insert a more deep rift at all orange lines, we might get some east-west currents which will supply water from outside the continent area. You will end up with more wet climante where this happens and more dry climate where no currents pass by. Especially that... phallic island. At the same time northern Eastland and eastern Northland and northern Lesser Southlands will get more wet climate (warm winters, wet summers).... Aaaand... I think I cannot add very much to kingledions answer after all saldy. To be honest, the distribution of mountains, islands and water still looks like it wasn't done by tectonic forces but... well... a god who hasn't much experience in making worlds. But maybe I'm wrong with my interpretation. EDiT: While staring at it for some time I think I found a useful tectonic layout... and this is indeed a pangea breaking up. Still the masculin monkey-wrench island is getting kind of... pressure; you will end up with salt lakes or death seas... have a look (its getting more confusing) 

Either you wait for these guys who know the math, or you take the easy-going approach I can offer. 1 So, the inhabitable world should be at least as heavy as Mars (in terms of mass), but better be in the same weight class as earth - less mass would allow fancy jumping combat, but you may lose your atmosphere, more mass would... do many things. To break things down: aim for a surface acceleration close to ours to get the most earth-like appearance. Something between Earth and Mars in terms of mass and size may work. When in doubt, add superheavy elements to the core ;) About the other protagonists... here you should aim for something similar to our system. Bigger suns may offer brighter days but also more radiation... which may be nullified if your Earth-Moon is inside the gas giants magnetic field. At the other hand that would mean that it will so close the rotation went to a bound one (one side is facing the gas giant all the time). Just the same our very own moon (Luna) is doing after all. When you want this moon to have a more earth-like rotation, it have to reside in a pretty big orbit, but... I thing there might be a limit of some kind. Here the guys with the correct formulas on hand can offer better explanations: how far it can go of without saying farewell to the gas giant completely? So, have a modest sun, place that gas giant inside its habitable zone, add a moon that is a bit smaller than Earth but a bit bigger than Mars and here we go. Should work and can offer pretty impressive polar lights under the right circumstances. Something more: big gas giants will heat up your moon by their own. Not like a true sun, but sufficient to shift the orbit a bit more away from the sun. If you install a brown dwarf instead, chances are high that life would flourish even outside the habitable zone up to some million kilometers. But it would be pretty dim all the time. 2 Oh... math. As Aaron Lavers in his comment said, you could look up whats happening with the big moons in our system. The gas giant might need more or less a year (less, if the sun is smaller than ours, way more if its bigger, when its orbit is adjusted to stick inside the habitable zone). The planet of yours (the moon)... I guess he will take more than a month for a full round, but way less than a year. Three to four months (real earth months)? Seasons would be pretty interesting, by the way, because you may have some days your moon would stick in core-shadow of the gas giant. Reminds me about the movie Pitch Black with Vin Diesel. Well... to stick with the four month orbit (its good for explanation), you would have one month for northern hemisphere for Winter, one for Spring, one for Summer and one for Fall... and imagine the gas giant need twelve to orbit the central star and have some orbital excentricity of its own, you could have three "winter" which range from "cold as fu**" to "pretty hot", while three times a year you suffer from total darkness for a couple of days... If that happens in the "cold-winter" your people would be... very poor off, while in the "hot-winter" it could be more decent. At the other side during a "hot-summer" they will enjoy the off time from scorching temperatures. To conclude this: your moon will have summer, fall, winter and spring three times a year, one in a hot variant, one in a cold variant, one in a medium variant... and I thing these will shift over the years. Correct calculation will be a nightmare if you decide to go for super realistic orbital times... Maybe its a good idea to stick with the 4-months orbit for the moon and the 12 (or maybe 16) month orbit for the gas giant, so you can determine more easily how things are looking at that moon. EDiT: Turns out I forgot something: to have long orbital times for the moon, that gas giant can't be pretty big (the bigger, the faster you have to run on your orbit to avoid crashing down). So either move away from the giant (which will make the ecpises less intense), or shrink the giant... hm. Titania from Uranus does have a similiar orbit to the one our moon has but still, it just takes about a week to do a full orbit. That will be tricky. Maybe a 4-month orbit is way outside any posibillity after all... or the gas giant would be as small as our moon at the night sky and lose its appeal ;) 3 Expect giant tides. And bright nights. The latter will only occur when your moon is between the gas giant and the sun. When its a bright ball of Helium and Hydrogen like Saturn, Reflection will cause nights that are as bright as days (with a few lumen off), while something more... Neptunish will cause more dark nights. As soon as your moon is behind his gas planet (lineup: sun-gas-moon), nights will suddenly get pretty dark and even days can get very dark, when the moon goes for a full sun eclipse. Well... enough for now. Coworkers already starting to wonder why I'm this busy typing all of a sudden. My answer might not be the most accurate, but I hope most effects had been covered so you can start expecting how thing would look like. Now wait for these guys with the formulas and small pictures of orbits. Or drop all this, because if its a fantasy-world without modern technology stuff like this wont matter enough to waste lines describing accurately how the solar system does look like.