In colloquial Spanish, there are examples of reduplication such as El bebé estaba llori-llori (= "El bebé estaba llorando") that seem to involve non-finite forms of the verb, or deverbal derivations. Depending on how one analyzes such examples, reduplication may be part of the process whereby a verb is converted into a non-verb. I don't know of any cases in Spanish where a conjugated form of the verb is reduplicated. 

Is there a strong correlation between geminate consonants and initial-syllable stress, or stress in the earlier syllables of words? A survey of European languages suggests that there might be such a correlation. For example, in Italian, where antepenultimate stress is common, geminate consonants are ubiquitous (fatto "done", troppo "too much", etc.). By contrast, geminates seem rare-to-absent in standard Spanish/Portuguese (which have more thoroughgoing penultimate/final stress) and French (which has mainly final stress). Similarly, most Germanic languages had geminates at some point in their history (although many are no longer true phonetic geminates due to sound change), and initial-syllable stress was historically the norm in Germanic. Cf. English tap < Old Eng. tæppa, Icelandic tappi "cork, peg", German Zapfen "peg, pin", etc. Thanks for any further insight into this issue. 

I'm fairly sure that the language is Armenian. For example, the second word on the top line is միշտ (mishd) meaning "always", and the fourth line has the words քեզ (kez) "you" and մարդ (mard) "man". I'm not fluent enough in Armenian to easily decipher the whole text, but the final line appears to read "January 1861". 

These kinds of features are more common in dialectal Slovene than in the standard language, but I don't know how the particular dialects compare with each other in this respect. 

No relation. Bin or min is Bıng (not with a i but ı) in the old Turkic. Dil is Tıl (not with a i but ı) in the old Turkic. And its real meaning is tongue not language. 

Turkish has only one suffix for plural (* ler) and with the number of objects It doesn't change. But as it is written many times above, Turkish has tendency to drop the plurals in most cases. This feature can be observed through the many proposed Altaic languages (Japanese, Mongolian etc.) 

In Turkish "Ne" means What, but also is used as wh. Ne + rede means in Where, Ne + den means for What. 

The root is not known. But for etymology I would recommend Misalli Büyük Türkçe Sözlük (It is online on kubbealtilugati.com . According to it, bakır has been used since the old Turkic, but there are some claims that it can be loan word from an Iranian Language (Sogdian maybe?) Source: $URL$ 

Because your english example is compound sentence. You just add different words to each other. But Turkish example is like this Çekoslavakya-lı-laş.... If we inspect this, -lı and -laş are suffixes not words. -lı creates a new word which gives the meaning of Inclusiveness (like Czechoslovakia-n). -laş is a suffix that creates verb from a noun which gives the meaning of to become that noun. This is agglutination. It is common to have one word sentences in Turkish, you can express lots of things with suffixes. There are examples similar to your English example. Buzdolabı means fridge, literally Ice+closet. In here 2 words are added together no suffixes. 

However, Japanese has retained most other palatalized sounds as such: velar stops (Kyōtō, Gyōza), back-fricatives (hyaku "100"), labial stops (roppyaku "600") and resonants (ryōri "cooking", gyunyu "milk", etc.). In Norwegian and Swedish, both the palatalized alveolars and velars have changed into something else: "sea") > [ʃ] / [ɧ] tj (as in tjære / tjära "tar") > [ç] / [ɕ] dj (as in Sw. djur "animal") > [j] kj (kjøtt / kött "flesh") > [ç] / [ɕ] skj (skjorte / skjorta "shirt") > [ʃ] / [ɧ] gj (as in gjorde "did") > [j] 

I think "epicene" might be the word you are looking for here (or one possible word). From Random House dictionary's definition of "epicene": 

for is an old-fashioned-sounding synonym of "because": e.g., I dared not go outside, for it was raining. But I am not sure if for was the direct predecessor of because. 

This change has occurred in modern English, but it did not occur generally in the branch of Germanic that English comes from (as the Old English forms above show). Another such feature is the mediopassive verb form: e.g., Icelandic sjá "to see" vs. sjást "to be seen, to see oneself, etc.". As far as I know, the mediopassive suffix -s(t) is only found in North Germanic. 

As mentioned, modern Scandinavian (Swedish, Danish, Norwegian) seems like a fairly straightforward example of agglutinative IE languages: the only major exceptions to the agglutination in these languages (that I can think of) are the verbs whose past tense is formed with ablaut rather than suffixes. Armenian (or at least Western Armenian -- I haven't studied Eastern) doesn't seem especially agglutinative in its noun or verb system. Although its nouns do not have gender classes and the plural ending -(n)er is used for almost all nouns (I don't recall any exceptions at the moment), many words have irregular case endings. Its verb system has three main conjugation classes, the personal endings are not the same in the past and present tense, and there are many different patterns in the formation of past-tense stems.