What material – such as polyester, polypropylene or wool – or combination thereof, both works to keep you warm when wet and dries quickly, as an alternative to neoprene? I'm looking for something cheaper and simpler than a dry suit but less restrictive than a wet suit, for paddling in cool but not very cold water. Something you can submerge in and still keep reasonably warm. 

A key part of your question -- "...in its stuff sack..." -- is not addressed here (or in the original, duplicate question). When I bought my first high-quality back-packing tent, I was advised not to store it stuffed into its sac for long periods. It seems perfectly logical to me to not store any "crushable" gear into its "carrying sac" for long periods for fear of having too many wrinkles and creases permanently imposed upon the material. I recently had an airbed, that was stored in its carry sac, annoyingly crack along such an unnatural stressed fold. Lucky for me it was a cheapo. I keep my more expensive air bed almost completely self-inflated. I keep my tents and sleeping bags in "storage sacs" that are each about double the size of their carrying sacs. That seems to be a good compromise between fully compressed and fully unwrapped; I don't have endless closet space. To effect a double-size sac for your tent and fly: get another carry-sized sac of similar size and store the tent and fly separately in the two separate sacs. Each will be reasonably compact and airy at the same time. Such a setup for my tent has lasted over 20 years so far. I went from this storage sac 

So if she is hanging the compass right next to an inductive charger, in a welding shop, against your cellphones every night, on your fridge next to handy fridge magnets, etc. I might be worried... Otherwise you're probably safe. Of course you swing/tune your compass yearly anyway right? In all seriousness I've never met anyone that did this for land navigation, but it is a best practice. It becomes more common for compasses used in ocean navigation, but even there it is declining due to the dominance and ease of GPS based navigation. In parting: 

As an aside don't discount the psychological benefits of a warm drink. I almost always bring a small thermos full of hot tea with me while skiing. The tea is always nice, but it is a real lifesaver when you're wet, tired, and feeling miserable. 

The best free outdoor range that I found was in Garden Valley. The range is free to use, however donations to the local gun club that maintains the site are encouraged. Personally I donate a few bucks every time I go, and pick up extra brass/trash as an additional contribution. It is located on the side of Banks Lowman Rd. across from the airport. You can see some pictures of the range with the Google Maps link. There are essential three sections. The 50 yard and 100 yard ranges are joined. There is a separate shotgun range as well on site that I haven't used. There are covered shooting areas with plenty of benches. During peak times it can get fairly busy, but I've never had a problem getting a spot to shoot. At roughly an hour drive away the range is a bit farther than I'd prefer, but the range is nice enough and the drive pleasant enough, I don't mind driving out to it. 

It will depend on whereabouts along the Thames you live but there are many canoe and kayak clubs and water-based outdoor recreation centres around. It is possible to get into it without any training but that's not advisable. Most clubs or centres will have some kind of beginner classes. Just do some searches. Canoes and kayaks don't need to be licensed but many rivers in England often require specific licenses to paddle on. Before enquiring, be clear on the difference between a canoe and a kayak: strictly speaking, canoes are paddled with a single-bladed paddle and kayaks are paddled with a double-bladed paddle. (However, in the UK, "canoe" is often the generic term for both.) Both are fun to paddle, in my opinion, so try them both. Two more things to consider, but later on, after you've got some experience: Inflatable vs hard shell and single vs double. (In open canoes, the latter is known as solo vs tandem.) You and your friend might like to paddle the same boat, but it's a good idea to both try out your techniques in single/solo boats first. 

I'm planning to go downhill skiing next week and I notice the forecast for the day in question is for winds of 50 to 60 km/h. That seemed high to me. A few years ago, at the same hill, we were turned away when they closed all chair lifts because of strong winds, but how strong I don't know. Are there any standard guidelines that ski hills follow regarding maximum allowable wind strengths, before they close the lifts? I've seen a couple of anecdotal claims that chair lifts remained open (on other hills) even in 40 mph (64 km/h) winds. Seems awfully high. 

I think this comes down to personal preference, your level of training, and what type of hunting you're going to be doing with your rifle. In general I don't think trigger pull weight is going to be the deciding factor as to whether or not you come home empty handed unless you are trying to snipe gophers from 500 yards. According to an article in Field and Stream: 

I think the best bet for a person without arms (assuming we aren't talking rough water/offshore use) is a type 2 life jacket. Specifically the type that look like an oversized bib. 

You can wear anything you want. I know when the ski season is coming to a close some people go skiing in little more than bathing suits on warmer days, and there are competitions where people try to cross/jump over pools of ice water. I skied nearly every day in Jackson Hole, Wyoming one season and my go to jacket was a soft shell with a wind proof membrane. I chose that jacket because I would use the lifts and then hike out in the side country (out of bounds areas to the side of the patrolled areas). When I hike I tend to heat up significantly so my soft shell allowed me to dump the excess heat. I only used a regular hard shell ski jacket during the coldest of days. In general for beginning skiers/snowboarders I'd recommend they wear something that is warm, has really good water resistance, and will keep the snow out. Hard-shell skiing jackets generally accomplish all of these things. Soft-shell jackets that I've used tend to be a bit shorter in the torso so it is easier for snow to get up underneath your jacket. Depending on how you fall and what type of snow you fall into the snow will be driven underneath your jacket. This is why some ski jackets have a "powder skirt" built into them. If you're wearing pants this is a bigger deal than if you're wearing overalls aka bibs because the snow has a better chance with pants to directly contact your skin. Keep in mind you're probably going to be falling a lot as a first timer so bigger, bulkier clothing is going to keep you warmer and cushion your falls a tad too. The long and the short of it is I'd recommend a big hard-shell jacket, and bibs. If you're learning to snowboard and happen to have a set of hockey breezers I'd recommend you wear those too. However, anything you have, like a soft shell, that will keep you warm and dry is probably okay even if it isn't optimal. This is especially true if you are going skiing at a ski area since the lodge is close and will allow you to warm up. 

The problem you describe is known in surveying as three point resection – essentially you need to observe angles, from an unknown point, between three points whose coordinates are known. Ideally, you observe the angles via a theodolite (transit). Failing that, a sextant. Failing that, a compass, as you state in the question. The means of solution is known as the Tienstra method. An interactive web solution is provided here. The mathematics are explained here. Note, the solution is impossible, or very poor, if all four points lie on, or close to, a circle. If your initial statement about the compass having systematic error is incorrect, i.e., that the observed magnetic bearings are actually good, then you only need to observe to two known locations. After correcting for magnetic declination you can simply plot the bearings on a map and see where they intersect. 

Regarding Q2, a sea kayak might be a little too big and expensive for your needs, as beginners. A recreational kayak -- a bit of a cross between a sea kayak and a whitewater kayak -- is more general-purpose, and is often far less expensive than a sea kayak or a whitewater kayak. 

Of course there are (not so) positive psychological feedback loops at play here which reduce your effectiveness. People are nervous about their ability to do XYZ on the rock so they grip the holds a little harder, which makes them feel more tired, which makes them want to hurry to complete the moves, which makes them lose focus on their technique, which makes them try to power through moves, which makes them more tired, which makes them nervous, and the cycle repeats. That is why the mental aspect of climbing is crucial, especially at the higher levels where there is less margin for error. 

Collect the water and let it stand for a period of time to allow particulates and oils to separate from the water. After skimming the oil from the top transfer the water without the particulates into another vessel. Set up your water vessel and heat source so you can vary the temperature of the water. The goal is to have a system in place so you can hold the water at a relatively constant temperature below boiling for a period of time. One primitive way of doing this would be with a tall tripod over a camp fire. That will allow you to adjust the temperature of the water by adjusting the distance the water vessel is above the flames. After holding the water vessel at a high temperature that is still below boiling for a long period of time you can be relatively certain that the substances that have a boiling point lower than water will have evaporated. Setup your water vapor collection system, and bring the water to a boil. Since we have boiled off most of the things with a lower boiling point all we should be collecting are things at or close to water's boiling point. 

In my garage, and when it is parked around town, I lock my bike to a rack via a U-lock or at least a cable lock. How should I similarly secure my kayak? I realize that a determined thief can break most locks but let’s assume conventional bike locks are good enough to deter casual thieves. 

You did not say whether you were going downhill skiing or cross-country. The difference is significant: When downhill skiing you are being carried uphill each time between runs and so are not generating much of your own heat and so are not going to sweat much. You are also never very far from warm shelter where, if you feel cold, you can usually (a) consume hot food and drink and (b) blow hot air into your (temporarily empty) gloves and boots. Thus, so long as you have enough clothing to keep you warm, it needn't be "thermal". In fact, it is even safe to wear (the dreaded) cotton next to your skin. I do. When cross-country skiing -- or snow-shoeing or winter hiking -- you must propel yourself up every hill and doing so can generate much heat and cause sweating or giving off moist air. Because you are going to be relatively far from shelter, it is critical that you have "thermal" underwear and breathable outer shell that helps keep you warm and dry. Synthetics or merano wool will do.