The Numbers are Wrong Going over the claim in the site, as mentioned above, Duke claims that Jews are 25% percent of the Harvard students, as cites the source as Hillel and Princeton review without linking to the sources. But, according to Hillel the number of Jews on campus is: 

I got the cold, and my mother who is a physician told me to drink lots of chicken soup as it helps relieve the symptoms of the disease. When I asked her if it really helps more than other hot beverages, she claimed that it contains anti inflammatory properties. The same claim is shared about chicken soup as a "folk remedy" for the common cold by many, from the Wikipedia article: 

Trained police officers, in stressful situations can get to hit rates near 50%, depending on the distance, and situation: A Hail of Bullets, a Heap of Uncertainty, The New York Times: 

Moreover, during the entire Korean war only 5 US ships were sunk by the North Koreans, all of them were minesweepers that hit mines: 

There are other stores in that article that don't mention the bible as one of their best-stealer but there are a lot of stores where it is. It also happens in libraries, as shown in this transcript of a segment from On the Media: 

Yes they do. A video by the National Geographic documenting the rituals, including the open air cramtion of the bodies on the banks of the river, as well as dumping the ashes into the water. According to them they cremate: 

Clearly he is at least as biased as the Christians, just with the opposite bent! He treats Saturn, Jupiter and Isis as real in his Histories, and about Vespasians siege of Jerusalem he writes: 

The Jerusalem church is described in Acts (which is not by Paul but by the author of Luke), and Acts 15 has an account of the conflict between Paul and the Jerusalem church. The same conflict is described by Paul in Galatians 2, hence we have two independent sources, which at least establish the existence of the church. (The council is not surprisingly described somewhat differently in the two accounts, but the premise that there were a church and a council is established by both.) We don't have any archaeological evidence and wouldn't expect to, since there most likely were no dedicated church building (the disciples met in private according to Acts - church just means congregation at this point, not a specific building) and distinct Christian symbols like crucifixes etc were not used at the time. I don't see anything suggest that the church should be fictional, especially since the story of the conflict kind of weakens the authority of the early church and Paul, so it wouldn't be in anybody's interest to make such a story up. You are correct that Christianity shows a lot of Greek influence, especially in later iteration, but this has clearly been a gradual process. John (the latest gospel) shows much more Greek (perhaps even Gnostic) influence, while Mark (the earliest) is more purely Jewish. This is fully consistent with the mainstream view that the first Christians and the Jerusalem church where basically a Jewish sect, and Paul transformed it into a more Hellenistic religion approachable by non-Jews - a transformation which caused the conflict described in Acts. 

other reasons include nudity and sexuality, offensive to the culture, nationality or religion of the country and other various reasons. 

The above test was studied the effects of a sure hit on the head and doesn't take into account the dynamics of a boxing match, missing and avoiding hits. 

Melania Trump can speak English perfectly well, well enough for the American news media. Here are examples of interviews with her with and without Donald. In all of them she speaks English without any trouble and is perfectly understood: She does have an accent 

Most countries that ban games, ban them because of depictions of violence. Some countries also ban games because of other content, like South Korea, which bans games that have content which reflects on North Korea to: 

It's true, but not all the details are accurate The author posted a FAQ post about the case where they explain that they did take some creative liberty both for simplification and because they didn't remember all the details: 

The only thing I have to say is WTF?!, electrons have mass, and so do protons, but charge is a property, it doesn't "carry mass" it's like saying that because things have length and color, then "length carries a color". There are 2 types of particles that have charge: leptons (electron, muon and tau) and quarks, each of those particles has mass and charge, but charge and mass are properties of the particle, not a particle by itself (protons and neutrons are made of quarks). This is particle physics material. If the meaning is that electrons have no mass, then yes, they don't have mass. Electrons have ~10^3 less mass than a proton, for all practical purposes, an electron doesn't contribute any mass to the mass of the atom. Since, again, we are talking with kids, and we don't calculate the mobility of different materials (Solid state physics), or about movement of individual electrons (Quantum Physics), then the approximation that electrons have no mass is good enough. 

This is extremely embarrassing. In the last moment he looses faith, thinks God has abandoned him, and dies with a whimper. Even Jim Jones or David Koresh did not lose faith like this! And people around him does not understand what he is saying and are making fun of him. Now consider the later account in Luke: 

The English text in the first link seem to be the bloggers own translation of the passage, at least if I understand what he writes correctly. This could very well be a biased translation since the blogger wants to prove that the texts makes a certain prediction. I found a separate English translation of the passage for comparison. The Messiah Texts: Jewish Legends of Three Thousand Years It's on Google books, so I cannot copy-paste the translation, but the central passage is translated as: 

Bottom line: People throughout history have been able to perceive and distinguish colors we would call blue. But they would not necessary have a word directly translatable to "blue". 

Now, not only does Jesus bravely accept his fate, it actually turns out it was part of the big plan all along! And the sponge-guy is not taunting Jesus anymore, but rather offering the sponge as an act of grace. The whole scene is just so much more dignified and meaningful. It is quite easy to see how the narrative could have developed like this. First the crucifixion and the pitiful death of Jesus is an embarrassing fact. But over the following decades (it is assumed to be about 40 years between Mark and John) it is re-interpreted (or spun as we would say today) to actually becoming a meaningful event which shows the greatness of Jesus, and was planned all along. Now consider if it was a fictional account. it makes no sense to make up such an embarrassing end for Jesus (which the Christians later had to spin heavily), if the point of the story was to convince people that this guy was God! The case for the purely fictional Jesus simply does not make sense. Tl;dr: Jesus most likely were a real person. 

The same happened to Norway in 2012, and they also issued an apology to the Sri Lancan government: From the Sri Lankan Ministry of External Affairs site: 

In Israel, the patties for McDonald's are made by a company named Of Tov which literally translates as "Good Chicken", in their site they still say that their patties are made from 100% lean beef meat. 

NO, it's unsubstantiated. While I can't definitively debunk it, because no experiments were made, or published that debunk this claim, there were also no supporting scientific publications, neither experiments nor theoretical. There is simply no scientific background for this. It's all based on Solfeggio frequencies: 

All emphases are mine Conclusion: A wide variety of factors affect the hit ratio of an assailant, and in many cases, hit ratio is high, even though those are stressful situations where the targets were probably moving or hiding, there is probably no way to know if an anonymous assailant is an ex navy seal with 100% hit rate, or doesn't know how to properly handle their weapon. My anonymous and unsourced advice would be to try to avoid the attacker using their weapon, but see disclaimer above. 

Update: As of this week (written on September 1st, 2013), Domestic Abuse has officially been outlawed in Saudi Arabia. 

Also, a Foreign Policy article on the campaign mentions another recent campaign, the "White Ribbon Campaign" which is part of the global White Ribbon Campaign against domestic violence: 

Jewish students are overrepresented in Harvard compared to the percentage of Jews in the US total population, but the graph shown misleading and is based on wrong numbers. 

Regarding claim 3, this seem to be a misunderstanding of the hypothesis that languages evolve words for colors gradually and in a universal order. The claim is not that on a specific day, languages around the world invented a word for "blue", but rather that "blue" will typically be the sixth color term to appear in a language (after dark, light, red, green and yellow). This hypothesis is controversial and some counterexamples have been found, but it is not totally ridiculous. The answer by March Ho examines this in more detail. 

Here Tacitus mentions a number of supernatural occurrences just as amazing as what is described in the gospels AND basically claims that Vespasian (the roman emperor) is really the messiah, and anybody who cannot see this is an idiot! And despite passages like this he is still considered one of the most reliable ancient historians... Bottom line: Any ancient text should be read with a heavy dose of source-criticism. The gospels are actually relatively strong sources because we have four semi-independent account. The inconsistencies between the gospels have been a source of embarrassment for the church, but for the historian they are a godsend: They allow us to through textual analysis determine the age of various parts of the narrative and then estimate how it developed over time. The gospels taken together are actually pretty good source material compared to what we have about most other pre-modern figures, including kings and emperors, believe it or not. 

Regarding claim 4, that the Himba people not being able to distinguish between blue and green, the claim is much weaker in the wikipedia page you link to. It just states that: 

It can, if someone with the needed technology, like the FBI, wants it to and installs the needed device or software without your knowledge. This can be avoided by cutting off the power supply to the device, i.e. remove the battery from the device. Cell phones can be taped and used as a listening device as long as their buttery is in, even if they are powered off. As this article by cnet demonstrates: 

* - It should be noted that the author is a dentist and has published some articles regarding Dental Health ( "Horowitz LG" (Author) – PubMed Results), But he has no formal training, published papers or published research on DNA, DNA repair or any other related topic. 

disclaimer: Occasionally we get questions on this site that ask for advice for personal situations where only a professional familiar with the exact and full details can help, those question (usually of the medical nature) get closed because they don't have an actual claim in them. In this case there is a claim and the claim will be addressed, but it's very important to emphasize Consult only professionals regarding life and death situation, don't trust unsourced and/or anonymous posts on the internet. end of disclaimer 

Which makes the total percentage of Jewish students in Harvard 15%. The number of Jews in the population is hard to find, as it's not asked in the US census. According to a New York Times survey: 

Yes, The Lego Group produces more Lego tires than tire companies produce "real" tires. The Wikipedia article for Lego Tires says: 

Almost all reputable historians believe that Jesus did exist. Why they believe this I will explain below. To be absolutely clear, when we say Jesus did live, we are not saying that everything or even most of the things said about him in the Bible is true. Even ignoring the supernatural elements, the gospels contain internal contradictions, so we are absolutely sure they are not 100% reliable. What we say is that the myth of Jesus originated from real historical person. Kind of like the myth of Santa Claus originated with a real person, the bishop Nicolaus of Smyrna which was later sactified as Sct. Nicolaus. Compare this this to say Jupiter which we consider a purely mythological figure. The outlandish claims regarding Jesus (walked on water, resurrected the dead etc.) cannot be taken as evidence that he is fictional. If we take Alexander the Great, multiple legends grew up around him - he was the son of Zeus, his sister was a mermaid etc. This just shows that when a figure becomes revered, legends will form. No historians in their right mind would deny that Alexander was historical. Stripping away all the legends around Alexander there is still a historical core which is more likely to be true than to be made up. I'm going to explain why historians consider the same to be the case for Jesus. So what evidence is there for Jesus as a historical person? We have no first-hand or contemporary sources to the life of Jesus and we have no archaeological remains to prove his existence. And this is not surprising - this is the case for the vast majority of pre-modern historical figures, including people who was much more famous in their own time than Jesus. Take someone Alexander the Great again, one of the most important figures in History. We have no first-hand sources and no remains. The best sources we have are written hundreds of years after his death. Even then, given the available historical evidence we assume Alexander existed, since a lot history is impossible to explain otherwise (and his invention would have required a vast conspiracy among historians in antiquity). There are a few references to Jesus by historians independent of the Bible, but they are not first-hand accounts, and basically just states what the Christians of the time believed. The most important is the Jewish-Roman historian Josephus which have two passages mentioning Jesus, although one of them is generally agreed to be a fabrication inserted by later Christian scribes. The other passage (which is generally assumed to be authentic) states: