Your results would be 90 percent nutrition. If your body can handle it (not sure since you mentioned that you were a bit out of shape) there is a 30 day program that is very intense that. Its has a big following in the at home fitness space. You can google it -- I was told not to give product recommendations though (even though I have zero vested interest) Be cautioned, I would NOT recommend this for someone that isn't in decent shape already. 

You need to strengthen your lower back and there are plenty of exercises but, unfortunately they often times are neglected. Some examples: Superman (lie on your stomach and lift your legs and arms about 6 inches off the ground, for added strength and intensity place your hands together, palms facing outwards, and move them in unison to your sides and repeat. It looks similar to the breast stroke in swimming) Reverse plank leg lifts (toes point upwards and arms shoulder length apart, fingers facing forward. push up and settle into the "reverse plank." From there alternate bringing your each knee as close to your chest as you can.) There are a ton of other examples online. 

The way I heard about one legged squats is to them like this: stand, lower yourself on one leg while the other points forward, then push yourself up. When I try to do this, I don't even get my standing leg to 90° bent before the knee wit hweight on it feels weird and I run into trouble lifting the other leg. So, today I've been doing this: squatting down (sitting on the back of my feet), and then doing a squat where I lift one leg so the other one does all the work. I think it works great and I guess I will feel my legs tomorrow. The feeling in the knees was ok. One I will do different the next time is to force myself to end the movement with my upper body upright, today I cheated a by leaving the torso bent forward. I think when I end the movemnt with my torso upright I will also hit the posterior chain. At a later stage, I may add some weight, before I do that I want to have more feel for the movement as I'm a bit wary for my lower back. The last time I did legwork it was 30 deep bodyweight squats, could have done more, today I did 3 sets of 10 reps per leg. Keeping the balance was no issue. However, I've never seen this way of doing one legged squats advised anywhere and I think I read a bit about bodyeight work. So I wonder if I'm doing something that's horribly unhealthy and I just did not notice. 

Technically, HIIT is defined as: Working out for no longer than 30 minutes at a period of high intensity, and a period of low intensity and repeating the process a number of times. Running and then lifting is more inline with circuit training (working one muscle group followed by another with little to no rest). A good example of a HIIT routine would be sprinting than walking/jogging and then sprinting x amount of times within a 30 minute window. There is no rest, just a combination of low and high intensity training. Breaks are not considered low intensity. 

In general, you should refrain from training the same muscle groups on consecutive days. For example, you can split it up based on push vs. pull muscles (Push: chest, shoulders, tris, Pull: back, bis), upper vs middle vs lower body, and so on. Allow your muscles to have the proper recovery time to prevent overtraining. 

No source since this is hearsay - apparently one japanese judo school has a yard where they tied bicycle inner tubes to trees and posts. The wrestler will cricuit between the posts and mimic throws by grabbing pulling those tubes, to get a strhength (or strenght endurance) training very specific to their techniques. 

So the question is which statement is closer to the truth? What mimimum time should I invest if I want conditioning benefits? How much active rest is allowed? 

My observation is that when extending too far, I cannot do the backward portion without a slight, active tuck from the abs. For me, as I have lower back problems, I will do the first version and probably use a door or something to limit range of movement to something managable. Better safe than sorry and all that. Ultimately, which version is safer, which is more effective and why? 

Fat loss will come from eating less calories you consume, and the easiest way to create a deficit is through your diet. The biking is a great supplementary activity, but it will be extremely difficult to add mileage or begin additional jogging without consuming more calories to make up for those activities. Adjusting your diet while maintaining your current physical activity means you know eating less than you currently are will produce a deficit; if you add in additional exercise, the uncertainty of the correct amount to eat will make losing weight more difficult (Increasing mileage and decreasing food intake will work if you can manage it, but I've found it to be very difficult to maintain). In regards to how to change your diet, yes, eliminating cheese would likely get you to the necessary caloric deficit, but it is not the only way to get to this point. Besides the cheese, everything you are eating looks healthy, but healthy food items still have calories. If you don't want to cut out cheese completely, try limiting slightly the amount of the other foods you eat. With a caloric deficit, you may indeed feel a constant hunger, but over time you will adjust, and when you first begin to observe a difference in your body, fighting the hunger pangs will be that much easier. In terms of how much to cut out in calories, dropping ~300 a day to start should feel somewhat OK, and as you adjust to that you can work on taking that number down further, with an end goal of 2000 or so total calories (based on your body type). And yes, biking is cardio, unless you've set the resistance far too high :) 

I can tell you what my physical therapist advised as exercises after a lumbago. If this is really adequate to your needs, I can't know. However I seem to suffer from a weak core also. I can do 100 crunches, but completely fail at a plank. I was advised to do the following exercises - Ithink they are fairly safe even with previous injuries, because there is so little movement, but I'm not remotely a medical professional. 

I do muaythai and want to do something in between my (infrequent) training session to help my conditioning. I have a conceptual question about what works: 

Stop. Drop this idea that you 'have a body type' and need to work a certain way based on this predisposed attribute. Picture the ideal body, the one you wish you had. This is where the variation is; some people will picture an Arnold, some a LeBron, some a Phelps, others a Froning. When you choose your workouts, you will want to adjust them based on this body type, your goal. Obviously your potential is limited to some degree by your height, but in terms of muscle size and appearance you can seek to achieve whatever you view as best. This does not mean it will be equally easy to fit the mold of every body type. A skinny 6 footer will have a much easier time looking like Phelps than Arnold, because his body is currently closer to that point. This does not mean that he can't eventually achieve a very muscular body, just that the distance to this point is greater. Don't limit yourself by classifying your body to be of a certain type. 

Edit to add: I do this occasionally, with 10-12 reps per set and leg. I try to be anal about form (feet pointing forward, weight on heel, tight abs) and so far my joints don't complain. When I'm not strict about form something feels wrong immediately. Possibly the pistol is inherently safer. Another possible downside is that it's easy to cheat oneself out of the full range of movement. You need to flexibility to squat deep (ass on heels), balance is easy. All in all I still think I stumbled upon a valuable exercise. 

I happen to have a a screw with an eye sticking idly in my living room ceiling, and I'm thinking about using it to hang a rope for bodyweight rows etc. The screw is 8mmx50mm (thread x length of anchor). The TRX ceiling anchor seems to use 2 screws with 10 mm thread, so I'm a bit concerned about using my screw as is. On the other hand, the TRX product may be vastly overengineered and I have hung my 100kg from my screw a few times. Now my question: Is the setup described above (2 screws, 10mm thread) typical for sling trainers? Are there experiences with using something closer to my thread size, one screw, in a concrete ceiling without the whole thing crashing down? Note for imperialists, I mean folks unused to metric units: 8mm is 0.314 inch, the closest thread size in imperial units is probably 1/4 inch.