I think the interviewer introduced the prejudice first by making a comment that he is surprised about his wife's move to country A. I think that itself is more undermining than the candidate's response. Irrespective of what international ranking is, if someone is happy with a culture, they are happy with it. 

You will be mainly hired for your ability as a PhD (doing independent research), demonstrated ability of solving a tough problem and your domain expertise in certain area. It will not because of any tailored skills required by the company. Your profile as a PhD should ideally mean that you can learn any skill pretty fast. As a PhD you might have done lot of literature review and attended conferences. This should already give you a very good idea of what certain companies are focused on. My company and other research companies usually have a very good presence in most of the leading conferences. I have met lot of PhD students in such events and you should be doing that too. If at all you want to fine tune your skills as per any requirement, you can take hint from these events or reading their publications (journal papers, blogs, whitepapers, etc.). Any narrower focus than this will be useless according to me. 

I think you should definitely convey the primary reason behind you leaving without ranting. Instead of saying you were 'concerned' may be you can say you 'did not agree' with new culture or direction. You do not have to point out or emphasise that they were wrong instead simply that it did not match your career goals. There are two reasons for this according to me. 

If at any point in your discussions with them you have mentioned that your expected salary is 35 K, then I think it is okay to gently remind them if they can consider your original request. If you have never mentioned that number before then I think however you put it, you may sound greedy about it. In general I think countering the salary once during negotiations, which you have already done, is right but should not do it second time. (If you really care about the job). Also, in my experience, in long term companies even out salaries as per their standards anyway. That is even if you are able to successfully negotiate now, if they eventually think that they got the bad end of the deal or other employees at your role and level are being paid lower than you, then your next increment can get effected. They will just average it out with time. So you may also want to decide based on how long you are planning to stay there. 

Again, if you are not sure tell them you are not sure about it and you may want to explore other options like higher studies or another job. 

You have escalated the issue It is deal breaker for you and effecting your happiness You will not have problem finding another job 

I think you should mention your name change in the resume or something like John Doe (Formerly Known as Jane Doe). I understand the risk of possible discrimination but if your potential employer is discriminating type, they will discriminate at any stage once they find out (and that can happen even AFTER you get that job). You will save yourself great amount of time by making it clear from the beginning itself and take that risk. In my opinion and I could be wrong, having a transgender employee is a delicate issue for lot of employers and you better interview or work with people who are willing to understand and accommodate. 

Sure it is okay to focus on academic work and online courses. 1 year is not too long to ignore academics and online courses (if completed honestly) only show your desire to learn more. 

So I think to keep your cover letter succinct, you can broadly talk about your aptitude and hard-work and mention other points as evidence. Also, consider putting some of these points in your resume as well. (Sometimes recruiter may skip cover letter completely). You can, for example, just mention or highlight the fact that you enrolled into college earlier than usual. 

I am also a PhD and worked for several years at research labs of a leading MNC. I do NOT think your idea/approach of having a contact several months before graduation to tailor your skills will work and it is not a good idea . Here is why: 

My suggestions will require some level of permission from senior management but no significant cost other than your time. 

I would just stick to the official process. If HR has not sent an email to you with your 'weak connection' in copy, then do not contact her at this point. As far as she is concerned, she does not know that you know she is the hiring manager. You could think some one else is hiring for that role and not your connection. I do not think your prospective boss will be offended by the fact that your did not reach out to her again. You did everything right so far in maintaining a weak connection and you made it to the final stage of hiring pretty much on your own. Just wait and see how it turns out. When you are officially introduced via email or personal meeting, then you can remind her you are the same person who had contacted her some time back. 

If you receive and accept the university offer before you receive the job offer and you are certain you will relocate overseas for higher education, then best is to be honest on the job offer. They may cut you off right there at that point but they may also convert it into 3-6 month internship which would be ideal for you. Even if they are not able to offer you a temp role, you have a chance to maintain long term relationship with them and you can seek a position with them in future. Burning bridges with potential future employer just for 4-5 months of pay does not make sense. On the other hand if you are genuinely deciding between studying further or directly jump into industry and you would like to get a taste of corporate career before you accept the university offer, I think it is okay to accept and join the job and notify the employer whenever you made your decision. You may actually decide to work at that place for couple of years instead of few months because you really liked it and defer/re-apply to university again if you feel the need for higher education at that point of time. Anyway you look at it, be honest to the company and the university and more importantly to yourself. 

I have had a similar situation in a large MNC few years back. I just told the department who called me second that I am already being interviewed in different department. Then I told the first one as well that other division had called me. Both the division heads (not the recruiters in my case) made it clear that they would not prefer parallel interviews and go with other if first one did not work out. I would advise the same here. I think you should tell department B about your status with A and let them take a call on how to proceed. In my case, they were nice and professional enough to give me an option where I want to be interviewed first but I preferred the team who called me first. (Got selected there and accepted it and never did the second interview!!) 

I think every time. Whether the company values it or uses it or not is not something you can base your decision on because you simply do not know for sure. It does give you both the satisfaction that you expressed what was in your mind and also an opportunity to clear things in your head why you are leaving the company and what do you want in the next one. If you are fair and constructive, it may also serve as a permanent record of your personality in their files and could be useful if you seek employment with them again. (If their attitude is wrong, it could also harm you but you wouldn't want to work for this company again unless their attitude changes anyway) All you have to be careful about is 

Racial bias is big deal and I personally would not be comfortable working in a company which tolerates that irrespective of whether I am involved party or not. However, first thing you need to do is absolutely make sure that your suspicion is rightly placed. Do you have sufficient data from past to say it without doubt that this is racial bias? Because if you escalate it and you are wrong about it, it will certainly fire back at you. If you do, I would suggest raise it to the right supervisor or HR or Ombudsperson if you have one. Ideally a company should be able to protect your identity and make sure there are no retaliation for raising a serious issue like this. But I think you should keep an alternative job option ready just in case if this is not resolved as per your expectations. 

It is not rude but you should not be concerned with their reasons unless they tell it yourself. Your concern mainly should be the keyboard itself. 

As @Joe mentioned, Linkedin recommendations are far less powerful. Only recommendations which will appear on linkedin are the ones which are overly praising since user can choose which should appear on their profile. So you do not have to write it if you are not comfortable with it. I do not even think it will have an impact on his job search anyways. Instead offer to be on his and say that you will be happy to give a glowing recommendation if someone from his prospective employer contacts you. This has always worked for me (both in giving and using references) without using Linkedin recommendations. 

Assuming a normal working culture and your manager knows what he is talking about, your feedback really means you are asking too many questions without doing enough ground work on your own. Basically, the questions are something which you could probably have found answers to yourself. For example, lot of questions on stack exchange sites like stack-overflow are downvoted simply because it is question without any evidence of work they did on their own to find a solution. It simply wastes everyone's time. So they way to deal with it is every time you ask a question: 

Having said that, if you are really not motivated for the job, then you just have to be honest about it without sounding arrogant or uninterested. Just tell exactly what you are really thinking instead of making up motivational answers. (I do think telling them you cannot take burden of internship and courses together would hurt negatively on your own abilities). However, wish of part of you which does not want this job may be granted..! 

This is very subjective. Lot of ideas which sound ridiculous at first are actually very good ideas. Like you said 1 out of 5 idea is actually good. I do not think you will ever be able to objectively decide on the quality of the idea just by listening to it once. 

For all you know, Alice just warned that Clark yells at interns and you guys should watch out for that. It does sound weird and not-funny the way she announced, but she could have meant as a joke as well.