Most likely nothing happens. On the other hand your degree could turn up in a background check. At that point you might be asked why you are hiding one of your degrees. That could be an awkward discussion. 

Depending on the nature of the business, and your role in it, this can be difficult. In some companies, refusing a transfer might mean your career would be blocked and you couldn't get promoted. In some companies, refusing a transfer might even get you dismissed. Many years (and several careers) ago, I worked for a supermarket chain. The only way to get ahead was to accept that you would be transferred every so often. Refusing a transfer usually meant that you would never get promoted. As you have indicated in your situation, I knew that going in and so it wasn't a surprise when I was transferred. It was just a standard part of the job. You should have a conversation with your manager to find out what your options are in this case. Simply tell him that you'd really rather stay in your current location and why. Ask about the company policy regarding transfers. Ask about your options in this particular case. Discuss what are the ramifications of staying in place - then make your decision based on a more complete understanding. If you are in a union, you should talk with your union rep and discuss your contractual rights. 

It seems odd to me. Perhaps the recruiter just doesn't want to be bothered getting in the middle of benefits discussions. I'm not sure why you feel the need to go through the recruiter anyway. Check out the company's website. Start calling. Within a few calls, you should be able to reach HR. Or, call you future boss and work from there. 

In a company of 3, it's pretty silly to talk about "company culture". It's you, your boss, and one other. "Culture" is simply too fancy of a word. Just tell your boss that it isn't working out for you, that you aren't a good fit for the situation, and move on. Avoid trying to blame "the company culture" and avoid specifics about your boss' failings, unless you are on very, very friendly and casual terms with him (for example, if he is also a lifelong friend). Otherwise keep it simple, keep it professional, and try not to burn any bridges. In a larger company, the term "culture" makes sense. Company culture is formed over time, and usually driven from the top. Often, it is shaped as part of the founders' vision. In this tiny company, it's just the personal interactions of 3 people that didn't work out. It happens. 

While more and more companies are offering "Flexible Work Arrangements" these days, I'm not sure it's quite become the norm yet (at least not in my part of the world - it may be different where you live). In my company we just recently began a formal system where you could ask your manager for permission to reduce your hours. You would be expected to come up with a process where your modified arrangement would work out for the company. Your manager would have the ability to grant or reject your request for reduced hours. In my company, you can also propose "job sharing". In that case, you would have to find someone else to work with you and basically split a single job across two people. I don't know anyone here who has actually done that yet. Most companies I know do not offer these options on a formal basis. Still, in one previous company where I worked, I allowed one employee to remain with the company while going from full-time to part time (at the cost of both reduced salary and reduced benefits). I was able to bring in an additional part-timer to make up for the lost work and fill the gap. In that case it worked out well for everyone. In my experience, larger companies tend to offer more job flexibility. And I've seen it more in technology companies than non-technology companies (although that may be more a function of the types of companies where I have worked). The companies that offer it generally don't seem to offer it for specific professions only (such as only for developers), as far as I can tell. If they offer these benefits to one role, they tend to offer them for all. In your specific case, if you are working for a company, you should already know if this is a formal offering or not. Check with your HR rep or company manual. Pay careful attention to the point at which your benefits start to be reduced in addition to your salary, if you care about these benefits. Sometimes, reducing your hours by 10 per week would put you into a part-time category, and your benefits would decrease significantly. Even if it isn't formally offered, ask your manager if such a thing is possible. Often, you can get more than you would think just by asking! The worst that could happen is that they say "No". And if you aren't currently working, look for some sort of Flexible Work Arrangement as part of the benefits package when you apply for a position. Many companies that offer this, make it well known, as they view this as a way to attract talent. Barring that, consider applying only for part-time positions. Flexible work arrangements may not be as common in India as in the US. But, based on my more than 10 years experience working with Indian divisions of US companies, I know that it does happen. And in particular, I know that the company I currently work for, which has a large division in India composed of Software Developers along with others, permits such arrangements. Perhaps your specific company allows them as well. 

It always depends on how one measures inflation, and the cost of living. Here's a calculator which seems to indicate that inflation in the US has been under 3% for a while - $URL$ . That may or may not be an accurate measure of your personal cost of living. For those collecting Social Security in the US, their Cost of Living Increase in 2014 is only 1.5% Perhaps it is true that in your part of the world, in your field, that 3% is an "average, keep up with the cost of living" raise these days. You still get to feel happy, if you choose, that your company values you enough to want to keep you around. Or you can feel sad that your company considers you only average. Your choice. 

I would never resort to this unless it were a condition for employment (for example, if you couldn't be a pilot without medical clearance from your heart surgeon). 

Again, you can search the internet for senior-friendly employers. You'll find many almost no matter where you live. In my home town, there is a hardware store known for hiring seniors. These men and women know their stuff. While this isn't the cheapest store around, I shop there because I know I'll get lots of help and great advice on any home project. Some search terms: 

I have. I've been involved in situations where I was told that my estimate was unacceptable, and that I had to find a way to get it done in less. In every case, I've discussed the ramifications ahead of time. I've explained what I saw as the tradeoffs between time, money, and quality. And in each case, I've tried to make it explicit what the chosen path would involve - both positive and negative. Sometimes it worked out well. In those cases, management was will to consciously make the tradeoffs I was offering. In a few cases it didn't work out so well. Management apparently believed they could get "faster" without trading off anything, even though I told them ahead of time that it wouldn't work that way, and they were unhappy with the results. Perhaps I wasn't convincing enough, or perhaps they only really heard what they wanted to hear - I couldn't really tell. I'm in QA. These days, my motto has been "We can test anything, in any amount of time. But we can't do it as well. Let's talk about what that means...". I always try to understand the scheduling dynamics before committing to a deadline, and I'm always as open and transparent about that as I can be. Schedules and deadlines are a business decision. Management can decide whatever they like and I'll do my best to make it happen. But I insist on being honest about my assessments and estimates. The fact that you used the word "bribe" in the title, and that you expressed specific concerns about quality, tell me that you are conflicted here - and rightly so. If I were you, I'd talk with your bosses more. Try to explain how you think quality will suffer in as specific a sense as you can. Then see if they consider that acceptable or not. Let their reactions be your guide. Sometimes deadlines are truly important, "either we make this deadline or we close up shop" kinds of deals. Sometimes important events (shows, customer meetings, holidays) help drive deadlines. But often, deadlines are just made-up dates that have little real meaning. Try to understand if and why 3 weeks is so important in this context. Sometimes that can help make your decision easier. 

I can't imagine accepting a job offer without even meeting my direct manager at least once. I believe the relationship between employee and manager is one of the most significant factors in job satisfaction, and repeated surveys indicate that it is a prime factor for people's decision to quit a job. I've never encountered a situation where potential employee and potential manager never met, so I really can't say if the hiring company would consider it "strange" that you asked. I think it's "strange" that they didn't even offer a meeting, and I consider it a red flag about the nature of the company. If this is a job you want, I think it makes complete sense to ask for such a meeting. If they decline, I'd think twice or three times if this was the kind of company where I want to work. 

If management appointed this new senior colleague to be the "go-to" person, then No, it is not alright for you to ignore the obvious intent by management and attempt to co-opt the role. There's a reason why this person was hired. Perhaps you need to discuss that with your boss, ask how this affects your role, and perform your revised role to the best of your abilities. Attempting to sabotage a new hire isn't likely to help your career. 

That's your mistake. You don't "deaden" an issue tracking system by using it. Issue reports only make it more valuable. Your source of some "objective" measures is in there. But it will only work if you use it. 

Nothing complex or unusual here. Say something like "Thank you so much for the consideration, and I'm really flattered. But right now I'm happy with the job I have." It's honest, and it won't burn any bridges. 

To me, your current knowledge level is sufficient to include these skills on your CV. Quite often, interns aren't expected to be experts in many skills. And certainly the first few hours of an internship aren't expected to be full-production time. 

I'm not sure I would call this a "good position". You have a better base, and now also have a chance for an unlimited bonus as well. But you feel you may not be able to achieve a large bonus because of what you have seen happen to other "high-performers". It's perfectly reasonable for you to ask for your base salary to be raised if you feel strongly about it. But certainly the company revised the earnings structure for a reason, so don't be surprised if they decline your request. (I'm assuming here that the changes were company-wide, or at least department-wide, and not simply directed at you individually.) Every company where I have worked that had bonuses, did not let people opt-out or adjust their bonus structure. But you can always ask. 

You have one year of experience. That experience isn't worthless, but it's specific value depends completely on the context of the potential new position. Someone who graduates from college and works one year as a shoe salesman has one year of experience. That may have a lot of value when applying for a position as a clothing salesman, and may have less value when applying for a position as a chemist. Still, it is one year of work experience more than another candidate might bring. Whether your one year of experience translates into an entry-level salary or more than an entry-level salary for your next job depends on 

It doesn't seem very impressive. Basically you seemed to be saying that unless everything is speced out in detail for you, your designs are poor. And you seem to say that you dump the problem on your product manager rather than being proactive before beginning your design. 

That's always an option. I would suggest that you give this new arrangement a try before you conclude that it's not tolerable. Hoteling, is just an extension of cost-saving measures like tiny cubicles, open workspaces, etc that have made work environments much worse over the years, in my opinion. I think it's unfortunate, but it does seem to be the fad these days. Hopefully at your company it will only be a temporary measure. 

You might choose to talk with your new employer ahead of time. Tell them that you are about to give your 2 weeks notice and that you are concerned that your current employer will let you go on the spot. Ask them if you could start sooner, should that happen. Then give your 2 weeks notice and proceed accordingly. 

So you haven't liked your most recent two managers. Note that reorganizations happen all the time. In all of my working years, I have never worked in a company (big or small) that asked for the team's consent for a planned reorg. And I've seldom had any advance notice of a reorg (except when it involved a move to a distant city). 

If you try and find that companies won't consider you for the 4-5 year of experience jobs, then it certainly makes sense to shoot for junior level positions (which I assume would require less than 4 year of experience, and hopefully require no experience at all). 

Are you sure this is a job you want? Your bothering to write this makes me wonder why. Don't bring those points up during your negotiation - they won't help. 

You think if you complain to management, you would get promoted too? You've been there 9 months longer than she has - it's hard to see why that would happen just because you complained. Or perhaps your coworker would get demoted and you would take her place? I suppose anything is possible. It would indeed look foolish if you somehow "complained" your way into a promotion, only to hand in your notice a few weeks later. It's hard to see how that could be very beneficial, and would certainly ruin any chance you could have for a future job reference. From my perspective, this is one strange company. I've never encountered "secret promotions". I've never been in a situation where people were compelled to do "some reconnaissance" with HR, and they apparently went behind management's back and spilled the beans. I've never heard of attempting to "preserve the morale" of one employee by pretending that a promotion didn't happen. Very, very strange. I think your best option is to serve out your remaining months as professionally as you can. Give your notice at the appropriate point in time. Go back to school and learn. Then carry on with your career. Leave this job behind and try to find a shop where this sort of wackiness doesn't happen.