I personally think that you should go for the Skype call with video. I'm concerned that if you choose a phone interview because you're worried about your appearance you won't have an opportunity to resolve that fear. Best Case with Phone Interview If the phone interview goes smoothly you're probably still going to be concerned about how they will react to your appearance. Worst Case with a Video Call The worst that can reasonably happen is the interviewer makes an off color comment or you get some vague rejection later from an HR type saying they aren't interested in hiring you. Both of these outcomes are actually a gift even though they might not seem like one initially. The off color comment shows you that this isn't an environment that you'd feel welcome in, and no one has time to waste in a hostile work environment. The vague rejection letter lets you focus on other companies that truly value what you can contribute. Best Case with Video Call The interviewer is completely unfazed by your appearance and you move forward in the interview process. Now you've eliminated your appearance as a concern, and can concentrate on how you can add value to the organization. 

You already negotiated and the new employer accepted. The time for negotiations is over. If you come back asking for more money again at this point, you are showing them that your agreement doesn't mean much and will put your trustworthiness in question. Additionally, they might change their mind about the contract and cancel it all together because of this. Chalk this up to bad timing. Work hard at the new employer and come raise time (or contract renewal) you should be able to negotiate more money based on solid performance instead of what you could have been making at your old employer. 

Spend some time with your assistant manager to observe and validate. Solicit 360 feedback from the assistant manager's direct reports to see if anybody else has the same issues. This also gives you an opportunity to turn this feedback into goals and expectations instead of giving a feedback sandwich. Talk to your assistant manager and have them give feedback on their direct reports. If you are close with your assistant, can you talk casually about it? I'm guessing no since you are asking how to approach the problem. Have a follow up meeting with the person who complained and dig further into each of the issues. Come up with specific ones that are troubling and dig into them further. Coach / mentor your assistant with one on ones. You can use these as potential talking points without letting your assistant know that you have been given negative feedback. 

If you wanted to prove your greatness then you should have done it by uplifting everyone. Once you proved you were a threat then the opposition would have mobbed you. Instead of dancing around them all and making them look like fools you should have sent perfect passes to your teammates so they could be the hero and score. Same bit on defense you should have played zone defense and been a wall for any individual player. Even though you would prevent their forward progress still let them pass the ball away to their teammate. That way opposing players have a chance to have fun too. Of course if the score is close then score some easy points to keep your team in the lead. This way you still show off your skills but you do it in a positive way that shows you want to make the team shine instead of focusing the spotlight squarely on you. I think this kind of thinking will lead to a much better apology along the lines of: "Hey I'm really sorry for acting like a jerk out there on the field. If I had to do it over again I would use my skills to lift the team up instead of show off. My selfishness ruined the game, and I won't make that mistake again." As pointed out in the comments a great closing line would be to offer to buy the next round or two of drinks next time you all go out. After I gave this apology I'd also make it a point to give specific praise to your colleagues whenever you get praised. When your boss says, "Great job doing XYZ" try to respond with something like "Thanks I think that turned out really well too. Janice really helped make it all possible by doing XYZ." This will show that you appreciate the contributions of others, and won't try to hog all the glory like you probably did on the soccer field. 

The key here is who you know. Those activities are a way to get others to know you and be more apt to want to work with you. You do this every day with people at your current job. I'm sure people have left and gone to work for other places. Dust off your contact list and reach out to some of them. Networking is hard but every job I've gotten out of college has been because of my talent and because of the people I know there. Most employers like it when you have worked with somebody they like at their company. This makes the hiring process less scary / expensive for everybody. If you want to do any of those other things, do it with more than just a new job in mind. If you can take some time at night to learn a new skill, use that as your motivation. This will help you from being discouraged if the new job doesn't come out of it. Additionally it may open up a new position within your current company that wasn't available to you before. Also keep in mind that job hunting sucks. It can take days and it can take years. Just stay positive. 

I clearly don't know what exactly happened, but based on your description my assumption is you spent the game taking the ball away from the other team, dribbling around everyone, and scoring goals. Your colleagues probably think you were acting like a showboating jerk. Your team probably feels this way because you hogged the ball, and the other team probably feels like you were running up the score for no reason. Like almost everyone else said if you want to repair this relationship you should apologize. However it doesn't seem to me like you realize why you should apologize. If you don't understand their point of view and how you should have handled the situation better any apology is going to sound contrived and may reinforce their belief that you're a jerk. For example this isn't productive: "I'm sorry that you feel bad about how I acted during the soccer game. I told HR that I was really good and would ruin the game. Guess I was right..." In my opinion you should have used your skills to enhance the game, instead of dominate it. I know hockey is a different sport but I don't know soccer well enough to pick out a good example. Wayne Gretzky was the greatest for lots of reasons, but I think it is germane that under "Style of Play" in his Wikipedia article they list this quote from Sports Illustrated: 

I'd start by figuring out what (if any) of the complaints are legitimate. Here are some ways you could approach the problem. 

I find simply saying "Thank You! I love what I do." goes a long way toward being modest. It also shows them you are happy and engaged, which will make any boss happy. 

No matter what you do, do not take a large list of issues to your assistant. They are going to be blindsided and overwhelmed. Focus on a couple that are the worst and make a plan from there. 

Short of specifics (you didn't give them but might have concrete examples), you really can't do anything here. It's classic his word against mine. You need to separate Dave and Bob. Move Dave or Bob to another team (if possible) and see what happens. I'd also reach out to Bob's other direct reports and get some feedback on how they feel Bob is doing with them. If he's doing the same to them, you have something actionable you can take. This type of management will drive your talent out of the company.