Even if it has gravity it won't be able to hold onto an atmosphere. That takes planetary-scale gravity. While we think of the surface gravity mattering for whether an atmosphere can be retained in reality that has nothing to do with it. What counts is escape velocity which is a function of gravity and size. Make your bridge out of enough neutronium (you'll need some handwavium to contain it) to give 1g to people walking on it and they'll still be in vacuum. Build a Dyson sphere with a milligee on the surface and it will have no problem holding onto an atmosphere. 

Global warming, take II: ArtOfCode did a fine job of showing the device could cause environmental problems. I'm going to address why it would cause problems. Think of any cold-climate city in the world. The occupants of course use heat to remain comfortable. With this device power is incredibly cheap. Nobody's going to bother with insulation anymore, that costs a lot more than simply providing more heating. Now, lets look at the business district. Want to make your street more attractive to customers? Blow warm air onto the street. When your neighbors join in your street becomes a more attractive shopping location. Pretty soon the whole business district is warmed up. Soon the city will get in on it--heating elements in the roads will be cheaper than snow plows & salt. 

Quantum Entanglement might be a method of communication. Some suggest it propigates about 10,000 times faster than light. 

No, the lifting capacity would not offset the weight to a degree enough to bother with. Instead, I would hand-wave a carbon-nanotube-like building material stronger than steel, but weighing as much as styrofoam. 

There are many references to agriculture in the Judeo-Christian scripture already. In your creation, I would suggest simply excluding references animals. Below are some examples for inspiration. Isaiah 5:1-7 compares the nation of Judah to a vineyard Luke 20:9-16 also compares Israel to a vineyard. Matthew 13:3-8 and 18-23 refer to people's hearts as different types of ground in which the word of God is planted. 1 Corinthians 3:9 refers to believers as God's cultivation or husbandry. This is part of a lengthier discussion the actions of ministers by presenting a metaphor of farmer workers in that one planted, one watered, etc. Romans 11 uses a metaphor of grafting a branch in a fig tree describe the inclusion of the Gentile (i.e. non-Jewish person) into the promises of God. Revelation 14:15-19 describes the Apocolypse in terms of an angel harvesting a field with a sickle. Additional references: Joel 3:13, Hosea 6:11, Jeremiah 51:33, Isaiah 17:4-6, Proverbs 22:8, James 3:18 

Your requirement that the enemy not want to target is a major problem--there's no way to hide such construction. When you combine it with the common guy can't get there you're talking about major construction in the middle of nowhere. That's going to draw a missile. Your problem is almost insolvable. However, I see one option. Don't put it somewhere. Rather, your base is a nuclear-powered, shallow-submerging submarine. It's in the ocean, it heads south and affixes itself under a major piece of floating antarctic ice. Power: Nuclear. Check. Water: Desalination. Check. Isolation: You need a submarine, something the common man doesn't have. Check. Targeting: While the enemy certainly knows of it's existence they don't know where it is and thus can't target it. Check. 500 years: No. Whatever they are under will melt before then. By then, though, they don't need to hide like that. Simply go to shallow water somewhere near the equator (no hurricanes) and wait your 500 years. 

Fences provide part of an answer--they can keep out all the land predators. That reduces the problem to the fliers. Fliers usually come in two varieties: Raptors (day hunters) and owls (night hunters). If the monsters do not include both classes you have a safe time behind your fence. If not: A bird big enough to threaten a human is not going to be a highly maneuverable flier. Put posts all over your farmland. Alternately: Break it up with barriers of some kind. Deny the birds the takeoff distance they need. Also, do they recognize the threat posed by a bow? If so, they'll stay far away from any party with a few armed guards. 

What kind of Servers A lot depends on how you're planning on using the data. When asked about what kind of servers, I always ask the following questions: 

Send a swarm of bees, wasps, and hornets to sting them in the nose, mouth, and throats. This will cause their airways to swell and close and they will suffocate. Swarms of gnats clog their eyes and ears. Fire ants crawl under the armor and drive the knights insane with itching and burning. As they fall to the ground, carrion insects quickly reduce them to skeletons, which will spread fear in those sent to bury the dead. 

You find a deep hole, stock it with food and supplies, and hope to survive the impact. There is nothing you can do. If the object was years out, a small change in its vector would cause it to miss the Earth. Five days out, we could launch all of our nukes at it, and MAYBE break it up enough that most of the larger pieces would evaporate in the atmosphere. With five years of warning, humanity could deflect it. Five day won't even be enough to get the ammo and food shipped to your bunker.. 

I don't think your barge/tugboat option works--barges are for calm waters, not the open sea. You need something more oceangoing to take it far enough out. I don't think you need that, though--simply charter an oceangoing vessel that either has or could support a crane big enough to lower it into the water. A collection of drums can provided the needed floatation while the ship backs off. As for safety--"Notice to airmen and mariners: At xx/xx/xx xx:xx at xx° xx' xx" N xx° xx' xx" W we are going to engage in a high energy physics experiment. Successful operation of this device will as a side effect liberate approximately 420PJ of thermal energy. This is not a nuclear device and it will not release radioactivity." I would put the energy in Joules rather than kilotons to stress the scientific nature rather than the potential military nature. Of course the nuclear powers are still going to go ape--scientific or not this is obviously a possible alternate means of building WMD. 

The easiest way to hide is in a crowd. In a lifetime measured in eons, I assume there would be much job churning. After spending 1,000 years in biology, someone might get bored want to play in astrophysics, chemistry, or culinary science. This is key to how we hide in the crowd. Phase One Identify a remote and uninteresting place for the experiment. This should be somewhere that is out of the way, in a unpopulated portion of the galaxy. Being so far from the action helps to ensure that nobody will stop by and discover the situation as it really is. For the first few eons, nothing interesting is going to happen which would cause the society to notice the experiment. This gives them time to work on phase two. Phase Two While the experiment is 'cooking' on the remote planet, other members of the conspiracy make strategic career moves, some even getting into the survey group. Phase Three When the civilization becomes known to the wider society, the conspiracy members are in management. They assign other conspirators to 'survey' the planet, whose reports are boring, run-of-the-mill normal. Phase Four Here is where we run into a problem. If the experiment grows too successfully, grows too powerful, the conspiracy will not be able to obfuscate the truth. The biologists must have a plan to cover up their fun times before getting into trouble. A device which triggers a supernova would work, although it may cause questions. This could be an interesting plot point, where the experiment are fighting for survival. 

Assuming you have enough power available oxygen is pretty easy to come by. Rock contains huge amounts of it. Thus any rocky body, be it planet, moon or asteroid will have all that you could want. 

(Really a comment but it won't fit) Something to be aware of: The density curve of the atmosphere is based only on gravity. For a given planetary gravity the ambient pressure will be pretty much fixed at a given distance from the "top" of the atmosphere, not the planet's surface. This means you can't have a whole bunch of atmosphere on top of your living space without having crushing pressures at your living space. The deeper you go the higher the pressure until it's not a gas anymore--look at the "gas" giants of the outer solar system. A drawing of Jupiter: 

There have been a lot of answers as to why it's impossible but I'm not sure it's completely impossible. 1) For this to be at all possible we have to assume the aliens are based on the same genetic code we are. This assumes that either we actually share an origin with them (panspermia hypothesis) or that there are only a few possible answers. (Which gives a list of some species yes, some species no.) 2) Normal terrestrial reproduction is out of the question for the reasons indicated in other answers. The vast majority of the DNA (and it would have to be DNA) for the child comes from the mother. Lets try a different reproductive strategy: Alien sperm is obtained (I don't think the notion of sex akin to ours is out of the question. Our sexual apparatus exists to allow conception in an environment similar to the oceans from which we evolved. Like pressures will apply to land-dwelling aliens, I can see convergent evolution producing something akin to sex) and chopped up into individual genes. The mother makes a whole bunch of eggs, each with a few genes from the sperm added in and perhaps a few genes tossed out for good measure. In the first stage of gestation the eggs are soaked in a nutrient bath rather than implanted. Most eggs die, after a period of time the one that does the best moves on to the main gestation phase. Your alien will have a low fertility rate (most attempts will not produce anything viable) very high miscarriage rate and a large rate of genetic defects. However, it will also have very fast evolution, in a sufficiently hostile and dynamic world the latter effect might make it worthwhile. I can't see an evolutionary path to this alien, though. 

You won't need to force equal inheritance between children to accomplish what you want. Pass a law where money can be given to children through a trust fund. That amount can be deducted from their taxes at 120% (i.e. for every dollar they give their children, they get to keep a $1.20. That's huge.) The maximum transfer to each child is limited at 1/20th of the total taxable income. The trust fund no longer belongs to the parents, so the dispersion of wealth occurs instantly. 

In a world where there is no antibiotics, no surgery, no dental care, no false teeth, no refrigeration, no stable food sources, and danger at every turn, death came quickly and often. A scratch could lead to sepsis. Food could turn in the hot sun and lead to food poisoning. Starvation, war, plague, and violence were constant companions. 

All times are given in reference to some specific event. Our current counting scheme, despite the new, politically-correct designations of CE or BCE, is dated from the birth of Jesus Christ (who was born about 4bc due to a counting error.) Most kingdoms either dated from the start of the rule of a king or from their founding. The Jewish year is based on the date of creation "In the fourteenth year of Larry the King, the 30th king since the great trouble..." "Now, 703 years past the migration" "Now, in the 1,239th year of the great teacher, Bob." 

I think you're looking at the problem wrong. We don't want a monstrosity like MichaelK posted. That's heavier than he's going to be able to handle and requires some decent metallurgy to keep from bursting it. Not to mention what the pressure will do to the hallway unless it is also exceedingly strong. Instead, on the end of the hallway I will place a bunch of much smaller cannons--say 16 or even 25 (assuming it's square. Adjust the numbers if it's not.) Build the array of cannons, then cast them in concrete so the muzzles are flush and the back ends stick out just enough for a fuse. To fire them you use a fast burning fuse but in a daisy chain configuration so there's a fraction of a second between shots. Each cannon is loaded with a bunch of projectiles, not solid shot. Since the guns actually fire only one at a time the overpressure in the hallway will be much lower. They will be close enough together that nobody in the hall has a chance to react, though. To actually clear the hallway of the bodies comes down to how much you throw at them. Ignore the effects of the propellant, it will not have a meaningful effect and if it did you would be back to major overpressure problems. Figure how much hits the zombies and how fast it is going--how much momentum does it impart? Add guns until you have enough sweeping. You'll probably want some extra cannons near the floor to help sweep it out. 

We already have underwater atomic submarines. While an undersea plan works differently, I don't see why a blending of those designs would not be feasible. A blended design would use ballast tanks and wings both. The thickness of water would limit the speed it could go. 

Let's say that the endowment which created the Institution specified that it must admit the top 5% of all secondary schools. The reason for the Institution's reputation comes from a realization that while its endowment required admission, it didn't require all the students to remain enrolled. Its rigor reduced the student population and heightened its prestige. This results in an immense freshman body, who are informed on the first day of classes "Look around you. Most of you won't be here in the fall." Immagine that here are 1,000 CS students competing for 20 CS seats. 980 students will be going home. One aspect the Institution grades on is independence, so any study group results in lower grades in independence. Only the most driven, intelligent, and disciplined will have any chance of earning a slot. This, alone, will provide all the motivation to avoid contact.