The 3rd statement above ("If you don't even extinguish it when it ceases ...") was my inference, not in the text. I'm not sure of that, not sure I understood that properly: instead the text might be saying that there's illusion if there's arising, i.e. unless/until the level at which arising is extinguished. Also: 

Some people answering that question say it's possible because monks go to deep sleep quickly (so they use those 6 hours thoroughly), and the meditation they do during the day is comparatively restful. 

One of my complaints about Physics is that it has nothing to say about sila; but that doesn't have to mean that physicists are immoral. 

Can I have a Sutta reference for this? Yes; it's in more than one sutta, e.g. at the end of the Anuradha Sutta (SN 22.86): 

When they first saw him they thought, "He is inferior to us (because he is given to luxury, forsaking the striving, etc.)." When he approached them they no longer thought that, but still they called him "friend": which I understand to mean "my comrade, my equal". The Buddha corrected them because he wanted them to learn the Dhamma from him, and it was important that they respect him as a teacher (because if they didn't respect him and didn't accept him as a teacher and listen to his teaching then that would be to their harm). They were telling him that, as far as they knew, he had no attainment and no knowledge worth teaching: 

However, there are nominally Buddhist countries, which have soldiers. For example, In Defense of Dharma: Just-War Ideology in Buddhist Sri Lanka includes innumerable quotes, from people who are arguing for and against violence, including quotes like, 

1. If one is skeptical concerning enlightment does it then even makes sense to practise Buddhism? I think it does (make sense): because the Dhamma is meant to be "good in the beginning, good in the middle, good in the end" (references). So even if you're skeptical (or unclear) about the end, you might practice the beginning because you understand the beginning as good. The whole point is to escape impermanence and attain the unconditioned, Nirvana. Also I'm not sure that enlightenment is the whole point (see Nirvana fallacy). And I'm not sure that the goal is to escape impermanence ... I think that it (a goal) may be to escape dukkha (i.e. suffering or unsatisfactoriness), and/or to become a better person (or a better teacher). If monks like Bhikkhu Bodhi even claim not to have realized enlightenment how are lay people going to realize this? In case it helps, there's a theory of stages of enlightenment ... even a little is better than none (remember, "good in the beginning"). 2. Yes we cant cling to experience, but we can recall positive experiences and they change our brain.. this is why loving kindness works. Yes. Recall (recollection) is important in Buddhism ... including recollection of virtue which is said to be associated with concentration (references here and here and here). Also on page 82 of this: 

There are even some suttas, such as SN 12.65 which implies that Nirvana and the path the Nirvana was "inhabited in ancient times" and rediscovered by the Buddha. 

I'm not sure but the fact that logic is like this might be related to how or why some schools describe everything as "empty"? 

All of these are words which you can easily look up; for example, Four Noble Truths, Anicca, etc. IMHO the central, first, or 'minimal' part of the Christian Bible is the Gospels, which describe the life and words of Jesus. Similarly, IMHO the central part of the Buddhist scriptures are the parts which describe the life and words of the Buddha. The most central part of the Buddha's doctrine is perhaps what/everything he taught in his first sermon after he became enlightened, which is called "The Setting in Motion of the Wheel of Dharma", a.k.a. "The Sermon at Benares". You might have noticed that Buddhists like numbered lists: four noble truths, eightfold path, etc. Another is the "triple jewel", i.e. "the Buddha (himself), the Dharma (his teaching), and the Sangha (his 'church')". The "four noble truths" are, approximately: 

I take it that's a reference to (what is translated as) this phrase, which appears in several suttas including for example the "Assu Sutta: Tears (SN 15.3)": 

Anyway yes, "compassion" is the most common translation. There's a collection of 17 definitions here. One of these definitions explains why they don't translate it as "pity" or "sympathy": 

If or because that's so, I'm not sure that you can even want to view or analyse jealousy. The "opposite" of jealousy is Mudita. Perhaps the four immeasurables should be studied, not jealousy? I admit that I experience some anger occasionally, and then I have to view/analyse that. From what I remember of jealous-feeling in the past, I don't see how you could take pleasure in it. I think it's a form of (i.e. it arises from) craving, i.e. a craving to gain what you don't have, and/or a craving to hold on to what you are losing. 

Should I give up the desire for food and water in order to stop my rebirth? The Bhikkhuni Sutta (which may be intended for not-yet-enlightened people) says, 

That might be why dukkha is the subject of "first noble truth" in the first sermon. However, some people say that the noble truths aren't taught to all people: that that's a path which is taught to monks more than to laypeople (and that laypeople are taught, instead, more about morality). In fact I found it difficult to explain the first noble truth to my Mum -- see How to explain what Buddhism is? -- to which I found this and this to be the two most interesting answers -- firstly that there are different views on what the problem is, second that the first noble truth is more about clinging than about suffering. I suppose that part of what motivates lay-people to not "follow the path" is a sense of caution, that they should avoid extremes -- a sense of the "middle way", if you like, although with a different definition of what that means (e.g. to layperson it might mean, "with a job and/or family"). Incidentally I would hesitate, I am reluctant, to say that people don't "strive after beneficial deeds of merits" -- although, perhaps you're thinking that you should exhort people to strive. 

According to the Wikipedia article Twelve Nidānas, the Pali word for Attachment is Upādāna (and that Wikpedia section has an unreferenced description of it). That also links to a whole Wikipedia article on the subject, Upādāna, which says, 

The English word "uncreated" is an adjective which, here, is used as a noun (or is used to imply a noun, or used without a noun): i.e. "the uncreated [something]" (where [something] is an implicit noun, for example "state"). Using an adjective without a noun, like this, is a slightly unusual form of English. Its meaning is similar to "unconditioned". It literally means "not created". There's another translation of the Dhammapada here, which I like because: 

That is somewhat quoting out of context, though. It would be better to at least read the whole sutta than only the paragraph I quoted above, and to understand why the Buddha would call it "instructive" i.e. what he is trying to teach. 

I can't say that "all schools share these teachings" but apparently, at least, these teachings are compatible with all the schools'. 

I think that's an advanced/difficult question. In summary I think it's recommended that you to avoid becoming 'attached' to sensual pleasure[s]. Seeking (sensual) pleasure (i.e. 'thirsting' or 'craving' for pleasure) might be a symptom of and a precursor to being attached to it. And 'contact' with objects, from which arise 'feelings' of pleasure, might lead to 'craving' and 'attachment'. I think the above is part of the theory of the Twelve Nidānas (sense base -> contact -> feeling -> craving -> attachment). I'm not sure but maybe theoretically you can break the chain anywhere: if you avoid contact for example then it doesn't arise; or if you have contact but avoid feeling; or etc. Food is a difficult subject partly because (unlike sex, drugs, music, money) it isn't possible to avoid contact. I guess that to the extent that monastics eat what they're given, they don't choose it and so it's easier to see it as uncontrolled/non-self/impermanent -- not a karmic act maybe (not an act of will) -- nothing to worry about (though this about "not worrying" is more-or-less idealistic on my part -- in practice they cope with hunger). Another reason why I assume that this topic is difficult is because, according to the Four stages of enlightenment, "freedom from sensual desire" is associated with one of the last two stages. Here is an annotated version of the Sekha Sutta (which Saptha Visuddhi's answer recommended). It begins to explain terms like "one whose sense-doors are guarded". Even so it might require more to understand, for example it says "he grasps neither its sign nor its detail" which supposes you understand the word "sign" (which is annotated in a footnote but also mentioned in the introduction to this Sutta Discovery essay). It's possible that you'll find basic teaching helpful: "Thinking about food but don't get attached to the thought, let it go, keep breathing" or "This is the arising of stress, and the cessation of stress" or "Not me or mine" etc. You mentioned "mortification" but, in English anyway, I think that means literally "putting to death" i.e. it's an extreme. Foregoing a useless snack isn't necessarily it. I think the theory is that by avoiding attachment/craving for sensual pleasure you can avoid suffering and find a more lasting ease. Mortification is wrong but (for monks, more or less 'advanced') something like disillusionment/revulsion (Nibbidā) is recommended in various of the Pali suttas. 

There's also for example this essay, Toward a Threshold of Understanding, which says that it's a mistake to see Buddhism as "indifference" toward the world: 

'Love' is an imprecise word in English. It's used in the phrase "brotherly love", for example, which may be more or less like metta; and used in other phrases like "motherly love", "love of chocolate", "love of country", "self love", "making love", and so on, all with different meanings (depending on who is loving, what they're loving, and how). So even in non-Buddhist (e.g. Christian and/or European) philosophy, for example, some people tried to standardise on using and understanding different words for different kinds of love, for example: 

Of course the Buddha wouldn't have used the word "reincarnation" because that's English (we've been talking on Meta recently about some difficulties translating Buddhist vocabulary into English). This article, Buddhism and Death, says, 

If you read the references [3] through [5] it's clear (if you understand e.g. what the famous "double slit experiment" is) that the "observation" it's talking about is the act of installing the physical test equipment (which I'd also know as "probing the system"), or the action (effect) of the equipment itself ... and it's not to do with whether any "conscious mind" observes the results of the experiment. I kind of like jcarpenter2's answer, because I thought this was an unanswerable question but that answer (perhaps successfully) talks about the limitations of logic and not just about physics. I could try to add another analogy along those lines -- inspired by Heisenberg's Uncertainty and the start of the Tao Te Ching -- that making a verbal observation (i.e. a comment or description) about something will affect (disturb, interfere with) the thing described (or the perception of the idea described) ... but I don't think that's a useful analogy. The Buddhist analogies are purposeful, have a goal (liberation or cessation). Inventing further useless analogies is just proliferating views, leading to a "thicket of views" of the sort that we're warned doesn't lead to liberation. Even Occam's razor (also Einstein) suggests preferring simpler theories. I think it's better to try to understand Buddhism, to approach Buddhism, on its own terms: understand what it's saying, understand what the Buddha would have been saying to the people he said it to ... without preconceptions such as that it's talking about Rutherford's theory of atoms. Perhaps the only really useful preconceptions are ones you might have learned in pre-school, i.e. morality, of the sort that allows the Buddha to tell the Kalamas they should judge for themselves. 

It's hard to answer this question directly. You're asking why "advanced practitioners" said what they did, in reply to whatever your question was. Perhaps you should ask them! 

So my question is who remembers the past existences of Buddha ? You're assuming there is a "who". People do that with "God", e.g. "Who made the world? That "who" must have been God! The world exists, therefore God exists!" Buddhism teaches that [almost] everything is impermanent, e.g. it comes into being and ceases. This (list of impermanent phenomena) includes all contacts with sense-objects -- sights, sounds, and ideas. Buddhism also teaches that you should avoid seeing these impermanent things as "self" because that view (view-of-self or identity-view) leads to suffering. 

I think the (Theravādin) argument is that intention (e.g. intention to murder) may be present, therefore it's not ethically neutral. I think the counter-argument is that there's no material result, so if it's not neutral it's negligible. See also the Vinaya -- that defines offences (e.g. killing) in some detail or legalistically (i.e. in more detail than the suttas do) -- and there, there are various (several) conditions which must be met for the offence of e.g. "killing" to have occurred, one of which is that somebody has to die -- and in a dream, nobody is really killed, so that wouldn't be counted (and punished) as the offence of killing. The Abhidhamma is considered part of the Pali canon, even if it isn't all quotes from the Buddha. In Tsongkhapa's Praise for Dependent Relativity it is mentioned that the karma of killing in a dream was a question answered by the Buddha, but no sources are provided. So far as I known, the commentary to the Vinaya pronounces the non-punishment of sexual actions performed while dreaming (while also saying it's better not to). It's not exacty right to equate the working of kamma with the rules of the Vinaya, however that may be the best we have -- because the Vinaya is defined in detail whereas the suttas don't describe kamma in every detail -- even say that the precise workings of kamma is known to the Buddha but is unconjecturable -- and, the Vinaya was defined by the Buddha. 

This teaching (if true) seems to contradict the story about the Buddha giving his body to a hungry tigress in a previous life, or not? I might be wrong but I can imagine many explanations for why this doesn't contradict the "tigress" story (versions of which story exist here and here): 

The first of these two referenced suttas, Samana-Mundika Sutta (MN 78) says that doing no wrong isn't enough -- that merely doing no wrong is "on the same level as a stupid baby boy lying on its back" -- that person needs skillful resolves and habits, and (as quoted above) discernment of cessation. The last reference Magandiya Sutta (Sn 4.9) is more on the subject of not clinging, of not being fashioned by views, not being led by actions, not being tied by perception (of better and worse). 

Also according to this the brahma-viharas are "the right or ideal way of conduct towards living beings " which "provide, in fact, the answer to all situations arising from social contact" -- I'm not sure how that applies to equanimity, specifically, except that much restlessness seems to me to be associated with (or a residue from) social contact. 

Perhaps it's good to discuss your visit with someone at the temple in advance. Some temples have a once-a-year event at which infants are presented to the Buddha for the first time; for example: