I think this question 'who is observing' is a blind alley. If in one moment you have a sense that there is observation, or you reflect 'I am observing' or 'I was observing', so what? And if in the next moment there's no such sense or reflection, what then? These 'who am I' or 'what is observing' questions are common in some types of Zen, but they're not orthodox Soto Zen. Dogen criticised them, and Menzan Zuiho Osho in his Jijuyu-Zanmai says: 

I think you're misunderstanding 'illusion' with respect to past and future. The only thing which really exists is the here and now (think about it). Past and future don't exist in this way, although it seems to us sometimes that they do, especially when the mind is telling itself stories. Past and future only exist intellectually, not really like the present does. This doesn't mean that past and future are delusions, just that they're not real like the present. And it's important sometimes for us to be able to think about the past and future in order to live our lives. If you couldn't imagine the future you wouldn't think to put on coat when you left home on a rainy day :) But Buddhism stresses that they're not real in order to encourage us to live in and relate to what is, here and now, not what was or what might be. 

'Those who speak don't know, those who know don't speak.' (Zen aphorism) Lots of posts on SE Buddhism seem to hover around the question 'what is your original face', or 'what is Buddha' etc. It shouldn't be so difficult to answer these questions straightforwardly with a sentence or two, so why is it that teachers (who supposedly know) tend not to? 

Full text here: $URL$ I'm not a Zen teacher so I'm reluctant to make categorical statements about Buddhism, but I'd say with a reasonable degree of confidence that you're correct that 'we are awareness of thought' is not what Buddhism teaches. As to meditation, I don't think it helps us to recognise our true nature per se, but it's probably harder to recognise with a head full of thoughts, and Zen meditation generally involves letting go of idle intellection (it's hard to say what is or isn't a misunderstanding of 'mindfulness' these days because the word has become mainstream and none of us can be sure now what it's being used to mean, so it's probably best avoided if you want to get technical). 

Why? Because all this ends, this Cosmoses are fabricated. And so it goes on in the Sensual world and fine material world: 

There are other Suttas as well, which describe the attributs of a Streamwinner like in the Samyutta Nikaya, the SN 22.109: Sotaapanno Sutta — The Sotaapanna (' Stream-winner') or the Okkanta-samyutta — Entering 

With other words, even you might know how to make fire, being taught with stones, don't run around and say "Its not possible with stones" either because you have not tried or could not manage, or because you did not know that the master teached other ways to come to the path that consumes the fires and releases. Release is the aim, while how to make fire and the consume of it are just needed and good means. Don't waste time with "it is real - it is not real", "be or not be" for phenomenas have causes, also the phenomena to see as is really is and then the unbound remains. And my person does not tell you - either because he does not know, or to provoke skillful speculations - who had been Gunavijaya, Hellyell, Dhamnadhatu and I at the Buddhas time. Tendencies and Upanissaya are not easy to chance since such reqires not only nissayapaccaya but upanissayapaccayena, people, places, weather and prefered food, that being a teaching that the Jatakas also transport, while the Suttas are for those who have more freedom to chance already accumulated. And on that occation Johann said: "Right decitions to chance ones foolish ways can be made every time, but the fool, attached to the food he is used since a child, does not taste what is not known to him and paised by the wise. Thinking having gone beyound, they continue to take live, take what is not given, abuse and tell what isn't fact, oppose the wise and nourish on the poison of desire after gain." After that teaching 30 readers gained Streamentry and Gunavijaya rejoiced in the word and left. You may find a maybe extended answered based on the original question, not modified by third, here, where also always welcome to discuss and comment it: [Q&A] Are the Jataka stories authentic or later additions? Are they missleading? (Note: This is a gift of Dhamma not meant for commercial purposes or other wordily gains.) 

Two points, 1) Alan Watts was a charismatic speaker given to wild generalisations, and 2) Buddhist practice has very little to do with 'Buddhism' as it appears to people who confine themselves to intellectual study, let alone to 'Hinduism'. Edit: The point I was making (not very clearly, apparently) was that Buddhism regarded as a philosophy, mythology or system of ethics is one thing, and Buddhism as it's actually practiced is another. My life at the moment consists of large amounts of work, not very much sleep, lots of back pain and my practice is mostly accepting all this and trying to remain cheerful. It's not the same as reading books and mulling over meanings because it brings the Buddha's teachings into reality and challenges the egotistical mind directly, and you don't get this from reading books. I would add that the former is how Buddhism is meant to be practiced and the latter isn't (imho, obviously). So I'm pointing out that comparing two philosophies (which is what I assume we're doing) is just mental masturbation and doesn't shed much light on the differences between the two religions (not that I see a lot of point in comparing them anyway). Sorry to sound like a religious snob btw :D 

The tiger is in his home in the mountains (in the Eastern imagination), dropping off body and mind you return to the natural state. 

Yes. It's frowned upon generally in Buddhism to practice on your own if suitable teachers are available. Dogen (the Zen founder) stressed the importance of finding and studying with a teacher, so did Ajahn Chah (a teacher in the Theravadan tradition): 

Jukai doesn't create any commitments between you and the preceptor (unlike monastic ordination which initiates a master/disciple relationship). Anyone's entitled to it, only an osho (I think) can perform the ceremony. The main preparation is to sew a rakusu. 

$URL$ If you just want to do intensive meditation I think you would quickly find homelessness (especially homelessness without the support of a sangha) was more of a hindrance than a help. 

Ultimate reality isn't voidness, it has both the character of voidness and the character of things - in Shitou's terminology 'sameness' and 'difference'. See his poem 'Sandokai': $URL$ 

... With the utter destruction of three fetters, this person is a family-to-family attainer who, after roaming and wandering on among good families two or three times, makes an end of suffering. ...With the utter destruction of three fetters, this person is a seven times-at-most attainer who, after roaming and wandering on among devas and humans seven times at most, makes an end of suffering. ... 

No, there are certain kinds mentioned and about the "leding", he she would definitly. On how: see answer question 3. A steam-winner will be born 

One of the ten benefits (in the case of this abhiñña, a sideeffect of the training in the higher knowledge), which are good to increase faith when performed. In an dispute with a Brahman, whether the teaching of Lord Buddha is a selfish one or not, and by being asked if he thinks that certain powers are "real" the Brahman answered, given in the Sangarava Sutta: To Sangarava 

Acutally in the frame set of the questions it would be unlikely the first, since why would one raise such a question if maybe not even aware of such as "steam-winner. How ever, lets look what are the atributes that a Streamwinner "possesses". Of what [i]we[/i] know about what the Buddha said, being answered the question, "How does one know if having won the Stream or not?", the properly most similar question and most direct answer is found in the Maha-parinibbana Sutta, in an conversation mit Ven. Ananda Thera, the Bhikkhus have been used to ask for the attainments of others the Lord Buddha an he giving them a mirror to use to look for oneself: 

Anumodana! (Note: This answer is a gift of Dhamma and not meant for commercial purposes or other wordily gains) 

maintain a right livelihood, do as much as possible Dana, observe Silas, best 8 and do Bhavana. --> "Purification through Wandering-on" As for the real and final carrier, that excels all others, here introduced in a talk between a King, the Buddha about a carrier of even a tidays slave: 

The the Deva amazed, told a story of own experiances. After that, the Buddha seeing the right time, he added: 

and it is useful to give it a read, for all those who like to do the task fist, given by the Bhagavato, Arahato, Sammāsambuddho of our times, who knew the path of "being simple a pathfinder" better then anyone, find the path to an end of suffering finally, and left the path, out of inmeasureable goodness - for the worlds beings with less dust in the eyes - behind. So to take it, the sacrify, rightly, is a matter of gratitude, which goes hand in hand with a beings possibility to gain a Noble kind of "Bodhicitta" and the reason why liberation always starts with "Namo". To understand "Namo" rightly , here also a "tantric" approach by Ajahn Mun 

'One mind' means reality, the reality which is in front of you now and which you are part of. It manifests in two ways - as the absolute, when you don't concieve in terms of self and others; and the phenomenal, when you do. 

There isn't a 'best posture' for meditation (although I have a yoga book which attributes all sorts of special mystical powers to the full lotus). The best posture is the one that's best for you, that gives you a stable base (knees and buttocks) and lets you maintain your spine in a good upright position. For some that will be full lotus, others half or quarter, others burmese (all on a cushion), and for others it will be seiza on a cushion or bench. You definitely shouldn't be deciding how to sit based on answers from people on the internet, you should go to a temple or monastery where experienced meditators with a variety of cushions and benches can observe you and help you find the posture that's best for you. 

'Suffering' in Buddhism means the pain we create for ourselves, not pain which is outside our control. Buddhism won't stop others assaulting you, stop you having accidents or stop you getting sick. The suffering we create for ourselves, according to Buddhism is not spontaneous, in the sense of arising by itself, but has a cause, which is our ignorance. 

They're two wrong views which the Buddha wishes to quash. Sometimes they're referred to as 'extremes', but I think the problem is simply that they're concepts which jump into our minds from time to time and usurp the reality lying before us. 

Rebirth in the traditional sense may or may not happen. Despite what you say about NMR (which I also studied), we don't have any scientific evidence either way. But in the momentary sense, in the sense of being a different person in a different world from one moment to the next, this certainly seems to me to be what happens. And with respect to the traditional understanding of rebirth, Buddhism's view is that circumstances come and go (are born and die), but that there is something which isn't born and doesn't die. What of this thing that isn't born and doesn't die? What of it before your physical birth, what of it after your physical death?