Not very realistic. HowStuffWorks has an interesting article about generating electricity from lightning. There are several problems with harnessing natural lightning: 

My motivation for asking this is that I've considered using pulsars for this purpose in several stories, but I've always gotten hung up on how to solve this sort of problem. 

As celtschk pointed out, the Coriolis force still exists, because the object is rotating. That means that there will still be fluid motion through the core, and there should still be a magnetic field. I don't know quite what properties the field would have because it's hard to figure out where the poles would be. There might be a 'ring-shaped' (for lack of a better word) central section from which the field emanates - but like I said, I'm not sure. At any rate, it probably wouldn't come from near the axis of rotation of the planet, like Earth's field does. 

I'd say it's possible for the same kind of stability to be possible here, even if the hyperboloid is "straighter". We can decompose the density profile of the disk into such a torus, at some stable distance from the center, and a less dense region involved in the active accretion. This could lead to orbits similar to those computer for the moon and the toroidal planet. 

We can assume that it would take quite a long time to do this on Mars, too. The current best way to do this is to use a clean room back on Earth prior to launch; this is the current protocol. It is also hard for Earth microbes to survive in space or on Mars. Conditions on the red planet for Earth microbes are not good: 

References: Wikipedia, BBC, Wildscreen Arkive. I would bet that dwarves would have some of these qualities. They might . . . 

1 We can see from the derivation of the Schwarzschild metric that it works just fine for negative masses. The effects will simply be different. 

Illnesses caused by bacteria can be held at bay by antibiotics, and some viruses can be fought with anti-viral medicine. However, I'd like to create a disease for use as a bioweapon that cannot be stopped. Here are some things I'd like the disease to do: 

Image in the public domain. 50,000 years ago In the world you and I live in, homo sapiens has by now spread throughout south-east and eastern Asia, and is venturing into Europe. The Neanderthals are doing just fine, and homo floresiensis is presumably surviving. In this world, things are a bit different. Homo sapiens will still reach Europe, much of Asia, and presumably Australia. However, they will find people already in Australia. Homo floresiensis may have developed quite the culture, and may put up some resistance to the newcomers. Yet if there are any physical confrontations, the "hobbits" are in trouble. Three and a half feet of a small-brained hominid isn't a lot against a human. Homo floresiensis will die out - possibly a bit later than in our Earth, but at some time, nonetheless. 35,000 years ago Homo sapiens and homo neanderthalensis have met. Any speculative interbreeding is taking place, and the two cultures - if you can call them that - are interacting just as expected. In southern and central Europe - and northern Europe, to some extent - Neanderthals are starting to die out as they're replaced, even in Douglas Adams's stories. But Neanderthals up north may have crossed during the Wolstonian glaciation, and made their way into Canada. Sure, homo sapiens is now dominant in Europe, Asia, Africa, and eventually Australia (homo floresiensis may have survived until 10,000-15,000 years ago), but the homo neanderthalensis has escaped. 20,000-25,000 years ago Sometime around this period, some members of homo sapiens cross over from Siberia to North America via the Bering land bridge. I would suggest that an earlier expedition would have been possible, but that leads to the question of why it didn't happen earlier in our world, given that the land bridge presumably exited for many years before humans crossed it. In this world, the humans may or may not meet Neanderthals. The North Pole migration route would have required the Neanderthals to come over somewhere in central- to -eastern Canada. The ice sheets were still in place 50,000 years ago, and so Hudson Bay would not have been a challenge. Still, perhaps the coasts would have appealed to Neanderthals, so they could have started out on the Eastern end of North America. It doesn't take long to travel from Alaska to Tierra del Fuego - perhaps only a few thousand years. If that's the case, Neanderthals may have already colonized all of the Americas. That's more than a little bit of a problem for homo sapiens, because, once again, they're the newcomers. There are various ideas as to why Neanderthals died out. One could postulate that it was the mere appearance of homo sapiens that led to their decline, in which case, our group of humans will be just fine. If the deaths had to do with some geological event that was specific to a certain region, then the events here become uncertain. I'm hesitant to speculate about what will happen in this epic meeting, and so I don't think I'll go there. You can decide for yourself. But I think that the two cultures may coexist, at least for a while. If Neanderthals die out, it won't be for a long time. I suppose you could devote an entire question to the idea of homo sapiens and homo neanderthalensis coexisting. Summary Gills mean that homo heidelbergensis can reach much of Europe and western Asia easily, and they cover a lot of ground. Homo neanderthalensis quickly goes even further, going up to the northern reaches of Scandinavia. Homo floresiensis reaches Australia and gets along quite well until homo sapiens comes along. Homo neanderthalensis reaches North America but dies out in Europe, and homo sapiens conquers the globe, though coexisting with homo neanderthalensis in the Americas. 

This is, unfortunately, not in the zero-age main sequence (ZAMS) habitable zone. Try making the star more massive, about 0.5 solar masses. Then the planet can be tidally locked and in the habitable zone (though not necessarily habitable). 

Another possibility that crossed my mind was to use a quasistar, essentially an extremely massive protostar whose core collapses into a black hole. The disadvantages are that the lifetime of the envelope would be about the same as that of a TŻO, and the protostar would have to be at least 1,000 times the mass of the Sun (see Begelman et al. (2008)). One final speculative option I came up with was also mentioned: a dark star. This would be a mixture of dark matter and normal matter that generates energy via annihilation between neutralinos. The downsides are twofold: The “star” would have a diameter between 4 AU and 2,000 AU, and would not emit light in the visible portion of the spectrum. These are the most well-studied types of exotic stars. It should be apparent that these could not be good substitutes for a star and conform to the time and luminosity requirements I set down. The solution I present here is far more mundane, at least in terms of the star’s composition. I propose using the Kelvin-Helmholtz mechanism to power a star like a T Tauri star. The timescale problem can be solved by periodic mass loss and replenishment recurring every Kelvin-Helmholtz time, by way of a disk in and out of which the tar oscillates. Nuclear fusion will not happen because temperatures in the core of the star will not have reached high enough levels. 

Rayleigh scattering is the primary reason that the sky is blue. Particles in the atmosphere "scatter" light in random directions. Blue light (along with violet light) has a shorter wavelength, and is therefore scattered more. For this reason, the sky appears blue, because there is scattered blue light appearing from all directions. However, the sky can appear to be other colors. We often see magnificent shades of yellow, orange, or red near sunset and sundown. This is because the Sun is lower in the sky, and the light travels further. It is therefore scattered more (across all wavelengths) and the longer wavelengths dominate. How can we apply this to the present case? Well, simply change the densities of the atmospheres. A greater density should shift the sky color to the redder end of the spectrum; a lower density should shift the sky color to the bluer end of the spectrum. Play around a bit and see what you can do. The Sun appears yellow because shorter wavelengths - such as orange and yellow - deviate less from their original path. Thus, the redder light that is emitted from the Sun stays closer to its original path than the bluer colors do. Again, play around with the density to see if you can change this. A greater density might simply mean that redder wavelengths dominate even more, in which case you'll see a redder Sun in all cases of higher density atmospheres (retaining the same composition as Earth's). This lecture has an excellent summary diagram of this at the end, if you're interested: 

It depends. Heavy water proves toxic to human cells at levels ~20% of a human's body weight (although other sources give 25%). At lower levels, however, it's harmless. Given that ~2/3 of a human's body weight is water, you'd have to have much higher ratios of D2O to H2O than you have in this scenario. Even at levels from 15%-20% body weight, heavy water may produce no adverse effects. In this world, therefore, it seems like humans would be fine. Raise heavy water levels, though, and things could get really bad. Death comes to mind at very high concentrations.