The answer, unfortunately, belongs more in Parenting SE than in Philosophy SE. The real question is what the father wishes to do with the situation the child has created. If the child does not need any more questions in their life, the answer may be "it is 1 meter long," and be done with it. The deeper line of reasoning that Wittgenstein is engaging in may be approached with "It is 1 meter long. In fact, the meter is defined such that this object is exactly 1 meter long." This may go over the child's head, or it may open up a line of questioning about why a meter needs a definition in the first place. It may even open up a line of questions regarding how humans attempt to capture their environment in their minds using such tools to measure it. Or, you can get so totally petrified with trying to figure out the best answer that you belt out, "This object is approximately one meter long. As of 1983, the metre is defined to be the length of the path travelled by light in vacuum during a time interval of 1/299792458 of a second. A second is defined to be 9192631770 periods of the radiation corresponding to the transition between the two hyperfine levels of the ground state of the caesium 133 atom." and pray to the deity of your preference that the child doesn't ask you what a Caesium atom is today. 

When discussing the issue with a layperson, it is not uncommon to hear things like "F=ma" being called "natural laws." However, in the strictest of philosophical senses, the scientific argument is that there are natural laws -- that the universe does follow rules. This would be in opposition to any argument that the universe is out to intentionally confuse us (scientists don't like the argument that Loki controls the universe). From this argument, they derive worth in the attempt to pair these natural laws to mathematical equations like "F=ma". If, indeed, the world was consciously trying to mess with science, this attempt to assign mathematical equations could go drastically wrong. Accordingly, it is a fundamental tenant of science that natural laws exist, and it's science's job to figure them out to the best of our ability. The pattern of generalizing data into theories is simply part of science's process which seeks to uncover these natural laws, but in the strictest philosophical sense, it is not the natural laws themselves. My favorite example of this was the Lorentz transformation. Science had produced Maxwell's equations, but they had a funny catch. Light was supposed to have "a velocity," which is strange because velocities are usually relative to a frame (You may be sitting still in the ECF coordinate system, which rotates with the earth, but hurtling along at 1000km/hr in ECI, which is an inertial coordinate system used for satellites). It was theorized that there may be a "lumiferous ether" within which light flowed defining the frame of reference for "the speed of light." When they actually tested this, they found that it did not matter which frame of reference they used, light always appeared to travel at the same velocity. This was highly expected for some scientists. However, there was no attempt to argue that the universe was failing to follow their natural laws properly. They simply accepted that there was something missing from their laws. Lorentz's transform accounted for this mathematically, until Einstein came along and suggested the transform was more easily modeled if both space and time could be warped. The model moved to better approximate science's search for the "natural laws," not the other way around. 

There's clearly a difference in methodology. Many would claim that TCM does not follow the scientific method. But TCM is deeply steeped in Chinese philsophy, so a claim that philosophy must assume the scientific method as a premise invalidates 4000 years of Chinese philosophy, declaring it to "not be philosophy because it doesn't assume the scientific method." You can understand why such a claim is not popular. Or you might claim that TCM has the scientific method hiding in it. As it turns out, there is no one "The Scientific Method." We talk about it as though there is only one, but there isn't. It's actually a rather large class of approaches ranging from the very precise definitions that are used at the LHC when making observations of subatomic particles all the way out to a very broad "guess and check" mentality. You could choose to define the scientific method to be broad enough to admit Chinese philosophy, thus making it easier for others to accept your claim. But there's a catch. The weaker you elect to define the scientific method, the harder it is to have absolute confidence that it must be a good thing and a successful thing. It's actually a really fun exploration, which digs at the heart of what it means to be "science." This is the Philosophy of Science, and the point where I can segue to answer your original question. The philsophy of science is considered to be a subdiscipline of empiricism. Empiricism is the study of that which we can "know" with our senses, i.e. empirical observation. There are other subdisciplines of empiricism as well besides science. Empiricism, itself, is a subdiscipline of epistomology, which is the study of what we can "know." Knowing is an incredibly complex and nuanced thing in philosophy because it has to actually address questions along the lines of "How do we know that we know something? How do we know that we know that we know something?" and so on and so forth. Epsitomology, itself, can be contrasted to ontology. Ontology is the study of what is real. Most of us assume that we know what "reality" is, but ontologists really question it. It turns out to be a tremendously interesting topic, but it's almost completely divorced from science. Which is interesting. We often have the opinion that science is a tool which leads us to the truth of reality, but when you dig far enough down into philosophy, you start to see that that isn't quite what it does. In fact, some even argue that it does the opposite: instead of leading us to the truth, it tries to lead the truth to us. But that's just one argument. The point being, that philosophy explores a class of questions and their answers which reach far broader than science does. And that's a good thing. Diversity is good. Science is great at what it does (that is to say, science is great at being scientific). Philosophy is great at what it does (that is to say.... whatever philosophy does. It's actually a rather funny exercise to try to pin down precisely what philosophy does). Both are valuable in this world, and neither should really replace the other. Now I have pointed out how much separation there is between science and philosophy. But there is a very important connection between them: philosophers are people. Their ideas mingle with the ideas of the population around them. While there is no explicit connection between science and ontology, you will find that many ontological philosophers strive to develop their research to fit nicely with the ontological claims that science sometimes makes (when they technically can't make such claims, being empirical). Other philosophers will explicitly strive to make their work conflict with science's claims, just to explore that "what if the world isn't the way we think it is" sort of question. Their philosophy will naturally reject the claims that the scientific method must be assumed, because the point of their work is to see what happens when you reject it. So science absolutely influences all of philosophy, though often in a very indirect way. Likewise, philosophy forms the cornerstone of what science, itself, is. But many find it's digging and questioning to be a bit of a bore, so we often ignore this connection to philosophy. 

Such an argument makes the strong case that one cannot define "knowledge" to be a provable thing if we seek to avoid all of those three things. And surely someone asking the question of "what can we know" is concerned with the oddities that arise if any one of those three appear. Indeed, skeptics have the most curious problem one can come across. At the extreme, they state that you cannot know anything. Yet, to be consistent, they must not know that you cannot know anything, for such would be a contradiction. There are countless opinions about how to resolve this, which are certainly beyond the scope of the question. One you accept that there are people who will make the claim that we cannot know anything, the rest of the questions become more interesting. They refuse to settle down, because there will always be that one unfinished corner of the argument. It encourages a pragmatic approach to the specific issues of politics and science that you address. People do indeed apply their beliefs over others (for whatever that phrase means), and people do claim authority. The validity of those claims is incredibly complicated, especially on a national level, but if I may simplify, I'd like to refer to an argument Alan Watts made. He was talking about the authority of the guru, and why a guru has authority. He made the argument that the guru has authority because the student gives him or her the authority. If the student did not give such authority, then the guru simply would have none. Watts makes a great argument, which I might be able to dig up if you were interested, but the intuitive sense of the phrasing does argue for itself. Our governments have authority because we citizens give them authority. This may be given freely. It may be given at birth before you know any better. Or it might even be given at gunpoint, when the alternative to ceeding authority is death. Whether we find such acts ethical or not, we must admit that it is possible to ceed authority in each case. Science is another interesting situation. You say "its fairly easy to identify those that make correct claims, because correct claims must be e.g. repeatable." In theory, this is true. In practice, it is more nuanced. Consider the announcement of a new particle from the LHC. While in theory this is a repeatable experiment, in practice, there's no collider in town that can actually do it besides the LHC. When they make their claim, nobody else can repeat their experiment besides the LHC. As such, if you look at how groups of scientists at the LHC announce their discoveries, they spent extraordinary amounts of effort to address this issue. They re-run the experiments countless times, publish all sorts of low level data, and take care to announce only their observations. Even when they announced the "discovery" of the Higgs Boson, they took great care to phrase their statement based on statistics and observations. All because this issue of authority and knowledge is indeed an issue for science. They have to pay attention to it just like the politicians. 

Terminology is tricky. Not everybody agrees on the exact meanings of things like "measurement" or "construct." However, there is a common grain with these definitions. In most versions of measurement that I have seen, one requirement of a measurement is to isolate the measuring device from the measured entity before it can be called a measurement. A physical example would be the use of calipers to measure an object while it is changing shape. Typically people would not use the word "measurement" until the calipers are no longer being held to the object, so they are not part of a coupled system with the object. The meanings can vary, but I have found that trend to be reliable. This requirement shows up on the fringes of quantum mechanics as well. In many interpretations of QM, there is a concept of a "measurement," or a "classical measurement," which transitions from a quantum interpretation of the system to a more classical one. The best description given to me as to this process is that you have to couple the system to transfer some of its state to your probe, and then you must "separate" the probe from the system using a process to remove any entanglements between the probe and the system. (not always a fully defined process) Another common requirement is that the measurement should result in information. This is not as universal as the idea of having to be isolated from the measured entity, but it is very common. Some would argue that the calipers do not actually "measure" anything until someone turns their state into a number (such as 3 inches). Others might define it otherwise, but its so natural to talk about the state of a measurement device as information (such as the angle between the caliper legs), the line may be blurry. If you choose to define "measurement" in a way which includes both isolation from the measured entity and the transfer of information, and take those two rules to an extreme, you get something similar to what you describe. Many choose to define a conscious observe as one which can observe information, and many choose to define conciousness as decoupled from the physical world. Thus, this idea of a "measurement" being a "construct" makes sense, if one chooses to take an extreme viewpoint on what a measurement could possibly be. 

The rule "do unto others as they would have you do unto them" has been given the nickname "The platinum rule" by some, but the golden rule is by far more popular and well known. If you are not willing to change yourself, the value of the platinum rule becomes quite clear. You cannot assume their preferences are the same as yours. However, there is a price to the platinum rule: it requires you to know something about the other person -- enough to know what they would have done unto them. That knowledge can be quite hard to attain. "Do unto others as you would have done unto you," the golden rule, sidesteps this issue by only having you know yourself. It has issues when your preferences differ from theirs, but it doesn't require you to know unknowable things. If you are willing to allow your journey through life to change you, the golden rule becomes far more powerful. Two individuals who uphold the golden rule, and are willing to allow themselves to change over time may enter a feedback loop to find common ground. For example, if both wish to be understood, it would be reasonable for both parties to try to understand the other better. 

My first answer would be a rather general claim: If you are studying anything and it doesn't affect your life, you're doing it wrong. Philosophers are known for asking questions that do not have easy answers. In fact, I have seen many suggest that it is not the answers in Philosophy that matter, but the questions themselves. We make assumptions every day, often mortal ones. When I confidently stare down a one ton fire breathing monster barreling down on my laughably protected shell of a body (also known as "riding my motorcycle in traffic"), I make assumption after assumption about what can and cannot happen to me. In the case of many accidents, those assumptions prove wrong. Philosophy provides approaches for identifying those assumptions, and seeking to set them on a more firm foundation. When I have a near miss due to some {bleep}-hole that nearly puts me on the pavement, I have an opportunity to explore my own life's choices, and decide how I might better take control of my fate (such as, perhaps, joining them by driving a car instead of a motorcycle. Or perhaps easing off on the throttle a little because I don't really have to be in that much of a rush). I can also see more into the decisions others make. When I see that unforgivable lout at the front of the left turn lane, ready to illegally cut across in front of me as the light turns green (seriously? What is up with some drivers?), I can see the way they're clawing at the wheel and start to make educated guesses as to their utility function, even though I've never met them, because I know utility functions are useful for questioning how everyone acts. Are there other ways to come to these conclusions? Certainly. But all such paths provide more questions to be answered. They're just deeper questions, trickier questions. Questions philosophy happens to enjoy exploring. Eventually, they all either lead to philosophy, or an axiomatic assumption of truth which, if ever proven wrong, can wreak untold havoc on one's life.