This is a genetically engineered dragon, why would you make it use a needle and thread? Instead, let's give it two very thin, hollow claws that look very similar to snake fangs. These two claws will be opposed to each other, so that each can be put through the material to be sewn from opposite sides. They will meet in the middle, where the hollow ends of these fangs can interlock and form a channel through the material. Finally, a pair of spinnarets like a spider's will work in concert, spinning and passing a thread through the claws, and pulling it out the other side. They can then move both claws to the location of the next stitch and repeat. Fine motor skills are a must, as others have mentioned, and the appendage with the claw will need to be at the end of a highly articulated arm, so that they can reach places with ease. 

The two fields interfere with each other I'm not certain what an MC field is, but it's not a stretch to say that the two fields could negatively interfere with each other. Placing them sufficiently far away from each other negates this effect. It has to be projected from the outside-in. The first field is created by the station, projected inside and around the anomaly. The outer field is made by a ring on satellites around the station. 

One variable seems to change names at some point in their calculations, so I'm not certain about how this translates to a stationary object, but it does give us a time scale. So if we do nothing, we'll have a small strike every few years. But let's not do nothing! Let's use some lasers! First of all, how do lasers work to deorbit debris? Basically, the laser hits the surface and rapidly superheats the material, vaporizing it. This vapor is still in the path of the laser however, so it continues to be struck by the laser beam, where it superheats a bit more and becomes plasma. The plasma rapidly decompresses, pushing the object away, and essentially forming a small jet on the object's surface. After some time, adding more energy to the system is counterproductive so the authors of this paper suggest a pulsed laser, rather than a continuous one. The authors assume a period of $\tau = 5ns$ for the laser pulse, and using this number, find that they need to apply $53\ kJ/m^2$ to the object to optimally accelerate an aluminum target. 

This makes some pretty huge assumptions, the biggest of which is that having a child has no impact on your fertility. That's clearly false. Altering the variable from 0 to 1.5 gives us these numbers: 

Building off of Jake's answer, I'm going to suggest a completely different approach to make your brain pulse. Your alien brain still uses electrical signals, but they are MUCH stronger than in humans (handwave how/why, or ask in a new question!). Additionally the brain has large amounts of ferromagnetic elements in it. Now as each electrical pulse fires, it creates a magnetic field that causes the nearby brain to twitch. This would probably be more of a vibration than a pulsing, but the brain would definitely move. 

Okay, now why these numbers? Bows are basically springs, meaning that they follow Hooke's Law reasonably well. Hook's law states that $F=ks$ where $F$ is force, $k$ is a constant related to the spring and $s$ is how far you've stretched the string. Now I'm going to make an assumption that's wrong, but will make all of this much easier. I'm going to assume that your bow begins from a state of rest, meaning that it starts at $s=0$. This is wrong, because the bowstring does impart some force onto the bow, creating some tension before you even begin to draw, but since this whole exercise is an estimate, I don't think this will affect our end results much. In physics, work is defined as $W=F_{avg}s$. Here's where that assumption comes into the picture. Since the force exerted by the bow is linear, if it starts at a state of rest, then the average force is just half the maximum force. That means that the average force exerted while pulling back your hypothetical bow is 500 lbs, because that is half of 1000 lbs (the max force during draw). Now we need $s$, or the draw length. This site tells us that the length from fingertip to finger tip divided by 2.5 should be the proper draw length. For our 9 foot tall humanoid, that's $(9*12)/2.5=43.2$. Using the conversions above that's $F_{avg}=225$ and $s=1.1$. Now plug it in Plugging our numbers into our formula above, we get $W=F_{avg}s=225*1.1=247.5\ Joules$. Not all of that is going to go into sending the arrow forward. A lot of it is wasted by making the arrow oscillate and some heating of the bow. According to this site, only 54.8% of the energy goes into the arrow. So, $E_{arrow}=W_{bow}*.548=247.5*.548=135.6\ Joules$. So how fast is it going finally? Now kinetic energy is defined as $E_k=(1/2)mv^2$ so now all we need is the weight of the arrow. This guy wanted some help with the weight of his arrow, and his community was helpful enough to let him know it was ~375 grains... which is apparently a unit of weight? Anyway apparently that's about 24 grams. I'm going to go with a crude "let's double its size!" calculation. Doubling the size makes the volume increase by a factor of 8, and the weight by the same, so the weight of our extra large arrow is 194 grams. Note that double the size is 56 inches, which isn't too much longer than our draw length, sounds good to me! Now throwing that in the equation, we get $135.6=(1/2)*.194*v^2$. Solving for $v$ gets us about 37 meters per second or about 80 mph! 

This means that the lasers don't even have to be in space! With pretty much current tech, you can deploy a system of them on the surface and deorbit from there! The authors find that any object with mass less than 1kg can be reentered in a single pass. Larger objects (their example gave mass of 1-ton) would take several years to reenter, but, if you recall the frequency of interactions between large objects, the chance of a catastrophic collision is very small, and we can very easily nudge these objects out of the way in a single pass. 

I'm a fan of how Stellaris and Elite: Dangerous do it (both FTL based video games). It works best with a mostly flat galaxy like a spiral galaxy. Take a 2D plane that bisects the axis with the smallest variance, and then show stars above and below that plane with a line that intersects that plane orthogonally. This lets you accurately judge location. Here are some examples: 

Civil Engineering Civil Engineering is a huge field that is almost entirely obsolete in space. Vast stretches of empty space make roads and traffic useless, 0 gravity makes structural design largely unnecessary, and most would be forgotten - especially where it concerns dynamic loads from weather and earthquakes. If these people settled again, they'd have to reinvent the road, and likely what to build the road from - there's not a huge demand for cement or asphalt in space. They also probably couldn't build high-rise buildings anymore, or especially large bridges. Not under the category of civil engineering, depending on how their spaceflight works, they may not even be able to manage atmospheric flight. 

Actually the energy requirements aren't as horrible as I had imagined, but a 500 km long gun seems pretty ridiculous to me. Play with these numbers as you see fit to try and figure out what works for your story! 

Absolutely. If you're colonizing a planet, it's taken you a long time to get to that planet. That means you've supported a large number of colonists through completely uninhabitable space for a significant amount of time. So if you you just land this ship on the planet, then it sounds like you've just made your own completely self sufficient city on that planet. If this happens more than once, you could even envision an entire nation starting like this. 

Make the door part of the structure Design your building with a really obvious doorway. Label it with all sorts of do not open signs so they really know that this is the way you get in. When an aspiring tomb raider breaks down the door, the whole roof falls down on him. Make sure to give it enough margin of error that it won't just fall over the next time there's a big thunderstorm. I say door, but this would probably be more like a seal than a door. You would have to break it to get through. 

TCAT put up the answer I was planning before I did the math, but it looks like a resounding yes, assuming you've got modern insulation. It only takes 0.11 horsepower to cool 1 cubic meter of dry air 3 degrees Celcius. The wikipedia page on industrial age steam engines gives an average of 30 horsepower for steam engines during the time, meaning you can can cool about 30 cubic meters of air at the proper rate with a run of the mill steam engine. The same page also mentioned very large engines creating up to 1400 horsepower, so really the sky is the limit. Just remember you're not going to get 100% efficiency, so give yourself some wiggle room if you have to put a number on it. I'm glossing over heat loss through the walls, which could be considerable, and to get a compressor to bring the heat down to that low a temperature will be an astonishing achievement, but it absolutely theoretically possible. 

When I was a child, we had a toy which was apparently called a Water Snake (pro tip, don't google water filled sphincter toy, ever). The tunnel through the middle should allow a creature to pass through, but, if kept pressurized, the mouth of the tunnel should always remain closed tightly. Use one of these, with a rope through the middle to allow the creature to pull themselves through. It will have to be pressurized enough to keep water out, but low pressure enough to not crush the creature inside. This should allow 2-way access while being impermeable. It could be quite difficult to pull your way through this tunnel, so you could either coat the tunnel with a slippery hydrophobic substance that will lower the friction, or run the contraption on bearings, so that the whole thing can turn inside out on itself, letting the creature enter or exit easily. Finally, if the contraption were motorized, then it would make the process much easier for the creature. It would work sort of like a weird 3D conveyor belt to suck the creature in from outside. All you need to do is get yourself stuck in it. 

Looking into the past Depending on the geometry of the wrap, with a powerful enough telescope you'll be able to see yourself in the past. Possibly even several times and at different locations in time. If the universe has a spherical wrap 1 light hour in radius, you'll be able to look up and see yourself 1 hour ago. If you then move over a bit you'll able to see all the way down the line with snapshots every hour. It's like standing in a hall of mirrors, but the mirrors don't reflect immediately. 

They are going to very quite a bit based on difficulty! In general, climbing a cliff is very slow, but you can repel down one in seconds. Spelunking is very different. Caves are generally pretty easy to get around in, minus the impediments you mention. The main problem is that they can be a complete labyrinth. That being said, for rock climbing, the fastest expert I've ever seen could ascend at about half walking speed up a moderately difficult face with his route already planned and without safety equipment. A more reasonable speed for most good climbers is maybe 10 meters a minute for a moderately technical wall, not including rest and not including the fact that the route may not be straight up the wall. Repelling down a wall is extremely quick. Nearly the entire time spent is in the setup, which can be quite quick - just a minute if you're good at it. I'm not going to give estimates for spelunking beyond the rough ballpark above as I have never been spelunking without a guide who knew the cave well. I imagine large cave system would be difficult to explore if you did not already know it's layout. The speed with an expert and a newbie is going to be the speed of the newbie, or else the expert is no expert. You don't push newbies at a dangerous activity. 

Okay, so our ancient people really have it out for future generations. I'd start with Viking technology - they're going to want to be able to sail long distances, although this isn't strictly necessary. Other answers have mentioned deforestation, but that alone won't actually have that huge of an impact. They can certainly put some effort into that, but what's really going give you the most bang for your medieval buck is: Burning Peat Bogs and Coal Seams It turns out that burning coal seams represent 3% of the world's global carbon emissions. If we actively search for and ignite these coal seams, we can increase this number. Peat bogs have similar effects. I recommend that we concentrate our search in the Arctic. Greenland especially. Recent fires in Greenland have been a cause for concern among many scientists. These fires do of course cause major release of carbon from the burning peat and coal, but they also release black soot, which lowers the albedo of the surrounding ice, which can cause widespread melting. Once the ice is gone, it's possible that the permafrost would start melting as well, releasing large amounts of methane, a very potent greenhouse gas. If you really really want to get the most out of this, I would recommend that your ancient climate scientists find a way to distribute this soot over as large an area as possible. 

See the Anglerfish. It's clearly possible to evolve a light-emitting object, so the only question is why. Perhaps there are extensive cave systems teeming with life, and in the pitch-blackness inside these caves, the Valkryes evolved a similar appendage to the anglerfish. It's definitely possible, but the rest is just part of your story. 

1. Kill all humans with lots of small bombs All of the other answers here are super overkill for this. If you want to kill all humans on earth, you have a couple of options: