It depends. Isn't that a fun answer? I was an undergraduate in CS who went the research route(even over traditional internships). I ended up in a great environment where I had a ton of freedom, guidance and ended up with some excellent references and citations. I had two papers published as first author, my name on the acknowledgements of a couple other papers and, even as I move beyond school and into industry work, I am involved in several other follow-up papers on my research. For me research was invaluable. It is expected, in the US, for almost all CS students to have internships. So much so that unless you get into a very competitive internship it's hard to stand out. Having research experience makes you stand out. Being able to say, in an interview, "In the paper for conference XXX I wrote YYY" definitely makes companies take notice. It is important, of course, that you take care with research. Doing grunt work, while part of any research and something you will not avoid, isn't very impressive. You'll have to do some and quite a few PIs will give you grunt work to gauge whether or not you will have the gumption and tenacity to stick around. Plus, as mentioned, grunt work is part of research sometimes. Take the time and talk about the project(s) you would be involved in, see what your place in the research would be. A project where you run tons of experiments but do not make changes, steer the research, evaluate the results is not going to be as impressive or as valuable as a research experience in which you see all aspects of research. Additionally, no one ever says this, but research papers are a bane on the existence of mankind. Ok, well... maybe just the ones I've been involved in. As a first author in a small research team you will be writing most of the paper. As a lower level contributor to a larger project your writing duties will probably be minimal. Find this out early. There's more glory in being one of the first authors/coauthors but there is a lot more work. With a heavy course load, a research paper is not a lot of fun. My first research paper had me getting fewer than 3 hours a night of sleep for two weeks AND pulling all-nighters for the days leading up to the submission. Academic writing is challenging and has a learning curve. Be upfront with what you can do and be aware of your commitment to the project. Other answers have said that you don't learn a language well/deeply or use the newest and latest tools/toys in research and that really depends on the field in which you study. In Artificial Intelligence and Robotics(the field I was involved in) I ended up with a fantastic functional understanding of the languages we used. Good research code not only has to work but it has to work reliably and quickly. There's no guarantee that the code you write on a personal project will be great. The greatness of your code(cleanliness etc) depends on your internal standards - both in research and in a personal project. Additionally, in my case, I was able to learn to write code for and run code on one of the biggest super computers in the US. That is a shiny toy. I got to propose new technologies to use and often the code I was using was in the 'bleeding edge' branches of the git repositories because I needed untested functionality. So, to that, I say "eh, it depends". I know some groups that are stuck in the stone ages when it comes to code, tools and work but I know just as many who are on the bleeding edge and, in my experience, it was pretty darn cool. 

The basic trick here is just to encourage keyholders (or everyone, if applicable) to consider locking up today to be an important task that has fallen to them unless they pass it on to someone else. OK, so someone might still forget, but at least they got a reminder on that day (not in a memo or company meeting six months previously), and at least checking whether you're the last to leave is a routine activity even for (some) people who normally are not the last to leave. And the person left locking up hopefully won't be someone who's forgotten how to set the alarm, because they have an opportunity to ask any questions they need to when they're tagged. Typically the tag isn't arduous, since people will tend to tag those who work near them. Relatively few people actually have to search the building. Note that the exchange of words "tag", "OK" is superior to just checking if anyone else is still there, since without interaction it's possible for two people each to observe that the other is still present. Then whoever leaves last doesn't notice the other one leave just before they do, but after they've established "I don't need to lock up". 

Quite possibly true for some or many employees. Others will be quite happy the counter-offer was only a couple of $K short, rather than the bottom of your range. 

You have a clinical diagnosis of depression, and you believe (and I have no reason to doubt your judgement) that his behaviour exploits/triggers this. As such, you have a medical problem with your workplace that in some jurisdictions your employer is obliged to make reasonable allowance for. This quite aside from the fact that in many jurisdictions your employer is not entitled to just say "bullying is part of our corporate culture and you must put up with it". Even where there's no legal obligation, there's probably some desire somewhere in your company to avoid bullying and to look after the health of its employees. Try to locate that place in the company (probably HR) and address them, not just your line manager. So you have two lines of "attack" - firstly that your workplace supports the behaviour in the first place (which it should not but which they'll claim is a judgement call, that it's not so bad as to be called bullying, etc) and secondly that the behaviour affects your mental health (which is still a judgement call but it is not your managers' call -- it can be assessed by someone outside the workplace). As such, you could visit your doctor and get assessed for your combination of stress/anxiety/depression. This is with a view to taking your case to company HR (not just your line management, since they support the bullying). If the problem continues then in extremes you could eventually perhaps get yourself signed off work sick either temporarily or indefinitely. But this won't help your reputation at your employer and it won't help your job search either, so both as a matter of professionalism and as a practical issue, you should only take this option if your situation at work is unbearable. I present it as one possible outcome to be aware of. Your doctor or therapist might also be able to advise you how to cope with the bullying, although of course the real goal is to stop it happening, not to tolerate it. Since several people at work are treated in this way and (as far as you know) you're the least able to put up with it, it seems likely you're the "vulnerable to verbal bullying" end of the spectrum. This isn't your fault, but nevertheless it might be something that you can get professional help with. I know that the advice in other answers on dealing with it is well-meant and seems good, but I don't think it's appropriate to give someone ad-hoc advice when there's diagnosed depression in the picture, any more than it would be appropriate to give legal advice when there's a court case in play. That's not to say you can't pick and choose from the techniques that others report have worked for them, just that we're not in a position to assess what will work for you! I will say one thing though (and this isn't mental health advice), which is that your manager has already acknowledged there's a problem and said you don't have to work directly with this person. So, if him being present puts pressure on you then in situations where you're in danger of making a mistake that he would pick up, you could perhaps remove one of the two of you from that situation before continuing. When you notice him listening to your conversation, perhaps say to the person you're talking to, "let's take this into another room". If he's just eavesdropping he can hardly follow. If it's a group conversation that includes him, perhaps say, "I'm not certain of the answer to that question, I will email you ASAP once I've checked my notes". Aside from avoiding mistakes, this might raise the visibility of the problem a bit more. But you'll have to be careful about using it, since your colleagues probably won't be very understanding if you always refuse to speak when he's in the room! 

This question isn't as terrible or as 'mine-field'y as I think many of the other answers are presenting it as. "Tell me what you dislike about ___" is a question designed to feel you out. It can be a bit tricky(you should never use it as an opportunity to unload personal feelings for example) but largely it's being used to see what you need or want in a team and whether you can identify appropriate pain points in a system and, potentially, propose solutions. It's much more useful to ask what someone doesn't like about a thing (a manager, a role, a system) than what they do like because, typically, it's hard to codify what makes you like something and many of those things are irrational or unquantifiable. Let me be a bit more specific. "Nahkki, what do you dislike about your manager at Widgets INC?" Acceptable responses to this question are professional, actionable and reasonable. I would recommend using a compliment/positive sandwich method because no on wants to come off as just complaining. Some examples might be: 

These kinds of questions come loaded with tons of baggage. Were you solicited for opinions on the new hire? Did you recommend the new hire? Is your friend in a management position such that they would know, not by rumor or conjecture, the reason this hire was let go? I'm sure some other folks will recommend letting your manager know. I, however, will say it's nunya. As in none of your business. Unless you were in the chain of command or had direct information about this hire then you really don't know why your new colleague was terminated. Maybe he is a lazy bum who never did any work. Or maybe the company wasn't a good fit and he felt undertrained/incapable of the workload. Maybe he had issues with his manager or team members. Maybe someone on the team was a jerk and threw him under the bus. Maybe personality wise he wasn't a good fit. Maybe the job he was hired for wasn't the job he ended up being given to do. Maybe they found out he was looking elsewhere... My point is you don't really know. You don't know WHY he was let go and you don't know the process used on your current employer's end to vet why he was let go from a previous employer. For whatever reason, on both counts, he passed the interview and was hired. Trying to poison the well early about this new worker isn't going to benefit anyone. If he ends up being a lazy bum - why didn't you say something during the hiring process? If he ends up being a hard worker then you look like a jerk who tried to blacken his name! There's no benefit here, for you or the company, in bringing this up at this point. My suggestion would be to forget it altogether. Often times when folks who didn't like someone know someone who works with that person at a new company they'll continuously pry into that unliked person's performance. It's beyond this question but I think it's human nature - when we don't like someone for whatever reason we want them to fail in other places as well. This is poison for you and the other person. Let it go, judge this new worker on his performance at your company and in your team. 

I'll briefly repeat main points I agree with from other answers: refer to the evidence; focus on the things that are important to the person reading the appraisal; and it's not arrogant to say good things about yourself when you've been instructed to do so by your boss. I will add that part of a review is to assess whether you have a realistic view of yourself, and if not to correct it. If you've made mistakes, your boss knows about them, and you don't mention them, then you might not come across as arrogant so much as deluded or dishonest. Neither one is a desirable characteristic. You could present them as a "trial by adversity" and go into how you grew as a person from each one and therefore deserve a massive payrise. Or you could just say, "This is something I would like to focus on in my goals for the next review period". It really depends to what extent this process is a nonsense-spewing exercise and to what extent it's a genuine assessment. The better the employer the more it's the latter but, you know, some people work for awful employers and I guess they need to game their appraisal. Speaking of goals for the next appraisal period, your self-appraisal should refer back to your goals for the last period. HR likes it when you take that stuff seriously. It's a good exercise to compare your problems now with your problems them. Also, even if it's a genuine appraisal in some places the main point of the review process is for the manager to formalize the evidence to give payrises and promotions. In other places the main point of the review process is for the manager to document how they are working with each employee to improve that employee, and payrises and promotions aren't done directly on the output of reviews. It's worth knowing which one you're doing but it might be tactless to ask. If your payrise notification is given to you at your review meeting then that's the proof that the review doesn't determine the payrise! Ofc the self-appraisal you do ahead of that still might contribute. 

Well, this is almost certainly their standard NDA, it hasn't been tailored for you. So what would be the alternative text for them to put in their standard NDA? To say that the company's plans for the next N months are covered, but they're perfectly happy for you to disclose whatever you may know of their 2017 plans? That doesn't seem like a good idea. NDAs tend to be pretty comprehensive, since the purpose of them is to formally state an agreement that you won't share any confidential information you might come across. Why on earth would they want to exclude their long-term plans from this, and permit you to disclose those to their competitors? I agree that they should have asked you to sign this before the internship, not after. The request is unreasonable in that sense. The fact that the NDA itself covers their future business plans, and covers information that didn't have "Top Secret" stamped all over it at the time you were given it, both seem pretty typical. Normally the terms of NDAs are disciplined by the fact that people who don't like the terms won't sign them and won't do business with the company, so potential signers judge them on that basis. In this case you no longer have any pressing reason to sign, certainly not to accept any terms that would be onerous, but perhaps you can generate some good will by signing. Most likely it'll make no big difference either way. I've signed a number of NDAs over the years, and I don't think I've ever actually reached a situation where I've decided what to disclose on the basis of having (or not having) signed one. 

Funerals aren't about the person who is dead. That person is already dead and they're unlikely to get any deader. Similarly going away parties, or farewell parties, aren't all about the person going away. They are about preserving connections and showing that there are 'no hard feelings'. To you your quitting may be intended as a statement against what you perceive as a bad environment. But your coworkers and peers may not see it like that. To snub a farewell party isn't a way of 'sticking it' to the company. It's snubbing those peers and coworkers. You can, of course, do this. You're free to burn as many bridges as you like on your way out. But don't delude yourself, that is what you are doing - Burning bridges. And not only the bridges of those who you disagree with, but with many if not all of your coworkers. To decide to do something like this you should ask yourself: 

This does a couple of things - highlights which day of the week(so there are no confusions about timed deliverables), highlights how long(one day) and gives the specific date. In fact this could be abstracted to a template like so: 

Internships are not limited to students. I changed career from Chef to Software Development. My first job(before I returned to school) was technically an 'intern' position. Intern positions(note I am only really talking about paid internships) typically are the bare-bones, entryiest entry-level jobs in a particular field. There're there so that people who want/need/lack experience in a field can get their feet wet, so to speak, without high expectations of previous knowledge. To this end internships are incredibly useful for almost any student or individual who wants to get real world experience in a field. Why did I type all of that? Because that's how you should be pitching these internships on your own resume. You are an individual who wanted to gain more experience and knowledge in the field of your choice. In order to do so you take courses that interest you as they come up at a local university AND you've taken several internships. You are now confident that you are ready to take the next step in moving up and into that field. BOOM. Pure interview gold, right there. You are viewing your internships and school choices as a huge detriment and something to try and step around. I think you will find yourself to be more successful if you embrace it.