Is your front chainring on the outside or inside of the spider? Is it a converted 1x9 or did you purchase it as a 1x9? It's most likely happening when you hit large bumps or holes in the road. It's possible that your chain is too long if you converted it from a 2x9 and didn't reduce the number of links in the chain. If you converted it, it's also possible that the chainring is just too far away from your center line for a proper chainline when you're on your largest cog. If possible, move your chainring to the inner side of the spider. If you have a single ring crank, you may need to get a shorter BB/spindle. Another cheaper and easier solution is to get a chain watcher. There are several types and brands such as N-stop, K-edge, Paul Components. This will sit on the inside and/or over the top of your chain on the front chainring which will help prevent the chain from jumping off the front ring. They are used widely in the cyclocross world to prevent this. 

To answer your question, no. The leather/lorica/covering has no bearing on the shape of the saddle. They make a lot of versions of each design specifically for bike manufacturers with custom designed coverings in addition to their standard covering design. They make quite a few saddles with grooves, without grooves, with and without cutouts. It's not entirely clear which model this is from your image or description as they do not have an "SL" model on their current product listing. They do have an "SLR" line and the shape appears to be of the "SLR monolink" variety which has both a non groove and groove model within it. As stated above in the comments, it's best to go to your local shop and ask that if they do not have the item in stock, that they order one for you. Most will oblige because they can send items back if they are in unused condition. Some will ask for a deposit as a "holding" fee to ensure that you don't ask them to order a bunch of stuff and never come back. 

You can use the brake lever without the shift portion just by disconnecting the shift cable. Then, you can attach a bar end shifter or a downtube shifter or similar to shift instead. You won't be able to replace just the shifter portion of the brifter (without probably canabalizing another brifter anyway and actually manage to put the old one together). You can also buy a 7 speed or so brifter from Microshift still which is Shimano compatible, or the Shimano Tourney 7 speed brifter. 

Well, the first thing to check is if the derailleur (usually the hanger) is bent. There is a tool for the case of a bent hanger, namely the Park Tool DAG-2. You should also visually inspect for the derailleur pulleys to be aligned in the right way. Then, you do the standard derailleur adjustments, which you'll get right after practicing (limit screws, B-screw, indexing). The whole thing becomes a combination of visual inspection and testing and practice, as DRH remarked in the comments. But most cyclists who are going to do their own maintenance will have to deal with this a bunch of times in their life time anyway, so they'll get used to it. And cyclists who don't do their own maintenance will likely just be fiddling with the indexing adjustment a bit and if something more is necessary (e.g. if they had a crash), they'd head to a shop. 

If you want to replace it, just remove the bolt, take it to a hardware store or your local bike shop and find something of the same size. Nothing bad will happen if you remove it. 

I normally just bungee cord in pizzas to my rear rack and go slowly over bumps and don't corner aggressively. Works fine for one pie. You could attach some plywood or something to the rack to provide a platform if you want it. For multiple pies though (delivery), I think a motorcycle-style carrier may be a good idea (for one, you'll want a heat retaining bag at the least). 

It sounds like you need to use gmap-pedometer.com, which allows you to either automatically or manually connect point on google maps to create your own routes regardless of road, trail, or anything. You can create an account and save your routes, export them to alternative gps devices, etc. It's very handy and there are folks that use it for mapping cyclocross races among other things. Here is an example map with manual route: $URL$ 

According to BikePedia, these did not come stock on the Bianchi Eros in either 1996 or 1997. Since this bike came stock with Mirage level components, you're probably looking at a low - mid level quality OEM rim. Fir is/was a good brand, as is Ambrosio (which came stock on this bike). Finding a rim from Velocity or Alex Rims or Mavic just to name a few common manufacturers will provide you with a quality alternative that is affordable and readily available today. To match the style, you are going to want to get a low profile or "box" style rim as opposed to a deep profile or "aero" rim. All of these companies and more have a style of rim like this. You will definitely need to purchase new spokes and nipples for this, so make sure you know how to purchase the proper size. 

This is just a rehashing of a very old and horrible idea. See PMP Cranks et al. Edited for additional information: RE: PMP cranks 

The real key for cycling sunblock is to not put it on your forehead, or wear some kind of bandana to block the sweat from getting in your eyes. Or wear a cycling hat under your helmet to protect your head from sunburn. I spray the sunscreen on the bottom half of my face, ears, neck etc. then use some additional cream/stick on my nose for added protection. I prefer the Neutrogena sport sprays that are listed on the Good Guide link you asked about. 

You want the correctly sized Torx driver. When I had to swap to a new wheel set I used a T25 driver. I just found a Park Tool TWS-2 that has 9 different sizes. You can probably find just a T25 driver at a hardware store. 

We recently got a new mountain bike for my son via craigslist, it is a couple year old Transition Bottle Rocket and came with a E-Thirteen SS+ chain guide/tensioner. He would like a lower gear for when we go up the hill to get to the good downhill trails. Can we add a front derailleur and shifter to allow two front chain rings allowing a lower gearing for going up and one for when he goes down the trail. He has a nice large 32 tooth on the rear cassette but still would like something a bit easier to spin up the hill 

I have never been to Philly, but can highly recommend the segment explorer on strava.com. You start by putting in the city and the zoom level of the map will show the most popular segments ridden. Zoom in you'll get a finer grain of segments in that smaller area, zoom out and pan around to the Glenside, PA area. If you click on a segment you will see the leader board and see how many times it has been ridden, you will find some only ridden by one person, probably not a popular route, but others ridden many many times would be a great place to start looking. I use the Strava segment explorer whenever I travel to find bike and running routes while on my trip, it has proven to be very helpful to me in finding new, safe places to bike and run. 

I love strava.com to track my performance, my GPS collects the data, upload to strava and see where I rank for different segments of road. I can see that my friend was two seconds faster up that hill and then work harder to go faster the next time. 

$50 - $100 isn't going to get you much in parts, especially any that would be an "upgrade" from your current setup. If you're riding your bike often, it's possible that you'll spend an amount approaching that this year on new tubes and/or tires when you get a flat or wear your tires out. My suggestion would be to ride this bike and enjoy it. You'll get your exercise and it'll give you time to research bikes and save for one that will fuel your desire for more advanced riding down the road when you gain your fitness. Visit some bike shops in your area and talk with the staff there to find a bike that is in your range of needs and budget. Test ride lots of bikes to find one that fits properly. You don't need the "fastest" or most modern/expensive bike if you just want exercise. You just need something that is safe and functions for your needs. The best upgrade you can give your bike is the motor (yourself). 

Most of the nicer courier bag/backpack companies don't do a zipper down the length of the bag because that creates a weak point for not only loss of contents, but water entry. Some will do laptop pouches, but if you're looking for a heavy duty courier bag it's slim pickings for external zippers into main compartments. The closest I came to finding something like what you're after is from either Crumpler that have some laptop sleeves and/or zippers to main compartments or Freight Baggage that have a smaller secondary compartment that is easily accessible. I looked at RELoad, Freight, Seagull, Bailey Works, Trash Bags, Banjo Brothers and some other smaller companies. 

Similar to Matt Adams' suggestion, I'd go with Continental Gatorskins or Armidillo or other kevlar lined tires. Additionally, I'd suggest that you move to something a bit larger such as 25mm for commuting. This will provide you with a little more material to fend off glass and other debris. It'll also be a bit more comfortable of a ride for commuting. 22mm/23mm tires are mostly used for racing and are usually very soft and prone to picking up and holding on to debris like this. 

You can mix and match tire sizes if you want - its relatively common. You just need to make sure that the tires fit on the rim and to a lesser extent are not too thin or too wide for the rim. This is often done for different tire clearances in the front and back, for example. 

For the rear, a 9 speed Sora brifter will be fine -- 9 speed cable pull is the same between Shimano road and mountain. For the front, the bike has a Shimano Altus front derailleur. You'll need to swap a road triple front derailleur for that (make sure to check the spec sheet to ensure your crankset's chainring sizes are within spec (not a problem) and the difference between the largest and smallest chainring are within spec (can be a problem) ) -- the bike you have has a tooth difference of 22t for the crankset, which is slightly higher than the 20t that the Sora FD-3403 or FD-3503 is rated for. There are triple front derailleurs (e.g. Microshift R539) which will have the right front tooth difference though (comes in braze-on and band mounting, depending on the type of mount on your frame). 

That says 8SIS (i.e. 8 speed Shimano Index System), a thing Shimano used to mark some of their derailleurs with when the system was still new-ish. It's a basic Alivio level part -- nothing special, on the mid to low range. You can replace it with any 7-9 speed Shimano derailleur. 

I think thats small enough that I probably wouldn't worry about it too much, but you can fill it in with a dab of super glue or sealants for rubber (like shoe goo) for peace of mind. You could boot it (a nice boot is the Park Tool TB-2), but I think this is likely too much work. 

This ships with a Tiagra SS. Derailleurs come in 3 lengths: SS (narrow range) , GS (medium range), SGS (wide range). If you want to move past 30t, you need to switch to a SGS derailleur, likely from the Shimano mountain range (e.g. Deore M591) - its 9 speed so the cable pulls are the same between the 9 speed deore and 9 speed Tiagra. This is what I'd likely do if i wanted a bigger cassette.