So, it is often taken that Street was the culprit as he was based in the model town for Marygreen, and he is an 'obliterator' as he destroyed the old, historically significant 12th Century church with a new Gothic one. 

Tess of the d'Urbervilles was Hardy's attempt at criticising this double standard among other negative aspects of Victorian society, a criticism which again caused controversy among his contemporaries. In regards to anti-Tess critics, Mowbray Morris published a heavily critical review soon after Tess was published, in the Quarterly Review, but I have been unable to find a copy to find exact explanations. (Main reference for points 1, 2 and 3 from this thesis from Utrecht University, in addition to specific cited sources) 

Secondly, Hardy has made Liza-Lu symbolically act as the person Tess could have been had Alec not violated and consequently disgraced her. Tess's ideal life would have been to never have met Alec, marry Angel when she first met him and lived a simple but happy life together. Interestingly, Liza-Lu's original name was Tess in the earlier drafts of the novel before Hardy renamed her. Tess describes Liza-Lu thus when she asks Angel to marry Liza-Lu: 

Using both present tense and first-person narrative together you can apply and converge all the effects of first-person narration to the immediacy of the present tense. It creates a more powerful exciting atmosphere than past tense first-person. (reference) It conveys the spectacular effect of landing the reader in both the actions and emotions that the narrating character is experiencing. The 'in the now' impact of the present tense enable the reader to undergo changes unexpectedly like the narrator without the hindsight of past tense first-person. The use in the text you gave as an example is particularly effective to this degree as it is about a battle - the reader feels all the fear, suspense and danger that the soldier is feeling, like the cinematic effect of a camera mimicking a characters visual field and movements. (The issue with this is that it can occasionally feel monotonous in a quieter environment as the narration does not shift from the immediate). 

The two plots also share strong, independent female characters, Viola in the main plot and Maria in the subplot. Viola has managed to survive the shipwreck and secure herself in Illyria and Maria was the brain behind the scheme to trick Malvolio. Both women find love in the end also; Maria and Sir Toby and Viola and Orsino. Therefore, the subplot supports the main plot by unifying itself through shared, central subjects as well as adding complexity to an otherwise somewhat simple story arc of love and losing and finding a brother. (Reference) Lastly, the trickery and imprisonment that Maria, Toby and Andrew inflict on Malvolio is a reaction to his Puritanical behaviour: 

This 'closure' was a contemporary 'principle', and although tragedy is often viewed now as heartbreaking but also in many cases a fitting ending to a narrative, in Hardy's day, readers liked warm and fuzzy endings more; although classics were still appreciated, with the birth of the novel, audiences generally wanted satisfying happy endings. There could also be an element of irony in this resolution as in his book, The Descent of the Imagination: Post-Romantic Culture in the Later Novels of Thomas Hardy, Kevin Z. Moore claims: 

It's strange that he was asking Pip's name just a few minutes ago but is now showing him the file, a very pointed symbol of Pip's frightening encounter with Magwitch in the first chapter. Maybe he was making sure it was Pip and not another boy? (this possible unsureness and need for clarification suggests is is not Magwitch) Since he only let Pip see on purpose, he must either be one of the convicts or a messenger from the convicts. Either way this is a dramatic device used by Dickens to foreshadow the reappearance of Magwitch in Chapter 39 (when he reveals himself as Pip's mysterious benefactor, because he just before he leaves the pub he gives Pip some coins wrapped in two one-pound notes, which symbolises Pip's imminent unexpected inheritance) but is it actually one of the convicts? We know that Magwitch was eventually deported to Australia somewhere between Chapter 5 (when he is arrested in the marsh just after Christmas dinner) and Chapter 39. It is not stated when he does leave the country, but surely after his arrest to the prison ship he would not have been able to be at the pub, which is another consideration that seems to suggest that it cannot be him. Is there any evidence in the book (or comments by Dickens) that points to who this man is? 

The 'certain obliterator of historic records' is referring to a real person. It is widely thought that it was George Edmund Street, who was a Gothic revival architect. Hardy worked for revival architects before his literary career progressed (he met his wife, Emma Gifford, on one of his architectural employments), so Street would have been the kind of employer he worked for (although it is unknown whether he did work for Street). Reference: A Companion to Thomas Hardy edited by Keith Wilson The reason that people think the 'obliterator' was Street was that he had demolished and rebuilt a 12th Century church of St Mary, in Great Fawley, a situation very like the one in Jude the Obscure. More importantly, Hardy based Marygreen on Great Fawley as well as Jude's surname, Jude Fawley. (from Thomas Hardy: The World of his Novels, by J. B. Bullen): 

and Malvolio is excessively proud and pretentious when he believes Olivia loves him, with her even commenting directly: 

Pip would have immediately recognised him if it was Magwitch, considering the trauma he caused him, so it probably isn't. Is it Compeyson? If it is we don't get the tell-tale detail of the large scar across his face that defines his appearance in the rest of the novel. The man then indicates for Pip to sit next to him and Pip declines. Then he proceeds to 'grill' Joe about who Pip is after he hears his name: 

Or can it be words close together but not adjacent as well, for example in S T Coleridge's The Rime of the Ancient Mariner: 

The subplot had several purposes; it is a contextual and dramatic device, adds comedy, is a metaphorical parallel of the main plot and is a satire on the Puritanical hold on contemporary society. To address one aspect of why it was included in the play; the comic subplot is a contextual device and was a common occurrence in Renaissance plays (Renaissance Culture in Context: Theory and Practice, by Jean R. Brink, William F. Gentrup, p.54); it can be seen in some of Shakespeare's other plays, The Tempest, with Caliban, Trinculo and Stephano, Measure for Measure, Falstaff in Henry IV Part 1, two subplots (Oberon and Titania's quarrel and Bottom turned into a donkey) in A Midsummer Night's Dream as well as Wagner and the Three Scholars in Marlowe's Doctor Faustus. Also contextually, Shakespeare's theatres were often rowdy and attracted all social classes, and some only attended the theatre for straightforward entertainment (as oppose to the serious, thought-provoking love stories between the other characters); hence the need for the drama (the main plot is somewhat slow-burning and so the subplot maintains action) and comic, slapstick buffoonery of Sir Toby, Sir Andrew and Maria. As you say it is mainly to add comedy to the comedy that is Twelfth Night. This is because the main plot isn't exactly a light or funny one: Viola believes her brother was killed in the shipwreck at the beginning and she is left vulnerable and alone to survive in a strange country. She falls in love with her employer, Orsino, and is unrequited for a large part of the play due to her disguised identity. She describes her emotional suffering from both the supposed death of her brother and her love for Orsino to the oblivious Orsino: 

The stress is on the first syllables and there are four stresses to each line. However, there is an extra unstressed syllable at the end of these lines when compared to S. T. Coleridge's poem's line. Nevertheless, it is the stressed syllables which define the meter and the missing unstressed syllable at the end of the S. T Coleridge line therefore makes the meter catalectic trochaic tetrameter (a catalectic line is a metrically incomplete line of verse, lacking a syllable at the end or ending with an incomplete foot). In the question you linked, it can be deduced that catalectic trochaic tetrameter and acephalous iambic tetrameter are somewhat difficult to separate; however, since this poem's form is meant to mirror the content, it is (catalectic) trochaic tetrameter. The next line of the poem does not correspond with the first but corresponds with the third because is it describing spondees: 

The twist of Liza-Lu and Angel together at the end of Tess of the d'Urbervilles is odd, like you say, and does seem somewhat unnecessary. However, there are some points which can explain why Hardy added it. Firstly, it contributed some sort of resolvement to the ending. Tess is given the death penalty for her murder of Alec. We see this almost through Liza-Lu and Angel's eyes as they wait in Wintoncester for Tess's death to be signalled: 

This detail supports that perhaps it was Magwitch, since he first appears and meets Pip there, but Compeyson was also loose on the marsh near the church as he was recaptured whilst fighting Magwitch. Finally, the man begins to stir his rum and water with the file that Pip had given Magwitch to break his shackles at the very beginning of the novel: 

Really, this main storyline is rather quite dark, as you say. So the subplot acts as a release and also contrast to this when Malvolio is deceived by a forged love note which leads to an awkward but amusing confusion when he believes Olivia loves him and then acts accordingly. (Reference) In addition, the subplot acts as a parallel to the main plot. Self-love and misguided infatuation are featured in both: Orsino really is more in one with the idea of himself being in love, evident in the opening lines: