What is the meaning of this phrase? "The monsoon remains at the same low intensity for some months"? Why is the word *still** italicized? 

What is the meaning of this line? "Settled wind" is a wind that has settled, isn't it? If it has settled, how can any waves roll ahead of it? 

What is the meaning of it in the final line of the stanza? The boudoir? What does it mean then, "to soften the boudoir"? 

Just to make sure: is the meaning here "only her husband thinks that she is not a whore, but all the rest know that she is"? 

I first thought that "Ignorance had palisadoed cohorns there, just like you may see in forts of Netherlands". But why is there the possessive s after "cohorn"? Okay.. let's try to assume that "Cohorn's ignorance" is subject in this clause. This "ignorance" had "palisadoed" something - but what exactly? And "palisades not higher than grass blades"? What is he talking about? I can't wrap my mind around this, and thus I fail to understand these three lines. What do they mean, in plain English? 

What is the meaning of this? I looked up the meanings of Irish in Wiktionary, but remained a bit puzzled. The ear becomes "more filled with anger/passion"? What is "less nice"? Maybe the ear is clipped by the bullet, and becomes malformed? 

What is the meaning of "all game and bottom", especially of "bottom"? "All game" means "quite willing to meet his death", I think. What does "bottom" mean (or "all bottom")? I looked in the dictionaries, but haven't found any suitable meaning. My only guess is quite weak - that he fell "bottom-most" and all the others fell upon him, or maybe that those who killed him fell upon him. But that is apparently not the case. 

She had a symmetrical face ("regulated charms of feature")? Hm.. Or, to the contrary, her face and body were not symmetrical? Painters fail to reflect such "asymmetrical charms" in their paintings? In comparison, they fail to reflect "faces that sin against proportion". Painters "hit off" = "describe in few characteristic strokes of a brush" - in the beginning of their work upon a portrait. What does "that strike" refer to? The strokes left on the canvas by the painters "strike" the viewers as very interesting/beautiful? The phrase "still are like" leaves me completely baffled. Such strokes on the canvas, reflecting the irregular but characteristic features, are all alike, no matter who is being painted? 

What is the meaning of these lines? What kind of needle/pole is it? Why does the needle shake, and why does the pole stand? And why are they compared to her heart? And how can a heart vibrate to a soul? So cryptic. 

I've reread the stanza many times but I cannot get a grip on its meaning. Once I think I understand some particular phrase, the general meaning starts to crawl apart because it fails to dovetail with other phrases. 

What is the meaning of from crowns to kicks? From the top of your head to the tips of your toes? Or "ranging from a crown (say, made of gold) to a pocket or wallet full of money"? The Merriam-Webster dictionary provided me with the "pocket, wallet" meaning for kick. I never knew about this meaning of "kick". 

What is the meaning of made them fit for heaven? Why would a cuckolded husband be "fit for heaven"? (According to the plot, "his majesty" is a sultan who has been cuckolded by one of his wives: she ordered Don Juan bought on the slave market and brought to her in female disguise) 

What is the meaning of the line in bold? What is the first cause and what is the second cause? How can a cause know another cause? 

What is the meaning of this all in plain English - especially the part in bold? My attempts at deciphering this: 

As I understand, the stanzas describe a pig that sees (feels) the wind and "he" (the pig) runs in the direction the wind is blowing. But what is the meaning of all this? Why should a pig that feels the wind know something about Glory? 

What is the meaning of the last line? It gravels me. I don't understand what's going on there. The crest symbol was given to the favorite of Catherine the Great? So that he could display it on his vehicles? But what is " .. and now bore his"? Now the barouche bore the coat of arms belonging to Don Juan's family? I googled and found a footnote to "favorite", but that footnote does not explain the meaning of the line to me: 

Here is also a list of place names and their equivalents, taken from the book linked above: (warning - really long) Wessex - Name - Region of Wessex Actual Name 

The only occurrence of "church" in the book is in the preface, "From the Publisher to the Reader". This is also fictional but not really part of the events of the book. 

The Scarlet Letter, Chapter II As time passes, the letter changes in meaning. Some people "refused to interpret the scarlet A by its original signification". The A comes to mean "able" in their minds. (Chapter XII) Eventually, the letter becomes somewhat sacred: 

The Scarlet Letter, Chapter XIII In short, the letter started as a badge of sin, but due to Hester's actions later it became something, if not to be proud of, not to be ashamed of. 

Rose doesn't recognize him, and when questioned about how to leave (to get to the Keep of Time), he abruptly tells them to try the trump again, and walks away. However, before they leave, he tells Rose: 

No. She was just Amy's mother, nothing special. She had a habit of going out and coming back with men, having a one-night-stand with them. One night, a college frat boy tried to take her where she didn't want to go, and she killed him. After this, she dropped Amy at the convent, telling Lacey (who answered the door) that she was going to be right back. 

Therefore she focuses on her weaving intently, but gets captivated by the reflections of the outside world in her mirror. And of course she eventually looks out and becomes cursed. TL;DR: She started looking at Camelot, she's cursed if she doesn't stop that 

Yes. The poem was written in response to seeing his cousin, Lady Wilmot Horton, at a ball. She is his cousin by marriage, through a man named John Wilmot, governor of Ceylon.. 

It's unknown, but it appears that although The Epic of Gilgamesh was written first, the Pentateuch (part of the Bible containing the creation stories) has the first description of the flood story. From the Idaho University page on The Epic of Gilgamesh: 

I was re-reading The Silver Chair recently, the 6th book in the Narnia series. Towards the end of the novel, 

There are no recurring characters, except in the sequels and spin-offs. For example, as you noted with "except for the sequels", there are recurring villains such as Slappy the dummy. However, in the spin-off series of Goosebumps HorrorLand, there are recurring places/enemies (such as the park itself). But in the plain Goosebumps series, no. 

The poem both honors their bravery, but notes that their bravery got them killed. To quote this article, "Tennyson's soldiers are bold, heroic, glorious, honourable, noble and dead." 

Hyperion and Endymion are poems by the famous poet John Keats, both based on Greek mythology. Hyperion talks about the Titan's despairing after their defeat by the Olympians, and was written in 1818-1819. Endymion is based on the myth of Endymion, where the moon goddess Selene falls in love with him, a king and son of Zeus. Are these poems supposed to be related to each other? They both cover Greek mythology, which prompted my question. 

(I don't remember the main character's name) The book opened with the main character (an old man) living on a mostly abandoned world. I don't remember the exact setting, but it was barren of sapient life. There were animals that were like a cross between a racoon, komodo dragon, and velociraptor. They were sentient and hostile to humans, but the main character had somehow tamed them so they didn't attack him. A woman visits the man, asking for his help with something. I'm fairly certain it's not explicitly stated in the story yet, but the man understands what she wants. He refuses. It turns out there are two rival factions warring for control of pretty much everything, and he doesn't want to participate in the war. Furthermore, he doesn't trust the woman to be who she claims to be (she says she's from faction A, but she might be from B) At some point in here another man appears, heavily injured and unconscious. I don't remember much about this, except I'm fairly certain the woman kills the unconscious man. The story culminates with the reveal of the a piece of technology. This is some sort of wristband that allows the wearer to warp between parallel Earths. The old man's version of the device was older and in the form of a belt. There was an asteroid. In different versions of the Earths, the asteroid went from overshooting it on the right, to hitting the edge, to full-on collision, then hitting the left edge, to missing, etc. The old man was living on a planet where the asteroid had come close enough to obliterate life, but not actually hit and destroy the planet. The woman turned out to be evil (shocker amirite) and stole something (I think) from the old man. He chased her, and she kept running and warping from world to world. At some point they even warped to a place where the asteroid had completely destroyed the planet and there wasn't even an atmosphere. At the end, it turns out the old man was the creator of this technology. He couldn't live in a world with that tech being constantly used, so he left to live like a hermit on an Earth far away. He had created the device, and another person had refined it into a lightweight wrist device. He spared the woman and told her to leave, but she still tried to kill him. She failed, and I'm fairly certain the old man just left her for the komodo-racoon-raptor beasts to kill. He packed up camp and left for a more distant world, possibly using up the rest of his device's battery. At the end, the leader of the pack of the komodoraptors was implied to have gained human-like intelligence, implying that it would start a dog-eat-dog style civilization. Lastly, I'm fairly certain the reason the old man didn't like the technology was because he thought it would lead (spoiler: it did) to humanity exterminating other versions of humanity and pretty much any other animals they came across, cutting off their future and preventing them from evolving further. The ending possibly implied that he realized what the komodo lizards would become, but maybe not. I'm fairly certain I read this story in a collection of short stories from assorted authors, again in the US about 6 months to a year ago.