Dictatorship in 1 is a bad thing definitively whereas in 2 it just means "rule". This does not, however, prove that those who apply the term to socialist states are making a terrible argument and trying to equivocate. Since this is an informal argument (and informal fallacy), it is quite likely their arguments are more subtle. To just off the top of my head, give a more thorough example: 

I think there's a lot going on in this question, which is part of why I initially closed it prior to revision -- which made the purpose substantially clearer. First, Paul Ross hits the nail on the head in the comments in terms of the techniques we use to evaluate these sorts of statements, which are called counterfactuals. Modal logic is the set of logical methods devoted to looking at necessity and contingency. I do agree that "principle of explosion" is misapplied here, but I can see why you went for that term. A better term would be "vacuously true" which refers to those claims that are true but bear no relation to the world as it is. But with modal logic, we can evaluate counterfactuals more substantively than stopping at vacuous truth. Often this ability is referred to as "visibility" of one possible world from another. In other words, in this world, we see that you are a tennis lover, so we can see in a visible world where you are a tennis lover and rich, that you would there buy a tennis court. Second, there's a similar question in the literature or perhaps two. The first that comes to mind is the Twin-World Thought Experiment put forth by Hilary Putnam. Ostensibly, the question is whether it really matters that water is H2O, but the relevance I see to your question is in one type of response to this (which happens to be the one I subscribe to) says that the claim that twin-world XYZ-"water" can function exactly like water to us is a claim that collapses under scrutiny, requiring us either to make XYZ water or to be telling a type of fantasy where we should just stay away from the layer of chemical composition in our possible world. In other words, relating back to our modal logic, I think it's fair sometimes to deny that a different world really could be like our world in every way but a minor tweak (like me being employed at Harvard instead of at a minor university in Japan). For instance, it seems deniable to me to "imagine you are exactly like you are now but a giant lizard that eats flies" -- since I cannot be "exactly like I am now" but simultaneously a lizard instead of a person. But this isn't quite "butterfly effect" in my view. Instead, it is that any thought experiment needs to make clear what has changed and needs to be a plausible set of changes to result in meaningful counterfactuals. 

Separately, there's some argument about what makes something "feminist" or not with care feminists representing one of the camps within contemporary feminism. The other two main camps are (1) those views that see the differences between men and women as minor and the project of modernity as identifying morality and (2) those views that think notions of self are bogus. 

Your question is a compound one, and some of the bits have different answers. Some of the bits are debatable. 

I'm going to answer this under the assumption that it's a type of homework, so I'm just going to sketch the direction of each's understanding of the self rather than give a complete answer. Aristotle's account of selfhood is largely built on his idea of substance. In the case of a human being we are a rational animal. This means that we are matter formed human-wise. Formation human-wise means that we have certain faculties such as reason (human), motion and perception (shared with other animals), ingestion, growth, and reproduction (shared with other life). Consequently, memory plays at best a minor part in our constitution. Charles Taylor is what we might call a post-Hegelian Aristotelian. In his philosophy, he often spends a great deal of time tracing out the movement in history from one idea to another, generally due to an inadequacy in that idea (this method follows Hegel's philosophy of history in some respects). The crucial point here is that for Charles Taylor, identity is part of the story we tell about ourselves, a view often called Narrative selfhood. Consequently, memory will play an important role insofar as it's hard to have a consistent story about yourself when you have no history. 

This is going to be a somewhat difficult question to answer as people will have differing opinions on Heidegger. I'd say there's three main things people get from Heidegger, all of which are somewhat related. (1) There's a famous passage about Zuhandenheit (being at hand) and Vorhandenheit (ready to hand) which expresses that we spend most of our time using things and less time thinking about things. The cash-out values are complex but one is that we only care about certain types of questions when things are going wrong. (2) The other perhaps larger outcome that can be seen in this passage but also in quite a few other places is that Heidegger could be said to be the father of philosophical hermeneutics. The idea here is that we know things against a background. In Heidegger's case "world" or "the four fold" depending on the text that we stake out to give meaning to the things we do "driving this into earth." In simpler terms, he doesn't think there's a single bedrock reality that describes things "scientifically." (3) Heidegger's main protagonist is "Da-Sein" which relates to both of these as the human being as he exists and finds himself in the world. Da-Sein is often distracted by "beings" that prevent him from thinking about the key questions (for Heidegger, this is the obtusely worded question of being). What Da-Sein is is ultimately a being that is already in time (Heidegger calls this Geworfenheit "thrownness"). Long story short, we're going to die and we need to stop distracting ourselves from this fact. There may be some other things people get from Heidegger but I would say the top two are the biggest hits that non Heidegger scholars would know. The third one seems similar to Sartre and the existentialists but Heidegger rejects that label. Another confusing feature in studying Heidegger is that he uses "metaphysics" and "ontology" in ways that differ from many of his predecessors. For many philosohpers, the terms are roughly synonymous. For Heidegger, "metaphysics" refers to the tradition of philosophical inquiry up until him and the confusion of beings with Being (i.e., a focus on the former rather the latter). Conversely, "ontology" is a term which he uses in complicated ways. When it refers to the project of understanding BEING through his modified phenomenological method, it is good. When it refers to the work others did before, it becomes "ontic" and is generally insufficient. Fundamental ontology is looking at THE QUESTION... 

Kant criticizes both empiricists and rationalists in his Critique of Pure Reason (hereafter CPR). The famous quote line regarding this is here: 

This sort of genetic basis / usefulness argument is not prevalent among contemporary philosophers of religion. There's at least two reasons for that. First off, it's an anthropology / sociology thesis rather than something arguing about the content of the ideas. Thus, we can find a version of this in Hegel's account of natural religion. We can also find many versions of this accepted by contemporary sociologists. Second, philosophers of religion tend to be more religious themselves than philosophers in general (it's nearly a mirrored opposite). Thus, it's unlikely they would want to work from the tenet that the religions are false. This does remind me briefly of James Rachels' argument against cultural relativism which draws on similar biological necessity to account for nearly universal ethical rules. 

Infinity doesn't magically do things, so no this is not a reasonable interpretation of infinity. You need to combine infinity with something else, like say, an rolls of the dice to provide an outcome like what you're suggesting. And generally it's the second bit that is controversial and less than obviously the case. To wit, if I had an "infinite" number of grains of sand, it doesn't at all imply anything about the same events occurring twice. Conversely, if there are an infinite number of universes, then that would imply something there are such similar worlds or potentially identical worlds. But then controversy is tied up in the claim that there are such infinite universes. Same thing with trying to say the universe has been created and destroyed an infinite number of times -- but with the second one, my understanding is that contemporary science indicates that this is not happening insofar as the second law of thermodynamics cannot allow it to happen and the data from the expansion pattern of the universe makes it so the accordion theory is false. 

On such an account, no theory could be simultaneously inconsistent and valid, because only consistent theories are valid or invalid. 

There are two questions here. Regarding the second, it's a simple error of interpretation. Kant says that you cannot use others as mere means. This means you cannot treat rational beings as merely the means to your ends not that you cannot enter rational agreements where they become the means to your ends. Regarding the first, Kant addresses questions of sex in the Metaphysics of Morals (not the Groundwork) that is more commonly read. There he addresses it twice -- once in the Metaphysical Principle of Right (a.k.a. Doctrine of Right) and the other time in Metaphysical Principle of Virtue (a.k.a. Doctrine of Virtue). To make a long story short, Kant finds a way to legitimate heterosexual sex in marriage. The elements are that: 

There are really two interrelated questions at stake here. First, there is a question about the "sanity" of an individual relative to a culture. Second, there is a question about the "sanity" of the views of that culture. Much is hidden in the term "sanity" here however. The first question is easily resolved. An individual is "sane" relative to their culture if they express views that are within certain norms for their culture and its expectations. What this does not make clear at all is whether this is something we should grant is "sane" or something we should say is "sane in the views of that culture." To know which, we will need to take a stand on the relativity of value. This is where the second issue comes up. Here, I would maintain that merely because something is well-adjusted to a culture does not mean we should call it "sane." But this is because I believe there are some objective features of human flourishing (See for instance here). We needn't think the list is exhaustive (e.g., we are not losing out if we have a different musical scale), but if we think there are some objective facts about human flourishing, then it stands to reason that we can consider a culture that works directly against those to represent a failure of sanity -- and adjustment to that culture to also be a failure of sanity. One sentence in the quotation strikes me as odd: "This was not forced by social norms but a result of the strong shame." I don't know what this is supposed to mean -- as social norms are often enforced through shame. Legal norms perhaps would be enforced through laws and punishments meted out in the name of justice. Thus, the problem presents several points of difficulty: 

There's not much talk of "signs" or "symbols" in the Analects This is more abstract than most of the claims we find in classical Confucian texts. Nearly all of them involve interactions (much in the same way that Plato's dialogues involve interaction). It's hard to grasp by why "words" don't qualify as symbols or signs. Kongzi comments several times on concepts like the rectification of names from Analects 13 (mentioned in Colin's answer). 

Maybe to summarize Searle's Chinese Room argument in the most basic form: even if the room produces correct answers, there's no thinking going on there, and thus no mind. The entire room doesn't engage in thinking and there can't really be "virtual thinking" on top of no thinking. 

Rereading the question, I would say that if you can show that a position is self-refuting, then that's pretty damning for that position. The key, however, lies in the "if you can show" bit of that claim. I'll limit myself to just one example. There's a common refutation of hedonism that goes something like this: