Monolingualism is a common criticism of many Chomskean linguists. The issue is not so much the fact that the individuals don't speak other languages. Chomsky studied and knows many languages, taught Hebrew and even wrote his early thesis about Hebrew. Also many researchers in the generative paradigms are native speakers of other languages or study other languages. The issue is that many of the concepts of generative and by extension universal grammar appear as if English was somehow the default. It starts with the first formula every one learns from generative grammar: 

It is possible to have a highly scholarly linguistics that does not dwell on questions of grammaticality at all or only incidentally. Both corpus linguistics and construction grammar are more interested in typical usage than in introspective judgements of speakers about acceptability. Even functionalist approaches are not too concerned with grammaticality as such. The other problem with grammaticality is that there is absolutely no objective measure of it. Chomsky famously copped out and said that any reasonably competent native speaker is just as good a judge of whether a sentence is grammatical or not. That is demonstrably false - one only needs to attend a graduate linguistics seminar to see that people's intuitions differ. In some cases, we can do surveys but even if we get 90% judgement of grammaticality, we still only discovered a variability in the input. That is not to say that we cannot or should not be interested in speaker judgements about language. We want to look at how people correct themselves and each other. We want to see where they seem to be following some pattern in diverging from a standard or simply don't know or commit a slip of the tongue. But we can determine the standard patterns by analysis of actual usage - ie. the "scientific" method of observation. Introspection will still play a role in the analysis but the whole enterprise will not hinge on it. 

First, subject or object do not enter into this in any way. It looks like you're looking for nouns corresponding semantically to verbs. Once you have the nouns, they can be subject or object. There is no such one to one mapping. Verbs that describe actions or states can have corresponding nouns that describe those actions or states as concepts. However, each of these can describe different perspectives of those verbs. For example: to run = a run (one act of running), running (the act of running) to kill = a kill (one act of killing), a killing / killing (the act of killing) to teach = teaching (the activity of teaching), *a teach (one act of teaching - does not exist other than in idioms like 'a teach in') However, these can work in different ways through idioms and metaphoric extension. So you have sentences like: 

There is no end of ways to mark vocalic length across the orthographies of languages. It's either by diacritics, additional letters, special letters or some indirect marking. Wikipedia helpfully lists the different diactritical maarks the most common of which are the macron (e.g. ā) and the acute accent (e.g. á). as well as additional letters the most common of which is vowel doubling. To this you need to add the colon-like symbol (ː) used by IPA for vowel length. In English phonics training, the macron is used to indicate 'long vowels' but these are not contrasted by length alone but rather by quality and length (often the long counterpart being a diphthong) as in 'mat' vs. 'mate'. Even in a case where long counter part is available as in 'pit' vs. 'pete', the contrast is given as 'spit'/'spite' and 'pet'/'pete'. Historically, you could also use separate letters such as the Greek omega vs. omicron but the length distinction has been lost in modern Greek. As whole, the question of contrastive and non-contrastive vowel length is much more involved however. Things like stress, diphothongization and allophonic variation get involved so it's rarely as simple as establishing a long/short contrast across the whole vowel system of a language. Even in a language like Czech where every short vowels has a long counterpart and the length is preserved regardless of stress, things are not always completely straightforward. The puzzling thing is that even though length is fully phonemic in Czech, the loss of the diacritics (such as in the early days of email) leads to only a minimal increase in ambiguity. 

As @jlawler points out, by their very definition, idioms are non-compositional. And we could think of metaphors as a sort of non-conventional idioms. Of course, there are many other types of non-literal language such as irony or in fact any speech act, that will present similar problems. To preserve the principle of compositionality, you can shove these into the realm of pragmatics (which is where speech acts are typically kept anyway). So expressions like 'kick the bucket' or 'take X for a ride' are simply treated as having a literal meaning where the compositionality still applies. You could also expand your definition of what constitutes a 'component' or a syntactic rule. Neither of these is very practicable when dealing with actual range of language use but they can keep the principle intact enough for the purpose of formal semantics. But the key thing to understand is that 'the principle of compositionality' is not some sort of a universal law of language. It is really only a way to formulate certain axioms for the purposes of formal syntax and semantics. It has no counterpart in natural semantics or in cognitive semantics because there is no need for it. 

There are fairly well attested instances of the development of individual inflectional markers but none (as far as I know) of a whole system that would not be the result of contact rather than "organic" grammaticalization. The Wikipedia entry on grammaticalization has plenty of examples. If you want enter link description heremore, you can try the Oxford handbooks on grammaticalization and case where a lot of the key researchers in the field wrote contributions. The chapter on diachronic view of the case lists the main processes by which individual cases arise. Editorial: While grammaticalization is a very plausible (and well documented) process of the development of individual forms, the examples given usually describe the emergence of new structures within existing inflectional systems or the very beginnings of inflection in non-inflectional systems (as in Creoles). However, the question of how a complex inflectional system such as the Slavic case system can emerge as a whole. Did it appear more or less at once or gradually form by form? We don't know but given how long grammaticalization takes, it is unlikely to have emerged completely gradually but given the complexity, it can also not have emerged at once fully formed. I think the sheer complexity of forms making up the system is underappreciated - for instance, to achieve full consistency Fronek has identified over 100 nominal paradigms in Czech (I'm working on a paper on this). It is quite hard to imagine this being learned (in the traditional manner), let alone evolved. Dixon's punctuated equillibria hypothesis (borrowed from biology) could be a part of the answer but I think there's still a plenty to be discovered. 

I consider a broader definition of word - including the traditional 'lexemes' as well as the broader concept of 'construction' from construction grammar (which removes the endless debate over 'what is a word'). Also, this classification is just a heuristic - any individual case will be a better or worse fit into one or two of these categories. With the two caveats above, if you look closely at any two languages, you will find that words that do not fit at least to some degree into one of the above are the exception in the core of each of the languages' construction inventory (I suspect that many of the more peripheral constructions are probably more likely to align better in closely related languages - but research would be needed). All of these misalignments may cause smaller or greater communication or translation difficulties. Here are some examples from my experience of translating between Czech and English: 

Just because a language might belong to the same family as another language, they may not be outwardly similar at all. Just compare German, Russian and Persian. It takes a very close historical study to link them. Or even just German and French. Many of these proto-X families are extremely hypothetical and the evidence for them is tenuous and controversial based on a vague similarity of a few words, a few sound parallelisms and some proposed historical connection. Not infrequently being the pet theory of one author. Of these, Proto-Sino-Caucasian is one of the less widely accepted. 

-an in American, African, Australian is not an example of affix polysemy. It is exactly the same affix applied to different words. The meaning of the affix being roughly 'inhabitant of or identifying as X'. Thus (with a bit of you get Martian, Venutian or even Xan. -an in 'librarian' and 'comedian' has the meaning of 'related to X through the performance of a job'. You could argue, that there is some polysemy here as well, since a librarian does a job 'in' a library while a comedian 'performs' comedy. But it's a bit of a stretch. 

If you were to translate individual words from L1 > L2 > L3 you are almost guarantee a game of telephone. In fact, all you have to do is to try to do this between L1 and L2. When you then go try to use the words in a sentence, you'll get almost immediate nonsense. Word to Word translation without context will only work on the most concrete and universal words such as 'orange' or 'automobile'. Even words like 'bread' or 'beer' may get you into trouble depending on the languages. And you can forget it with verbs 'go', 'see', etc. Sentences may still give you some issues but when you get to complete texts (assuming competent translators), you actually get relatively good results. This is not at all a hypothetical situation. Explorers and conquistadors often used native translators who only knew one language who would find somebody who knew another language spoken by the locals and translate this way. I think Cortez is reported to have done so but I think you'd find reports going to antiquity. I'm sure any such translation would have had to rely on a lot of negotiation and clarification. Also, throughout the ages many texts (most notably the Bible) would be translated from Latin rather than the original sources. Today, you would mostly find original translations of published books but newspaper reports are often translated from third languages (most often English). There are even some academic disciplines where at least some data is collected in this way. Some aspects of Holocaust studies come to mind. Survivor memoirs have been written in so many languages (Czech, German, Italian,...) that no one scholar is likely to master all of them and many rely on English translations. Comparative religion is also likely to rely on at least some translation, as is much of anthropology, etc. What you will find in all of these examples is that nothing like a 'game of telephone' develops. In fact, these third translations are pretty faithful. Of course, they lose all nuance and any semblance of language play but they get the gist over. There will be many local mistranslations and misunderstandings but fewer than one might expect. As always, the more shared context, the easier this will be. One area where this type of translation is quite routine is poetry translation from less commonly taught languages. It is quite unlikely that a there is a Hungarian poet who is also very good at Urdu. So such a person might collaborate with someone who speaks Urdu and Hungarian who will convey the meaning and point out any language play when they want to translate Urdu poetry. Of course, here, we're not looking for accuracy of meaning but rather keeping the gist and impact. My favorite book is 12 Czech translations of Poe's Raven - of which at least half of the 'translators' (all well-known Czech poets) did not know much if any English. There is a lot of diversity of expression but in all 12 instances you feel like you're reading Poe. 

It does not provide evidence but it certainly narrows thing down. -ly attaches to nouns and adjectives. It tends to turn nouns into adjectives coward > cowardly, gentleman > gentlemanly and adjectives into adverbs quick > quickly. But there are exceptions such as like > likely - here it is hard to determine whether like is a verb, noun or adjective but 'likely' is itself an adjective. Of course, due to the flexibility of English in its use of different word classes in other contexts, adjectives are often used as nouns. For instance, 'daily' which is often used as a noun when referring to newspapers or 'elderly' in 'take care of the elderly' or 'friendly' as in 'they played a friendly at Wimbledom'. Of course, there are also many words that end in '-ly' where it does not indicate a suffix 'family', 'monopoly', 'Italy', 'monopoly'. Or it's not clear on the surface if it's a suffix, such as 'assembly' or it's definitely not a suffix but it looks like one as in 'folly'. The best way to find out more is to go to a corpus and search for -ly on words with different parts of speech. Try BNC with search terms such as .