A sedative should work - especially one that's quick acting. Sedatives are used to send people to sleep on demand quite reliably, and are quite robust so people don't wake easily (one reason they're used for surgery) Some sedatives might suppress dreams, but others may not - or may encourage vivid dreams. Your superhero may need to experiment to find something suitable. Some herbs are supposed to be good for lucid dreaming, like Valerian, though they're usually mild enough to not be useful in battlefield conditions - but pairing something like that with a chemical sedative may help encourage lucid dreaming. Your superhero should be able to come up with a personalized mix that will sedate himself, allow/encourage lucid dreaming, and is consistent and/or flexible enough to adjust for needed effect or expected duration. Alternatively, meditation may help. Advanced meditation is supposed to give the conscious mind a great deal of control over the body - even parts that are usually unconscious. It may be possible to gain enough control to enable one to sleep (and stay asleep) even in a battlefield. Or it might be possible to slip into lucid dreaming without sleeping first, maybe in waking dreams, or from a deep trance. Or maybe just help encourage lucid dreaming under sedation. Seems like it would help. Or another possibility is to use hypnosis to set up a reliable sleep-scenario. Given this is for a superhero, self-hypnosis may be wiser than going to a hypnotist - either that or getting a teammate with experience/complementary-to-hypnosis-powers/willingness to learn, but in any case a great deal of trust is needed. A post-hypnotic suggestion to sleep at a certain trigger, and to not wake until another trigger (or a set of them, depending on circumstances, fail-safes for if unexpected circumstances pop up), or even certain triggers only as originated from certain people (to prevent the opposition from finding a trigger) will likely work as required. 

I was thinking about the mention of an S-phase adult choosing to adopt a T-born offspring, as a strategy to ensure the gene flow, and how to make that more likely. Adoption may be much more likely if there are advantages to having S-phase offspring that are more immediate than competitive genetic legacy. If your S-adults are slightly more social, with a social structure that's based around a slightly larger pack or family instead of individuals, then adoption becomes more likely to maintain a larger group. One idea that struck me was the possibility of S children helping parents or family when ill, injured, or old. This behavior might include families helping each other forage for food, or banding together to ward off predators. This gives an advantage to raising a child even if unrelated, since it improves the adopting parent's chances of survival and later reproduction, or (depending on social structure) improves the chances of survival for a whole family. Other factors that might play into adopting rather than depending on their own offspring - if there is a gender divide, perhaps those of one gender are 'adopted' into the family of their mates... so a family who tends to produce that gender may need to adopt to keep their own numbers up as their offspring mature and leave. Or those whose family becomes dangerously small, from predators or illnesses, trading the effort of raising unrelated offspring for numbers to survive long enough to reproduce later. Another option may be that perhaps adults leave their parents once they are mature, and so only a still-dependent child will assist their parents... and so adoption will happen when an S-adult is already injured or ill, so it is not dependent on having had young of just the right age... and if the parent dies before the child is independent, the loss of the effort involved in raising an unrelated child is less expensive than all the effort lost if their own S-offspring were to be orphaned (including extra time maturing to adoptable age and the effort spent reproducing). Or, to play off of ckersch's idea of cyclical climate - it might be that at certain times of the year, more pack-mates (or family members) are helpful to forage for food or fight predators, and at other times the fewer the better to conserve resources... adopting would therefore be equivalent to seasonal labor, unrelated t-born being adopted and raised when resources are plentiful and higher numbers are safer (perhaps more frequently than actual reproductive cycles allow?), and abandoned or driven away when resources become scarce. This "less expensive loss" idea may also be a reason for a young adult to adopt T-born before attempting to reproduce and raise their own offspring, if a larger family increases the odds of the children's survival a great deal. The extra effort of raising the t-born (and making newbie mistakes) is balanced by a lesser cost if they are lost, and the extra protection when the young adult is ready to raise their own offspring in the larger family. Alternatively, once you have advantages to raising a child regardless of actual parentage... maybe you can emphasize the differences in your R and K strategies. Tadpoles are, after all, rather difficult to trace the lineage of - they all exist in the same ponds, and don't look much like their parents. R strategy species don't tend to track their own lineage, its about reproducing many offspring and letting the fittest survive... so maybe the R phase of your species likewise can't tell whose tadpoles are whose. Rather than having your curiously mixed stage, of producing lots of offspring but also tracking the lineages (and/or caring for them) until adoptable age, have your tadpoles simply be indistinguishable from each other, and the T-born or S-born lineages unclear at this stage. S-adults will then choose from all the tadpoles of adoptable age, looking for those most likely to have successful S-traits, and choosing successful offspring is then as much a survival strategy as reproducing lots of offspring. The families, or clans, are then solely based on adoption and mutual support - and the better survival of the clan means more chances for each individual to breed, and therefore more chances for their offspring to be adopted by any clan or survive as T adults. There might be some benefit to identifying relatives (by scent? or markings?) and adopting those preferentially, but it would not be required. Credit where it's due, I think I might have read a similar scenario in a book, maybe in the "Reteif!" or "Interstellar Patrol" series. This scenario would probably lead to fairly quick evolutionary process - the tadpoles are selected for survival fitness, the survivors evaluated for S-traits, the adults (both S and T) are selected for survival fitness again. The free intermingling of genes during tadpole phase would keep the populations intertwined, and the S-adults selecting among all the offspring for S-traits would increase the selection pressure for those traits (selecting for individuals, not just families). Also, I would expect a heavy cultural emphasis (once they get that far) on being strong or useful, competing heavily, and surviving at all costs - since cooperation is not rewarded through a major portion of their lifestyle. Side note - whatever mechanism you choose, you might want to relax your requirement that only S-adults can trigger S-offspring, otherwise the question of where the first S metamorphoses came from is quite puzzling. Having the possibility of T-born occasionally managing to hit the right cues for the metamorphosis would answer that question, while sneakily helping to keep the genes intermingling. That these occasional converts have a much lower chance of survival due to lack of training and care while young, keep the possibility from disadvantaging your S-families too much, while giving a slight advantage to T-adults having S-trait offspring and answering how the whole setup came to be. 

There really isn't a great biological trigger - puberty is too young, end of puberty a bit too high (some changes in some people lasting into the 20s, not ideal if 18 has to be the cutoff - not to mention some medical conditions might apply). But, you might find environmental triggers. So, what do adults do that under-18s don't? ... well, nothing. All the age-related activities are restrictions, and therefore optional, and adults who did opt out will survive, skewing your population. On the other hand, what do under-18s do that adult's don't? Hah - maybe school works. If school is compulsory (like in our society), then 18 would be about the age of graduation. I recall we had a daily fluoride rinse program in our school - not strictly relevant, but there may be some other health-based program running at the right time that kids had to attend, that adults mostly were not bothering with. Maybe vitamins? Some kind of exposure from school buildings or chemistry lessons? Something that happened when the whole apocalypse got started - like barricading themselves in and avoiding the whatever? It doesn't have to be much, just enough to make it survivable. Of course, this wouldn't be a perfect measure. There would be those younger than 18 who died because they had graduated, or dropped out, or were absent at the wrong times. There might be a few older than 18 who survived - maybe late graduating, or happened to be doing the health-whatever. They could be few enough to not be influential on your society, or perhaps they were few enough that they did wrestle with the kids for control...and lost, but they would be there. Another option would be to tweak your society slightly, to make some event compulsory at or after 18. Maybe a citizen oath or registration or health check or something, that they have one year from their 18th birthday to accomplish - and some exposure or side effect from whatever happens during that is what makes the adults susceptible. You would loose about half of your 18's, since some would have done it and some not (or your could just say 19, I guess). You might also have a few off-the-grid types who resisted, but again the number could be small and for whatever reason not influential. Or maybe have all adults required to be present in their local coming-to-adult citizenship meeting each year (or season, etc) to affect everyone at once. Again, a few adults might be missed, but they don't have to be enough to be influential. Or to go in a completely different direction A lot of illnesses may have different strains or adaptions going on, and we might end up with a population exposure difference. One option might be that, if a variation of the illness (or a related one, or even a different one) was sweeping the schools just before the apocalypse-illness got started, maybe they sent all the kids they could into communal quarantine - especially once they realized kids were surviving where adults died, and maybe they didn't know it was strains rather than age-related protection. A fair chunk of post-pubescent kids might survive just from not being exposed to the adult version, and/or getting protection from catching a lesser strain (like cowpox vs smallpox) - which showed up in schools and spread like mad. Maybe with a plot point that adults didn't catch that lesser strain because of some prior vaccination or medication or something (since phased out), which the apocalypse-virus was just different enough to slip by. Maybe it was a few quarantines of teens for an unrelated illness, with prepubescent kids surviving the apocalypse-illness due to age-related expression, with only whatever teens were in quarantine surviving due to not catching it, but afterwards taking leadership roles (and generally being visible) because the littler kids needed them.