I am currently riding a loaner from my brother in-law, and I have set the seat height based upon feel. I was wondering though as to how I can set it to the right height for me to ride more scientifically? I will also need to set it back to his height when I give the bike back in a weeks time. 

A long time ago I used some clamp on cable housing guides on a frame & I didn't have any issues with them moving. I did have a slightly larger cable housing with teflon sleeves inside, so that the clamps could be screwed down fairly tightly and still allow for easy movement of the cable inside. You might want to see if you can get perhaps another brand of clamp. From memory I had some Gran-Compe by DiaCompe. Alternatively you could try putting a thin rubber shim around the clamp to get it to grip to the frame better. The only other alternative I would consider would be to get a local framebuilder to remove the old guides and braze on the new ones. I don't think it will be that pricey. My old LBS used to do this sort of work once a week, and a job like that would only have taken about 10 minutes to do. 

I want to purchase a spare pin for my Shimano Ultegra 10 speed chain. Looking around I can only see 11 speed pins for sale. Can I put these into a 10 speed chain? 

When the straps are done up properly, you are less likely to pull your foot out accidentally. This is why clips & straps are recommended for track racing . 

I had a run of bad luck with road frames quite a few years ago, going through about three in rapid succession. Like you, the faults were always in different places. Since then I haven't had any troubles, but I did start using a slightly higher upgrade of frame materials. I currently ride about 120K a week,mainly commuting, doing track stands wherever possible. My advice would be to perhaps try a slightly better grade of steel frame next time. I was using low grade steel, then a couple of manganese alloy based frames, before going onto Reynolds (not too sure of the number, early 531 I think) and Columbus No.2 frames. No problems with them. I currently ride a composite frame, aluminium main tubes with carbon forks and rear stays. Going strong since 2005. I am also not particularly light, being over 85kg at the moment (must train more!) I just have troubles with wheels now :-( 

My daughter is growing fast, and will soon be too big for the child seat that is on the back of my bike. She is not yet ready to ride on the road, so I am thinking of purchasing a "tag-along" bike. What features should I look for, and are there anything to look out for? 

Anecdotal evidence I have heard is that in a lot of cases complaints actually do have an effect, particularly if the company is a large one. All complaints have to be followed up and while you may not hear back from the company, management does speak to the drivers involved. Whether this has a positive effect or just creates resentment with the driver, I don't know. 

So this does not take into account the angle of the stem, which could reduce the length forward that the handlebars extend by a small amount if they are on a large angle up or down. 

I have a road bike that I commute to work on, just a 9km trip each way. I also have some tightness in my lower back, especially since I usually sit in front of a computer screen. My wife wants me to change my road bike set up so that I am no longer bent over when riding, but have a more upright posture. Can I change the stem and handle bars easily (and cheaply) for a flat bar configuration so as to turn my road bike into a commuter bike? P.S. I am also planning on getting some panniers fitted, so as to take the weight of a backpack off me, but that will probably be another question. 

My wife & I "share" an exercise bike, mainly because we don't have room for it as well as my wind trainer :-( It was fairly cheap, from Aldi, so you might want to keep an eye out for one. I don't mind it, as it is easily adjusted and quiet. The only thing I would change if I could would be the seat. It is a typical exercise style one and is way to short and wide. In terms of training, I find that I can get just as good a workout with it compared to the wind trainer. And since it is quiet I get more chance to do so, since I can ride either early in the morning or later at night without disturbing others. The only minus is that it has a funny shaped pair of bars and after a while I get rather bored with the hand positions. I find that the road bike's drop bars give me more variety. 

I had this problem repeat itself for various makes of tyres once. For one of my wheels. I finally realised that the rim tape went too far out of center, lifting up the tyre bead enough to make the tyre lift off after a couple of minutes when at full pressure. 

I have bent the teeth on a front chainring before by accidentally dropping the bike on the ground and it hit a rock just on the end of a tooth. I was able to bend it back slowly using a pair of pliers, but I would recommend getting the whole ring replaced. I am unsure as to the price these days, but the thing you need to know when ordering is the BCD - Bolt Centre Diameter. It is very easy to replace the rings. All you need is an Allen key (usually 5mm) and a large slot screwdriver. You use the Allen key to remove the bolts. You can then slip the large chainring off the crank arm and then the middle one. You might have to take the pedals off first to get the middle ring off if it is a small diameter. When putting the new ring on, you may need to use the large slot screwdriver to stop the bolt from spinning when nearly tight. There are slots on the back of the "nut" for the slot to go into. I also like to put some WD-40 on the bolts and nuts before putting them back together, making later removal easier. 

I have used old wine cask bags (or bladders, readily available in Australia, not too sure about rest of the world) packed either into a pannier or strapped onto the top of the rear rack (not the best position but I was fully loaded). Some would say the slight after taste of wine is a bonus. I have also seen unused bladders available from some camping stores. I also have carried water purification tablets just to be safe. 

I am looking forward to the southern summer and was wondering if anyone could recommend a good sandal style cycling shoe (I have SPD pedals)? 

You should leave the plastic backing on, and the paper ones as well. The backing stops chemicals from the patch and glue working their way into the tire at the location directly in contact with the patch. I do not know if this leaching weakens the tire at all, but in many cases it will cause a dark "patch" to appear on the tire sidewall after an amount of time, which can look unsightly. After a long period of time (months) the plastic and paper will disintegrate by themselves so you don't have to worry about removing them. 

Only one thing to add to the other answers. Be aware of a frame with a brand new coat of paint. From experience I have found that this is done to cover defects in the frame. In my case the down tube had a slight crack in it that the new paint covered over and after a quick test ride it the crack was still not visible. A couple of months later we found that the crack had opened up and the tube had to be replaced. 

For: When swooped by birds (such as magpies) in spring, it is harder for them to take away a bit of flesh. 

Two points to note when choosing an endurance tire are firstly the thickness of the side wall, since while touring you can easily get rock, sticks, nails, whatever hitting the side while you are riding. Secondly, you can "age" a tire a little bit by buying it before time, and placing it onto a rim with a tube pumped up to low pressure to help fill out the shape. After a month or so you will find that the tire has actually hardened a little, and will be slightly more puncture resistant. 

Mavic make a wheelset called Ksyrium. I can spell it but every time I go to say it, I come out with something different. Does anybody know how to pronounce the name? 

I have a Tioga, which has a universal connector so that you can put onto either Schrader or presta valves. The current model (Zero Comp Floor Pump) looks pretty much like what I have. It also has a pressure gauge. Very versatile and does more than enough for me. 

It depends. I don't know of any scientific research to support an actual speed. The main factors are the speed of the wind that you are riding in, and the size of your shield (i.e. the bunny in front who is giving you the wind break - the bigger the better) and how closely you follow. In still conditions I find that even at about 24km/hr (15mph) I will notice after half an hour or so that I have not worked as hard had I been riding out the front. If there is a raging head wind then virtually any speed will find you having a noticeable advantage in the slipstream. Just try being out for a while at the same speed and you will feel the difference in your heart rate and muscle output. The size of your shield also helps. Being in a large bunch effectively increases the size of the shield, though it is not a linear increase, but rather a diminishing one. That is, as you go from say two riders to 5 riders you get a fair increase in advantage , but going to 10 riders only gives you a small increase in advantage over 5 riders. The third factor of distance is not as important I feel, provider you are within one to two feet and are not going at top racing speeds. As you go faster the distance at which you get an advantage increases. Of course the maximum advantage is obtained when you are within millimetres of the wheel in front, which is why track racers ride so close, but then you increase you risk to touching wheels and having a crash. 

Road season is about to start here and I think that it is time I stopped using my cotton singlets as an undershirt and start using something more specific for cycling (and racing in particular). What is the best material for me to get?