Using stocks rather than flows and avoiding the disinvestment issue is a good alternative. Gravity equations have been shown to do a good job fitting stocks of FDI (see the Handbook of International Economics, Gravity Equations: Workhorse, Toolkit, and Cookbook, page 149). This paper considers a model in which FDI takes the form of acquisitions. Using the discrete choice framework in a way that resembles Eaton and Kortum (2002), the authors develop a gravity equation for FDI which fits the data well. This paper extends the model to greenfield investment by imagining that instead of bidding for assets, each corporation selects the best "investment project" across all host countries. 

Let me answer to the sub-question and the potential trade war. Chad Bown in a recent Vox CEPR column estimates that Trump's steel and aluminium tariffs would impose trade losses on partners equal to \$14.2 billion per year, an amount establishing the collective permissible retaliation. The countries hit the hardest by Trump's tariffs would be Canada (\$3.2 billion), the EU (\$2.6 billion), South Korea (\$1.1 billion), and Mexico (\$1.0 billion). If those estimates are correct trading partners would be permitted to retaliate by a collective amount of $14.2 billion per year under WTO dispute settlement. 

Because of inflows and outflows of workers going in and out unemployment, between January and February, the stock of unemployed workers was a bit higher in January 2018 (=6,684,000). A year before, in February 2017, the unemployment rate was about 4.7%, representing a stock of 7,486,000 unemployed workers at that particular time. This means that a net flow of 7,800 (=7,486,000 - 6,706,000) US workers went out unemployment between February 2017 and February 2018. Your wage in February 2018 is a flow because it's the money you earn between Feb 1st and Feb 28. (by the way, this amount is not necessarily fixed from one month to another). 

Those are important and difficult questions to answer. Regarding Uber, Jonathan Hall (Uber) and Alan Krueger (Princeton) wrote a joint paper on An Analysis of the Labor Market for Uber's Driver-Partners in the United States. The paper provides the first comprehensive analysis of Uber's driver-partners, based on both survey data and anonymized, aggregated administrative data. The following figure documents the exponential growth in the number of active Uber driver-partners in the United States from mid-2012, when uberX was launched, to late 2014. 

The United Nations Industrial Development Organization (UNIDO) maintains a variety of databases comprising statistics of overall industrial growth, detailed data on business structure and statistics on major indicators of industrial performance by country in the historical time series. The UNIDO publishes the Industrial Development Report 2016 and offers some statistics. This is one of the most reliable source of industrial data although data are still incomplete for some developing countries. Broad Sectors: world value added over time. (Source: UNIDO) 

An interesting question that leads to a debate among econometricians. Some consider that Econometrics is just statistics applied to economic problems 

Which "other method" have you in mind? Case studies? Surveys? Graphical evidence? Since most economic questions are ceteris paribus by nature, econometric models help holding other factors fixed. A key question in most empirical studies is: Have enough other factors been held fixed to make a case for causality? The number of factors that can affect a variable of interest—such as individual wages—is immense, and the isolation of any particular variable may seem like a hopeless effort. However, when carefully applied, econometric methods can simulate a ceteris paribus experiment. For instance, you may run individual wages on education controlling for gender, experience, tenure, age, ... etc. A good starting reference for studying econometrics is Introductory Econometrics by Jeffrey Wooldridge 

Let me give you a hint since this question seems to be a kind of homework question. Suppose the following model: $\ln y = \beta_1 \ln x_1 + \beta_2 \ln x_2 + \epsilon$. In this model, $\beta_1$ and $\beta_2$ are elasticities and one can be tested against the other with a $F$ statistic. 

To measure the costs of different people speaking different languages, researchers use a "linguistic distance" metric, see for example this paper. However, measuring the cost of linguistic diversity appears to be challenging. Some effects are shown along the following lines. Impact of linguistic distance on international trade In this paper, they construct new series for common native language and common spoken language for 195 countries, which they use together with series for common official language and linguistic proximity in order to draw inferences about 

This gives a price estimate of -238.9, with a standard error (s.e) of 57.5. Then, if I run the same regression after duplicating the observations three times. 

As far as I know Angus Madison's GDP figures are one of the most reliable sources of historical data, even if data construction is as always diputable. The Review of Income and Wealth published a rigorous debate between Angus Maddisson and Carsten A. Holz regarding Maddison's estimates on China's growth. You may also find useful the Historical Bilateral Trade and Gravity Data set (TRADHIST) provided by the CEPII, which partly uses Maddison's data. TRADHIST gathers more than 1.9 million bilateral trade observations for the 188 years from 1827 to 2014. TRADHIST also provides about 42,000 observations on aggregate trade, and about 14,000 observations on GDPs and exchange rates respectively. This data set is publicly available. 

According to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, the US unemployment rate stood at 4.1 percent in February 2018. This represented a stock of 6,706,000 unemployed workers in February 2018. But from January to February, we observed a flow of workers going in and out unemployment. 

I like also shorter columns, which are based on good academic papers. So, the VOX, CEPR's policy portal is very good. They occasionally take unsolicited columns, but many are based on CEPR or NBER working papers. Project Syndicate publishes short and interesting op-ed economics articles. 

budgetary revenues (not including social security); social insurance premiums; land revenues; net income from state-owned enterprises. 

The above Figure illustrates an expanded concept of government revenues that includes four main components: 

Results show that the impact of linguistic factors, all together, is at least twice as great as the usual dummy variable for common language, resting on official language, would say. Impact of linguistic distance on international migration In this paper they examine the importance of language in international migration from multiple angles by studying the role of linguistic proximity, widely spoken languages, linguistic enclaves and language-based immigration policy requirements. To this aim they collect a unique data set on immigration flows and stocks in 30 OECD destinations from all world countries over the period 1980–2010 and construct a set of linguistic proximity measures. Results: Migration rates increase with linguistic proximity and with English at destination. Softer linguistic requirements for naturalisation and larger linguistic communities at destination encourage more migrants to move. Linguistic proximity matters less when local linguistic networks are larger. This paper on the Costs of Babylon—Linguistic Distance in Applied Economics may also be relevant. Impact of linguistic distance on literary translations Interestingly, one of the latest Freakonomics Radio episode is called "Why Don't We All Speak the Same Language? (Earth 2.0 Series)". There are 7,000 languages spoken on Earth. What are the costs — and benefits? They quote (with references) 

Daron Acemoglu, in a paper called Theory, General Equilibrium and Political Economy in Development Economics, discusses the role of economic theory in empirical work in development economics, which investigates the causes of poverty and low incomes. He puts a special emphasis on general equilibrium considerations. He discusses why counterfactual analysis based on microdata that ignores general equilibrium issues may lead to misleading conclusions. In particular, depending on magnitudes of various effects, general equilibrium interactions can offset or even reverse sensible partial equilibrium conclusions. The importance of general equilibrium effects in theory Acemoglu considers three important types of general equilibrium effects, which are usually not estimated in partial equilibrium comparisons: 

This answer is closely related to the points raised by @Fix.B. and @AlecosPapadopoulos, which must be upvoted. But because @user1559897 still asks the question ''what sense does it make under the expected utility theory framework to unify the idea of risk averseness and diminishing marginal utility?'' let me try a different variant. Let's define a risk-averse individual as an individual who, at any wealth level $w$, dislikes every lottery with an expected payoff of zero. So, according to this definition, an individual who is risk averse is not willing to enter a bet that pays her/him +1 or -1 with equal probability and generates an expected return of 0. This makes sense because the concavity of the relationship between wealth $w$ and utility $u$ is quite a natural assumption. It simply implies that the marginal utility of wealth is decreasing with wealth: one values a dollar increase in wealth more when one is poorer than when one is richer. Intuitively, the individual will care more about the \$1 loss than the \$1 gain. In contrast if the individual's marginal utility is constant there is no such argument and there is no reason to avoid a bet with an expected payoff of zero. A very good reference is Economic and Financial Decisions under Risk by Louis Eeckhoudt, Christian Gollier, & Harris Schlesinger. The first chapter is freely available and discusses those notions based on Bernouilli's example of Sempronius. 

The issue is that the invention of the steamship is not exogenous to economic development. Assuming that trade exerts positive effects on development, it could be that past trade favored economic development and as result the invention of the steamship. By contrast, wind flows are exogenous. 

Enrico Moretti (U.C. Berkeley) works on a related question: The multiplier effect. He finds that high tech industries have the largest multiplier. For each new high-tech job in a city, five additional jobs are created outside high-tech in that city over the next 10 years. 

This reminds me of a debate about economic calculation: the Socialist calculation debate on how a socialist economy would perform economic calculation given the absence of the law of value, money, prices, and private ownership of the means of production. It was essentially a debate in the 1920-30s between Ludwig von Mises and Oskar Lange: 

My understanding is that the literature has so far used three kinds of empirical analysis of the directed technical change. 

Update: Author's paper is now in 3 minute video format by Jonas Koblin, Sprouts School. I also recommend reading two recent books on this topic: 

Moreover, this paper shows that inflation in industrialized countries is largely a global phenomenon. The results provide a good starting point for exploring the hypothesis that inflation should, to some extent, be modeled as a global rather than a local phenomenon. I would interpret these results as going against a connection between (local) economic growth and inflation. 

Converting my comments to an answer. The law of one price (LoP) is an economic concept which posits that "a good must sell for the same price in all locations". This law is derived from the assumption of the inevitable elimination of all arbitrage. Source wikipedia. Arbitrage opportunities imply the law of one price but the reverse is not always true. In logic, LoP is a necessary condition for arbitrage but not a sufficient one. In common language, we cannot out rule out the fact that the law of one price may hold without full arbitrage. If the price of an asset is not different for different people, the law of one price holds without assuming full arbitrage. 

A good start would be The Economics of Migrants' Remittances by Hillel Rapoport and Frédéric Docquier. They both work extensively on this topic. In this paper, they review the theoretical and empirical economic literature on migrants' remittances. They review six theories decomposed into two broad categories individualistic motives (altruism, exchange, inheritance, and the strategic motive) and two types of familial agreements (on insurance and investment). In all of these six theories, except one, migrant's income is indeed a very good predictor of remittances. However, other motives matter and may differ across "foreign national workers grouped by country of origin". For instance, some societies are more altruistic than others, and assuming that altruism decreases with time of arrival, the size of remittances should be negatively related to this variable in the altruistic case. They also predict contrasting effects concerning the distance from family. For instance, in the inheritance theory, the amounts remitted are expected to be closely related to the probability of receiving inheritance in the origin country. If, as they assume there is a negative correlation between the distance from family and the probability of receiving inheritance, a Mexican worker will remit more than an Ethiopian worker, other things being equal. This could even be true if the Ethiopian worker has "the most income per capita after living expenses". To sum up, migrant's income is a crucial variable but other variables, which may differ by country of origin, may also be of first-order importance to understand remittances. 

As far as I understand merchandise trade and trade in goods are the same. The IMF Balance of Payments Manual breaks down international transactions according to standard categories. Trade is one of these categories. Trade is defined as international transactions involving products, i.e. exports and imports of goods (or merchandises) and services. 

How do you identify the "trade costs of war" given that trade and war are potentially endogenous? Dropping the developed countries, which are the main exporters, may affect the estimates of the bilateral and multilateral trade resistance terms. But this is easy to check by comparing the estimates with and without the main exporters. 

Note that the price and mpg variables have been expanded without any change for each car. In your example, if the ones who have taken their temperature multiple times have each time a different temperature, then you may consider introduction an individual fixed effect. 

The Stats.OECD web site answers all your questions and offers useful data! Here is an OECD document explaining the sources and methods used by OECD member countries to compute quarterly national accounts. As explained in the document, most of the OECD countries use 3 types of approach to construct GDP figures: the production approach, the expenditure approach, and the income approach. Among others, those approaches rely on surveys of households and firms. For the annual figures, the OECD maintains a useful FAQs page, with answers on What is a GDP? How is it calculated? When are the annual national accounts revised? Etc... The source and methods web page is here Quarterly or annual data for OECD countries can be found here 

This is an important question in the trade literature. The regionalization of trade is of serious concern to many international economists who view multilateralism as far superior to regionalism for improving welfare. In a nice paper, Caroline Freund and Richard Baldwin survey the available theoretical and empirical evidence on the relationship between regionalism and multilateralism, with the aim of discerning whether the spread of regionalism is likely to be a threat to, or an opportunity for, broader trade liberalization. I summarize here their main insights: Two main related concerns raised by the "multilateralists": 

Population changes slowly over time but has large effects in the long-run. Here are some well-studied facts about fertility: 

a set of bureaucratic incentives that reward officials for growth (of GDP and revenue); planning that is centered on the national-level Five-Year Plans that propose a certain trajectory for growth. 

Within Manufacturing: In 2013, the dominant global manufacturing indus-tries were food and beverages (12.0 percent), chemicals and chemical products (11.7 percent) and machinery and equipment (8.5 percent; Table 7.2) (source: UNIDO's Industrial Development Report 2016) 

There is no expectation to "make more every year". There is no economic law such as GDP must grow every year. Negative growth will lead to a contraction in a country's economy, and a decrease in its gross domestic product (GDP). According to the Department of Labor, US GDP contracted by 5.1% from February 2008 to February 2010 making the Great Recession the worst since the Great Depression in the 1930s. Check the NBER's page on US Business Cycle Expansions and Contractions and the Wikipedia's List of countries by real GDP growth rate, where you will find evidence that some countries are still contracting today. 

Price measurement in most national and international agencies is based on the “statistical approach” to price indexes developed by Dutot (1738), Carli (1764), and Jevons (1865). The methodologies developed in these papers form the foundation of 98% of all consumer price indexes generated by government statistical agencies (Stoevska, 2008). Following this approach, statistical agencies are more likely to select a good for inclusion in the sample with a past high sales share. Because agencies typically choose products based on their historic sales shares, this explains why "the selection of G&S within the CPI is always favorable to what it has been for years". Economic theory has largely rejected the "statistical approach" to price measurement in favor of the "economic approach," which asserts that all price indexes should be derived from consumer theory and correspond to the unit expenditure function. See Redding and Weinstein's paper "A Unified Approach to Estimating Demand and Welfare", they provide the argument and the above references.