Different BB sizes and offsets can make this an expensive exercise (speaking from experience). This is one I would use the LBS - pay someone with experience to do it, or utilise their shelf full of different sized BB's - buy one with a "right to return" if its not the right size. Ideally take the bike in, they will probably give you the correct one first time. BB's a cheap enough the savings going internet/discount supplier are probably not worth the time and effort for the risk of getting the wrong size. 

I personally only use a backpack, but most of my riding is off road recreational, not commuting. I have never see a messenger bag or panniers when out on technical single tracks. Every MTBer I know or have seen either has a backpack or nothing. With a good backpack, when out on a ride, I don't even know its there most of the time, however I sometimes go to the corner shop for milk etc, and just grab the closest backpack - things like the kids school bags are horrible in comparison, I would never use one for a serious ride. Most of the disadvantages of backpacks mentioned here are dealt with buy purchasing a high quality cycle specific bag. This includes 

Just strap it to the top of your rear pannier rack. Bungee cords are probably the best, but you can use compression straps or whatever you tried lashing it to the top tube with. Orient the tripod so that the swivel head is at the very front of the rack, with the feet sticking off the back. The head is the heaviest part -- the closer it is to your body on the bike, the less you'll notice it. My guess is that you'll almost forget it's back there! 

Skipping chain (either between cogs or jumping on a single cog) Premature chain wear (as the chain stretches to match the worn cassette's teeth) 

The most critical thing is that it fits you well. You don't need to spend a lot of money -- in fact, I'd recommend against it for your first road bike. But a basic bike that fits you well will feel fun and will get used. And as you gain more experience with it, you'll know what to change/upgrade if you feel the need to buy a more expensive bike down the road. 

As, if not more important than length, is the chain line. Obviously related, but enough variation to cause problems, as I found out not when I got into my own bike maintenance. Sheldon (as always) shows a way to measure chain line here. The same page has table of various Bottom brackets and the length and chain-line measurements. Essentially you measure from the center of the chain rings (triple is easy, double measure half way between the rings) to the center of the seat tube to get your chain line. Then you should be able to match up a BB that will suit. 

Mountain bike forks will normally direct mount to fit a 160mm rotor. The 180mm adapter you purchased will add 20mm to rotor size - so should (might) work with a 160mm rotor. You would need an adapter to increase 40mm rotor size ir you want to go to a 180mm rotor. You could try a 203mm adapter or drop back to a 160mm rotor - either might work but I have not had experience with this setup. Looking at the post mount, I would be a little concerned the mounts are up to the forces a 180 rotor could generate and would be checking the specs from the fork manufacturer. 

I think current trends in simpler bikes with cleaner lines might help popularize (thus bringing the price down) wide-range internal gear hubs like the Rohloff hub. On my wish list would be more focus on comfort (consider the timelessness of the Brooks saddle combined with newer materials/design) and reliability (could we get puncture-resistant tires that don't have so much rolling resistance please?). Too much focus is currently on weight and aerodynamics -- which makes sense given that pro racing typically drives innovation, but doesn't help the average cyclist much. 

Food can be highly personal and it can take a while to figure out what works best for you. Get a group of randonneurs together and you'd be amazed at the variety of food and drink used to keep moving through a very long ride. That said, you should try balancing carbs (easy to digest, high energy) with other sources of energy, especially protein and often-overlooked fat. It's a slow-burn source of energy, which fits nicely with endurance sports. And as MDV2000 pointed out, what usually gets me on a morning commute is lack of water. Your body needs plenty of fluids first thing in the morning. If I don't drink enough before leaving the house, I start to feel sluggish and light-headed 30min into the ride. Drink half a bottle and I'm back to normal within minutes. 

"I can safely ride between cars....", You an judge spacing "a car come up from behind and clip me while overtaking." Car drivers cannot judge spacing. Is this dichotomy the root of the issue? Your (mine as well) perception is that because you are in control, you are safer than when not in control. Turn this around, and the car driver feels lane splitting is less safe than him passing you. Hence apparent rudeness on your part. I invite you to explore this as it is the most likley reason you feel its rude. And to answer the question, it is rude to purposely slow someones progress then pass them, especially if you pass them illegally (Which lane splitting is in many duristrictions), regardless of if its a car, another bike or a runner. 

Proviso - my advise presumes you are not looking at forking out $2K or more for a bike, and probably significantly less. At a high price point I might suggest suspension. I also presume the gravel section is well maintained with average (pea - grape) size gravel (Where I ride, we sometime use logging roads, the "gravel" is stones about 2"-3" across.), and straight rather than technical single track Advantages of suspension - Softens the ride on the arms making the ride more comfortable, holds front wheel on the ground providing better handling, especially while cornering. Allows you to ride a straighter line than you might otherwise be able to. Disadvantages: Heavy and very expensive for good shocks, need maintenance and cheap ones don't really work well. Absorb energy while riding slowing you down - can be mitigated with a lockout, but even ones with lockouts move a bit. You only have 200m of rough ground to cover, so a suspension fork is probably overkill. If I was buying a bike for that commute, for the same $$$ you will get a significantly better bike with no shocks, any loss of time over 200m of rough ground would be made up on the rest of the 5 miles because of the better quality bike. Cheap shocks won't really help with the comfort, so unless you can get to at least a mid range in price, don't bother. I would consider padded hand grips and gloves - cheap and easy to "tweak" if needed. Also big tires will help with the rough ground and gravel - I would look at 1.75"-2" slicks, and probably a 29er MTB of cyclocross style wheels (depending on your height). Consider a quality steel frame if you cannot afford carbon - they absorb vibrations much better than aluminum. The problem is many shops do not stock, and know nothing about steel and will tell you "stories". 

Wellgo make unpluggable pedals, and you can get plain and clipon style pedals, so you can swap at whim. I am happy with mine. They have several different types of pedal, just look on Aliexpress. Other advantages: 

The two pinch bolts (on the back side of the stem) hold the stem on, and perform two separate effects 

If you actually need to remove them Usually 15mm, and you might need a longish spanner or extension the first time, as shops tend to assemble them dry, and they seize up. Left hand pedal is a left hand (backwards) thread. Put it back in with lots of grease on the thread, so it won't seize for next time. 

Tighten the pinch bolts, not the centre bolt. I recommend putting a drop of oil on the pinch bolts thread or greasing them, as they are steel-in-aluminium, and prone to corrosion. 

Only thing is they have two types of release Style B is the original (and seems more common). The button hits your shoe sole as the crank rotates, and chews it up. (well if you have wide feet) Get Style C with the round release. You need to grease the insert point, it will wear if dry. 

That is definitely not right. Send it back for repair. Similar to front shocks, a good shock will have a very light film of oil you can just feel on the surface. A wipe with a clean cloth will show no visible sign of oil on the cloth (maybe smudge of dirt). In this case, its clear an oil seal has gone. Side note: It looks like you could do with lower air pressure for the riding you are doing. You have no used anywhere near the full travel of the rear suspension. 

That configuration is quite dangerous and clearly wrong. Do not ride the bike like that. Do not just tighten the nuts. I can clearly see the outline of where the derailleur was previously mounted. The derailleur should be mounted in a similar position. The small screw hole is a mount point for a carrier, which is probably why you cannot get things back how they were - it should be clear of obstruction when the wheel/derailleur are assembled. The axle must sit fully within the drop-outs of the frame. Once the axle is done up properly it will hold the derailluer, the small screw is really a locating screw and used to hold the deraulleur when the wheel is removed. Undo the right side nut fully, and install the wheel using the left nut to hold it reasonably firmly. Use the marks on the frame to guide you to axle location and center the wheel rim on the brakes/frame. From there, the derailluer should be able to be slotted in and the right hand nut tightened. 

Bike shops advertise them because they're consumable items. Every time you use a cartridge the shop is likely to make another sale. Whereas a good pump should last through many, many flats and is less likely to get good placement in the shop. For advantages/disadvantages, see freiheit's answer. 

Do what Amos suggested to find out if there are any patterns in the flats. The worst I've had was a tiny piece of radial wire (from blown out car/truck tires) stuck in the thickest part of the tread. It was very difficult to find and only pressed into the tube while riding. Worst case, if you can't find the source but know the rim & tape are ok, just replace the tire. I carry a spare folding tire on really long rides for that reason. 

With 700x28 tires @ 110psi, I only inflate them about once every two weeks (if I remember), or right before a major ride. I always give the tires a quick squeeze before every ride just to make sure neither has developed a slow leak. Daily inflation, or before every ride seems like overkill to me. When you connect a pump or gauge to measure your tire pressure, you're probably losing up to 5psi just from air used to fill the pump/gauge (plus any leakage while getting them lined up right). This gets worse the smaller your tires are. 

I would replace the bolt holding the hanger on with a counter sunk hex bolt . If you are not confident to countersink the hole in the existing hanger The only precaution I might take is ensuring I can source a replacement hanger just in case. 

Clean the discs, and replace the pads. If you cannot afford to replace the pads, "burning" them is one thing I have seen suggested, as had a light sanding (to remove glazing) - neither have ever worked for me. Set the disk caliper - if it's not sitting right this can cause squealing. Read the manual for the brakes, but essentially it involves Loosen mounting bolts, apply the brakes softly, and gently tighten the bolts 1/2 turn each at a time until tight, while rotating the wheel. The idea is to get the pad/disc interface perfectly aligned. You can check visually by applying the brakes while watching the gap between the pads and disc. The pads should be perfectly parallel to the disks at the time they make contact. Try a different pad - e.g. a softer pad, different material - I replaced my metallics with Organics and that seemed to help. Trying a different brand can't hurt. 

This isn't making sense. The cone holds the balls in place. The locknuts (not shown) keep the cones in place. The grease seal has no effect on the tightness of the bearing. If your cone is moving, you have not tightened the locknut against the cone (or it has been omitted). You need a cone spanner (thin spanner) and a second spanner, to tighten the locknut hard against the cone. It is a bit tricky to tighten cones - or more accurately, you will find yourself having to redo it a few times to get it correct. Correct is when there is a tiny amount of play, that disappears when the quick-release is tightened. Check for play after a few days, and readjust if needed. 

Creaking as you pedal can also come from almost anywhere in your bike, the sound carries through the frame. It can be so annoying! My seat sometimes creaks horribly, and you would swear it comes from the pedals. I think it is probably a crack in the plastic inside. Also my rear disk makes a creak that is in time with the pedaling. I have also had the steering stem / handlebar clamp do it too. 

AA cell phone charger (which you're already using) -- uses 2 or 4 AA's to recharge your gadgets. I use an Energizer model to charge my GPS for rides over 12 hours. Of course you need to carry enough batteries for the length of your ride. Solar charger -- can be mounted on a handlebar bag, a rear rack or hanging from your pack and typically has mini-USB connections for cell phones etc. No batteries required but won't help much on a rainy day. I've seen a variety of these at local outdoors shops. Dynamo hub charger -- this is probably the most expensive option, especially if you don't already have a dynamo hub. I'd like one of these (already have the hub) but the AA charger has been fine so far. 

(and the teeth on your derailleur's jockey wheels may last, but the bearings may not) The chain is usually the culprit for wearing out the other two. As it wears, the distance between links effectively increases, and the mismatch between the links and teeth will grind away at your gears. So the key to making your cassette and chainrings last is to change the chain before it wears too much. I use a Park Tool chain measuring device -- it slots in between the pins on the chain so it's a bit more accurate than a ruler. Keeping the chain clean will help increase its life. Also keep in mind that 9- and 10-speed chains (and perhaps 8 as well?) are narrower than the other chains. Their construction allows more gears to fit in the same space, but it also means that they wear much faster. I've stayed with 9-speed and my chain lasts at least 1500km with a lot of riding in wet weather. Every time I've pushed it (and ignored my chain tool's advice), I've had to spring for a new cassette afterwards. I remember chains on my older bikes (7-speed) lasting much longer than this.