I own this Fuij Roubaix 2008 model road bike, its an aluminium frame with carbon front and rear forks. I already did 25000km on the bike and replaced wheels, chainring, a couple of cassettes, chains and so on. Will the frame wear out? I am only concerned that the frame will ware out and fail during riding, otherwise I like the bike since its suits me, the size is just right and I like the non-sloping frame. I am concerned about frame because the rear bolts between the carbon seat stays and the aluminium chain stays were lose and there is this mechanic which every time it sees me with the bike says that its going to break. What do you think? I would avoid buying another bike not because of the cost but because I like my bike and to the new one I would have to adjust a bit. Basically I am asking how to know when to replace a bike or a bike's frame, 

Question is why coast? Personally I made an aim not to coast too much when riding( checked with a cadence histogram chart, usually is around 2~3% of time ). This is possible even after doing all out 30second intervals, I am still able to push out enough power to move me forward at a decent speed. The benefit of not coasting is obvious, your body will adapt to not getting a relief which in turn will make you a stronger rider. Of course there are times when you are completely cooked, this is usually during long rides, you can coast for a couple of seconds to rest the legs a bit but this is a different scenario then what you are asking here. 

I prefer light jogging or running before. If that's not possible then some light stretching would be good since it tends to warm up the muscles for more rigorous activity later on. Do not forget to hydrate enough before cycling, during the pre-workout. Even skipping ropes works if you can do that. Afterwards, a stretching becomes mandatory to relax the muscles. Also, while you are riding long stretches and get wound up and take a small break, do stretch the legs and back a bit, it helps in the long run. This would keep muscle soreness at bay, if not avoid it completely, but at-least delay the onset of it by a significant distance eventually. The more you practice these habits in accordance to what your body tells you, you will be able to realise which muscle is going to ache/pain next and adjust your speed, posture, pit-stop, hydration accordingly. 

All the points mentioned above are true and mostly all-encompassing. Here's my take on the point. I am a biker and motorcyclist, both. I have biker helmet and full face 1.2kg heavy motorcycling helmet, which becomes a half face helmet too when needed. 

On one occasion I did wear the motorcycle helmet during a leisure cycle ride in the city. I don't mind the looks other commuters gave me. Yes it did hamper the listening a little bit, but not much since I am used to wearing full face helmet on my motorcycle and yet can listen to brake and horn sounds clearly over the din of the exhaust. The only issue that I faced was - Severe neck-ache within a short span of 30 minutes which never happens during motorcycle ride. The reason for this is body posture and movement. During cycle ride, your whole body moves with every pedal movement. From head to toe. The lightweight cycle helmet does not feel like an additional weight on the neck. Also your body posture keeps on changing rapidly - from straight up at crossroads to bending over to gain speed. All this time with cycle helmet you do not have to worry weight since its barely weighs anything (as compared to motorcycle helmet). The ride with motorcycle helmet became a sore neck (literally) since every movement you do, pedalling, bending forward, is accompanied by massive continuously shifting weight on the neck. The neck-ache does not happen in motorcycle because for most of the ride, you are sitting in almost the same position. Your body movements are limited to hand and feet movement from braking, accelerating and gear changes. This does not involve whole body motion and hence once the helmet is set in for the ride, additional stress is not felt. Side Note - Helmet stress can be felt on long motorcycle rides (3-4 hours long continous rides, not taking terrain into consideration. If you do take bumpy and uneven road, that time comes down drastically) 

I'm tossing around the idea of building up a custom city bike, starting with something like a Surly cyclocross frame and a NuVinci rear hub (I have one on a bakfiets and love it), with the Yepp Easyfit rear rack on the back and some kind of basket on the front. Add mudguards and some kind of lighting system and I have a bike that's light and fast when I want it to be but still capable of doing the preschool or shopping run. 

I'm not "a cyclist", but I've been riding to work for 15 minutes or so each way almost every day for the last three years. I've recently moved and am now 30 minutes away and I find that length of ride to be a qualitative change. I have a Van Moof 5.1 retrofitted with an SRAM Automatix and although it's heavy, it's very practical and I'm not interested in getting a lighter bike or going for clipless pedals. But are there any other tips for increasing my efficiency and comfort on my daily commute? I've had to start wearing cycling shorts (because... ouch!) but is there any other equipment, technique or training that might be a quick win? 

I was told that handlebar-mounted child seats such as the Yepp Mini and the Bobike Mini are illegal in Germany. People say a lot of things about what is and what isn't legal while biking in Germany. Can anyone find me some kind of authoritative documentation on this?