Terminology confusion with freewheel/freehub in my case - there are a litany of upgraded components but the lowest cost path of least resistance is either replacing like for like, or replacing the wheel. The total cost for a second hand wheel, cassette, chain and chain tool was £80 - all I need to do is swap the tyre and tube over and fit the chain (and that doesn't need tools other than a chain linker) 

Quick bit of terminology: a freewheel is a bunch of cogs and a one way ratchet device. A freehub body is a one way ratchet device. A cassette is a bunch of cogs. A freehub is probably an entire wheel hub (that the spokes mount to) and one way ratchet device. A usable wheel needs to feature cogs, a one way ratchet, hub, (and spokes and so on). How a wheel is composed varies, but 7 speed and earlier tech is probably a freewheel plus hub. 8 speed and later tech is probably a cassette and freehub if it's entry level kit. If higher spec out of the factory it's probably a cassette, freehub body and hub as separable components. In my case in my entry level bike had a shimano FH-RM30 freehub and the local bike shop advised I couldn't separate it so building a whole new wheel, respoke etc if I wanted to replace the freehub. As it was (and in concurrence with advice here) it was more cost effective to just get a second hand wheel (rim, spokes and hub - not sure if the one I was sold was a freehub or a freehub body plus hub). I also purchased a new cassette and chain, and they fitted the cassette, saving me the need to purchase the relevant tool. 

Presuming you have derailleurs and not a hub gear, check that they haven't removed the chain and then not threaded it through the rear derailleur cage properly. I've done this myself before (Images from Park Tools website): 

I have a CAAD12 disc which I'd like to fit SRAM Force 22 hydraulic to. I've been a bit enthusiastic buying things without really researching all the pitfalls of the different bits and bobs that go into disc brakes and compatibility thereof. So, it turns out that the CAAD12 fork is post mount, but my calipers are flat mount. Is there an adapter to fit a flat mount caliper to a post mount fork? 

Then pack everything up & go home drinking a protein shake thing that I make. I also have the option to go the gym during the day, which I have been doing just to do a bit of stretching and mainly use the foam rollers. So, as a vegetarian, what would be a good plan of what to eat and at what times in order to deliver myself to the start line as full of energy as possible? Races are all about 35 miles. 

Disconnect Ultegra caliper. Drain hose - or can you get like stopper or bung to keep the oil inside? Attach string to end of hose and pull back through (or some other method to help guide the new hose back through the frame) Disconnect SRAM caliper Drain hose? Or again can you plug it somehow? Easily feed hose through frame in one go without getting cross Install caliper & connect hose Bleed brakes 

They need shortening. I purchased a tool and SRAM chain that came with a split link device, making it easier to rejoin 

I don't use the bike enough to warrant eg a sprag hub and rear wheel rebuild, but l'll be using it regularly, soon Note, I'm not after particular product recommendations, I'm after knowing how to search for and buy the right set things over the the internet, what things are called, what's needed to ensure the job can be done in one swoop working finding something missing - the mechanics of fitting them is not part of the question either 

Examine the wheel and determine how it's constructed or look up model numbers to see if the freehub body can be separated from the hub. If it can't, buying another wheel may be more constant effective. 

No, but they're relatively cheap components and mostly* inter-compatible so it doesn't matter, just base the buying decision on the number of gears and get chain, cassette etc that are suitable for X gears. *see last paragraph 

I've a Marin San Rafael, 2005. The cassette is an 8 speed 11-28 shimano, exact model number unknown. The chain and freewheel are whatever came with the bike.. I've always thought the chain had a problem, stiff link perhaps, because it would feel like it skipped a tooth/jumped particularly when running on the smallest two cogs and pedalling hard.. everything else has been mechanically good, though lately the freewheel has developed a problem, probably stuck pawls. It's slipped and crunched enough times that I'd say it warrants replacing rather than cleaning and regreasing.. The bike has always been stored indoors, some use in wet weather but mainly dry, and has probably done about 2000 miles. I'm reasonably tall/heavy at 193cm/110kg and live in a hilly region which may have contributed to what I think is a premature failure So, I'm setting about ordering bits but I'm not sure what to get - there aren't any obvious model numbers on these components and I can't find exact specs on what came as standard 

A theory: There is some damage or debris on the inside of your tire. A second theory is slightly out of position rim tape. A third theory is your technique may be leading to a pinch flat. Questions to help diagnose: When you switch between tire sets, does the flat happen only going to one set of tires? Or does it happen no matter which tire? If it's just one tire set, then inspect the inside carefully for debris or other issues. Next time the tire is off, look at the rim tape carefully and run a finger along it. It should be smooth and sturdy. You may also want to check that it's secure all the way around. If it is moving around during tire changes it could be exposing a spoke nipple. The third theory would be that if the tire it tight or tough to get on then perhaps you are pinch flatting during the tire change. Advise here is to go carefully... 

It seems that if you are running a SRAM Force or Red drivetrain, the cost of a $4.00 link is a drop in the bucket. If you are concerned about it, just get a new one. The worry about your chain's integrity is probably not worth the price of a Red Bull... 

Avoid taking the seatpost with you if you expect rain. Rain will get into the inside of the frame, and pool down in the bottom bracket. This will soon lead to a very squeaky bottom bracket. I would refine the comment above: the drivetrain should be both well lubed and dry (no water and no oil). An oily or greasy chain is a magnet for dirt and wears much faster. It's also probably worth trying to see if you can find a way to store your bike indoors at the office. One day in the rain won't hurt your bike too bad, but continuous storage outdoors will add up. Be sure to clean that drivetrain often as you ride in the wet. -Jb