If it is the first time you have met someone, it is perfectly acceptable to go up to them before the meeting and introduce yourself. It is also a good idea for your boss to introduce you when he starts bringing you to meetings and making sure that everyone introduces themselves to you. Since he didn't, he probably thought that you knew who all the people were which means they are probably relatively senior managers or people who work with your department frequently or he didn't know who they were either and didn't want to get embarrassed. So now it is more embarassing that you don't know why they are and more awkward to ask. So first let this be a lesson to you, you should have spoken up at the first meeting. Now you have several choices. First if there is someone else fairly junior at the meeting that you know (especially an admin assistant who is taking notes and almost certainly knows eveyone), you can throw yourself on their mercy and ask who everyone is. It is best not to do this to anyone senior to you (As it is not terribly politically imporessive) unless you know them very well with the exception of your boss. As @jdb1a1 says, you can ask him after the meeting who was the guy who suggested this or who was opposed to that. Or when someone is talking, you can write him a note (if you are sitting next to him and if he isn't the kind who will be annoyed) and ask him who the person is. Another way to figure out who is who is through meeting minutes if you have them. Take your own notes and describe the person who is saying something major and then compare those notes to what the meeting minutes say and you may find out who is who. Sometimes you will hear them called by their first name, then you can try to match that up to the who name on the meeting request. Of course, you may know who all the players are from the meeting request or minutes but not associate faces to names. So take your list of names and find their offices and that way you can see who is who. If you see one of the people in the hall, you can go up to them (if the person doesn't look too busy or unapproachable or is standing outside a very senior manager's office) and say something like, "I'm Joe Smith. I saw you in the XYZ meeting and didn't catch your name." Then make some small talk about the meeting. 

Expense policies are company specific and may be different at different ranks in the company. I have never worked anywhere in 40 years (Fortune 500 companies, government agencies, small companies, medium companies, contractor shops, etc. ) though where this would have been a claimable expense. 

I have never worked for a company that allowed a person to take PTO after they put in their notice. Look in your HR handbook if you have one for the policy. Also just because you can often take PTO ahead of earning it, in many companies you do not get the whole pool of days at a the beginning of the year but earn so many minutes or hours a pay period, so your earned leave balance may be considerably smaller than 3 weeks. In some countries, you cannot work for two companies simultaneous like that, so there may be other legal implications as well. 

First, the people you have to impress in this job do not include him. He is not your boss or your boss's boss. That gives you more freedom of action. The guy is a snake who is likely on his way out pretty soon anyway based on his actions. Management prefers you based on what they said about the visa. Partly why they prefer you is that you are actually doing your job and making him look bad. That is why he is pressurring you. It is highly likely (more than 90% in my opinion) that he is not working anywhere close to 8 hours a day. He wants you to leave, so he can leave and no one will know he didn't put in the hours. His next step will likely be to get you to start working slower because you are making him look bad. You do not owe the guy anything past a thank you for helping you get an interview. No one can make you feel guilty without your consent. There is no need to feel guilty here for not wanting him to bug you to do what you don't want to do. So treat him like any other pest who is annoying and who doesn't have the organziational clout to harm you. Ignore him or tell him to stop bothering you. If he escalates, discuss the issue with your boss (who likely would be very interested to know he is trying to get you to leave when you want to stay) and ask him to get the guy off your back. 

From the dev side, the thing I would really like to see in a seminar for designers is a demo of how much stuff one of those "minor" changes means we have to change. I wouild want the designers to understand that what looks like a simple change on the surface of the UI often is cvery complicated below the surface. In fact, it might be a good idea to have the devs devlop a curriculm for the designers' seminar and the designers develop one for the devs' seminar and the managers develop one on communication and project management for everybody. 

I repeat the process for each new area I need to explore. Critical things to remember are to retain the information. (If you don't retain it in memory as I do, then retain it in documentation somewhere and review the documentation frequently.) This is not learn and forget stuff. And then make connections as you learn both to your past experience and to other parts of the system. Always be aware that you are looking for the meaning of the data not just where it is stored or used. But why you have that data and what people expect to get out of having it. In a complex environment, be especially concerned to find out if there are legal/regulatory reasons for having the data. That data needs to be handled much more carefully. 

They also tend to avoid the holiday period when many people are on vacation and it is hard to get an interview panel together or get things through all the HR and management approvals. These are general times though, there are openings possible at any time. 

If you have been assigned a work task it is yours. You don't need a contract change for things like that. Failing to place the correct priority on some task because you didn't perceive it as your work is naive at best. If you are expected to do it, it is your task. If they asked you to do it because the regular person wasn't available, then it was likely urgent. I would not be at all surprised if they complained to your boss and that he mentioned it, and rightly so, in your performance evaluation. What you should have done when you got the task, was to ask your boss to prioritize it not pretend you didn't have to do it. Another issue I can see in performance reviews (and this matches up with him not being able to give you details) is that they are only rarely done by one manager. Since bonuses are limited, often they all go to a central group of senior managers who determines the final rating. Since they will often arbitrarily reduce some items to keep everyone in the company from getting an outstanding review, then there may be no specific reason why it is lower except that you didn't make the cut for the number of people they could give the next higher ranking to. Not because your performance was bad, per se, but because the budget could not support giving everyone who deserved it the benefits of the higher rating. Performance ratings are a competition not an individual thing. It pays to remember that. This is one reason why it is critical to be political in your organization. This group will reward the people whose work they know of above everyone else. They only way people outside your immediate group know of your work is if you make sure they do. Often the only time these senior managers have heard of a person is when they were part of an escalated problem or appear on some sort of bad list, like people who didn't fill in their timesheets on time. If this is the only impression they have of you and they know Mary's work from the awards she got for her project and from her work in a cross-functional team. Well then, who do you think they are going to award, Mr. Troublemaker (remember they only know what has come to their attention) or Ms. Project Success? 

Motivation is irrelevant. You are paid to do your job, so you are obligated to do it or leave. What is relevant is work performance. If a manager notices that work performance is off, he has an obligation to the company to do his job and talk to the employee about that performance and why it is falling off. This should include steps to deal with the performance issue but should not be centered on motivation. Often when a good employees work falls off then it is often unrelated to work at all, but is due to a personal problem such as a sick child a parent who needs care, a divorce, a cancer diagnosis, etc. The person doesn't need to tell you what is wrong, but does need to understand that poor performance is not acceptable. If they choose to tell you that they need an accommodation, then you need to try to work with the employee to get them back on track. If he brings up a work problem that is causing the issue, it could be process (something is actively preventing him from getting the job done like rights to a particular file share or server). In this case you try to remove the block and counsel him that he should have come to you before a performance loss was noticeable. If it is a decision that he disagrees with, then you can consider that in terms of what the decision was but of course, as a manger, the single worst thing you can do is change your mind every time someone is upset about it. Because someone is upset about every decision. If you change to accommodate what Sam wants, then you have made Joe unhappy because he liked the previous policy. If you then change to accommodate what Joe wants, then Mary is unhappy and now Sam is unhappy again. It is not a manager's job to make sure that everyone is happy all the time. It is a manager's job to make sure the work gets accomplished. Even when everyone who works for you hates the policy, there are times when it is still the right decision for the business. You need, in these cases, to make sure the team understands that they have been heard but the decision stands and you expect that they will continue to do the jobs they are being paid for. If anyone can't do that after being warned that the performance is lacking, then I have no problem with the idea of letting them go. These people are a cancer in your organization and should be replaced by people with more maturity. Now it is true, it helps people deal with unpleasant but not going to change decisions, if, as a general rule, you do listen to concerns and act on them where possible. On the employee side, you need to talk to your manager immediately if you have an outside problem affecting your performance. Many things can be accommodated but the manager doesn't know there is a problem unless you tell him. The same thing with things that are blocking you from doing your job. Tell the manager as son as possible so action to clear the block can happen. If the employee is upset about some work decision. it can be discussed. But honestly if you start showing bad performance because of management decisions that are not likely to change, then you have lost all credibility with the manager and that is the action least likely to get a policy changed. You have to be an adult and accept that the workplace is not going to do everything the way you would prefer and that the time to offer alternatives is long before a decision is made. So the manager may listen to the problem, but honestly, it is not going to help him choose to go the way you want if your performance has fallen off. In your career, there will be thousands of times when decisions you don't like happen. It will happen in 100% of all workplaces. So you need to learn to separate your feelings about a particular decision from your work performance.