I am in the US, my guess would be related to the vapor capacity of warm air. Warmer air carries more moisture, when it is forced upwared in elevation the temperature drops allowing more moisture to precipitate out. This is even more noticeable if your in an orographic (moutaninous/Hilly) terrain. I am not familiar with the geology/geography of your area, however, I would like to vist some day. I am sure there are more details to my answer, that I just am not "advanced" enough to know now. Here is a link to a PDF that has some explanations. If your not a technical person, dont let the math formulas scare you. There is other information. $URL$ Cheers! 

To answer the radiation question, it is both absorbed and reflected into space. A lot of these processes are complex relations between atmosphere, magnetosphere, and solar radiation. Solar radiation does penetrate through as it drives everything we need or any creature needs to live, whether directly or indirectly. Aurora Borealis is caused by Solar radiation trapped in our atmosphere. This is why Ozone (O3) is so important as it does a massive support function of helping block those rays. Some of this radiation is reflected by the earth as thermal radiation. The magnetosphere also plays a role in capturing and diffusing such particles. A little more research may help, it is a very fascinating process. For more: $URL$ This was from courses in astronomy, hydrology, and my brain. Use wisely. 

Perhaps an easier question would be - what percentage of the earth has discovered oil/gas fields! This data should be easier to find than the surveys themselves, and can probably give you a rough estimate. For an idea of the publically available seismic surveys conducted around western Australia, this site ($URL$ can show you all of their stored survey data. Not sure where you could get other data though, sorry! 

Actually, there are plenty of alternative DC Inversion software; I hate using res2dinv; unfortunately it's relatively easy to get into. I would have much preferred ZondRes2D for it's user experience. Look up DC2DInvRes (Resistivity.net), and BERT by Thomas Gunther. You may need to contact Thomas for Bert codes, however it's all done in Python and easily read. Here is another one, but in matlab. ($URL$ Here in another, again in matlab. $URL$ 

OpendTect may do this, however getting to that stage would be a painful experience. Petrel can do this very easily, however, that is not anywhere near free... If you're a student, your department may have access to a few decent programs to achieve this. If you could find out what you have available, we might be of more help! 

If I had to guess, I'd attribute the difference to gravitational separation - as you said, continental crust is less dense than oceanic crust. I suppose chemically different magmas would seperate in a similar way.... Your question is a little difficult to understand sorry..! 

the cold air advection from the north east has driven temperatures down the cloud cover traps longwave radiation sort of like a blanket, keeping the night time temperatures from dropping also, the cloud cover prevents solar radiation from reaching the surface and warming it the relative humidity is near 100%, indicating that the dew point is nearly the same as the air temperature. Dew point serves as a minimum possible temperature, so this also prevents the air temperature from dropping precipitation traveling through the lower atmosphere will evaporate, having two effects: cooling the atmosphere and maintaining a high dew point 

1) No, there are many places in the ocean that receive more sunlight hours than many deserts. For instance, the west coasts of southern Africa and central South America. These locations are influenced by the very cold antarctic currents and high pressure from Hadley cells. 2) That very much depends on location. In general, a warm ocean will be cloudier than a cold one. The equatorial waters are particularly cloudy, while subtropical waters are generally less cloudy. Meanwhile, some land areas are very cloudy much of the year. For instance, Washington state is cloudy more often than not. Mountainous regions are also often cloudy. 3) Most of the incoming reaching the Earth's surface falls on the oceans. That is mostly due to the surface area of the oceans (~2/3 of the Earth). 

Inaccuracies are inherent based on a wide range of variables. In particular, the array type, as well as the inversion will affect the resistivity of any layer or body. Interpreting data based purely on apparent resistivity isn't a good idea at all! You should always try to invert the data to produce realistic conductivity distributions. The inaccuracies are caused by the path of the current through the Subsurface. This is why the array will affect the final result (different configurations drive current in different ways). Something unusually conductive will divert current towards the body, while resistive bodies will divertv away. To better estimate the Subsurface resistivity, you can constrain the inversion with prior knowledge. For example, sharp high contrast boundaries, which can affect the recovered values quite significantly, can be incorporated into most inversion algorithms to (usually) enhance the accuracy of the result. To answer your question, the inaccuracy is a product of the physics - instrumentation can only do so much before the physics kicks in. Hope this helps! (Please correct me if/where I'm wrong too!) 

Does anyone have experience with modelling seawater intrusion scenarios in Feflow? In my models, my mass-concentration seems to drive up into the unsaturated vadose zone, which I don't believe is correct. I'm using Feflow v7.1 with Richards unsaturated flow equations. 

(5) is only really a factor during the day when temperatures would normally be on the rise. The precipitation will keep the diurnal heating to a minimum. 

Examining two extreme cases, one very cold and the other very warm, the amount of precipitable water in the very cold one will be far less than that in the very warm one. Even fully saturated, the very cold air mass would need to be lifted quite high to form large enough ice crystals or water droplets to have enough mass to begin falling. Meanwhile, the warm air mass would produce larger droplets very quickly. Thus the warm air mass would begin to produce precipitation at a lower altitude, and with greater intensity. Because the air masses begin precipitating at different altitudes, the point of maximum intensity would also be lower for the warm air mass. 

Yes, these are the correct terms. The first equation is generally termed the 'surface radiation budget' and the second the 'surface energy budget'. As @Deditos pointed out, additional terms for biological storage and flux can be added and are in fact important sources when considering a microclimate, and these would generally be placed into the surface energy budget. Another form of the first equation is Rn = ϵLW↓ − σϵT_s^4 + (1−α)SW↓ Where ϵ is the longwave emissivity of the surface, σ is the Stephan-Boltzman constant, T_s is the surface temperature, and α is the albedo (see Huber et al., section 3.2). In certain circumstances, it is useful to set them equal to each other by solving for Rn, so you may also see ϵLW↓ − σϵT_s^4 + (1−α)SW↓ = G + H + LE + (S + B) Where B is the biological flux.