There doesn't seem to be much of a question here, but I'll bite anyway. Fuji makes bicycles comparable to any other large manufacturer. Your concerns when buying a used bicycle should not be about the quality of the manufacturer, but the qualities of the bicycle being purchased. Is it in good condition? Has it been well cared for? Are there signs of obvious misuse? Does the bike fit you? Is it suited for your particular needs? Can you find a better bike for a comparable price? Can you find an equivalent bike for a cheaper price? Unfortunately, we can't answer those questions for you, but they shouldn't be too hard to answer for yourself. 

I have wrapped bars both ways, and have never really noticed a difference. That said, I do now reverse the direction of the wraps due to personal preference. 

One option that sidesteps the question slightly is to learn how to do some of the more common maintenance items yourself. Most bike maintenance is actually quite simple when you have the proper tools. What I've found is that whenever I've needed service done, the cost of having a mechanic doing it is almost the same as purchasing everything I need to do it myself. Thereafter, it's much cheaper since I already have the necessary equipment. To segue back to your question, knowing how to do most of the basic maintenance on your bike makes it much easier to accurately evaluate the advice you receive from the mechanic at your LBS. Equally as important, if you can talk to the mechanic intelligently about components and repair, they're far less likely to even attempt to bullshit you in the first place. You'd be surprised at the difference in service between the complaints "My gears won't shift" and "My rear derailleur won't index properly any more. I've adjusted the barrel shifters and the B-screw, but shifting still isn't reliable. Any ideas?" As one quick example, I once took my bike in to my closest LBS to swap out some parts I didn't have the tools for. While the mechanic was performing the service, his assistant made a big deal out of checking my chain wear, then told me it was about time to replace it. Of course, the chain had less than 250 miles on it so I knew the claim was bunk on the face of it. And that was, not coincidentally, the last time I've been to that particular shop. 

Is it a road dropbar or a MTB riser style bar? These two images should prove useful. If it is a mountain bike style riser or straight bar it's quite simple. If it's a road bar most people (zipp) measure center to center of the drops. 

Maximum tire width is dependent on two main factors, clearance at the frame/fork, and the width of the rim. As for the frame clearance this can usually be visually inspected and easily distinguished if a larger tire than the present tire will cause issues. Brakes such as V-brakes or cantilevers may also cause clearance problems with some tires so attention should be paid to them as well. Mud or other debris should also be considered for mountain bikes and applications with fenders/mudguards. You should not run clearances so tight that one little pebble caught in the tread will hit the frame, fenders or other parts. Think of the difference between both sizes you are considering and then split that number in half, that is the distance you will need to be able to clear on either side of the tire at the chainstay essentially. So if there is a 4 mm difference in road tires, the new size will roughly add an additional 2mm onto either side of the existing tire is one way to think about it, but the top of the tire needs to also be checked as the new tire may also be taller in addition to the increased width. Knobs on MTB tires can also vary greatly and play a part in your decisions and fitment as well. One 2.25" tire may come out to be shorter than another more aggressive 2.25" tire due to the shape and size of the knobs. As for rim to tire interface there are multiple guidance charts available online that give a rough estimate if a tire is compatible with a certain rim width, such as this one from J&B Importer's, a bicycle parts distributor's catalog. As an example you can see that a rim width of 19mm (top row) should be compatible with tire width of 25mm/1.00" through 62mm or about 2.5". But seeing as 19mm is the lower end of that column somewhere in the 2.2/2.35 range would be a safer bet. 

I'll say it as bluntly as possible. The style of handlebars on a bicycle has absolutely no bearing on its suitability for winter conditions. 

My wife and I are planning a cycling trip through Europe. This will be our second, and we're planning to build a pair of dedicating touring bikes for this (and other) adventures. We'd like suggestions on how to most cheaply and reliably get our bikes from the United States to Europe. On our previous trip, we ended up having to change carriers, as Delta wanted to charge us a total of $1,600 ($200 per leg per bike, with two bikes and four legs round-trip) to get our bikes back and forth. We switched to Continental, who thankfully only charged an extra $400, but the experience makes us worry about future travel. What we're most worried about is the uncertainty: we may expect the fees to be one amount, but a change in oversize baggage surcharges or a disagreement over the policies with airline personnel could result in us being charged far more than is reasonable. And we may only find this out at checkin, which would be far too late to alter our plans. Thankfully, after getting conflicting information from two Delta staff members over the phone, I confirmed the excessive bicycle surcharge in time to change our flight. Next time, we might not be so lucky. Since we've decided to build our bikes, my first thought was to spend the extra money for S&S coupled frames (the awesome Surly Trucker DeLuxe) and a matching S&S hard case. This right now seems like the best approach, but it might be annoying with hub dyno powered lights. Two problems come to mind with this approach: 1) I ride a 62cm frame, which still may not fit into a regulation-sized case, and 2) airlines lose baggage all the time. I can't think of a more depressing situation than to wind up in Europe ready to go, with our bikes nowhere to be found. Another option is to skip the couplers and simply our bikes. From what I've seen, this is simply prohibitively expensive. For instance, Bikeflights quoted us over $2,000 to round-trip our two bikes in standard hardshell cases. Neither of these seem great, so I feel like we're stuck between a rock and a hard place. Does anyone with experience in traveling with bikes have suggestions? 

One side is for Presta and one is for Schrader. A presta will not work on a schrader and vise versa. 

The nut in the orange circle is what you need to remove on either side of the hub, there should be no use for a hammer in this application. Simply use an adjustable wrench on either side and remove counter clockwise. The yellowish green arrow points to a tensioner screw, which helps to tension the chain and properly space the axle in the dropout so that it is equal distance on either side. The blue oval is an issue, your chain should not be doing this and i'm not sure how that happened. Is the chain off the front chainring so that it is loose i assume? I would roll the wheel forward and fix this chain hang up before removing the wheel so that your not fighting it when you try and slide the axle back and out of the dropouts, 

This may not be an answer but it was too long to comment. When you compressed the pads did you open the system? Meaning uncapping the reservoir, or did you simply push them back without doing anything else? Sounds like air has gotten in the system and it will need to be bled. One of the steps of bleeding is creating a vacuum to pull air out of the fluid that isn't normally visible in bubble form. If the caliper pistons are pushed back without opening the system you may have done the opposite in a way and pressurized the system, then upon pulling the brake level you may have recreated a vacuum that pulled air from the fluid and caused an air bubble internally. That's the best way i can think to explain it anyway. 'Tis but a guess on my part but it sounds like a bleed is needed either way. Pulling the brake while there is no pad or bleed block in there is also a no no and will lead to having to bleed the system. Bottom line, bleed it or pay to have it properly done and i bet you're back in action. Also don't get fluid on the rotors or your new pads. and follow a proper bed in/burn in process. 

You should not be getting multiple flat tires in such a short timespan. I commute on poorly-maintained roads in Atlanta, and have not had a flat tire in 4,000 miles. In order of estimated likelihood, either: 

The frame is probably too big for you. I'm 6'2" and comfortably ride a 58cm frame. At 5'6", you will likely want something smaller. Use an online fit calculator or go into your LBS to get fitted. Carbon forks are a significant improvement over aluminum, and you can easily find inexpensive bikes with aluminum frames and carbon forks or completely carbon frame and fork. Unless you're getting a great deal on this frame, I suspect you can do much better for an equivalent price. If the fork is threaded (i.e., the steer tube has screw threads going up it), I'd pass. Virtually all road bikes nowadays use threadless steerers, so finding good threaded road stems is becoming more and more difficult. Any other component compatibility would need to be determined by your LBS. What's the threading of the BB shell? What's the dropout spacing? The condition of the frame would need to evaluated by your LBS. Are there cracks? Structural weaknesses? Aluminum fatigues constantly throughout use unlike steel or carbon. Steel can potentially last forever, while aluminum has a fundamentally limited lifespan. 

Most the bottles i have seen are dishwasher safe, top rack only, although i have washed some on the bottom without any obvious side effects, you may turn the heated dry off if your dishwasher has it though as they may warp. Many hydration products such as bottles and bladders are made of TPU (Thermoplastic Polyurethane) or some variation of it. One thing you might try is adding the juice of a lemon, filling it with water and sticking it in the freezer. Leave enough air/room so that it doesn't expand and burst. Once frozen, remove from the freezer and let thaw. For TPU hydration bladders this process works wonders. I would assume it could also help with bottles as well but have not personally tried it on a bottle. One other idea is a product from a company called Bottle Bright, which make a food safe, chlorine free tablet that is used to clean heavily used bottles. Their website can be seen here: Bottle Bright They are just a drop in tablet, and are safe for any kind of container. 

I am unsure of the equipment provisions that the UCI puts on cyclocross racing, though with that not being considered it is possible yes. A lot of people have converted older steel frames and road bikes into cyclocross bikes with great success. One thing to consider though is that the newer cyclocross frames generally have wider clearance for larger knobby tires than road specific frames have. So you may run into some clearance issues depending on how large of tire you would like to run. The geometry on cyclocross bikes is also a tad bit different than that of a road bike, but would likely not be a game changer for basic use. For it to be used for cyclocross racing depends on how loosely you are using that term and whether or not it fits in with the UCI's rules and regulations. If you do intend to use it in UCI sanctioned events the rules and regulations for frames and forks can be found here Other rules regarding cyclocross racing can be found here