The Adventures of Sherlock Holmes A Study in Scarlet The Valley of Fear The Sign of Four The Memoirs of Sherlock Holmes The Casebook of Sherlock Holmes The Return of Sherlock Holmes His Last Bow The Hound of the Baskervilles 

Freud expands on Jentsch's work in his 1919 essay "Das Unheimliche" (The Uncanny). There are several other lesser-known twentieth century European authors who also wrote about the uncanny who may have influenced Lewis's writing (although the vast majority of them were German). However, nowhere in Lewis's work does it imply that he actually acknowledged the existence of the idea of the uncanny; rather, it's more likely that he simply understood the concept of the "uncanny valley" but never realized it actually had a name. On the other hand, the writing about the uncanny during the time period of Lewis's life was more focused on how uncanniness actually made one feel, while the modern term refers to how a robot or automaton that too closely resembles a human can evoke a feeling of uncanniness. Since Lewis's writing more focuses on how such a resemblance of a human-like creature to a human can be uncanny, it's more likely that he did write about some form of the modern sense of the term. There's just no definitive answer to this. 

This could be interpreted several ways, but to me, I see this as the narrator's wondrous appreciation of the heavy snowfall. 

Since you only mention 2 laws in your question (at the time of writing this answer), I'll address those 2 laws. 

I couldn't find any evidence supporting the fact that Grisham based Strattenburg off of a real town instead of just a generic archetype of a small town. There's no canon evidence to support either side. However, I was still curious to see if Strattenburg bore any striking resemblances to some real towns in Pennsylvania. I went ahead and used this information, which is part of an official educational activity worksheet that serves as a companion to the books. Therefore, I'm assuming the information stated there is accurate. It states that: 

We can't be sure. The simple reason for this is, as you noted in your question, that the term itself was first used in 1970 and translated into English in 1978, meaning that Lewis certainly didn't use the modern meaning of the concept. However, that's not to say he didn't reference one of its predecessors. One such predecessor is that mentioned in Ernst Jentsch's 1906 essay "On the Psychology of the Uncanny", which is one of the first known discussions on the topic of uncanniness, which he defines as: 

It means his laugh was a hearty, good-natured laugh. There are really two ways you could've pieced this together: one, realize that the letter "k" is a common part of inherently funny words, which are simply words that can make people laugh without any other context. According to Wikipedia, (emphasis mine) 

This all seems to imply that at the very least a 5-6 hours, which I'd assume is enough to reset and remodel the room, passed between each of these prisoners being sent to Room 101. 

What's the purpose of such a detailed description? Personally, I've always thought that the thrush has had a greater symbolic meaning in the novel because its beautiful singing serves as a sharp contrast to the harshness of Oceanian society. Is there greater meaning in this passage that I'm missing? 

It serves to demonstrate the loneliness that the men, Esteban in particular, feel because of the Revolution. The men feel lost and disillusioned, and Esteban feels alone and isolated. The presence of the hidden hen is to show that Esteban wants to show compassion to something or someone in the aftermath of the Revolution. The hen is his own, from his yard, and Esteban dearly protects it as the men make their trek. He holds the hen by its legs to prevent it from hitting its head on the rocks. The hen is Rulfo's way of making a subtle jab at how the Revolution promised the peasants fertile, arable land, but instead delivers only a dry wasteland, which is essentially worthless for farming (which was the whole reason the Mexican Revolution occurred). 

Why does the narrator stop in the woods at all? There's no farmhouse nearby and there's seemingly no reason the narrator stops in the woods when he has a promise to keep and miles to travel. 

Lee does this to paint the whole Finch family as unconventional, reflecting upon the abnormal characters of Atticus, Jem, and Scout. In southern Alabama during the 1930's, society isn't very progressive, shown by the townspeople's negative attitudes towards African Americans. Similarly, in this setting, society expects children to address their parents with respect. It is within this society that the dynamic character of Atticus Finch is developed. In contrast to the other townspeople, Atticus is highly educated and progressive, defending the rights of the unrepresented. He wants his children to grow up with a forward-thinking mindset, just like him, questioning the world's opinions through rational thought and reason. Thus, one step towards doing this is to address their father as equal, showcasing Atticus's belief that all men are equal, regardless of age, gender, or race. For the exact reason of highlighting the unorthodoxy of the family, Jem and Scout call their father Atticus. 

It's not revealed anywhere in any canon sources as to what Mr. Radley's primary occupation was. It's also not addressed anywhere in the novel as to what is in the paper bag, other than the quote you refer in your question, so it probably is groceries. Everyone needs to eat, right? If you're wondering how Mr. Radley has the funds to keep buying groceries without a job, he probably does it through county welfare money, the same way the Ewells live. 

Using this Wikipedia article, only two Pennsylvania cities are close to the 75,000 mark stated in the worksheet: Bethlehem and Scranton. After narrowing it down to these two cities, I plugged both of them into Google Maps on a route to Chapel Hill. Bethlehem comes closest to the time stated, with an estimated time of arrival of 7 hours and 12 minutes, while a trip from Scranton is estimated to take 7 hours and 49 minutes. Lastly, Bethlehem even has the river that is referenced in the worksheet: the Lehigh River, which runs in the eastern portion of Pennsylvania. Thus, I think it's safe to say that although it's unknown whether Grisham based Strattenburg off of a real city, Bethlehem seems strikingly similar to Strattenburg if he did base it off of a real city. 

In addition to Mithrandir's answer, I think that the more significant rule Bilbo broke was that his "riddle" was more of a question whose answer could not be deduced. In essence, the rule is that the answer to the riddle that is asked must be able to be deduced from the actual riddle itself. In Bilbo's case, the answer to his riddle of "what's in my pocket?" is based on simply pure luck, and thus, the answer can't be deduced from the riddle. 

Generally, most totalitarian regimes in history have been atheistic, shunning any form of religion and creating a cult of mass worship towards the leader(s) of the government. Does this hold true for the Party in 1984, or does the Party endorse a religion? If so, what religion? I've done some background research on this, and I've found that Orwell was strongly against anti-Semitism. From Wikipedia: 

When Bilbo falls into Gollum's cave in The Hobbit and he finds the ring on the ground, why doesn't he immediately put it on? Is there any textual evidence suggesting he was scared or nervous of putting it on or did Tolkien make Bilbo not put the ring on so he could have his whole conversation/introduction with Gollum? 

This line hints that the narrator wants to spend more time observing the forest, but he has commitments to main and thus, has to continue on his journey. 

The second clue that gave it away was the context of the poem. In it, the narrator talks about how her grandfather used to spend time with her and have a deep, personal relationship with her. This is when the author brings the laugh sounding like the letter "k". Now, however, he is distant and so tired all the time, so much so that it feels as if he's not even there. 

Room 101 is a torture room based on your worst fear. In Winston's case, it's quite easy to find his worst fear (rats) because he is caught by the telescreen admitting to Julia that he hates rats when they see one in their private room. However, I'd assume that for many of the other prisoners, it might be significantly more difficult to discern their worst fear. If no incidents similar to what happened to Winston occur for any of the other prisoners and/or the prisoner isn't caught admitting they're scared of something in front of a telescreen or the Thought Police, how can Room 101 function as intended for them? 

Doyle makes Holmes notoriously good at analyzing footprints to determine the gender, age, and in some cases, the motivation for the exact path taken by the possible culprit. Footprints have been used in a similar way in real forensive investigations as far back as the nineteenth century. The second method I can think of that Holmes makes extensive use of is handwriting analysis. This plays a prominent role throughout the entire series, as Holmes is able to tell the age, gender, and dominant hand of the person writing the document. In many cases, he can determine the type of ink used, the native language of the writer, and how similar two pieces of handwritten work are. Victorian society placed a high emphasis on handwriting, which is why several law enforcement agencies use handwriting analysis before the time Doyle wrote Sherlock Holmes. Holmes definitely makes extensive use this technique, although Doyle does overexaggerate it quite a bit.