Remember the Heart Suttra. In emptiness, there is ...no eye, no nose, no ear, no mouth, ... Thus in emptiness there is no soul. The concept of man and woman are created by human beings. 

Because to create something from something else means to go against the law of cause and effect. Buddhist believe that if one plants orange seed, one will reap oranges. One plants apple seed, one will reap apples and so forth. One can't plant apple seed and reap oranges - it is totally absurd and illogical. One can't have something totally unrelated create something else totally unrelated. Thus buddhist does not believe in a creator. 

Renunciation! There must be renunciation from the bottom of your heart before you can be easy on your meditation. 

Samsara exist because there is enlightenment- free from Samara. Just like wealth exist because there are poor. Only if one is free from Samsara can one see Samsara. If everyone is in Samsara, then how can one see Samsara? That is what Buddha is here to teach 

That which is formless & beyond all attributes cannot be 'sensed' or perceive using a Sense of the Body (or even an Xray or Infra red vision). That which has no form, is infinite & all pervasive cannot be measured like an physical object with 'defined' dimensions. It 'comes' as an experience. :) It's not something you can switch on, on demand; Unless you are enlightened - Then you already know that everything is infinite. At that point your senses & your body and everything else is just a virtual construct. 

There have always been Masters like that all over the world. If you look for them, you will see there above lies your United Nations. Spirituality unites or actually reminds us its all one.. Union.. Yog. Ego & material nature of human beings draws lines & divides us into Nations. 

India, or I will refer to a more accurate word for the region currently labeled by the British as India; Bharat by its name & history has been the center of spiritual evolution & wisdom; flavors of knowledge & wisdom have emanated from that region. Each person & place has to play a role, something special to play its karma in the universe. So, while Americans always fight off alien invasions courtesy of their Hollywood machinery and brilliant influence on world pop culture, silently the spiritual flavors of ancient wisdom have been reaching the corners of the world over centuries or more. 

Its not really not trying to change anything. This probably stems from a bad interpretation of Zen/Chan Buddhism where one practice is to observe the mind. Thoughts that come whether good or bad will arise then pass so you can observe them realizing they are impermanent, non-self, etc or simply observe them without attaching to them. A Chan master taught a series of five techniques of increasing subtlety. All are misguided in some way apart from the fifth and ultimate method. 

A direct awareness of the arising of deluded thoughts. An examination of that awareness. The prevention of the arising of thoughts. The perception that thoughts have no intrinsic nature (that is, they are empty). Awareness of the arising of deluded thoughts without analysing or pursuing this awareness, so that thoughts are freed the instant they arise. 

It depends, there are three realms Desire, Form, Formless. Desire realm gods as the name suggests have desires and are more likely to be attached to their luxuries making it hard to study the Dharma. However, Form and Formless realm gods all attained their positions from high skill in meditation and are far less attached to desire and they probably don't find too much harder than us in following Buddhism 

Some people perceive impermanent as self, some perceive permanent as self. Both permanence and impermanence are self. The idea here is when the self perceives a permanent "impermanent" or permanent "permanent" then there is suffering when permanent "impermanent" becomes impermanent "impermanent". To be free from suffering, one must realize everything is impermanent - even have to realize that "impermanent" is impermanent. 

If the patient is a devout Christian and saying "may god bless you" helps him to recover, by all means say "may god bless you". If the patient is a BUDDHIST, saying "Namo Amitabha" and remembering the three refuge can be helpful.. 

there is suffering - the itch There is a cause of suffering - possibly any cause there is cessation of suffering - after 10sec the itch is gone- And this should be enlightening. but if you examine the itch instead of the object of meditation, the itch will be there, and there will be no progress. Focus on object of meditation. There are paths to the cessation of all suffering - Realising everything is the 3rd noble truth - What you're doing now, meditating and realising itch will go away. Ultimately everything will go away because, everything is empty. And because everything is empty, sentient beings didn't see it, they suffer, so compassion arises. 

Everyone, every place, every nation, every atom & molecule have to play their part in the universe which has been labeled as both: 

Which is the reason why people traveled to spread the word. Its also the reason why the missing years of Jesus, it is said he was in Bharat, in an area called Kashmir where his name has been found mentioned as 'Isa' or 'Issa' {pronounced: Eee- Saa - h} 

Given my time with the reading & practice of Zen, Buddhism & Sanatan dharma with a lot of spiritual people, I'll answer this from a different Point of View. Jayarava's answer is perfectly accurate to say why people in various places and cultures portray the enlightened Master the look up to in different ways. 

Adding a note since someone hit negative on my answer :) just because they disagree - opposite of what Buddha or any enlightened master teaches us. So, Masters did not belong to Nations. If anything, every time a Master has come to the planet, they have come to help whoever they can reach, directly or indirectly. Masters do not associate with Nations, Cultures or People, It is the Nations, Cultures and People who identify with associate with a Master. Hence, people take on rituals & rites, methods & flavors; and later even fight with other groups over those details. Masters do not create factions, they join everyone, or should I say they are here to "remind" and "make us realize" that we are already ONE. So, when they teach LOVE thy neighbor or Compassion, those are not for the other, but to for US, to realize the Oneness and practice it as something you are not doing for other, but for yourself :) Hence the term "self realization", reminding and realizing that we are the all-pervasive universe - everything & nothing. :) 

A person can choose between being a layman or a monk, but not both. Layman has to work to earn a living. Monks have to focus on the practice and uphold Buddhism. Both have complementary roles to play. Layman work to support the monks community. Monks pray for peace, harmony and success of the working community. 

You got it somehow. True self or true nature of the mind is luminous, reflecting everything as it is. It is the buddha itself. Everyone has this true self and everyone can follow the Buddha's path to realize the true self. 

In some schools of Buddhism, everything is mind. Even the random effects are created by mind, which is karma. In other words, the random effects do not exist outside the mind. Which means, since the random effects exist within the mind, it does create experience. 

There are many types of suffering and stress, anxiety, fear etc are mental sufferings. Thus wanting to be free from suffering is natural and knowing the path is the right view. 

Some Chan Teachings: Therefore you should not suppress concepts. Whenever they arise, if you do not fabricate anything but instead let them go, then they will stay as they are and come to rest by themselves; thus you will not pursue them. Some Chan teachings: When you are engaged in contemplation itself, look at your own mind. Then, the lack of any mental activity at all is non-thought. If there is movement of the conceptual mind, be aware of it. “How should one be aware?” Do not analyse the mind which is moving in terms of any kind of quality at all: do not analyse it as moving or not moving; do not analyse it as existing or not existing; do not analyse it as virtuous or non-virtuous; and do not analyse it as defiled or pure. If you are aware of mind in this way, it is natureless. This is the practice of the dharma path. 

People keep bringing up stuff like Hina used to mean something bad but this was thousands of years ago. Hina now just means small, the standard interpretation is that Hinayana schools only liberate themselves while Mahayana Bodhisattva's continuously liberate themselves as well as other sentient beings therefore it is compared to a Vehicle which is larger as it carries oneself and others as opposed to the Hinayana which only carries oneself.