I fully understand your point about buying a rack and panniers set, possibly involving a new frame/bicycle, so the following is just a suggestion for the long run. In the long run, it's no good for your back to carry heavy weights, especially when cycling as your back position is not optimal for carrying weights (depending also on how much do you lean on the handlebars). Also (touch wood) a fall with a heavy backpack is in principle (more cyclist mass=less acceleration) better, but in practice much worse than a fall with panniers, when the extra weight rests on the bicycle. Also, a backpack won't allow you to roll on the ground, happily dissipating excessive momentum during a fall (this is solely based on my own experience though, somebody might want to ask a dedicated question on this topic :) ). 

Because you said you have changed the chain a couple of times, I guess the problem is not again in the chain, because you would have it replaced. Hence my guess is that you have to replace the rear sprocket. The drive train wears in all its parts, but because of different mechanical functions and characteristics, some parts wear faster than others. After the chain, the next in the list of a single speed bicycle is the sprocket. Because of it size it wears faster than its front brother the crankset. A good tip would be to look at the shape of the sprocket teeth. If they look very asymmetrical, it's probably time to change it. I am not sure what the rear wheel axle would have to do with a chain slipping, and still have you ride the bicycle. 

Usually one only needs to remove the left cup to service the bottom bracket. With Fench/Italian BBs the right cup is usually so tight it's not worth even trying (I personally attempted two times but never succeded EDIT. I also managed to damage a Park Tool BB remover, worth 15 quids...) The left cup is always right threaded, in any case the lockring must have the same thread orientation of the cup. As for the oversized lockring, I have had a good rate of success using adjustable pliers, just hold them tight enough so to avoid losing grip. Finally, it's always worth repairing, or at least trying to! 

This a request for clarification rather than an answer (sorry, I don't have enough rep to comment yet). First thing to assess is the threading of the right cup. I assume the BB is English threaded, because it's a CB product; if this is correct then when you unscrew the right threaded left cup, the left threaded right cup would rotate in the same direction, hence would unscrew itself. Can you see a gap developing between the frame and the right cup when you unscrew the left cup? If my assumption were correct, the fact that they do not rotate more than 20 degrees might indicate that there's some sort of connection (intended or not) between the two. By unscrewing both sides simultaneously you are stretching the connection, hence the block at only 20 degrees. Finally, sorry if the following comments sound offensive. Depending on your experience in bicycle repairing: 

So, unless you really really know your abilities very well, and want to fine-tune your bike to be specifically fast for your abilities, I would recommend you look no further than perhaps the simple basic compact (50-34) on a 12-28 cassette. You'll be faster up hills once you build your strength, and you'll hardly ever spin out your hardest gear once you've built your cadence. 

Sitting down in your saddle for a long period of time - 200 to 300 km will see you sitting down anywhere between 8 and 18 hours (depending on ability and terrain). That is a VERY long time in the saddle even for an experienced rider with the best type of shorts / saddle. Nutrition - One does not simply ride for more than 3 hours without a tried and tested nutrition plan! Your body usually stores around 90 minutes worth of glycogen (at Tempo effort). This means that around that time, you should have already eaten and digested food, ready to be burnt up by your muscles. You should top up these reserves as often as possible, so that you do not go into a minus and become hypoglycemic (bonking). I usually eat a bar every hour on the hour, sip carbohydrate drinks every 15 minutes (700ml an hour) and I top up in between with gels. A typical 4 hour bike ride for me burns 3500 calories. Pro-riders easily go through 8000 cals a DAY! 

One may assume that you're a rider somewhere between 5'9 and 6'1. The best gear ratio for *SPEED will depend on your ability for a) high cadence and b) power in harder gears. Since I'm predominantly a roadie, I'll provide an answer based on road cycling / TT alone. Let me know if this is the incorrect context. Since we are talking about speed, I'll start with the harder gears (big ring in front and the small gear in the back). A lot of bikes ship with compact chainsets (a fairly recent trend have brought back doubles, 52s) which are a 50-34. That means that the big ring will have 50 teeth on it. For every pedal stroke, you will feed 50 gear linkages through your rear cassette. Thus for SPEED, for the fastest riding, you'll want your chain on the smallest gear in the back, which would typically be an 11 (or a 12, but let's assume an 11). So, if you're on the 50, for every pedal stroke you will force 50 chainlinks through an 11 tooth gear, which will turn the wheel times. If it's a typical 700c wheel with 23 road tyres, that's usually around say metres per turn, or metres per pedal stroke. Get that to 100 cadence (100 pedal strokes per minute, and you'll be cruising at over 57kph) ... ; But, unless you're a pro, you'll probably not be able to do that on the flat. Cadence. Cadence simply is the name for the number of pedal strokes you can do per minute. If you are better able to pedal at a high rate than at grinding a difficult gear, then you might get your bike above the same speed mentioned above, by spinning a 50 chainring through a 16 gear at about 147 cadence. I know of track riders who ride fixed gear 48 on 16 and in sprints can get to 180 cadence, which is over 75kph. *SPEED: Assumes the fastest speed you can ride the bike.