Hydrostatic rating on a tent is the highest column of water a material can withstand for up to one minute before the water starts to penetrate (assuming good seams, no damage etc) The ratings translate as follows (have seen these quoted in a couple of places, this is from campingcrazy.com) 

I have a few colleagues who have done this, and one team who did it with a colleague in a wheelchair. They are all reasonably fit, but the day job is desk-based, so if you have managed Kili easily, and train regularly, I can't imagine you will have many problems. I'd suggest you go for it. You will have no issues with altitude, as the three peaks are not high, but some parts of the route are over scree, so it is worthwhile finding a local scree slope to train on, to help avoid injury when travelling fast. 

However, as you have indicated, it may not be the ideal course upwind - for example if the sea is choppy a close hauled course may mean every wave halts the boat. Your close reach may be better so you can flow over the waves. You will be a couple of points lower off the wind, so will need to tack more, but if your speed across the water makes up for this then that may be the way to go. This varies a lot with the type of boat. Monohulls point much higher than catamarans, but catamarans are still faster over most courses simply because of the much high speed across water. Square riggers cannot point very high at all - in fact they are so bad at it, they used to choose routes specifically to avoid it. 

Sulfur is often suggested for natural mosquito repellents. I've seen recommendations for taking sulfur pills, making sulfur creams, or applying sulfur powders. According to the Colorado State University Extension, the sulfur content of cloves is the science behind garlic-based repellents or recommendations to consume garlic. That said, I would not think eating a match head to be any way to get sulfur into your body. A safety match head is mostly potassium chlorate fixed to ground glass. A strike-anywhere match head will have phosphorous in it as well. 

Heat illnesses are about heat, not light, and while the two are not unrelated, the hue of your clothing would be a very minor factor— red would not provide better or worse protection than green or blue or any other part of the visible spectrum. The shade may have some impact: since darker clothing absorbs more energy than lighter clothing, it warms up and stays warm in sunlight. Various guides will advise wearing light colored clothing— better a light red than a dark blue, but better a light blue than a dark red. But heat stroke can be a danger even for a well-hydrated athlete even on an overcast day. Breathability and fit are more important for choosing heat-appropriate clothing, and clothing is only one consideration among many. 

It will not matter which way the fletching runs on arrows for left or right handed archers, however right handed fletching tools will be harder for a left hander to use, as you would need to change the angle of your hand. Any angling of the fletching will produce spin on the arrow, however this is not going to affect the shot of a right or left hander, for the simple fact that once it leaves the bow, the spin direction is irrelevant, and during that first short time between releasing the arrow and it passing beyond the bow, there should not be any spin on the arrow. 

While the majority of national forests in the US and the UK are forested, there are also wide areas included within the boundaries that may be mountains, plains, lakes etc. Often the boundaries are a legacy of when the area was originally defined - sometimes forest has retreated, sometimes the boundary was defined to include lands which appeared to be used by particular animal herds etc. Simplest is to assume that the majority is forested, but in any area you are heading to you may encounter other land usage. 

That being said, you don't actually have the Western Painted Turtle in Ohio. What you have is the Midland Painted Turtle, Chrysemys picta marginata. According to Ohio DNR Wildlife: 

We love crows! I live in America, where there are three main breeds of crow, including American Crows, Fish Crows, and Northwestern Crows. They're a bit different from the Common ravens, and other ravens, found in some other parts of the world. Although there are many varieties of each, their diets are fairly similar, so to make it easy for me, I'll call them all crows from here on! Crows are omnivores, and variety is important for their health. Their staple diet, however, is meat in many forms. Since other answers and comments have thoroughly covered that, I'll add a few other things that may work for you. Seeds and nuts: In my experience, like yours, crows don't really like bird seed, especially the small seeds we feed the songbirds. They will eat larger seeds, though, like sunflower, (which are plentiful in my yard as that's what we feed our birds year-round) and pumpkin. Crows love nuts! We feed whole, unsalted peanuts in the shell. They take one, crack it on a nearby rock, and pick out the nuts. If we try to make it easier by putting out individual nuts, they will eat them, but if we feed both, they always choose the whole. The same is true of walnuts and almonds, so there must be a desire to work for their food, which probably stems from the same instinct as pulling apart road kill. Berries and fruit: For much of the year, crows easily find berries and fruit on their own. They'll eat almost any wild food growing on trees in the woods, or on bushes or vines around your yard. Even things that are poisonous to people are fine food for crows. Some examples are poison oak, sumac, dogwood, and pokeberry. If you've invited crows into your yard, make sure to provide fruit year-round. Grapes, cherries, apples, cranberries, blueberries and figs are all good choices. Our crows won't eat anything in the citrus family, but your birds might. Grains: Our crows love dehydrated corn. We sprinkle loose kernels from a bag around the yard, and they're gone in a flash! The same corn is available on the cob. These are multi-purpose. Many of our larger birds like them, and they're a huge favorite of other backyard visitors, especially squirrels and chipmunks. I've read that crows like other grains like barley and wheat, but I haven't tried those. Miscellaneous: Our crows like whole hard-boiled eggs. We take the shells off, but it's probably not necessary. Crows also eat a variety of things that wash up on the beach. I wonder what the fish-equivalent name is to road kill. Maybe ocean kill?! You could try putting out dishes of fish carcass and leftover raw shellfish, but I haven't done it. Backyard: Lots of living things in the yard appeal to crows, including insects, worms, spiders and small animals like frogs. Contrary to what some people say, crows can benefit the yard, as they eat the types of grubs and insects that endanger plants and food crops. They do eat some rodents, small birds, and nest eggs, but if we keep the crows well-fed, our other creatures are safer than we think. As @michael mentioned, crows are very intelligent, and ravens even moreso. They're also quite sociable, and are content to let you sit nearby while they wander around the yard. A friend of mine in Florida has a crow that will take a nut or hunk of meat right out of her hand. Establishing a relationship like that takes time, but is well worth it! As for being noisy while they eat, I haven't found that to be true. They may squawk when they're hungry, but they seem to make more noise in the trees than on the lawn, or at the feeding areas in our yard. I happen to love the sound, but I love all animal sounds, so I might not be the right one to give you an opinion! Ravens seem to have a wider variety of calls than crows, some being less ear-piercing and more tolerable. The diet we use was chosen from a number of sources, and customized by trial and error. The sources include, but are not limited to: Cornell Lab of Ornithology How to Attract Crows to Your Backyard The Language of Crows Audubon Bird Guide I hope things that have worked for us will help you. Please let us know! 

What my local climbing arena does is have multiple routes up every wall. They overlap, sometimes on flat surfaces, sometimes on real rock, sometimes on artificial (extra grippy) rock. 

Not really, no. What strengthens skin is damaging it, either by rubbing or by cutting/scuffing, so you end up with either thicker/rougher tissue or even scar tissue. I would imagine running through long sharp grass every day could do this quite well but it would not be fun. 

While it can be useful if you are really out in the wilds, say in the Amazon jungle, and using a machete to clear every step, I wouldn't expect to carry a knife sharpener for a trip under a week. For short, non-jungle expeditions, A swiss army knife with a couple of blades is often enough for most people. To summarise - it can be necessary for longer trips, or for overgrown jungle, but for many it won't. 

If you really do need exceptional accuracy, you could use the solution many Ingress players use - a good Android phone with a battery pack. In the game you often need accuracy of 2 or 3 metres - so the Galaxy S3 or a phone paired with the Nexus 7 (which has an excellend GPS) are the tools of choice. The game uses google maps and wireless navigation, as well as the inbuilt compass and accelerometers. My battery pack (a 12000mAh one I picked up for about £25) is only slightly larger than my S3 so the pair are easy to fit in my trouser or jacket pocket. To be honest though, even my Garmin eTrek has accuracy better than 10m, which for walking and cycling should be far more than enough. Can you describe what your specific need is that requires this sort of accuracy. I can't think of any time I would need it when hiking, cycling or exploring... 

While there are a number of recognized sub-species of Canada geese, this question pertains to the main species, Branta canadensis. This answer to a question asking how many hours a day Canada Geese sleep, mentioned a sentinel goose. It seems that the function of the sentinel goose is to guard the flock while they're asleep. These geese switch off during the night, so that none are responsible for the whole time. Some animals have a certain gender which is responsible for the safety of the group, and I wonder if this is true with the Canada Goose. The male and female look almost exactly the same, although the male is a bit larger, so unless we see them standing together, it would be very difficult to tell by looking. Is the sentinel (guard) goose always a male, always a female, or does it vary? 

I'm interested in the definition and usage of irruption, and what it means in the context of bird behavior and bird watching. I understand that birds, including owls, have migration patterns. Is irruption a migratory behavior? If not, what makes it different? Is it something that happens only with owls, or with other birds too? Can a layman tell by observing a bird if it is one that irrupts, and, if so, whether or not it's in a period of irruption? 

Simply put, a cache is hidden at a particular location, and clues are provided (usually via a website, but any media can work) so that searchers can find it. The usual plan is then to open the cache, take an item from it and replace it with something you have brought, and then note your discovery either on a log in the cache or on the website. Geocoins are often left in caches, and are trackable, giving people an opportunity to collect sets online before leaving the geocoin in another cache. 

Condensation is usually caused by high humidity combined with a temperature differential. It sounds like you have a very humid atmosphere, which in a tent is added to by the high moisture content of your breath, and if you are warm at night, also sweat. It doesn't need to be that cold, especially not if the humidity is really high, but a temperature drop at night could cause a fair amount of condensation. 

One aspect not yet touched on is that for beginner climbers, upper body strength is not actually as important as you might imagine. If we exclude overhangs (which is reasonable for early stages of training) then legs really are where all the power requirement sits. In fact when teaching folks on climbing walls, most of my effort has been in persuading people to relax their grip, lean in, and even let go entirely when resting, in order to focus their attention on legs for lift and arms for control You can climb at a basic level, if you can walk up stairs. As you progress, you will find the areas you need to develop strength. If you are like me (strong, but should be lighter) overhangs present a challenge to be passed as fast a possible before lactic acid buildup puts a stop to things, whereas my teenage kids find that sort of thing really easy. 

You can find wild berries growing in vacant lots and along roadsides even in the city— although I wouldn't venture to eat them, as they will have absorbed various toxins from traffic or polluted soil. You'll find blackberry family bushes (dewberries, thimbleberries) in moist areas along the coast or along stream beds. In the mountains you will find gooseberries and wild currants. They also taught us in the Scouts that wild grapes and wild strawberries were to be found, but I've never come across any; you may have to go literally off the beaten path to find them. 

(answer for previous question about sunburn) Perhaps one would wear red clothing to hide a sunburn, or make it less noticeable. For prevention, however, there is no scientific basis to prefer any color. Sunburns are caused by ultraviolet light, whose waves are outside the spectrum of human vision. The hue of whatever garment you are wearing has no bearing at all; you can even purchase black UPF-rated clothing. Rather, a garment's thickness, the tightness of its fabric weave, and the UV-reflective qualities of its dyes are more important. 

I have heard of a wide range of stories where people were saved using some string, a piece of flint etc. (A related example from earlier this month is reported in the Hamilton Advertiser where a boy used the laces from his trousers to save a dog.) and if they had had a survival kit they would have used that, but the problem is that most people do not carry a survival kit. The only people who regularly do tend to be military, and their kits do get used - records are available on 2nd World War aircrew who had to bail out over enemy lands, or more recently Andy McNab described using some of his emergency kit in the middle east in Bravo Two-Zero. Some paracord was even used by astronauts during STS-82, the second Space Shuttle mission to repair the Hubble Space Telescope! More anecdotally, my father once had to use paracord to tie Prusik knots to get up out of a crevasse (not sure whether it was Antarctica or Greenland) - not a full emergency, as the rest of the team had possible alternatives, but a good practical use, nonetheless. 

The colors were red, yellow, green, blue, purple, white, silver and black. They monitored several species of backyard visitors, including sparrows. Their research showed that sparrows preferred green, with blue a very close second. Here is a detailed graph, separated by birds and by their chosen color. The highly respected Royal Society for the Protection of Birds reported on a similar study by the British Trust for Ornithology in Do different colored bird feeders attract different birds?. They used more colors and a broader group of birds. Their findings varied among the species, and the types of food they ate. Nevertheless, it's interesting to note that many of the backyard visitors preferred blue feeders in the summer, and silver in the winter. 

Multiple sources agree that when sand dollars die, they can't hold on to the ocean floor. They wash up on the beach, where over time the sun bleaches the color out. The prevalence of dead sand-dollars on the California Coast beaches seems to be in proportion to their numbers, and the usual cycle of life, not necessarily to an event that precipitates early death. Interestingly, the sand dollar in your picture has a dark tint to it. I don't know if that's just the nature of the picture, or if it's recently deceased. The only time we're ever supposed to touch a sand dollar is if we genuinely suspect that it's alive. It would have to be very dark. Obviously if it appears to be walking, you should suspect life! If you find a stationary dark one, look closely on its back for a furry texture. If you see that, you can lift it gently, and, while holding it upright, look at the bottom. If you see a lot of spines, or any moving spines, walk a few feet out into the water and gently set it down in the sand, not just in the water. Barnacles can live for a period of time on a dead host, but once it's out of the water for a while, it too runs out of food. It will pass away and leave the shell empty. That's why barnacles on old, dried up logs and other hosts high on the beach are empty. If you have any suspicion that there's a live barnacle, absolutely do not touch it. It's not always easy to tell without experience, so we should never disturb a barnacle unless it's obviously empty. Interestingly, sometimes tiny hermit crabs will take up residence in an empty barnacle shell. That's another reason why we must look closely before touching them. I'll leave you with this fun fact from the Monterey Bay Aquarium about how a barnacle becomes a barnacle: 

Wash in cool water (less than 30°C) and use a mild detergent, either in a bath, or in the shower. Some people place it in the shower while they wash. Gentle brushing can help remove grit or sand, but be wary of abrading the strands. To machine wash, pop the rope in a pillowcase and use a ‘delicate wash’. Some recommend daisy-chaining the rope first to hero keep it tangle free. Generally treating a rope like a delicate wool article is a handy rule of thumb. Once washed, hang it indoors, in a dark, cool area, and allow it to dry naturally. 

I would suggest mounting it either on the back of your pack, and allowing the camera to hang lens down, or on the top if you have a pack wide enough to avoid it hitting your head. 

These give finger, hand, wrist and forearm strength - worthwhile using them together. The thing I'm not so good at is toughening up the backs of my fingers. I play guitar, so my fingertips are nicely callused, but I always scuff the backs of my fingers when trying to jam into cracks.