You're planning to move to the rich country of Lycania (names are a work in progress, ok?), a country as big as the USA plus half of Canada, where you have been offered a good position which would make you earn far more than your current job, giving you an alternative to a mediocre life. Lycania is the one true first world country in a slowly decaying world, and there are people who would [literally] kill to live there. 

We see it in the caduceus of Hermes and the thyrsus of Dionysos, both gods with tangible magical powers. The symbol pre-dates Ancient Greece--Thoth, commonly associated with magic, is depicted with a staff. The symbol was formalized in the hermetic tradition, in the suite of clubs. In Tarot decks, clubs are known as "staves", "rods" or "wands", and their domain is fire. Fire fundamentally represents power in the form of energy. Note that in the Rider-Waite Ace of Wands, the staff depicted is the thyrsus: Even Zeus' lightening bolts are a form of staff, and constitute something of an ultimate weapon, as demonstrated by Zeus' vanquishing of Typhon, and it's important to note that the symbol was also associated with temporal power and authority, which Wizards often wield. This form of the staff is commonly known as a sceptre. CONCLUSION: As to why the staff increases power, it almost certainly has to do with the phallic nature of the symbol/object. Hermes was quite literally a phallic god in that his earliest representations are "hermas", simple columns of rock or wood (pun intended;) The honey-dripping thyrsus is overtly phallic. Typically feminine power is receptive (the suit of cups/grail) where male generative power is active. Thus the staff is a symbol of the active exercise of power, spiritual and temporal. 

You are already considerably wealthy and well connected (this implies that the job in Lycania would make you filthy rich in a few years' time by the way) 

The catch: Lycania's original inhabitants are werewolves. While most of them are quite accustomed to their culture and remain within their isolated nation bordered by snow lands to the South, and at North only the sea, immigrants go through the struggle of fighting for survival once a month. The amount of control Lycans have over their wolven self is not uniform: some rely purely on animal instinct, some have a great degree of control on their monthly powers, turning said control sometimes towards avoiding beastly actions, in other cases towards evil uses. The Lycan governement limits the amount of damage by doing all they can to limit access to government owned dangerous facilities and equipment (military vehicles and weapons primarily), but in this society of natural hunters guns and other simple weapons are not that hard to come by - think USA - as if the werewolf nature wasn't enough to make them dangerous. 

(See the Free Will Theorem.) Computing is based on decisions, and decisions are an expression of "will". Since you use a religious context, tying it into this issue of central importance in modern religions would greatly strengthen the work. 

In this case, the heavier blade is a bonus because it can have sufficient momentum to incapacitate the opponent. This is similar to the type of advantage long blades such as the Claymore confer--the arc of the swing requires defenders to stay out of it's path and forestall closing quickly, even when the great sword wielder is temporarily oriented in a different direction, although it probably works best in conjunction with plate armor. 

I am trying to establish a few guidelines for a story I recently started jotting down, based in a seafaring city-state. The setting is a fantasy world and I would like to have some degree of realism in how they go from year 0 when the first settlers land on my island in a primitive canoe to year 4000 when they build ships that have a crew of hundreds and use sails as primary propulsion method. Being ignorant in the matter I looked up the maritime history of the world and tried to sum it up in the following timeline. 

I'd also use postmodernism in presenting the conflict. The Trojan war is generally held to be a result of the "abduction" of Helen by Paris. The reality is that Troy held an incredibly powerful strategic position, and dominated trade between the Euxine (Black) Sea and the Aegean. If the Trojan war actually occurred, it was almost certainly about economic control of the region. Even the pretext of Helen is illuminating. WWI has been cast by respected historians as a war fought for no real reason, other than Europe has become a power keg in the wake of the success of Fredrick of Prussia's regimental system. (Critiques of Keegan rely on a romanticized view of warfare as an "extension of politics by other means", but should more properly be cast as an "extension of economic and political hegemony by other means.") WWI can be viewed as an unfortunate outcome of inciting event in which actors in the war were obligated by treaty to take part. 

Your means are such that your purchase power and connections are those of an average working class person 

Is this realistic compared to real history examples? Furthermore, which distances from other islands / the mainland would render the timeline of exploration believable? If the timeline is too short I would rather start from a more advanced technology as it makes the most sense for my other assumptions in the development of the city. 

Going into space, for instance, would require autonomous agents. Since biology is what the superintelligence has to work with, the tools it creates are biological. The autonomous agents could then make tools out of inorganic substances, and develop any technology humans currently have. The cool thing though, is that you wouldn't be confined to a single, intelligent, autonomous "proxy" species--you could have entire classes of intelligent species optimized for specific tasks. 

I will edit/add to these if necessary, please point out if you believe they're not consistent, or lack something, as it's still a work in progress 

You want desperately to take the job, but you wouldn't mind surviving decently past the age of <insert your age here>. You (individually and/or via your employer who will likely offer a solution to help you as part of the benefits) need a plan that can guarantee you high chances of survival (>90%) for multiple full moons - ideally an infinite amount of them, but if you make it for a few months you'll have been around long enough to find alternatives as well, and will have saved enough to have better alternatives. As it may have a huge impact, you can consider two separate cases: 

You may want to look a the New Sun trilogy by Gene Wolfe. It's an extraordinary feat of worldbuilding (Wolfe is regarded as the "scifi writers' writer", a term of profound respect for his vision and execution.) In this series, the world is so old, the ages of history are marked by the exhaustion of different resources, such as iron. 

You're asking about "unknown unknowns" (threats they wouldn't be aware of until months after building.) Game Theory tells us that in a condition of uncertainty, always assume the worst, and make decisions accordingly. In this conception, building the colony in a bunker, deep in the planet's surface is probably the safest course of action. But there is also the concept of acceptable risk, and the idea that you don't necessarily make decisions based on highly improbably circumstances. What is the net benefit vs. the risk of building on the surface? Really, it's going to depend on all of the known factors comprising the rest of your world/scenario. 

In answering I am mostly going to focus on Christianity, but it is equally applicable to other religions. I am of course focusing on the 'verse we are in, as who knows what kind of religious systems other 'verses have... Religions are not always blind to science Many modern religions are not solely based on faith anymore, but rather try to correlate science and our modern world to the scriptures and traditions of their own religion. This is not only true of the average believer but also for the head figures of these religions, despite the news and the common stereotypical perception generally assuming that believing in a religion implies giving absolute priority to literal interpretation of whatever sacred text to any scientifically proven fact. Specifically for the Catholic Church, it is the official position of the Church now that while the Scriptures are generally infallible, as word of God, they have been expressed in written words by individuals limited to a human understanding of the world, and by their culture. That is to say that specific religion, like others do, believes that not all of their scriptures and traditions are to be taken literally or as absolutes. Not all churches are as close minded as it's commonly thought, and while they may take longer than others for them to react to new scientific discoveries, they don't ignore them on grounds of a fixed system of beliefs solely centered around blind faith. As an interesting anecdote, even the rather well known story of Galileo Galilei and Copernicanism didn't exactly go as it is usually told. While at some point the Church denounced Copernicus' theory to be against the scriptures, they had been initially open to considering it as a plausible option, and got to more drastic measures only after Galileo had insisted that the theory, including many assumptions that were wildly wrong, was to be considered right despite being yet unproven and as such considered the true interpretation of the scriptures (this represented a problem for the Catholic Church as personal interpretation of the Bible was one of the staples of Protestantism). This shows that even in the past religions have not always been as narrow minded as one may think - I do agree that some still had a dangerous tendency to declare some thoughts as heretic a tad too easily. Changes in existing religions As a consequence of what I outlined above, a more than reasonable number of religions will accept the discovery in due time, and look at their scriptures, rituals, traditions, to re-interpret them with the new information provided by science. They might accept a new interpretation, find an explanation to parts of their tradition until now accepted as pure faith, or in some cases lose faith as they cannot find a way to justify an information they accept as true as scientifically proven with what they believed in so far - this last case being more prominent in churches where the focus is on personal interpretations of the teachings of that religion. Some may continue to be believers, accepting by faith that there is some way to reconcile two apparently conflicting truths; this is what many believers do nowadays, trusting in science but following a religion cause they have reasons to believe it is the true religion, despite not understanding 100% of it. Less open-minded religions and more "extreme" believers, as said in other answers, will simply ignore the science and happily go on with their lives as they do nowadays. New religions and hypotheses in current ones Both as a current of thought in already existing religions, and in the form of brand new religions, people will start questioning wether god, the gods, angelic/demonic beings, or yet other entities, are creatures from another 'verse or somehow not belonging to any of them, who somehow have a degree of influence on ours. Is the Christian god one of such entities, normally having no physical body and somehow out of the 'verses? Jesus a part of his essence become physical and moved into our 'verse, the Holy Spirit a part / parts of his essence in our 'verse without a physical body? Is this essence constituted by eletric impulses like the ones in our brain, and can therefore affect our world in multiple ways (miracles), and the body of regular people it inhabits (saints, the apostles, prophets...) assisting the regular mechanics of their biology? This would be an empirical attempt to explain the nature of the triune God in light of the new findings, the effects of the Holy Spirit, etc. At the same time other christians will go on assuming God has nothing to do with the Multiverse at all and somehow trascends the reality explainable by science. Someone else might start anew and state that the circles in Nazca are portals to rest of the Multiverse, left to us by a god so that we can someday use them. Or there could be a return of the older type of religion, where divinities were thought to have an impact on nature: perhaps there really are divine beings from someverse else who can manipulate the physics of our world to cause events that we believed so far to only be controlled by the laws of nature. While these are only examples made up without solid reasoning, it is plausible for any of them to become real in such an environment. New religions or religious currents within pre-existing faiths start all the time with the flimsiest of pretexts, I can easily see some of them making the scientific proof of the Multiverse having the same effect.