If you want to add running training tailored towards explosive power then look towards doing interval training (lots of posts online about this). Your running schedule is fine. Finally, your goal for running (be fit) isn't a good one. Pick a time (5 min mile), distance (complete a 10k run) or event (Spartan/tough mudder/marathon) and have that as your goal so you can tailor your running plan to meet it. 

YES The weights they use in those videos are still geared towards "cardio with resistance". IT is fine to mix both, "les mills body pump classes" do exactly this and have been effective for people wishing to increase their cardio activity. 

To conclude: You will never be able to change your body in the speed with which a young person can change their body. Sleep and diet are both very important to shaping your body. Go to the gym 3 times a week and pick a established programme to stick to. Gaining muscle AND lose fat is not a pleasant or easy experience. Use the principle of cutting/bulking to gain muscle and then lose fat. Working out at a calorie surplus to gain muscle and then working out at a calorie deficit to cut excess fat. At the end of the day you need to set goals and then exercise in a way that meets them: 

When I started squatting, I had trouble with balance, hip mobility, and ankle mobility. The mobility issues plus lack of proprioception in my back caused balance issues. Squatting more helped. I did third world squats throughout the day and kept squatting every workout. I recommend warming the ankles up with lots of joint rotations (e.g. 20 in both directions) and more squatting. The squatting ankle stretch is very productive. It is performed here by Catalyst Athletics with bodyweight, but can be assisted with a dumbbell, barbell, or other weight on the top of the thighs or knees: 

There are many ways to press a weight overhead. What you describe are a (1) a specific trick used in several overhead press styles, called a 'lay back' or a 'lumbar tilt' (it's unclear from your description which you're using) and (2) a strict military press: 

I'm a fan of the following progression(1), which is the simplest I've seen that hits all the major movements (press, pull, squat, hinge). The beauty of the workout is that each exercise warms up the next one. It goes like so, adding weight to the bar both between and within each step: 

Preface: Why should you listen to me? I have created fitness plans that, most importantly, people have stuck to and seen progress on. There is no point prescribing a program you won't follow for more than 3 months. I am a level 2 fitness instructor (UK qualification). In terms of DYEL BRO I am at the top end of intermediate in all lifts (Power/Olympic/Crossfit). Background Fitness You clearly can run well, I'm personally training for my first half-marathon and my running is very average but I know that a sub 20min run take a lot of dedication. Fortunately running programming is fairly simple to plan and to follow. You aren't fat but want to get a lower body fat, this makes that task hard. What also makes your task harder is you want to make strength gains while losing body-fat. It is do-able, just hard. Goals Your goals are a bit all over the place, you have quite a few conflicting ones: you say you want functional strength but tote the starting strength book and a arbitrary strength standard you want to meet. In order of difficulty (for you) here are your goals: 

This is because I recognize my ability to build muscle is limited, so I avoid the hypertrophic rep ranges entirely. I can do this because my goals are health, strength, and power. If my goal was muscle mass then I might disregard my calorie deficit, work in the 6-12 range, and recognize that my recovery ability is going to be strained. Regardless of my goals, any cutting diet should be high in protein in order to minimize the negative effects of a caloric deficit. Protein is dense and satiating, which helps with coping with hunger, and high-protein diets have been shown to encourage the body to spare muscle. 

If a circuit is good enough, then follow their program. But it seems pretty clear to most people that a barbell program similar to Starting Strength, while perhaps not perfectly ideal, is vastly superior to a circuit of machines. If you believe that, and the trainers can't help you with that, why listen to the trainers? It's entirely possible that they'll tell you to half-squat, deadlift with a rounded back, press with a knee push, or do power cleans with a donkey kick. Listening to that kind of advice would be dumb. You need to trust that their form is correct before you listen to their advice about the exercises from the book. So: 2, or if you're confident that they know their stuff, 3. If they balk at 3, screw them and do 2. 

STRONGLIFTS Equipment: A gym with a barbell, bench, deadlift platform & squat rack. Week A: On Monday, Weds and Fri: 

Background: I'm reasonably fit, I run and cycle fairly regularly (at least 10k run total a week and 40k cycle) as well as some weightlifting (3x a week, currently running GSLP). My running schedule usually consists of: 

Isometric exercise aka 'isometrics' are a type of strength training in which the joint angle and muscle length do not change during contraction (compared to concentric or eccentric contractions, called dynamic/isotonic movements). Isometrics are done in static positions, rather than being dynamic through a range of motion. The Plank is one of the most popular isometric exercise, as it challenges many core muscles. Critical Analysis Isometric exercises allow for more force generation than concentric exercises because they are not "overcoming" -- you're not actually moving the load, which affects how the cross-bridges cycle (but note that actin/myosin do still cycle during isometric contraction, in humans). Additionally, isometric muscle action is important to coaches who emphasize the triphasic model of movement because these coaches believe that movement is not eccentric -> concentric contraction, but eccentric -> isometric -> concentric. Thus, these coaches like to train the isometric component of movement. Furthermore, the Soviet system placed a lot of emphasis on explosive isometric training, again influenced by the triphasic model as well as research that demonstrated some pretty impressive improvements. There were some issues with joint angles and things but I won't get into that here. The Isometric lifting is a valuable training tool, but it should not be the focus of your training program. Instead, perform functional lifts, which closely resemble athletic movements 

Your program looks well designed and well followed, and none of what you've mentioned suggests overtraining in the normal sense. However, working out is literally a form of stress. It's supposed to be a manageable stress. If you're concerned about the physiological stress of working out affecting your condition, or if you're worried about overtraining, I'd focus on getting more sleep. Six to eight hours is frankly not that much for most people. 

Some gyms also have "safety squat bars" that don't require reaching behind one's back to grip the bar. Weight vests also provide a way to add load without exacerbating shoulder issues. These both could be a good solutions for you. 

You might not need to warm up your calves more. You might just be dehydrated. Try reducing caffeine consumption, increasing water consumption, monitor your salt intake (if you're eating a ton of processed food, do that less, if you're eating all whole foods, make sure you get enough salt). I've heard potassium could help, but I've also heard it's a myth, so eat a banana during the day anyway because they're delicious. Don't do static stretches before your workout. It will weaken the muscle and make it more prone to injury. Instead, do a warm-up with dynamic stretches. 

You are right, you can't recover as well as you could when you were in college. Such is the nature of the human body. However, you can do a few things to give your body the best chance at recovering: 

Day 2 will be the hardest day, as you will have to cross the Dolma la pass, at 18,471ft (5630m). This pass is blocked by snow until April. 

If someone basically only do crunches (or other exercises with a similar contraction) for his abs (many people seem to be in this group), what would be the result? You would get good at doing lots of crunches. Would this be unhealthy? Maybe, might want to use a small mat to protect your lower spine form the floor. If you manage to keep the high volume of just crunches up your will get developed abs but nothing else. Your back will be 'over-powered' by your core and you will hunch over, causing back issues long-term. Should I complement them with other exercises? Of course you should. 

My gym has one of these: $URL$ You load up some weight (180kg in my case), face it, shoulder under and do calf raises. This is the only machine we have suitable for lower leg exercises. Unfortunately, my I have small shoulders and the leather pads leave bruise lines from the weight. Can you suggest some alternatives? Edit: To clarify, I currently hit calves using my main compound exercises (Squat/RDLs/DLs) but on my lower hypertrophy days I wish to add an accessory to focus on them. 

Men's Health has a layman's overview of the same material. Your recent fluctuations could be due to a whole host of things, but your suspicion that cold weather affects our body's energy expenditure and fat loss is not misplaced. Whether by shivering or by non-shivering heat generation, resisting the cold takes metabolic effort. 

It'll depend on the coach. But in general, bad form gets you injured, and then you can't lift very heavy, so that wouldn't make sense, would it? It is common, however, for there to be some bad form on 1-rep-max tests or in competition, since these are all-out efforts at the limit of (or beyond) one's ability. That's different from allowing or promoting bad form in training. Just go see this powerlifting coach and see how much they focus on form. 

(Page 72, Practical Programming) (Note that strength and power, though related to muscle size, are not synonymous with that attribute.) Just lifting will make you bigger and stronger than if you combine lifting with running, but running as well as lifting is a fine way to improve body composition (lose fat) at the same time as building muscle. 

The technically healthiest way to gain weight is to take a 'balanced' diet and then increase the portion size to result in a calorie surplus. A common way for young people to gain weight and be successful in progressing in strength is to pair GOMAD with a compound barbell routine like Starting Strength. GOMAD stands for Gallon Of Milk A Day. The principle is simple: whole milk, every day, 1 gallon, pair with compound exercise and your standard diet. 

Fortunately, this topic is popular as heck and there are some great trainers over at reddit's r/bodyweightfitness that can point you in the direction of a well written recommended routine based around the compound movements you can do with bodyweight and some simple equipment: Warmup (~10-15 minutes) Dynamic Stretches to get the joints nice and loose. Bodyline Work to remind you of the proper positions Skill work (~10 minutes) 5-10 minutes Handstand progression 2-3 minutes Support practice Strength work (~40-60 minutes) Pairing two exercises means doing a set of the first exercise, then resting 90 seconds, then doing a set of the second exercise and resting 90 seconds, and then repeating until you've done all sets of that pair. First Pair 3x5-8 Pullup progression 3x5-8 Dipping progression Second Pair We recommend doing barbell work for legs. If you have access to barbells (and a squat rack), see below on how to incorporate this in the routine. 3x5-8 Squat Progression 3x10sec-30sec L-sit Progression Third Pair 3x5-8 Pushup progression 3x5-8 Row Progression 

This guy on a running forum points out that foot turn-out is not just inefficient--it caused him groin pain. It's of course anecdotal and a prime suspect for the placebo effect, but his solution worked: 

I'd go with either a dumbbell set or a squat rack and barbell. Those give the most bang for your buck. Free weights are manageable. You can do it. Research basic strength programs. A good sign that you've accidentally found a bodybuilding program (which you don't want) is if you're doing three variations of the same movement (EZ-bar curl...and a concentration curl...and a dumbbell curl...), or if you're doing exercises like lateral raises or curls instead of whole-body fundamental movements like lunges, squats, overhead presses, and rows. StrongLifts is a good place to start with the basics of using a squat rack and bench. So are Starting Strength and Primal Fitness. 

Emphasis mine. Examples Reddit's /r/fitness subreddit is pretty dedicated to showing before-and-after examples of women who engage in heavy-lifting strength programs. Here's one. Sometimes those anecdotes are of the form "it worked for me", but occasionally women are unhappy with their results. Sometimes that's because heavy lifting didn't work, but just as often it's that the program worked as expected, but the woman simply considered the results to be negative. JCD Fitness has some longer takes on the issue that make great use of women's personal stories. One of the points brought up there, as well as on reddit, is that marketing messages have effectively brought body image issues into the problem. At bottom, everyone has a different definition of "bulky", and sometimes women really do want to look like an undernourished model at her peak of starvation and airbrushing. In those cases, radical weight-loss programs really would be the best path to achieve those (possibly problematic) goals, and lifting weights and otherwise doing impressive things might not be the right approach. 

It is my understanding that speedwork is sustaining maximal effort over a fixed distance which is usually short (ish). Personally: I do 'speedwork' for 500/1000m intervals. While it's not sprinting flat-out it is a very hard run at my anaerobic threshold (using a heart rate strap helps find this). 

Depends entirely on your dietry requirements, if you are on a cut (probably? as you mentioned 'toning'). To get to a low body-fat percentage (and get 'toned') you need to eat less calories than you put out. Dietry fat as a food type does not have significant impact on body composition. I suggest you have a read though this examine.com question. The only way to definitively know which ones to use would be to work out your calorie and macro-nutritional breakdown and compare it to your diet design. 

Here are some of the labdoor articles for MuscleTech's products, I am going to go out on a limb and guess that your pre-workout is the same brand as your mass gainer (muscle tech). 

As both are supplements, you are fine to take both alongside a nutritionally rich diet. HOWEVER you should know what is in your powders. Hopefully, you wouldn't just eat anything you were given by a stranger and especially not if it is in powder form. The website you can look up MOST powders on is labdoor.com