His argument is that any algebraic or logic statement must be somehow grounded in empirical observation, but this doesn't seem correct to me. I accept that mathematical observations are grounded in empirical observation - the notion that , for example. However, if I have invented a concept X, independent of the real world and in my mind only, surely the fact that 'X is the same as itself' can be said to be completely independent of any empirical observation, and must inherently be true? How could it be false? 

Let's say I invent a concept X in my own imaginings. The only property it has is X-ness; it is defined as 'that which is represented by X'. I have just defined that to be the case. It seems to me, now, that it must be true that . X is the same thing as itself. I thought this was hard to argue against, but a guy on YouTube did just that; he says: 

Albert Einstein described the fact that he believed in 'god'; yet, he did not define that god as a personal god who actually existed as a separate being. He used the concept to describe everything that exists. Although Einstein is commonly hailed as a great physicist, could one also say that he was a philosopher? Many of his discoveries would surely have required a philosophical consideration in order even for the theory to have been devised; his Theory of General Relativity, for example, was completely counter-intuative given the known laws of physics at the time. On the other hand, one could argue that he was thinking from a purely physical point of view, and that by trying to explain everything in scientific terms, he was explicitly avoiding philosophy and sticking to science. Was he a philosopher? 

And why adopt CP 5.189 instead? Because “self-control is the character which distinguishes reasoning from the processes by which perceptual judgments are formed, and self-control of any kind is purely inhibitory.” Therefore, CP 5.189 and not CP 5.402 as the best pragmatic maxim because BUT. 

Now consider this from Plato’s Cratylus: "Well, but do you not see, Cratylus, that he who follows names in the search after things, and analyses their meaning, is in great danger of being deceived?... Why clearly he who first gave names gave them according to his conception of the things which they signified — did he not?... And if his conception was erroneous, and he gave names according to his conception, in what position shall we who are his followers find ourselves? Shall we not be deceived by him?..." So, are we to be deceived by Peirce, whether intentional or not? Consider this admission from $URL$ “In January, 1878, I published a brief sketch of this subject wherein I enunciated a certain maxim of "pragmatism".... I still adhere to that doctrine; but it needs more accurate definition in order to meet certain objections and to avoid certain misapplication. Moreover, my paper of 1878 was imperfect in tacitly leaving it to appear that the maxim of pragmatism led to the last stage of clearness. I wish now to show that this is not the case and to find a series of categories of clearness. I propose in this memoir to develop these three grades with fullness and not in the sketchy manner of a magazine article. I shall give the whole theory of definition and discuss its principal forms. I shall show, I hope quite convincingly, the great harm done by that definition by abstraction of which the Germans are so fond." Instead of the oft-repeated original maxim (CP 5.402), I would instead recommend investigating closely what he intended by CP 5.189. I hope you will agree that this one, unlike all others, is divine. 

To avoid confusion let me use beingness instead of being. Like other things, if beingness also undergoes changes, we cannot name it beingness. If the word you used as 'being' depends on our sense organs, for convention you'd better say that it exists/existed for a certain period. If we said that something had a beingness, we can no longer say that now it has no beingness. To test this, you can use your commonsense or refer to the Bhagavad Gita. 

In this question you have presented men as helpers or saviors. Here I am not trying to answer this question directly; but some clues for thought. Who have more right to kill a cow, to men or to carnivorous animals? 

From a higher level we can say the prayer is for the person who prays. It is not for reminding God of something. See: 

We would be in confusion if we think that real beingness is a part or the totality of sensual perception. So we should discard this attitude first. There is only one beingness; I mean, what you meant as being must be the immutable all-prevading beingness. Actually this real being does not prohibit anything because there is no chance of another being (as you mentioned here). I have clarified it already. Now you might have understood that the problem became complex because of the usage 'being'. If you had omitted that word you could have avoided the confusion. Now your main question: 

Surely a dictionary does not define an entire language. Apart from the fact that new words (beginning as slang, sometimes making their way into formal language) are being invented all the time, so are new meanings for existing words in new contexts. In addition, it could be argued that combinations of the words together (ie. literature) form part of the language itself. The dictionary on its own describes the words in Shakespeare, Chaucer, Betjeman, Tolkien, etc. but it does not contain the prose. Without the literary works in a language, it can be reasonably argued that you haven't captured the whole language. 

I've seen philosophical arguments descriped as 'argumentum ad lapidem', but never quite understood what the criticism is trying to indicate. As best I can tell, it's a dismissal of an argument with no good justification. Could anybody expand a little on the precise nature of this logical fallacy? 

As you hinted, many of the 'paradoxes' about the idea of God's being omnipotent and omniscient are really just the use of language to describe logical impossibilities. "Can God create a rock so heavy that he himself cannot lift it?" is a nonsensical proposition, like "Can God create dark brightness?" or "Can God kill the unkillable?" There is an answers to such questions - no. However, the 'no' is not a comment on said God's lack of omnipotence, but rather a statement that a logical impossibility is impossible. It would indeed be the case that if a God could 'violate the laws of nature', the laws of nature should simply change to include the fact that they apply except when God violates them. That way, they can easily be defined and be consistent with God's intervention. In this way it is impossible to violate the laws of nature because they are simply a definition of how nature is, whether or not God is causing the behaviour. So, the idea of God is not, I believe, logically impossible. It is certainly possible that a God could exist that is omnipotent and omniscient, and logically impossible statements don't change that. What can be said for sure, though. is that if such a God exists, it is an extremely nasty God (by human standards). It is a God that has the power to end suffering, yet does not. It is a God that has the power to give every human an equal opportunity to discover it, yet it does not; in fact, it gives some humans a one-way ticket to heaven (the ones born into a strong culture of indoctrination into belief in the God), and other humans a one-way ticket to hell (the ones born into a strong culture of indoctrination into beliefs in another God/Gods). Would one even wish to worship such a God even if one knew of its nature? That's for the reader to decide. 

ymar raises warranted objections regarding the ambiguity of this question. Yet, if we take the topic “metaphilosophy” as a clue, then I would recommend starting with Peirce, who characterized metaphysics as both a “science of unclear thinking” but also as “- the ontology of the soul” (cf., Writings of Charles S. Peirce, Vol. 2, pg. 192). Peirce’s philosophy can be boiled down to the syllogism (Aristotle) and analogy with the tripartite soul (Plato), but an advantage is that it offers a simple heuristic that serves as immediate prescription. That is, the concrete relatedness of the elements, firstness secondness thirdness; “the whole logical form of thought is so given in its elements”. There is too much to be said here for why this demonstrates philosophical reasoning but if you’d like to explore your practical identity as a mathematician using the philosophical method, look toward the icon/index/symbol (semiosis) literature. Or start from where you are using CP 5.189; C A B; first second third. Best, J 

If the following answers are strictly related to one particular religion only, you may ignore this. If you can find anything sensible/true, you may search other websites and test them. 

Most people don't interfere in the quarrel among drunkards. When a person has a great aim to accomplish in his life (e.g. to save the lives of so many people), sometimes he will ignore some issues. Sometimes the harassment may be the reaction of an action. The person may not be willing to react due to his bad condition (e.g.: very weak due to some illness). Sometimes, if the person responsible to solve the problem is there we usually do not react quickly. 

Happiness is personal. In this world there are many millions of people living in serious conditions. Do we need to kill them all? If you kill a cow, are you a savior or terminator? If you are doing the job of a terminator, would it be a good act? 

Even if you blamed yourself (since you began your question with "we"), I do believe you haven't done any mistake. As from an individual's point of view, if you tried to survive, it is never unethical. The mistakes you made might be trifle when comparing others. If so, you can say that it is ethical if you are going to remedy immediately by doing some good activities for protecting the environment. Since human community is the villain here, we can treat this as unethical while treating them as a group. But, since we can't blame one particular person for all the evil activities, we shouldn't take this into account. You may read this $URL$ You can find people in almost all parts of the world who wish to increase the population of their own category. In this context you can think over it and verify whether this issue is to be treated as ethical or unethical. 

Consider what effects, that might conceivably have practical bearings, we conceive the object of our conception to have. Then, our conception of these effects is the whole of our conception of the object. Consider what effects that might conceivably have practical bearings you conceive the object of your conception to have: then the general mental habit that consists in the production of these effects is the whole meaning of your concept. 

So, why ditch CP 5.402? Because while it speaks on conceivable practical bearings and our conceptions, it doesn’t truly separate from solipsism, which is defined as the meaning in “the belief that the believer is the only existing person. Were anybody to adopt such a belief, it might be difficult to argue him out of it. But when a person finds himself in the society of others, he is just as sure of their existence as of his own, though he may entertain a metaphysical theory that they are all hypostatically the same ego." Moreover, CP 5.402 does not distinguish from nominalism, which says that “the nominalist is only interested in what a thinker makes of things. The subjective conception, in his opinion, exhausts the subject.”