What they are saying here, is that this character is making the other people do his work for him - and that these people are doing the same thing, pushing their work onto other people. (FWIW, they are commonly referred to as help vampires across the Stack Exchange network.) Since Tom Sawyer tricked the other people into doing the work that he was supposed to do, they are comparing these people to him. 

The title of the musical itself is "Joseph and the Amazing Technicolor Dreamcoat", which implies that the coat is a focus - the whole musical is named after it! The musical also ends with the "Any Dream Will Do" reprise, and the very last part of the musical is the give me my colored coat song. But the coat remains pretty much unmentioned for like the whole musical. It's mentioned in the introductory "Any Dream Will Do". It's introduced in "Joseph's Coat", then mentioned offhand in "Joseph's Dreams". It gets ripped in the next song, but only barely gets mentioned in this song. In the "One More Angel" song, while the visuals show Jacob holding the ripped coat and everything, the song itself only has the his bloodstained coat is tribute part - a single message. After that, it's only mentioned briefly in "Go Go Joseph", with you and your dreamcoat ahead of your time. After this, as far as I can see, it's not mentioned until the last song, with give me my colored coat. Why, if the musical was named after this singular article of clothing, did the coats play such a small part? 

Was Hardy here exposing his own anti-Semitic prejudices here, or was he merely commenting on the general sentiment in England at the time relating to Judaism? 

The oath didn't mean anything, but it made him more keen anyway. The way I'm understanding it, it's saying that it won't be kept. As Rand said, I'm not explaining why it won't be kept, because I'd need to actually have the book with me ;). But from what you quoted, it appears that the text - whoever the narrator is - is saying that the oath won't be kept. Perhaps it wasn't a strong enough oath; perhaps the person making it doesn't have the power to carry it out. But whoever the narrator is doesn't think that the oath will carry any weight. But, despite this, it makes whoever it was directed to more confident in what they are doing. 

I think we can reasonably infer that the work Lewis is referring to is The Works of Aristotle the Famous Philosopher, which, per Wikipedia, is a sex manual and book of midwifery, falsely claiming to be the work of Aristotle. In other words, a work of pretentious smut. Just the sort of thing that Lewis liked to rail against. So, the answer is: Smutty bookshops. 

That is the tale he is planning to tell at parties later in life, but, as the previous lines have made clear, these sentiments are all bosh. There was nothing to choose between the roads and he has no idea if the choice he made made any difference at all. The problem with the poem seems to be that most of the readers get so caught up in the romance of those last lines that they fail to notice the plain statement that they are a piece of humbug. The words "with a sigh", particularly, emphasize the humbug of the words that follow. Why will he sigh? To make his words seem vaguely tinged with regret. It's an act. It is humbug. But we can't see it because we want the particular piece of humbug to be true. We want poems to have poetic ideas and poetic themes and the road less travelled is just what we think a poetic theme should look like. So obviously the poet must have meant those words seriously, and so the rest of the poem -- which if read plain is making it clear that those sentiments are humbug -- becomes difficult and mysterious because the conclusion does not seem to follow from them. Which is, I suppose, as good an illustration of the purpose of literary criticism. Not to elucidate some hidden meaning about forging your own path in life, but to point out that it is, on the plain face of it, describing not some momentous life choice, but the kind of humbug we tell ourselves and our friends about the significance of our choices. 

I think C.S. Lewis himself gives a fairly exhaustive answer to this question in the The Abolition of Man. Lewis begins the first of the three essays that make up to book by looking at an elementary school textbook and showing how it has broken fundamentally with the entire Western tradition by interpreting a statement such as "the waterfall is sublime" not as an objective and just statement about the waterfall, and instead treating it as an a subjective statement about the observer's feelings. If we view the statement "the waterfall is sublime" as a objective and just statement about the waterfall, that implies that objects in the world deserve a particular kind of response from us and that if we fail to give that response, it is because there is a defect in our appreciation -- a defect which education might seek to cure. This implies a very different view of the relationship between language, thought, and reality than is implied by the idea that calling the waterfall sublime is merely an expression of the observer's feelings. Here language never describes reality at all, it only describes the observer's reactions. Language, and the reading of language, becomes entirely psychologized -- which is pretty much exactly what has happened in the study of literature. And in that environment, what would the place of philology be? 

In the January 2004 issue of The Magazine of Fantasy and Science Fiction, they ran a story called "Nimitseahpah". In this story, there is a 'darkness' at the bottom of a mine: 

There's obviously something down there; that's the whole point of the story. However, is this at the bottom of every mine if you dig deep enough or only at the Pahpocket? 

I'm a little confused as to what is supposed to be happening in this scene. What was she busy with? What does the rough voice imply? Why does Coldmoon become fidgety? 

According to Wikipedia, this was in 1925. So the earliest possible year is 1925. But the Wikipedia article on C. S. Lewis claims that they met for the first time in 1926, pushing the possible date farther forwards. In doing some Internet sleuthing, I looked at the source that Wikipedia provided for when they ran - from a book called Brothers and Friends: The Diaries of Major Warrington Hamilton Lewis, C. S. Lewis's brother. I then looked up the book on Google Books and performed a search for 'Inklings'. On page 183, there is this: 

So: Did he actually die? Is he hearing the heart beating for real, or is this his crazy, guilty, conscience? 

I've got a few hardcover books. I usually read paperback, but sometimes I'll find myself with a hardcover book. Often, these will have jackets on them. Paper jackets that rip and get in the way and fall off when you try to move them. You can't even use them as proper bookmarks, they'll just slip out. (No, I love those covers, why do you ask?) Is there any harm that it will do to the book itself if I remove the jacket and permanently keep it off? 

In the September/October 2017 issue of the Cicada magazine, they ran a story by Nino Cipri, entitled "A Silly Love Story". (Published online by the author (who also goes by Nicole).) The story focuses on Jeremy - our main character, a man - and Merion, a bi-gendered character, who are in a relationship. We see the story of how Jeremy and Merion met, and we see that Merion has an encounter with a girl who is curious as to whether Merion is a boy or girl. 

The Stung Man is the antagonist of Book of the Dead, the first TombQuest book. He's got an... Interesting backstory. 

The previous stanzas make it clear that, despite the traveller's hesitation, there really was nothing to choose between the roads. It is a meaningless choice and its consequences cannot be known because "way leads on to way" and he is probably not going to have the chance to go back and explore the other path. But that is not how he is going to tell the story later in life. Later he is going to make the decision seem more bold and adventurous than it really was, and is going to claim that this bold choice made all the difference in his life. The final, and most famous, lines, therefore, are a piece of humbug: 

I think the problem here lies in the distinction between an aphorism and a quotation. An aphorism is a pithy saying meant to express a general truth. We assume that the author of an aphorism believes what they are saying. What we commonly call "quotes" are in fact generally aphorisms. All aphorisms are quotations, of course, but not all quotations are aphorisms. 

The later doctrine of American exceptionalism seems to be a secularization of this idea: an exceptionalism based on civic virtues and the constitution rather than on love and grace. Modern liberalism generally is basically a secularized version of Christianity. 

My father was a professor of literature and I am reasonably confident that if he were asked this question he would say that the purpose of criticism is not to figure out what the author meant, but to fully understand and appreciate the nature of the experience that the work creates. He spent much of his career arguing for the superiority of the 1850 version of Wordsworth's prelude over the 1805. The 1805 version is considerably more liberal in its sentiments and it was preferred by many of the scholars of the day for that reason -- they considered it to be a better work because it expressed more liberal sentiments compared to the more conservative sentiments of the 1850 version. But my father's argument was not that the 1850 version was better because its politics were more conservative, but that it was better because it was better poetry; that its images were more striking and its emotions both more mature and more deeply felt. (I'm paraphrasing his argument wildly, but that seems to me, through the filter of memory, to be the gist of it.) I also remember an anecdote about Beethoven which I assume I must have heard from him. A woman came up to Beethoven after a concert and asked him what the piece he had just played meant. Beethoven answered by sitting down at the piano and playing it again. A piece of art, in other words, means itself, the totality of its experience, and nothing else. The purpose of criticism is both to judge the quality of the experience as an experience and to make the fullness of the experience more accessible to the reader. Of course, this is not the majority view among literary critics. But to me, the notion of a piece of literature as a covert polemic seems odious. I believe that a writer turns to fiction not to conceal an argument which they are very capable of making plainly, but to record an experience. Sometimes, in other words, what you want to say is not that the world should be such and such, but simply that the world is such and such, not how human life should be lived, but simply what the nature of human experience actually is. Experience, by its nature, cannot be conveyed in summary. It can only be taken whole. The meaning of a poem is the poem. The meaning of a novel is the novel. 

The first 4 books in TombQuest all have an amulet featured on the cover: (Images from Scholastic.) And then... the fifth book: 

In The Magic Grandfather, by Jay Williams (published 1979), there are several spells that do certain things. For instance, Aldoragamba luro vopo vir voarchadumia is a transportation spell. Tripsarecopsem helps with the crystal ball. 

In The Phantom Tollbooth, basically every name has a significance/pun. For example, Dr. Dischord - his name is 'Discord' with 'chord' - implying bad sounds. Or the DYNNE, or 'din'. And Chroma, with his colors. I even managed to figure out something for King Azaz (the wordy king) - it's from A to Z. But I was unable to figure out what Alec Bings's name was supposed to represent. He's the guy who can see through things: 

Yep. Stevenson writes in his A Chapter on Dreams, which you can see a book scan at that link, and a text version at Project Gutenburg: 

Of course, the boundaries are a bit blurry. They are very similar, and there are cases where either would apply. But in general, a graphic novel is longer and more unified. 

The pun is that after they are past Reading, he stops reading. So: was this pun intentionally placed by Doyle? 

At what point did Sophie and Alberto become real? When did they become more than a character in a book? Or were they always 'real', and they only needed the book to be written for things to happen and so that they could escape? We know that Sophie has memories from before the events of the book, but did those events actually happen or was she 'created' at that moment and the memories implanted by the major? 

The book opens with the main character, Jimmy Carter, playing baseball - this could be what you're remembering as scouting. The cover does have the main character on it, wearing dark glasses. The book was published in 1994, so it's within the time frame. I don't know enough about it to say for sure, but it appears to match your description, from what I can tell. 

What is going on in this scene? Why is it important that the girl is taking the initiative? Why does everyone go watch? What is Alberto talking about - what's happening here? 

In Jude the Obscure, work that Jude does is masonry - stones and menial labor. His ambition is to become a scholar - books and mental labor. I'm struggling to see how these relate to each other - how is Jude doing masonry related to his ambitions? Is this to provide a contrast, or is there something else?