AIP4Win has a comprehensive photometry package, also I believe MaximDL (though more expensive) has some as well. 

This is a common problem with Newtonian type telescopes and DSLRs, the sensor in the camera is too far back to reach focus. As mentioned in the comments a low profile focuser may help or move the main mirror up the tube, I've seen this done on some Skywatcher Newtonians to solve similar problems. 

The gravitational "pull" of a black hole is not limited. In fact the gravitational force of attraction of every particle in the Universe effects every other particle in the Universe, irrespective of their distance of separation or mass. Or to be more exact every particle distorts the fabric of time/space throughout the Universe. The distortion may me small the further away from the particle you get but it is still there according to General Relativity. Quantum theory will put a of limit on things, in that the when the distortion is reduced to the Plank length it will be lost in the general background noise. 

A simpler approach would be to use a planetarium program to calculate the angular size of Jupiter at the date/time you want then use a bit of trig. to work out the angular size of each pixel of the camera Tan(theta) = pixel size (in mm) over effective focal length in mm (2400mm) (Sorry I don't know how to use the equation editor) Then divide one by the other and you have the diameter of Jupiter in pixels. Note: This assumes that the barlow is operating at 2x, as the barlow magnification factor is dependent on the distance of the camera sensor from the barlow's lens (and the focal length of the lens) this will probably not be accurate. So if Jupiter is 38" in diameter and your pixel size is 5.6 microns 1 pixel = about 0.48" so Jupiter will be about 79 pixels in diameter. 

Its a nice idea, but it wouldn't work. To stay in the Earth's shadow a telescope would need to orbit the Earth in the same time the earth orbited the Sun so that it always stayed on the opposite side. For its orbit to be this long it would need to be a long way out, remember geosynchronous orbit (one orbit in 23h 56min 4sec) is at a distance of 42,164 km. For a 1 year orbit the telescope would be so far away that its would not be in orbit around the Earth but the Sun, as it would have a much larger gravitational influence. It would also be too far away to be in the Earth's shadow cone. 

The Sun's magnetosphere is too weak to have a significant effect on extra solar radio waves. If it did, we wouldn't have any radio telescopes as it would block the signals they detect. 

The stars in any given constellation can be at vastly different distances, there is no link between the distance and the size of a constellation. The constellation boundaries are purely artificial boundaries. 

As the Sun's mass is reduced and it's gravitational attraction is thus reduced the Earth will slowly spiral out from the Sun and yes slow down (to preserve angular momentum). But the effect is ridiculously small (do the math yourself) it will not be measurable directly. 

There is a example here of the process required. But basically you need observations of the track from two locations and then just perform some relatively simple trigonometric triangulation. The Nemetode network regularly does this using images from a network of cctv cameras. 

It is only possible to detect gases in transiting Exoplanets. The spectrum of the star is taken when the Exoplanet is not in transit and again when in transit. The differences between the spectrums is due to a small amount of light from the parent star passing through the upper atmosphere of the Exoplanet and being absorbed by gases in the atmosphere. The effect is VERY small and difficult to detect. 

I'm not sure if this is a misunderstanding or just a matter of scientific terminology, but the "star cycle" is not something you can "drastically change". The life cycle of a star (as we currently understand it) is a fairly predictable set of stages of evolution from the formation of a star from a cloud of gas, along the main sequence (the stable stage out own star is currently in) and then to "death" of the star as it's internal fuel runs out, and material can be released back to the interstellar medium. For more details see the Wikipedia page, this video from NASA, or this very simplified diagram from the BBC. But to answer the underlying question, stars at different stages of their life cycle can definitely affect other stars, planetary systems, or interstellar matter that is nearby in many ways. Here are a few examples: 

A lot of the data we have on the inner structure of the Earth comes from seismology - the study of earthquake waves travelling through the ground. This requires sensors placed at different points around the planet to pick up the waves and infer the structures they passed through. I haven't looked into it but I would think that this would be very difficult to do on other planets in terms of getting lots of sensors there and positioning them correctly, so maybe we just don't know this sort of thing about other planets yet! 

Today the LIGO consortium are having a press conference to update us on their search for gravitational waves. How should I watch the announcement? 

You are missing a step in the understanding of this concept. "Two celestial bodies rotate around a centre of mass" in a system which only has two bodies. In larger systems all objects will rotate about the centre of mass of the whole system. So each planet in our solar system and the sun will all be rotating around this common centre of mass, called the barycentre. 

Quick answer: no I think the problem the use of the word "energy" here. Energy comes in many forms, such as heat, electrical energy, kinetic energy... The energy released by a supernova is kinetic (material being thrown out into space), electromagnetic (light created by atomic interactions), etc. Gravitational waves are not like light waves. They are only created by the movement of mass. So the material being thrown off will produce gravitational waves, the spinning of a star or stellar remnant will produce gravitational waves, but the masses and speeds involved are so much lower. Black holes have 10 or 100 times the amount of mass of a single star, and binary black holes are orbiting each other incredibly fast (the peak speed of the GW150914 black holes was 60% the speed of light), so they will produce much stronger gravitational waves, but not as much light. 

You want to use this to find the distance from the planet to the star, using trigonometry and converting to the correct units 

As most people are aware when they play with bar magnets, magnetic poles repel magnets of the same polarity and attract opposites. Magnets have two polarities: north and south. Electric charges are classified as positive and negative, and also attract opposites and repel charges of the same sign. However, magnetic poles and electric charges do not match up in the way your question suggests - it's not like North is positive and South is negative and they attract electric charges. Electric and magnetic fields are connected and interact (in fact, both are produced by moving electric charges) but the signs/polarity do not interact in the way you are imagining.. Aurorae (northern and southern lights) are produced because charged particles are streaming toward the Earth all the time in the solar wind. Charged particles (positive or negative) are blocked by magnetic fields - the easiest way to imagine this is to draw the Earth's magnetic field like a bar magnet and the charged particles cannot cross the field lines. At the poles the field is not parallel to the Earth's surface (blocking charged particles) but perpendicular to it, so the charged particles can move into the atmosphere without crossing magnetic field lines. In the atmosphere they interact with particles in the air and create the beautiful lights that we see. So, in short, the lights are the same at the north and south poles because it is the same kind of particles interacting with out atmosphere. 

The materials inside a neutron star are densely packed (extremely close to each other) and as time goes by say about an eon later, most of the neutrons would eventually tunnel into each other and voila! the neutron star becomes black hole? sound suspicious to me but can it happen? 

Suppose in a binary stars system there is a dying star and a companion black hole as they orbit around each other. My question is what will possibly happen to the black hole if the partner goes supernova? I understand that the kinetic energy from the supernova cannot destroy the black hole. 

I am wondering since neutron star is smaller than the average main-sequence stars and it doesn't produce energy via fusion so why do we still call it a star? 

Say hypothetically an UMBH with 50 billion solar masses (supposedly upper limit) is beginning to merge with another (Super)MBH similar to Sagittarius A* that sits at the center of the Milky Way Galaxy, what would happen next in this clash of the titans? 

An annular eclipse is similar to total eclipse except our Moon "apparently" appears smaller than the Sun, my question is since in both cases there will be a glowing ring forming... so how to tell them apart? 

Since there are a lot of stellar black holes estimate to be around 100 millions alone in our milky way galaxy, maybe this facts might help explain the missing dark matter and I'll go even further... the energy produced by the collapsing stars and colliding black holes might be whats driving the expansion of space to speed up! otherwise why wouldn't it be? 

What does the current theory tell us about what is going on at the core of a neutron star, I'm expecting a black hole hopefully I won't be disappointed! 

If primordial black hole do exists today could it be responsible for galaxies maybe even quasars, I mean these ancient monsters gobble up all materials in its wake and grow bigger and eventually evolves into say milky way galaxy etc. What are the odds of such events actually happened? 

Just curious I like to know if one fine day our Sun turns into a white dwarf at the later stage of its life, would the magnetic bubble, heliosphere gets thinner and eventually disappear? also at this moment is it changing in size? 

I read that Dragonfly44 is a galaxy mostly consists of dark matter, and it should contain a super massive black hole too. If there really is a dark SMBH, how does it lose mass? I think there is no way for dark matter to be converted into energy and vice versa, no? 

Andromeda Galaxy is the largest galaxy in the galaxy cluster[1] called Local Group[2] and our Milky Way Galaxy as well as some satellite/dwarf galaxies are orbiting around each other within Local Group. My question isn't Milky Way Galaxy supposed to orbit around Andromeda Galaxy[3] so how come the predicted merger[4]? Whose slowing down or do the gravity work differently as things are being scaled further up? 

I was reading about gigantic storms on giant gas planets, the great red spot on Jupiter and hexagon on Saturn to name a few, how about our Sun which is consist of plasma(hot gas which have some of their electrons stripped) why don't we see any big hurricane? 

Just because we observed that our milky way galaxy is spinning in a certain direction therefore we assume it is applicable to all other galaxies, I am curious to find out if hypothetically most of the celestial objects such as natural satellites, planets, stars even galaxies within our observable universe are spinning/rotating in the same direction as the milky way what kind of implications can we say about the condition in the early universe? or is it just an coincident? 

Not all galaxies are spiral in shape[1][2], some nebulae are huge[3] and nebula are the nursery of stars[4]. How to tell them apart? Note I have already compare the contents for galaxy and a nebula, they are very similar as both have stars, planets and dusts.