What you need to look into here are the various material properties and the reasons you might want them in armour. Strength: the strength of material is the amount of force it can withstand and still recover its original shape; Hardness: the hardness of a material defines the relative resistance that its surface imposes against the penetration of a harder body; Toughness: toughness is the amount of energy that a material can absorb before fracture. Stiffness: the rigidity of an object — the extent to which it resists deformation in response to an applied force. Now these properties are all very well, but they're not interesting within limits. They only become interesting at the point of failure. Ceramics score fairly well on hardness, toughness, stiffness but very badly on toughness. Once the limit is exceeded it shatters and absorbs no more energy. Steel doesn't score so well on hardness and stiffness, but it scores a lot better on toughness. When its stiffness is exceeded it deforms, first elastically, then plastically, absorbing ever more energy as it does so before ultimate failure. We don't tend to wear steel as personal armour in the modern age though so let's compare ceramic armour to aramid fibre better known as the variety and brand name Kevlar. Aramid is a very soft cloth with a very high tensile strength, it's immensely tough. The reason it protects you from bullets is that on impact the threads don't break, ensuring that the projectile remains outside your squishy parts. It doesn't protect you from the force of impact though, you'll get quite a bruise, and it's vulnerable to sharp edges, it won't protect you from a knife or a bullet with a sharp point. Ceramic armour is much harder and stiffer, but with its relatively low toughness it protects you sacrificially. The energy of the impact is absorbed by the shattering of the plate. It protects you from armour piercing rounds, once. After which you need to replace the plate. So which do you choose for your personal armour? Both. Ablative ceramic plate over aramid cloth. A single material gives only a single set of properties, if you wear both you get both. You're asking to be able to survive tank shells though. Tank shells are designed to kill tanks. You need to be carrying enough protection to survive that. Nzaman has given you basic values for mass and momentum, that's your first consideration. A tank will weigh around 60,000kg, perhaps you won't want to be trying to carry that much weight on a mecha as you'd need to spread the weight, legs will just sink in, but it gives you an idea of the values you're competing with. However ceramics come into their own in tank armour, their high hardness helps them resist shaped charges, ceramics alone won't protect you, but they are a critical part of your armour sandwich. To armour your mecha you're going to want multiple layers of yes, ceramics, but also composites and steel giving you an equivalent of Chobham armour the different properties of the different materials in this sandwich will give you the best chance of surviving the attack. 

As mentioned earlier, we should already be close to this utopia. So why aren't we? It's important to remember that this goes in cycles. The Romans had slaves to do all the work and keep them in a life of leisure. The nobles of the middle ages had serfs who were effectively slaves. The Victorians had domestics. That faded in during WWII and we started to get machines instead. Have the machines democratised the life of leisure? Brought it to everyone the way they should? No, not at all. We seem to be working longer and harder than ever. The more leisure time we have the more time we spend at work, but why? (One of the problems is that we haven't actually automated a lot of this stuff, we've just exported our slaves, outsourced I should say, but basically we now keep our slave class hidden in far away countries.) Stuff and greed, the more stuff people can have the more they want. The more they want the more they have to work. Once people were happy with food on the table and a roof over their heads. Now they have to have that, with an iPhone, a BMW, everything made by Apple every year etc. This is the capitalist utopia everyone working hard to get stuff and make wealth to no particular end other than itself. The utopia you describe is a problem to our current culture, your utopia is a communist utopia. To get to the true communist utopia is going to take a lot more than just automation, it's going to take a fundamental change in our attitude to work, employment and productivity. Step 1: The advertising industry must die. It's said that the path to happiness is to be happy with less. The first thing that needs to change is advertising. People are constantly driven to want more stuff, that must stop. Step 2: Look at the things people actually need that they're being scalped for. In the US that's housing and healthcare, in the UK just housing. In some countries it's still food. There's always someone charging what the market will bear for a product in short supply. Again classic communism must apply, everyone must be given a home, healthcare and sufficient food. Once these points are covered you can start moving towards the communist utopia. Everyone has everything they actually need and people can decide if they want to work or not and what they want to do. This can happen fast or slow, but until they happen, nor will your utopia. 

There was a story recently about a man who'd had an injury, stroke or similar and needed to learn to walk and talk again, just as his partner had a baby. Hopefully someone can find it as his recovery time is effectively the answer. Even though he had the knowledge of these activities, he still needed to go through the same motions, lying on his back and watching the limbs as he attempted movement, making strange noises as he relearned how to control his vocal chords. In doing so it's said he reduced his recovery time below that of people who get frustrated by their inability to pronounce fully formed words for a considerable period. It's not just about learning the words, it's about making the connections between the brain and the periferals and learning how to control them, and building up the muscle strength and control to the level of finesse required for speech. If this is his first time reincarnating, it may be no quicker than the average baby. If he is an experienced reincarnater then perhaps he has a set of exercises down pat to accelerate effective use of vocal chords and other muscle groups. 

Sarcastic option, this is the only way you can achieve both goals as for all other purposes they're mutually exclusive, kill everyone who has ever held a mobile phone. 

Why is this relevant? Dispersal of light, ships are not going to be close enough for navigation lights to be seen. We talk of ships passing in the night 

Dynamite (A late 19thC technology so not the toughest option) The reason the battle was fought at the Thermopylae was because that was the only place the Persian army could get through. Given dynamite, you have two options. 

I'm pretty sure the only option is to take her family into custody and tell her they won't be released until she gives herself up, it goes without saying they'll be tortured. You've said she can turn into anything, there's no situation in which it's not possible to turn herself into something that'll get her out of it. Even if that something is a super-critical mass of weapons grade uranium. 

(Image from: Wilderness Safaris) You can only have big cats if there's something big enough to feed them, so your desert can't be a vast expanse of nothing. Seasonal rains, sparse grasses, the occasional oasis. Enough to get some form of antelope. Build a complete food chain and you'll get a vague idea of what can survive. 

Active defence The key to this is early warning, you have to know as soon as possible and as far out as possible that these things are coming. The VDA (Very Dangerous Array) is a good place to start with this as it's self defending and the array nature means it can't be easily knocked out. The sooner you spot them incoming the more accurately you can plot their trajectory and get into position to fire something equivalently energetic back along its path to intercept. If you're really good you could hit it with a much lower energy object across it's path and knock it far enough off course to no longer be a danger. It's a whole lot cheaper than accelerating a planet. If you have multiple VDAs up and they all get knocked out simultaneously, just accept your fate. 

You need to resurrect the concept of the hunting lodge. If you're going somewhere specifically to hunt, you'll want a base there to sleep, store equipment you don't need to haul every time and to prepare your kills for transport. A good lodge will have a smokehouse and rooms for hanging meat to cure, hides to dry etc. In season merchants wanting these products ahead of the return trip will send caravans to you to buy on the spot. People in need of fresh dragon blood the same, if the only way you're going to get adequately fresh blood in town is to drag a live dragon there and kill it in the square, then wizards needing such ingredients will have to travel out into the wilds. All this means that not far from the hunting lodges will be the frontier towns, half wild places where adventurers and dragon hunters can be found rubbing shoulders with merchants and wizards. 

The quick and dirty estimate is in imperial units for an Earth size world. Distance to horizon in miles is half your height in feet. If you're 6ft tall it's about 3 miles, if you're 100ft up and 6ft tall it's 53 miles. 

Geographical option, I want to survive this so we'll draw a circle around Western Europe and kill everyone outside it. 

As described by @T3H40, the traditional castle is useless in magical combat situations, so what we need to work out is why the ubiquitous mage tower came to be and what it's advantages are. Towers have certain features in common with castles. 

The values of 24 and 60 are very human values. It's important to remember this when you're considering how you manipulate your clock. 24 will easily divide by 2,3,4,6,8,12. 60 will easily divide by 2,3,4,5,6,10 etc. If you're used to doing calculations in your head then you find such numbers much easier to work with than a decimal system as you're often only dealing with integer values and not fractions. The concept of a day is also a very human thing. You get up in the morning when it's light and go to bed in the evening when it gets dark. The day is of a duration that's easily divided up. It's important to note that before time zones and clocks, that the day was 12 hours and the night was 12 hours and that was an end to the matter. The fact that those hours varied in length through the year was a minor detail. Which brings me to my point: It doesn't matter. A day is a day, that's what most people think in, days and nights. You don't need to keep converting between Earth time and Kepler time unless you have instantaneous communications between the two. Once you have defined your base relative times you never need to run the calculation again. It's only when there's cause on on planet and effect on the other that it actually matters what the relative times are. The lightcone says that for most day to day purposes they might as well be in different universes. 

The first thing you need to consider is what causes it to become a dungeon rather than just being an empty cave. If there's some sort of energy source (portal to netherworld etc. hereafter called a source) that attracts monsters then you'll have a repopulation rate based on how powerful it is. If it also feeds the monsters and causes them to become more powerful (to a limit based on monster type and power of source) then you can also have them back up to full power in a reasonable amount of time. You could say that a powerful source would repopulate with low level troggs/imps within a matter of days. They would feed on the source and become more powerful, but to a low limit as they're low level beasties. More powerful creatures would also be attracted to the underpopulated region and rarer types such as demons, dragons etc would slowly return over the course of some months. If there was a source that emits monsters then you'll have a faster return of high level monsters displacing the low level troggs (who are merely attracted to a cave as their natural environment) to the outer regions. In the first case you're going to have trouble repopulating loot until a few adventurers have died in there to leave their weapons and armour behind. In the second case they could be coming in with high level weapons/armour already on. There's a third option here, the source creates the monsters from smaller creatures, small lizards exposed to it for long enough eventually become dragons. Stray dogs become corehounds. Waifs and strays who come looking for shelter eventually become [insert biped monster here]. Lost temples much as per caves with portals to netherworlds. Abandoned forts/outposts could be populated with a mix of roaming mercenaries, highwaymen, outlaws etc. These will take considerable time to return if they ever do once cleared out, people have better memories for what happened and the folk thereabouts will remember. Verdant groves will also tend to attract suitable beasties rather than relying solely on local reproduction. Regarding density, a powerful source in a deep dungeon will have an effect over a very large area. You could have knock on effects for miles around with every cave, dark corner or overgrown woodland classing as a dungeon. Beasties tend to be very territorial, tending to end up in groups no larger than your average adventuring party, barring a few weaker types who sometimes move in larger numbers. This means that the more powerful monsters will be closer to the source and weaker ones will be pushed to the outside and are more likely to be encountered near towns and farmland. Human habitation would quite rapidly move away from a place like this as the little people at the bottom of the garden would be stealing too many children/sheep in the night. There's no practical limit to the density of small sources, I wouldn't expect a major one within two days travel of the next. Though if they're old mage towers, something horrible about halfway in between left over from the mages fighting. Abandoned forts/outposts/temples will depend on population density. A good solid temple will only exist where there was once a good solid (human?)population. Forts and outposts may be up against borders of the small kingdoms and baronies that mediaeval Europe was broken into, up against the edge of a monster zone caused by a major source or even just on the road between two market towns. No more than one in a days travel, unless on borders where there could be one either side of the line. With regards to what they eat, most beasties are carnivores, they'll get a good healthy diet of lean young adventurer, otherwise troggs and imps will be the bottom of the food chain for those that don't feed on the source itself.