You can have your message printed on either a) a tarp like material, put eyelets on the edges and use cable ties to attach it to your frame b) a plastic laminate billboard with a hollow core like this $URL$ Another idea would be to carry a flag on a pole attached to the bike. 

I am looking for a bike as primary transportation in the South Bay area. My commute is 5 mi, I like to do overnight trips on weekends and use the bike for shopping, which will involve occasional trips not longer than 30 mi. My budget is $1500, but I would not mind to spend less in order not to worry too much about theft and maybe even get a second bike. I went to a lot of bike shops, but they seem to be geared more towards racing or mtb, very few bikes even had rack mounts. My current favorite is the Novara Randonee 2012 $URL$ but I am not 100% sure it is the right bike for my purpose. My concerns with the Randonee are: -Main concern: Bar End Shifters. I've never had bar ends, but I have the feeling that they are unsuitable for traffic. I have to go through a few streets with heavy traffic I don't feel too comfortable in, even without taking my hands off the brakes. I like integrated shifters. -Minor concern: The Randonee is not overweight (29 lbs), but a bit too heavily built for my purpose. I won't do any tours of more than a few days, most of my use will be running errands and doing tours (not races) with friends who have mostly cross or road bikes. I don't want to be the slowest. Are these proper concerns? Did I overlook anything? Does one get used to the bar ends? Other bikes I looked at: -Novara Verita, $1200: Goes in the right direction, but sitting was uncomfortable compared to Randonee, and they weren't able to identify the problem in the shop. -Fuji Cross 3.0, $800: 400318">$URL$ I have doubts about the canti brakes, especially when wet. -Salsa Vaya 2, $1700: BB5 disc brakes probably better than brakes on Randonee, far too expensive -Fantom Outlaw, $999: $URL$ Cheaper version of salsa, but bad idea to buy without trying it out. Anyway, these four only have double cranksets with a lowest ratio of 36:32, I am not sure this is low enough. Bikes I read about but that I didn't see in any shop: Specialized Secteur, Surly LHT, Trek, Surly Cross Check Are there other bikes I should look at that -take a rack and fenders -have reliable brakes for all weather use in traffic -preferably have integrated shifters -low enough gear 

Whereas a commuter bike is designed more for comfort, and carrying luggage as required. So it may have: 

The PD-T780 is an discontinued model. For 2016, they have been replaced by the PD-T8000. It seems the main difference is the PD-T8000 has metal pins on the flat side, so they should give better grip for your shoes. Plus it is a slightly different shaped platform. 

A cyclocross bike is designed for cyclocross racing. This typically involves riding as quickly as possible around a muddy field. So for a cyclocross bike: 

Front hubs on mountain bikes and road bikes are all the same width, 100mm (except for some downhill hubs with through-axles). So you could use either type, they would fit in your forks fine. Note nearly all current mountain bike hubs are designed for disc brakes, so include mounts for attaching a rotor. You can still use them on a bike with rim brakes, just don't fit a rotor. The disc part would increase the weight a bit, so they will be a bit heavier than an equivalent road hub. Also the disc mount means the hub is not symmetrical, so the wheel has to be dished. This makes it a bit more complicated to build, ie it needs different spoke lengths on each side. But this doesn't really matter, you can still build a strong wheel with either sort of hub. And disc mounts would be useful if you wanted to fit disc brakes in the future. As for which hub, generally mid-range Shimano hubs are good. eg Deore or LX for mountain bike, or Tiagra or 105 for road. Usually they just work fine for years, with hardly any maintenance. Shimano hubs typically use cup-and-cone bearings, so they can be serviced, and the bearings replaced, but this may be a bit fiddly. 

For a ready made part, see Fly Pedals. This is essentially just a metal platform, which you bolt cleats onto, then clip them into your pedals. They are threaded with holes for 2-bolt or 3-bolt cleats, so should work with most mountain bike or road bike clipless pedals (including SPD-SL). Note these are not yet available, but you can pre-order them from the Fly Pedals website. Some more details on Fly Pedals on Kickstarter - that page says delivery from end of July 2014. 

depending on the bar tape, you may be able to undo it carefully without tearing it. Ive had success in the past. Some have very little or no adhesive. Some it takes a while for the adhesive to stick firm so if its new it may peel off just fine. Try it and see. You could also loosen the handlebar at the stem and move them up a bit to raise the hoods. This may effect cable tension for your outer cables so check that. Also you may not like having the drops angled down although some do. personal preferencesort of thing.. 

It sounds like you may be cross chaining?.. A bike with a double chain ring setup and, lets say, ten rear cogs, or gears, may be called 22 speed but not all those combinations are usable. When on the big chainring, depending on the line the chain takes between the chainrings at the front and the cassette at the rear you can usually only use the smallest rear cog up to perhaps the 4th largest rear cog. If you try to use a bigger cog ( ie, lower or easier gear) the chainline is too extreme and you may hear a rubbing noise as a result. Best to shift to your smaller front chainring. With the small chainring you should be able to use the biggest rear cog down to perhaps the 3rd or 4th smallest rear cog. Hope that makes sense! Sunshine and tailwinds bro! 

I think it is! Building up a bike is fun! Heres another Czech brand called Amulet from the nineties. I built it back up with a mix of old parts I had lying around still in good order. I put on some new brakes ( nb.. older frames normally need long reach calipers!) tyres and cabling. It rides so well. A cro mo magic carpet ride for my wife! 

If you are looking for a relatively cheap and less complicated downgearing option, you could consider an XT cassette. I use an 11-40 eleven speed in conjunction with 5800 compact cranks. My rear mech is a 105 5800 with medium cage and I also installed a 'roadlink ' hanger extender. It works! If not for this hack I doubt I would have completed my recent 'everest' ride of a local climb. With the roadlink, new XT M8000 cassette and new chain all up it cost less than 80 euros. Ten minutes work to install!If you have a short cage mech, it may still work. Look up durianrider's videos on you tube to see for yourself what is possible. 

An older model, with a large metal platform, so a bit heavier. They have the option of adding reflectors or toeclips. Weight: 533g (pair) 

These are designed for road/touring bikes, so are fairly slim, with a small metal platform. (Not to be confused with the PD-A520, which are one-sided SPD pedals, without a flat platform). Personally I use these, they work pretty well, with either SPD shoes or non-SPD shoes. Weight: 383g (pair) PD-T780 

Mars Bars are not that great for cycling. Yes, they have quite a lot of calories, so will give you some energy. But most of that is simple sugars, so it may be a quick energy boost, but soon followed by an energy crash. Also Mars Bars have quite a lot of fat (about 17g per 100g), so this can not be easily digested while cycling hard - it could just make you sick. Mars Bars are not very practical either. On a warm day, a bar in your back pocket will probably melt, so become rather messy and difficult to eat. 

It is possible to buy a basic new fork for about £20 to £30. eg Raleigh 700C 1 1/8" Threaded Fork from Evans. Or there's a variety of options on Ebay, either new or used. Or some cycling forums have classified sections, so you could post a wanted advert. Though there are several things to check to ensure a replacement fork is compatible: 

You could find a bike shop to fit the replacement fork. It may cost anything between £20 and £50, depends on the shop and just what needs done. Or if you want to replace the fork yourself, you will need several tools. Probably including several spanners, and possibly also headset tools. If you don't have these, you may be able to borrow them from someone. The best option could be a DIY bike workshop, eg the one suggested by Booker. They will have tools you can use, plus they may be able to advise on what you need to do. Depending on how your fork was damaged, its possible that other parts of the bike are broken. So it is worth checking it all carefully. The worst would be if the frame is bent or broken, that would be a lot of cost and work to replace. If the frame is damaged, you may be better off just replacing the whole bike.