However, there is one other difference exclusive to both dwarves and elves--the tapetum lucidum, a tissue behind the retina that reflects light, increasing light availability to the photoreceptors though at the risk of detail. (Though if you are a tetrachromat, that might not be a problem.) Are any of my proposals listed above sound, or have I created some unintentional side effects to the dwarvish body? 

Earth in this scenario still rotates once every 24 hours, and the temperate zone still has four seasons, each one lasting three months. But in this scenario, a temperate summer has the sun shining for 18 hours, whereas a temperate winter has the sun shining for only six. What kind of axial tilt would allow such a transition? And how would ecosystems be affected? 

A period of human history from the 1880s to the 1930s could best be described as the golden age of skyscraper building. Back home, New York City consists of tall, rectangular skyscrapers with mild variation. But in this alternate scenario, the structures of the Big Apple and other American cities that followed can be modeled after the following proposed tall structures: The Palace of the Soviets 

A dense coat, obviously Antifreezing compounds in the blood Their metabolism adjusts to seasonal needs. In fall they accumulate large fat reserves, in winter the metabolic rate is lowered, and in spring they show an increased carbohydrate metabolism, making use of the freshly sprouting grass. They may further avoid frostbite by reducing the volume of circulating blood during times of extreme cold 

If I move both the North and South American mainlands (meaning the islands stay right where they are) north by a latitude of five degrees, what kinds of climates would I be looking at? 

The Rocky Mountains Bristlecone, true to its name, grows in the Rocky highlands of Colorado, New Mexico and Arizona. It is the only one of the three species to form a closed canopy, creating the traditional definition of "forest". 

In OTL, the reasons settlements like these were not so common in North or South America is that they did not have the pack animal or the wheel. If man became archers before leaving Africa, maybe the pre-Columbian Americans could have plenty of both. These two could potentially result in empires with a scope to match that of Rome or at least Ptolemaic Egypt. But this raises yet another problem. In North America, there are 562 federally identified Native American tribes and perhaps as many in South America. If the Native Americans did have the tools and technology to build empires large enough to cover good portions of either North or South America, would the number of tribes still be the same? Or will mass empire-building drop that number to a noticeable degree? 

As you can see here, the proportions of mineral composition differ from back home. Now the question is, how will these differences affect granite and basalt's characteristics in comparison to ours? Would this make the crust different from our own? 

The long brown chain stretching from Angola to Oman is the Aden Bahçesi, a chain of subductive volcanic mountains, the tallest being 24,341 feet above sea level, 1500 feet taller than Aconcagua back home. If the Himalayas are any indication, taller mountains in a tropical or near-tropical latitude mean titanic rivers. Okay! Now for the history of the lake in the title: In southern Africa stand four different kinds of arid habitats: 

Now, in this scenario: In an alternate Earth, a repeat of the Siberian eruptions plagued the Earth during the Maastrichtian epoch, 66 million years ago. Here is Earth at that time: 

We're talking about a planet that has a median surface temperature of 58.3 degrees Fahrenheit. In this alternate scenario, these three factors have changed. 

Grass isn't ideally nutritious, which is why some grazers spend the most part of the day mowing the lawns. Grass grows low, far out of reach for the centaur's augmented torso. 

Before you bring up the tetrachromats, yes, I have read about the humans who can see 100 million shades of colors, but for this question, I'm going some steps further. Let's say that a predatory animal has equal number of rods and cones--say, 400 million each. What would color vision and night vision look like? Would it affect the eyes' attention to detail in any way? 

In this steampunk scenario, the CSCL Globe is four times longer, the length of an Imperial II-class star destroyer that debuted in The Empire Strikes Back. So a steampunk seagoing cargo ship measures 1600 meters in length, but its proportions between length, tonnage, beam (width at the widest point) and draft (vertical distance between the waterline and the bottom of the hull, with the thickness of the hull included) remain the same. Would this kind of size be feasible, or would the materials and manpower required be a Star Wars-level degree of handwavium? 

The ideal postapocalyptic American town is a midway between both styles. But is this midway compatible? Could a cultural fusion between the two styles happen organically, or would the result be just lazy hodgepodge? 

Knowledge has come to me recently that mussels can suck up pollutants, making them crucial cleanup crews in the New York filth. This knowledge is the inspiration for this alternate scenario, in which coral, sponges and crinoids (flower-like relatives of the sea star) have been extinct for 65 million years. 

Last time, I asked if it's possible to breed a five-gaited horse as hardy and adaptable as a Yakutian horse. Turns out that it's not as straightforward as initially assumed. It seems that not all Icelandics have the gene for the fifth ambling gait, a feature that made this breed popular in medieval Europe. Nor are all Yakutians made equal, as some populations are better at dealing with environmental extremes than others. But with enough generations, it IS possible for a hybrid horse to have a fifth gait like an Icelandic that can deal with the entire environmental spectrum like a Yakutian. But that is only Stage I, and here is why: I have seen no evidence of either breed being used for war or labor, and at 13-14 hands tall (52-56 inches), they're still a little on the small side. So here is the candidate for Stage II: 

Now in this alternate scenario, the seven features listed right above are still connected as one singular Lake Makgadikgadi, thanks to Lake Congo and the Aden Bahçesi. But would this lake be enough to turn the Kalahari and the two Karoos green as the Serengeti? 

Brick is usually nothing more than a rectangle or square of hardened clay-bearing soil. The standard size is three-and-five-eighths inches deep, two-and-a-quarter tall and 8 inches long. In a Life After People, bricks like these can't last even half a century without human maintenance. But let's say that the standard brick is bigger--three-and-five-eighths inches deep, seven-and-five-eighths deep and fifteen-and-five-eighths long. Let's also say that the brick is made not of clay, but solid rock, preferably marble or granite. In a temperate zone, akin to New York or Chicago, if a brick house does have bricks as described above, how long will the house's outer skin stand in a Life After People? 

Meet Microraptor zhaoianus. This small dinosaur is unique in that all four of its limbs had been upgraded into wings. It should make sense, therefore, that the existence of a four-winged dinosaur should make a four-winged angel a possibility. Even so, since the anatomical differences between an aerial dinosaur and an aerial primate are vast, questions need to be taken into consideration: 

Let me clarify on that title, because this question focuses specifically on vegetables that have not been cultivated for their fruits--like tomatoes, eggplants, peppers, cucumbers and pumpkins--or their roots (potatoes, carrots, parsnips, yams and casavas) but for either their leaves (lettuce and spinach), their pods (beans and peas) or their bulbs (onions and garlics). Note that none of those grow in trees or other woody plants and do not rely on animals or even the wind for pollination. But in an alternate Earth where vegetables that are cultivated for their leaves, pods and bulbs do grow in trees, would they need to modify those features so that they can be pollinated by either animals or the wind, or would, say, onion bulbs qualify as fruit? 

The skeleton of the average skyscraper is steel. While it does have its advantages, they tend to get outweighed by two specific faults. One is a resistance to corrosion so poor that in a Life After People, it might stand firm for only 150 years. The other is that it's too heavy. So much, in fact, that nothing could get taller than the ridiculously narrow Burj Khalifa in Dubai. So, for a taller building or other manmade structure, are there any metals or alloys tougher but lighter and thus longer-lasting than steel? If yes, then which? What about glass? We've come to a point where scientists have created a glass as tough, if not more so, than steel. Could a glass skeleton be a public reality in the foreseeable future? 

Some of the largest and most impressive dams, like Hoover or Glen Canyon, are built entirely out of concrete. But in this scenario, Hoover is an enormous wall of granite and/or marble bricks glued together by Roman concrete (which is tougher and less porous than modern concrete, or "Portland Cement"). In a Life After People, how long could such a dam stand before crumbling under the will of erosion? 

Using the features listed above, which ape should inspire which feature to create a genus capable of walking the forest floor and swinging the trees with equal ease? 

I have just read that Genesis mentioned the Tower of Babel being described as having "tar for mortar". I've never before heard of something as sticky and viscous as tar being used as mortar, but evidently, it was the material of choice for the Sumerians to put together their oven-baked bricks (themselves more durable than regular sun-baked bricks). On a related note, the Romans invented concrete, which was also used to make mortar. But unlike modern concrete, or Portland cement, Roman concrete used volcanic ash as an aggregate. Using volcanic ash, the concrete gets harder as it gets older and it is even guaranteed to be waterproof. This is how the structures of the Roman Empire stood for the past 2,000 years whereas modern buildings aren't expected to last longer than 150 years in a Life After People. So imagine that there was an ancient culture who used the following ingredients to make their mortar: 

Glass has been around since 3500 BC, and since then, it has been one of the many everyday materials of choice. We pretty much see them everywhere nowadays--our windows, our windshields, our mirrors, our fancy wine bottles. But now, it seems, glass is going to suffer some stiff competition from something that, until quite recently, exists only in science fiction: transparent aluminum. But before finding out just how stiff the competition is going to be, let's look up the basic pros and cons of glass, in no particular order: 

Even today, the questions of where, how or when the select few wolves became the ancestors of all dogs (before Vulpes vulpes was added in the 1950s) are under constant debate. But why? What makes the Grey Wolf special as opposed to...