Cycling is a good way to burn fat but it's not going to be as efficient as running. Alesplin is right that it's all about the amount of calories burned (burning fat is going to depend on you burning more calories than you take in). You can Google "calorie burning chart for exercise" or something similar and see a lot of different results that say a lot of different things (so I take them with a grain of salt) but ultimately I think you'll notice that in all of them they rate running as a better calorie burner than cycling. Also I can tell you from experience that I have to go out for 1+ hr bike ride to feel the equivalent fatigue that I'd get from a 20 minute run. 

Stretch, ice, heat, massage, ibuprofen & light activity There is no real cure for Delayed Onset Muscle Soreness (DOMS) and some of these suggestions are unproven (while some have been proven not to work) there is some science and lots of anecdotal evidence that these things will help. Stretching after your workout is a common practice which has many benefits. Some people report that it helps reduce DOMS but unfortunately the science says that it doesn't really. Heating and icing help facilitate bringing blood into and pushing blood out of the sore area which help recovery. Ice/heat can have a soothing affect too but that depends on the person (personally I hate the feeling of icing). Lightly massaging the sore muscles has also been report to help reduce DOMS but again there is no proof to back it up. I think it feels good though so it may just be psychological. ibuprofen is an anti-inflammatory and pain reliever. I think this benefits of this are obvious, but I will say to be careful to understand the health risks as you should do when ingesting any kind of chemical. Doing an Active Recovery (light activity) immediately after your workout will help reduce muscle lactate levels. Continuing to do active recovery activity in the days after your workout is a good way to keep the blood flow going to the sore muscles and prevent the muscles from tightening. 

I don't have a standard regimen for you either, and I hope that someone posts one. I use the Energy Zones methodology for swimming, and while this document is specific to swimming, the exact same principals apply to running. The zones relate to metabolic processes: aerobic recovery, aerobic development, mixed anaerobic/aerobic, anaerobic, and creatine phosphate. In general, the optimal amount of time you should spend on each higher zone decreases and recovery time increases. A seasonal progression for a cross country runner probably doesn't need to include zone 5, but should progressively work up ability in all other zones. 

There are sad photos of people during wartime and economic depressions taking swimming lessons on land, with swimsuits on, balanced on pieces of wood or the like. Unfortunately, you'll make little progress in this way. The main things to overcome are comfort in the water and then taking advantage of breath holding, balance, and floating for efficiency. There is nothing to replace practicing in water. One thing you can do at home is to practice submerging your head in cool water and holding your breath for a few seconds, and then recovering after raising your head. If you do this with water that is warmer than the water park will be such as bath water, you may not trigger the same instincts and fears we are all born with. If you are scared of water, you should only stay in areas of the park meant for novices. Kids slides and shallow pools with only gentle waves or currents. Breathing in water accidentally if you are not comfortable can become very dangerous for you and those around you, even after you leave the water. Read up on dry or secondary drowning. 

If you are having a problem with pacing I'd break your splits down to 1K if possible. Your exact strategy from there is going to depend on what your limiting factor is. Lactic acid build-up? Winded? Psychological... I'd recommend that you start out aiming for even splits to your goal and just give the last 1K all you have. From there you will probably get a better idea what a realistic goal time is and you can play around with loading different parts of the race for optimal physiological and psychological results. 

This is not how I like to organize a 3 day split workout but it works with what you've done so far. There are still a lot of variables like weight, # of reps, # of sets, rest time, machine vs dumbell vs barbell that are going to be dependent on a lot of factors like your current size, strength and ability. You really should call your trainer because a training plan should be a lot more than just a grouping of exercises. I find it strange that he's done two sessions with you and told you that you have to do a third session but hasn't scheduled it or prepared you for it. I don't want to judge with so little information but you and him need to get on the same page and you may want to shop around a little for a new trainer. 

Swimming fitness is a little different because your arms are the predominant power source and your breathing is controlled instead of natural. If you are having trouble with a length, however, the dominant issue is likely to be efficiency. Form drag, friction, rotational drag, etc. will nearly stop you outright if you are not balanced and smooth. According to wikipedia, resistance is exponentially related to velocity and is also related to surface area, so good technique is essential. I suggest instruction. 

I certainly don't ever train 7 year olds more than what your daughter is already doing. If she is already generally fit all effort and focus should be put on skill progression. She can potentially get stronger than the average child but focusing on athletic training as if she were a young adult is physically and psychologically unnecessary for a few more years. There is little to gain until the onset of maturation. When comparing children of similar size and maturity, skills are by far the biggest differentiator for speed. Watch a local meet and see it play out! 

It depends on what kind of running you are doing. If you are doing a low intensity distance run, no need to do any stretching or warmup. If you are doing a more intense aerobic run you should start with a low intensity warmup run (1/2 mile should be sufficient but ultimately it'll be dictated by your fitness level and the workout you are warning up for). If you are doing high intensity running like max effort sprints you should do an ascending warmup with some dynamic stretching. You should be sweating after this warmup. Save the static stretches for after your run. 

Day 3 is likely to be a Shoulders & Arms day. Your trainer told you that his plan is going to focus on distinct parts of your body on each day. Day 1 was Legs & Core, Day 2 was Back & Chest so that leaves Shoulders & Arms for Day 3. For exercises you can do: 

Athletes carbo load in order to avoid going into glycogen debt during their performance ( essentially avoiding doing your diet ;) The body is designed to use glycogen for energy. Ketogenesis is an emergency backup when that fuel is not available. Its meant to keep your body going which it does but not as efficiently as glycogenisis so you end up depleting your fuel faster than you can make it. 

Although there is only some need for full distance training and @JohnP's answer is useful for most of your training, it really can help with strategy, psychological conditioning, and for practicing pace to do an occasional full distance swim. Healing after your first full distance training session will produce an excellent training effect as well. I have done full distance training for up to 7750 yards. 

It depends on your body and acclimation. I had a friend who was an excellent swimmer who died after being stranded in Lake Michigan when it was 45F. I was at a 1 and 2 mile race once where the water temperature was 68F, and it was early season so people had only acclimated with warm pool swimming. Out of 500 or so people, 3 women without wetsuits became hypothermic. They recovered with warm showers and ER visits. No men had issues and no one wearing a wetsuit had issues. I swam with no wetsuit and was fine. Men on average have more mass and about twice the muscle mass in proportion on average, and this helps them. People who are both strong and have a fat layer may also have an advantage. I have heard of people swimming distance in the San Francisco Bay daily without a wetsuit, and that is quite cold. I recommend that with boat support you start with very short swims and see how you react, and this will also allow your body to acclimate. 

This all depends on how you are performing the exercises (how much weight, how many reps, how much rest between sets, how much rest between sessions...). Based on your comments, my answer is no, they are not going to negatively affect your running. If you were executing those exercises to train max strength or power (eg. higher weight, low-mid reps, moderate to full recovery) they are only going to have marginally positive affects on your distance running ability but that could be offset by adding more muscle weight that will make you a less efficient runner. Doing them with less intensity (lower weight, higher reps) and less recovery will be more beneficial to your running by improving the strength and strength endurance of your legs and your core. On another note swimming isn't the most efficient way to improve your running endurance. It helps improve cardiovascular endurance, but it does not train the strength or aerobic capacity of the muscles that are used in running. Ultimately your training plan is going to depend on your goals. If you are training to be a competitive distance runner this is not the most efficient approach. If your goal is overall fitness then this may work for you. 

Competitive and recreational breaststrokes are barely related in this regard, as they use completely different balance and kicks (whip vs. frog). If you have excellent balance, delaying the set-up and kick can be helpful for efficiency in competitive breaststroke as the recovering or recovered arms will provide less drag during the most propulsive phase of the stroke. Throwing forward also completes the wave and maintains excellent balance. For an excellent example, see the underwater views from the 2012 Olympic Men's 100 Breaststroke final. $URL$ 

You can train your mindset alongside physical training. You should be focusing on aerobic and anaerobic threshold training with sets that prevent you from getting by with sprinting. Example: 8 - 10 x 100 on an interval that allows you 5-15 seconds rest with great difficulty once you settle in will not allow true sprinting. If you accidentally do sprint early on, you'll still need to settle in and tough it out. Focus on how you feel later in the set and force yourself to use proper technique. If you can barely make it but do, you are on the right track. This will help develop the psychological mindset that you need to foster for the 500 freestyle event. 

Yes. Obviously any environmental hazards like glass and debris could cause a problem but I'm assuming you are asking about the impact on your foot and leg and lack of cushioning. Many barefoot runners run on concrete and asphalt, including during road races. All of the benefits of barefoot running hold true on hard surfaces. This articles points out that barefoot running (as opposed to wearing shoes) in fact reduces the risk of injury when running on hard surfaces. Edit: The "Yes" answer is dependent on using proper running technique. I thought this went without saying because the same goes for shoe'd running. When you have poor form you are more likely to get injured. "What is proper technique?" is a whole new question of it's own but generally speaking barefoot running with fore-foot strikes are going to transmit less impact into the joints and lower leg than heel-strike running with shoes on. Another important note is that if you are a new barefoot runner, you need to ease into it, just like you would any other new activity. 

I have only had problems like this with an active sinus infection or severe allergies, otherwise simply breathing out of my nose every breath keeps everything clear. Go to an immunologist as needed for proper diagnosis and treatment. Finally, Afrin works really well. 

Swimming can of course develop tremendous leg and hip power, especially for breaststroke, but this does not directly translate into an improved vertical jump because the motion is quite different. The sport, however, requires developing an excellent jump for starting and pushing off the wall. For this reason swimmers train for vertical jumping both in and out of the water, although I doubt many swimmers can beat an average NBA vertical. Phelps can. 

While I can't suggest an optimum rotation angle for you without seeing you, I can suggest that it is hard to overdo it if you have good balance. For efficient distance swimming it is common to roll quite far and extend the shoulder forward, and many drills from Total Immersion encourage being completely on your side, such as kicking on your side and zipper switch. I also encourage my young swimmers to emphasize their roll while drilling to prevent long term injuries. It minimizes shoulder stress as their yardage increases, so it isn't something endeavor to do minimally. When sprinting, there is a trade off between the economies of efficiency, stroke rate, and power, so it is common to see less core roll in sprint events.