Of course Earth life would be fine at first (unless it was Earth that was removed ...) but the orbits of asteroids and other bodies may be perturbed, which could lead to an influx of asteroid strikes - potentially - in the longer term. 

Be aware there are differing formats. SPK is the newer format - the older text format seems to be deprecated. It's worth having a look at the documentation on this jplephem python library as it explains the format reasonably well. If you do use SPK, you'll need to read all of the documentation in NASA's SPK repository I'm not sure if this is from the same author as this library - worth a read as it discusses the FITS format. 

Our sun is a particularly average sized star on the main sequence. It is not going to ever go "supernova" but instead will slowly swell and darken towards red, eventually swallowing Mercury and Venus. 

So I was wondering how astronomers are able to get the texture/detail of an exoplanet or how they know a planet has water or not. I know how they discover planets by using the light of a star and seeing if it gets faint or by seeing if the star is getting gravitationaly pulled back and forth, to determine the planet size. But I just don't understand how they are able to get the texture of a planet. Thanks for the help! 

So I just had a quick question and I was wondering how we convert other waves of the electromagnetic spectrum to visible light waves. For example we use X-ray's or radio waves to see things in space like nebulae that we wouldn't normally be able to see with just visible light waves. But how do we convert those waves to visible light so we can actually see them. I don't know if I'm staying this right but another example that just came to me is pictures of the Sun we see that was taken with radio waves, we see them, which must mean that they were covered into visible light some how, so I was just wondering how, thanks in return =) 

Stars are much less bright than the earth in full sunlight as per your picture. So with the exposure required to give that picture of earth, no, you won't see stars. But move the camera a bit to the side, so earth is not in shot and you can see stars. The same goes for the sun - make sure sunlight is not entering the lens, and you can easily see stars. Sunlight doesn't block any light out (unless you want to see a star that is actually behind the sun) it's just so bright that you need to make sure it isn't in shot. 

While the surface of a meteor will indeed be pretty sterilised by re-entry, remember that a meteor also has an inside. If it doesn't burn up completely, then parts of the inside may remain cool enough for bacteria/viruses to survive. The range of environmental conditions life can survive in is incredibly wide, so this is not impossible. 

Relative motion is motion that is referenced (compared to) something that may be moving. For example, when driving, you may find that the car next to you is edging ahead of you. You can say that it is moving 5 miles per hour faster than you - that is its relative speed. (Note, it also has an "absolute" speed, say 65 miles per hour, while you have an "absolute" speed of 60 miles per hour. Here I use "absolute" in the sense of comparing speed to the surface of the Earth, not a universal absolute.) This brings us to the definition of a reference frame, which is critical for understanding the later arguments. A reference frame is a perspective from which one can begin to measuring things. It is a defined zero point from which you can measure distance, speed etc. So, in the example above, you have a reference point, yourself in the car, and you see the other car moving ahead of you at 5 miles an hour, and you also see the ground moving past you at 60 miles an hour. The driver of the car also has a reference point, himself, and sees you as moving backwards at 5 miles an hour, and the ground moving past at 65 miles an hour. Someone sitting on the ground also has a reference point, seeing two cars moving away at 60 and 65 miles an hour respectively. 

Even on Earth, we say that a day is 24 hours, but it isn't really, as the two sets of concepts don't match up. We haven't defined a second as a fraction of the time it takes the planet to rotate - it is defined based on physical constants. So if you were to say that Gliesa has a day that is 30 units long - it would be astonishing if those units were exactly hours! 

This comes from a misunderstanding of local and absolute. There is nothing to prevent a local increase in order - overall, order still decreases (or in common terminology, entropy increases) From Wikipedia: 

This question isn't really very clear or practical. You need to add quite a bit of information, eg which planet? 

If you are a beginning astronomer, there is not much point worrying about all the bells and whistles you can get with a good telescope. Instead, the key points to look for are: 

There are some simple answers to your questions, and some (historic) controversy. I'll answer the simple elements first (but backwards by your ordering of the questions), and then describe the nature of the controversy. 

Absolute motion is motion that is referenced (compared to) a feature that you can say is standing still. For example, how do you know the speed of a car? You compare it to something that is standing still. 

We compare the Earth to other things. We can compare it to the sun, and therefore know that it is both moving around itself (rotating) and around the sun (revolving). We compare the sun to the milky way, noting that the entire solar system is orbiting around the center of our galaxy. We compare the galaxy to other galaxies, and note that our galaxy is drifting towards our local great attractor. And (this is where the controversy of the other answers comes into play) we can compare our speed to the equivalent motion of an object at rest with the Cosmic Microwave Background Radiation (called CMBR for short), and can even deduce how fast the local great attractor is moving compared to that. So what is the controversy? The controversy is around the question, "Is there a universal reference frame?" In other words, is there such thing as a point in the universe that we can say is the zero point that we measure all positions and velocities from? Historically, this was fought out between Einstein and Lorentz. Before the Michelson-Morley experiments, it was thought that light traveled through a ghostly material called an "aether" that wasn't moving, which could be considered the universal reference frame. The Michelson-Morley experiments were set up to determine the Earth's relative motion through the aether, but it didn't find any. Lorentz created a mathematical method that could account for this, but it was missing a physical basis. Then along came Einstein, who replaced the assumption of an aether with the assumption that light travels at a constant speed. From this he developed the now famous Special Theory of Relativity (although, that is the name it has subsequently come to be called). This was a little too far for Lorentz, and he developed a counter theory, which slowly transformed into a very similar theory to Einstein's, with one exception - Lorentz believed that there was an, as yet undetectable, zero reference frame for the universe. Here is what he said in 1910 

Since Jupiter is the biggest planet in our solar system and is made up of mostly hydrogen and helium, (the gases the Sun uses to create energy), how come it didn't form as far out as say Uranus or Neptune since when our star formed it took most of the gases around it to create? Just a little confused on this, thanks for the help! 

Technically yes you would be able to. Picture this. If you were to position a gigantic mirror 10 light years from earth (let's say you are 10 at the time) and the mirror was pointing right at you. When you are 30 (so in 20 years because it would take light 10 years to get there and 10 years to get back) you would be able to see yourself when you were 10. Now picture that was the earth and yes you would be able to. Another way is if you were able to move faster than the speed of light then you could get to a point in space where earth's light hasn't reached yet and you could observe earth from that light that it enjoyed a long time ago. I hope these 2 answers helped and answered your question. 

There are different infinities. You could say that there are an infinite number of planets, so probability says that there could be humans on a small percentage of them. Say for arguments sake humans exist on 0.001% of those planets.0.001% of infinity is infinity, right? Well, sort of, but it's obviously a smaller infinity than the number of planets. Conversely there are 99.999% of planets without humans, which is a much bigger infinity. So to all intents and purposes the answer is no, for this mental exercise. And in reality it's a no, as any humans on other planets would pretty much have to not be humans any more, as they are so far away that unless we have instantaneous or FTL travel, evolution would have changed them/us. 

Unlike all other meteor showers, which originate from comets, Geminids originate from asteroid 3200 Phaethon. Seeing a large number of meteors last night, I noticed they seemed to be much more green than other meteors, but is there anything else I should expect to see different to other meteor showers? Brightness, size, length of trail etc? 

I suspect that what the class told you was that the universe might be infinite. We currently have no way of knowing if that was true or not. The issue is that there is no way of knowing when inflation stopped outside of our Hubble sphere. I believe that there is some evidence in the CMBR that it has a minimum size which is several times the Hubble radius, as there would be resonances that aren't apparent in the spectrum. However there is no upper limit. Note, however, that this theory does include the possibility that the universe wasn't always infinite but that it was a finite size early. 

Einstein maintained that not only was a universal reference frame undetected, it was unnecessary, and Occam's razor should rule (i.e. that if something is unnecessary for the theory to work, then it shouldn't be included in the theory). It is interesting that both theories actually predict the same things, but in the end, Einstein won. Most physicists these days would state that a universal reference frame does not exist. Since that time, two key things have happened that impact this. First is the discovery of the expansion of the universe. This means that, even if we were to make an arbitrary universal zero position and time, other reference frames that start out at stationary compared to this reference frame will start to move away, even though any object there has undergone no acceleration. This greatly complicates any attempt to set a universal reference frame, an makes it much easier to consider that none exist. Tick one for Einstein. The second thing was the discovery of the CMBR. This is the relic of a change in the entire universe at around 380,000 years after the big bang. At that point, the universe went from opaque (where light couldn't travel very far without encountering some matter to interact) to transparent (where some light could travel consistently without interruption until someone like you measures it). Two interesting (and relevant) features were found about this CMBR - it comes from every direction (consequently it is universal, i.e. can be seen from anywhere), and it is very consistent in intensity from every direction (termed isotropic). This means that anyone, anywhere, can measure their speed relative to the local knowledge of the universe. Furthermore, this effective reference frame can be used to measure velocity irrespective of the expansion of the universe, if one considers certain interpretations about comoving reference frames. Although this is very different to a universal reference frame of an aether, it is certainly, in one sense, a universal reference frame. Tick one to Lorentz. So what does this mean? Does it mean that Einstein was wrong? No. Einstein was concerned with the physics of light and electrodynamics, of the relationship between time and position and velocity. The basis of Einstein's argument was that, no matter how fast you go relative to any other object, the physics of what you measure locally will be the same. The original concept of a universal frame implied otherwise, and Einstein has been proven experimentally correct over that original concept. However, the concept of using the CMBR to define a universal reference frame is a slightly different idea than the original concept (and more in line with Lorentz's final theory). It does not imply any change in the local physics due to relative speed. But it is, as suggested by Rob Jeffries above, a useful reference frame. I would argue it is a special reference frame, in a manner that science has created special zero points throughout history (e.g. sea level, 0 degrees latitude, binding energy etc). None of these zero points change the physics of what is measured locally, but they make it much easier to compare measurements at different locations etc. In the same way, the CMBR reference frame makes it easier to answer a range of questions about non-local physics. For example, what is the age of the universe? (The age is maximum at the CMBR reference frame.) So, in conclusion, when we see some arguments between physicists about whether the CMBR is an absolute or universal reference frame, it is usually because one side or the other is interpreting the term in the same manner as the original concept, with all its incorrect implications, rather than the lesser concept of a natural definer of the local speed to a universal feature of the universe. 

How would we be able to detect Exomoons? We detect exoplanets by seeing if the light gets faint from a star, but could we really use the same method for determining if there is an exomoon around that exoplanet? Thanks for your thoughts and answers! 

I was wondering how much you had to crush an object for it to become a black hole. Recently I learned that anything could become a black hole (even you) if it were crushed down small enough, for example our sun would have to be crushed to the size of Manhattan to become a black hole (According to a video I saw). I did a little research and found out that something would have to be crushed down to Schwarzchild radius meaning all of that objects mass would have to be crushed into that objects radius. But if you say crush the sun down to the size of Manhattan, that is much smaller than the sun's actual radius. So I haven't really gotten a clear answer and I'm a little confused, thanks for clarifying =)