It depends on their intelligence levels. If they have animal levels, their use is minimal but if they are intelligent, their use is immense because they can fly. An intelligent flyer is a scout, messenger, spy, saboteur or just a bomber. Animal levels you don't get much beyond a mascot or messenger pigeon. 

No. Even assuming you could make a light bending spray paint, you close your eyes and mouth when getting sprayed so when done, you'd end up as some weird disembodied face floating around. 

I'd say religion. "God smote the world for our arrogance and we must live like God has told us and beg his forgiveness" The leaders of a powerful religion have a vested interest in keeping the status quo and if people are too busy surviving, they aren't questioning the religion. Anyone not towing the line gets the chop. "Burn the heretic" 

It's a government. An asset like extended life is not to be wasted. They would increase the number of crimes that carry the death penalty and sell the rights to the extra life. People would also sell the rights to their suicide (and maybe abortions?). Eventually there would be a share market for buying and selling lives and life would be treated as a tradeable commodity. Society would be so messed up...... 

Like cattle, you can sacrifice most of the males and any over the breeding age with no real loss in population. The issue will be the loss of genetics and the loss of labor. If you brought in males from elsewhere to avoid genetic stagnation, you could sacrifice all the males and have an Amazonian village of women..... 

You have FTL. Why do you need birth control? Space is huge. The majority of the population wouldn't live on Earth. Between spaceships, space stations and terraformed planets, humanity would be out exploring the stars making new homes for themselves. The only reason for birth/population control is a lack of resources/space and if you have a viable method of reaching out to the stars, you have no limit on resources. 

Another way is to have the members firmly believe in the cause. If you look at Dexter, he kills regularly. If the cult see themselves as saviors killing people that they see as needing killing for the benefit of society, the less likely the members will feel guilt or revulsion and confess How hard would the police look into missing pedophiles, violent wife beaters and rapists especially if no body is ever found? If each cultist sees themselves as saviors and each provide alibis for each other, the chance of being caught is extremely low. 

The most obvious answer is when they can make them at will. Matter can be transformed to energy and theoretically energy into matter. Gold and jewels would have no value if matter could be transformed into any other type of matter by breaking it down into sub atomic particles and reassembling. See Star Trek Replicator 

The magnetosphere isn't likely to be restarted due to the effort and the time frame required. Even if you could melt the core with nukes, you can't make it spin which is required to generate a magnetic field. You need a moon to generate spin. Scientists are looking at artificial magnetic satellites that will generate a large enough field and park it between Mars and the sun so Mars will be covered by it's magnetic shadow. See magnetic shield 

The best reason is the crew also double as exhibits (more or less). Why just settle for alien creatures when you can also see alien races too. It's not really acceptable to lock intelligent beings up for the amusement of the public but when you pay them as staff and tour guides, you get a twofer. 

The best way for an immortal to rule is from behind the scenes, this way you don't need to mess around with the day to day but focus on the big picture. Why be the king when you can rule the king? Using your incredible wealth, power and influence, you select who will run the country whilst giving the illusion the people actually control their own destiny. People who oppose you get crushed. This means since you don't have to run the day to day, you can step back and follow your own interests but can step back in should it require your personal touch. 

It really depends on your type of zombies. Slow shamblers can't get past a chainlink fence but the ones from "I am Legend" were perfectly capable of climbing and the zombies from "World War Z" swarmed over walls through shear numbers. In "Wayward Pines" they used a wall topped with an electric fence to stop them climbing Most likely you'd run a wall as well as reinforced buildings inside to provide a refuge and a pillbox should the wall fail. If too aggressive for a wall, it would have to be underground linked pillbox defenses 

You could have a star orbit a planet but the star would be an artificial satellite created to terraform the planet. Stars need mass to kick off the fusion/ fission reaction. It's mass stops it from flying apart To make a small artificial sun, you'd need a satellite capable of creating a large magnetic bottle or artificial gravitational field to compress and sustain the reaction and enough mass to power it all Think a tokamak reactor reactor the size of the Death Star 

If you wanted to go into the realm of science fiction, you wouldn't go past Monomolecular wire. It's a strand of a virtually unbreakable filament only a few atoms thick that can be used in a sword or a whip. Since it's so thin, it's like a cheese slicer on steroids. It can cut through almost anything with little effort. 

A spider silk resin composite armour would give Dwarven steel a run for it's money Scientists are currently developing spider silk armour for soldiers. The real key is the difference in fighting styles. The Dwarfs would be better armoured and geared up for mostly hand to hand combat but the elves would be archers and highly maneuverable. The dwarves would most like win, not due to weapons but the fact they can set the whole forest on fire and burn the elves out. 

It really depends on what you use the electricity for. Lights can come from lamps. Water can be gravity fed. Hot water from wood or solar. Many people today live without electricity so why do they need electricity? What are they using it for? Simple lead acid batteries are easy to construct to store it. Whilst car batteries have degraded, the old lead could be smelted down and new batteries made. Simple generators can be made from copper wire and powered by wind, water or even human power. Radio communication is the most obvious use for electricity I can think of. 

Simple physics states that force = mass X velocity Bullet proof clothing stop the bullet from penetrating but the force has to go somewhere. If you want non lethal, you have bean bag rounds. They don't penetrate but the force is going to mess up what they hit. For lethal, you have solid rounds which might not penetrate but will smash up the target regardless. 

Yes but obviously evolution would be much slower. The faster a species breeds, the faster it evolves. Aquatic elves would be the exception only because requirements to breath underwater is radically different to air breathers. Legs are not needed so the whole body would end up being radically different. 

No. There is no gun/weapon involved thus is legally an unarmed attack but you can bet your bottom dollar new laws would be drafted the next day. 

The armor wouldn't be made of steel. You'd look at a composite of ceramics, carbon nanotubes and graphene which would give you a strength far greater than steel at a fraction of the weight. Now surviving a grenade isn't that hard as it's the shrapnel that kills (usually) but larger blasts it's the shock wave that kills. Looking a study into G force, a racing car driver will sustain a brain injury around 16% of the time during a crash involving forces of 50G or greater and that's with the helmet and roll cages. Basically with a big enough blast, it really doesn't matter about how good the armor is, you can scramble the egg without breaking the shell 

Forget skills and abilities. The one true ability is the ability to pass on wealth and power from body to body. When you can cache your wealth and power ready for your next body, you can be virtually unstoppable over time. 

It's not worth it even if you could trap the energy. You'd need a massive, specially designed wind farm, huge storage facilities all for the remote chance of a hurricane. Hurricanes don't follow a set path so where do you place the farm? You'd be better off making an ordinary wind or solar farm to collect energy normally for the 99.99% of the time when there is no hurricane. 

A giant space bullet is never going to be able to hit a random planet somewhere in the galaxy. Even assuming you could build such a weapon, the slightest micrometeor or gravity wave would knock it off course enough to miss the whole solar system. Imagine a sniper hitting a nickle two miles away in a class five hurricane only harder. Anything like this would have to have a guidance system. If you have a guidance system, you might as well stick and engine on it and have it fire itself in space AKA a kamikaze spaceship or guided asteroid. Finally is the time frame. Star systems are light years apart. When you fire the bullet, you'll be wiping out anything from the target's grandchildren to hitting a dead planet because the race already went extinct. Giant space bullets will never be a cross galaxy threat. 

The only reason is prestige. Rarity means value. There is no physical reason to wear natural fibers on an ice world when you can have electrically heated clothes, natural fibers or synthetic. Now if you are a trader, your clothes and look shows your success. Having a hand crafted woolen jacket shows your wealth and success as a trader far more than a off the rack, mass produced jacket. In a world where anything can be robotically mass produced for next to nothing, the only things of real value is hand made 

Paracetamol in a high enough dosage causes the liver to shut down and can kill you in around a day or so. Most people take over the counter pain killers so unless the ME actually suspected poisoning by paracetamol, they wouldn't look for it. You can even use lesser amounts to slowly destroy the liver over time. See Acetaminophen Toxicity 

In the Dresden files, technology fails in the presence of magic. Guns jam, computers short out. The longer the technology is exposed the faster it dies and the more complex the faster it dies. The main character, Harry Dresden, drives an old VW Beetle that dies periodically and a Chief's special revolver which may or may not work. Bad guys with machine guns jam up as soon as magic starts flying It's explained as using magic affect probability as opposed to stopping reactions 

A metallurgist and/or chemist would be good assuming you don't get burnt as a witch In reality any science knowledge or even basic first aid would be world changing. Gun powder isn't hard to make, neither is a simple battery and electric motor, a simple steam engine isn't difficult and using alcohol to kill germs could alter the known world. See A Connecticut Yankee in King Arthur's Court by Mark Twain 

The first question you need to ask yourself is "who is covering it up?" Either the higher realm wants to remain secret and as such keeps it's members in line or someone on Earth wants it to remain secret. The higher realm may want to keep it secret because humans are pretty violent and xenophobic. If human found that there were super powered creatures living among them operating in secret, they would hunt them down. If the higher realm felt that they would lose such a fight, they would try to keep their existence a secret. The Dresden Files by Jim Butcher uses this idea. Vampires, witches, fairies etc all exist but use magic to hide from humans. While humans are weaker than them, there are so many humans with so many weapons they fear humans hunting them down. The other option is someone on Earth want them to be a secret. If magic actually exists and powerful beings on other planes of existence actually exist then the possibility of "doing a deal with the devil" becomes an actual possibility. The church and/or government would want it to remain a secret so people don't go looking in places they shouldn't. They would employ agents to hunt down threats and silence witnesses by any means possible. Monster Hunter International by Larry Correia operates like this. Dark forces gain power from human belief so the less people know, the less powerful the forces are. The governments of the world have their own agents to hunt down threats and silence witnesses but they also pay private contractors bounty for every monster they kill. 

No. Dragonfly wings beat 30 times a second. Now try beating a 20 foot wing 30 times a second. It's not going to happen. Dragonflies can get away with it because they're small. That method of flying fails to scale upwards. Once you get to large birds, they hardly flap at all and try to do most of their flying by gliding and riding thermals. Next problem is humans. We have dense strong bones and heavy muscles which are not made for flying. Birds have light bones. Dragonflies have inflatable wings. It can't ever happen. You might be able to engineer dragonfly wings on a human but they're never going to get airborne.