Yes, leeches can live above ground, on trees, and drop on their prey. I have seen this happen while hiking in Nepal. The leeches of which @ShemSeger speaks of are water leeches, but leeches also include the haemadipsidae family, which are ground leeches. They will do amazing things to reach you, including (but not limited to) dropping on you from above. 

When I wanted to hike Half Dome, it was too late to apply to the lottery you mentioned. Therefore, upon arriving in California in September, I tried to get a last minute "daily" permit through the Park Service's web site. When I got this permit, it was for the next day, and of course I didn't have a camp site. I drove to Yosemite with my wife, and within the campsites, we looked for a campsite with only one car (each campsite is allowed to have up to two cars). We asked the people there if we could join them. The third couple that we asked agreed, and we ended up staying at their campsite both the night before and then night after our hike. I think in most cases, this will work out. Obviously, there is a certain element of risk, but the closest camp site or lodging we could get on a single day's notice was so far away that it seemed like practically the only choice for us, given the constraints we had, and it might work for you, too. 

My family is going to Innsbruck in August, and we want to do a 3-4 day mountain hut trek. This will be our first trek with our son, who will be 16 months old. I can see many, many huts and trails in the area, but I'm having a hard time ascertaining which ones are easier. For example, we don't want via ferrata, nor very steep climbs. Basically, we just want an easy trek - I'm sure that practically anywhere in the area will be lovely, we don't need somewhere famous. I don't mind arriving in Innsbruck and then consulting with locals, but I'm worried that things will be crazy in August, and if I don't reserve places in huts, they will fill up. Is this true? Anyone have a route or area they'd like to suggest? 

I've been going climbing (indoor bouldering) for about six months, using shoes I rented at the gym, and wearing socks (and everything was fine). I've recently got a pair of climbing shoes, and want to know why some people wear them without socks. What are the benefits of socks vs. without? Is this purely a matter of taste? 

I think capacitive gloves are your best bet. Basically, they are gloves with something that allows the screen to close a circuit with your body (your hands) and that makes the screen work. I've provided some links to reviews, but the bottom line is this: at the temperature you're describing (around 0 degrees Celsius) they will probably do the job reasonably well. Both "Capacitive Gloves That Don’t Suck" and "Best touchscreen winter gloves" are fairly critical (which makes them trustworthy in my eyes). This link to an early Engadget article is a little old, but it seems to capture the impression that such gloves made when they first arrived on the market. And if you want to go the do-it-yourself way, here's a link to a video/description of how to modify existing gloves to work with a touch screen. 

I have two old hydration bladders, both of which are no longer usable (in one the cap is broken, in the other the internal bag is ripped). Spare parts appear to be unavailable. Is there anything good that can be done with them, some way to use their insulating properties? Or is this the end of the road for them? 

There's an inn/tea house/lodging at Gorak Shep. It's about 2-3 hours walk from the base camp. In 2004, when I was there, most of the villages and lodgings on the way to Everest had, at the very least, the possibility of a "hot bucket" shower, which is basically a closed room where a person with a bucket of hot water can clean themselves. I don't remember if Gorak Shep had one or not - I didn't use one there. But a few years later I was in Nepal again, in the Gosaikundu region, and by that time most of the lodgings had solar-powered showers. It's not unreasonable to assume that at least one has been put in Gorak Shep. UPDATE: A friend who trekked to Everest in the autumn 2013 reports that solar showers have been put in at least as far along as Dingboche, and that showers cost $3-5 per person. 

Since people's capabilities vary enormously, I'm going to answer in terms of AMS - altitude sickness. Although susceptibility to AMS also varies, there are some general rules of thumb for how much a person "should" climb in a given day which are worth knowing. For starters, at up to about 3000 meters, you don't have to worry about it too much. What I mean by this is that theoretically, you could ascend from 0 to 3000 in a day and not be at excessive risk. An example of this would be hiking to the bottom of the Grand Canyon and back up - 1700 meters each way - which, if you're in great shape, is possible without risking AMS (but crazy for all the regular physical reasons). At higher altitudes you pretty much have to go gradually to let your body acclimate. If you're planning a trek to the Everest Base Camp (5380 meters) in Nepal, a rate of 300 meters per day is generally suggested. Less than that means that though you might be fine for a while, eventually the change will catch up to you and then you'll need to stop until you're better. I know that some people climb Mount Whitney (4421 meters, in the US) in a single day, but I wouldn't recommend it - at 4000 meters changing altitude rapidly is very likely to make you sick. They manage to do it because they both ascend to the summit and descend in a single day (AMS symptoms usually begin after a few hours delay) and therefore are back at lower altitudes before the symptoms kick in. I'll close with some personal experiences. On the way to the Everest Base Camp, I decided to "skip" a day and walk to segments back to back- 600 meters change, at around 4200 meters altitude- and I became sick that evening, although my companion was fine. In a later trek (a few years later) my companions and I averaged about 500 meters/day to a maximum altitude of 4000, and all of us were fine. Like many other things in the "Great Outdoors", it's best to plan conservatively until you feel comfortable with the subject and have more experience. 

I'm interested in combining a three to five day "rifugio" based trek in southern Austria with a visit to Vienna. In other words, I'd like to be able to fly in to somewhere nearby - Vienna, Salzburg, even Munich - and be able to conveniently drive/take public transport to the trail head. If I didn't fly in through Vienna I would want to fly out through it, thus combining a stay there with some hiking, in a place where cooking and a tent are not essential. For an idea of the kind of place I'm looking for, I'll give two examples of places I've been to (that I liked). In Spain I flew to Barcelona, and took a bus to the Pyrenees and hiked in the St.Maurici region. In Italy I flew to Milan and drove to the Dolomites and hiked in the Rosengarten. My prime "candidate" area is Gesäuse National Park, based on the answers below. Can anyone confirm that this is a good choice? Or offer a different suggestion? (English) resources for finding/planning such a trip are of course also welcome. The German sites are difficult to use, even with the automatic translations. Another thing that would be useful- in mid-July, is it necessary/advised to reserve your place in the rifugios in advance? There are some places where this is essential; in others there's no need even in high season. Obviously, if this is necessary it means a lot more planning is required; if not, I can just decide which way to go after I arrive in the park. 

One place you can look is in an appropriate online hiking/mountain forums. For example, in CouchSurfing there's a group called mountain hiking. It has a subgroup called alpine enthusiasts. It looks like there are posts there of people trying to arrange hiking trips in the Alps, which would be a good place to find partners without knowing someone beforehand. Such a trip should definitely not be commercial in nature. Another forum that might be useful is the Outdoors Adventure forum on TripAdvisor. It doesn't look like it has geographic-based sub forums, but it seems to have posts of the same kind. Both CouchSurfing and TripAdvisor are commercial by nature, but I think the people posting in the forums are/have to be non commercial; I think pure "advertisements" there for paid services aren't welcome. 

Silicon Valley is a place that sees many business travelers, some of whom want to combine their visit with some high quality hiking in the California wilderness. Most of these people know about Yosemite and Sequoia National Parks (four hours away), and some know about Big Sur and the Pacific coastline along the PCH (two hours away). But sometimes these most famous of parks are not suitable. The drives are long, and some of the most famous areas require getting reservations ahead of time for camping, cabins or trails themselves (Half Dome). Also, in winter the higher elevations can be tricky for novice travelers. Are there any high quality hikes that are closer, or overlooked? I would like this to be a canonical question to service all those business travelers who end up in places like Mountain View, Palo Alto, San Jose, Stanford (and many others) and who will probably try googling for their options. 

Anecdotally, I once walked alone from Chandra Tal, in the Spiti valley in northern India, to Baralach La, where I took a bus to Leh. There was a trail that went along a large river, but there were fast-flowing mountain streams that fed into it. I was cautious because I was alone, and these streams distressed me greatly. Each day I encountered a stream - sometimes as early as noon - and decided not to cross it. I waited all day, and the following morning, as soon as the sun was up, I forded the streams. They were always much lower and more calm in the mornings. I do want to point out that my original plan was to turn back, had the streams not been reasonably fordable in the morning. It seemed like too much of a risk to me when alone to try a crossing that didn't seem entirely doable.