Given that Josef K. didn't know exactly who was even summoning him or on what basis they were doing so, why did he cooperate? What would've happened if he had simply refused to go along with the whole proceeding (like Hank Rearden did in Atlas Shrugged)? 

In Catch-22, both Colonel Cathcart and Colonel Korn seem bound and determined to undermine each other. I know both of them are desperately trying to get promoted (to the point of doing absolutely absurd things to do so), but why such schadenfreude on their parts when the other experienced some kind of misfortune? 

I couldn't help thinking about the Tralfamadorians in Slaughterhouse-Five. Was Kurt Vonnegut aware of the metaphysics of time? Was he thinking of this view when he wrote the book? 

With that said, there are a few possible explanations here, and the book doesn't conclusively establish which one is correct. The first possibility is that she wasn't working at the time anyway. The book doesn't really specify whether she ever worked or, if she did, how productive she was. Once her husband retired, though, they started living on their savings (which implied that she wasn't working at the time that her husband retired). That being said, it may have been unnecessary for her to join the Strike. (This would be somewhat analogous to the case of Dan Conway, who never joined the Strike and doesn't seem to have been asked to join - although his case may have also been partially motivated by his moral philosophy, or by the fact that he had basically completely "given up" at this point - he was so badly broken by the Anti-Dog-Eat-Dog Rule fiasco that he completely lost his "will to fight," and Dagny believed that he would never be a man of action again). The second possibility is that she wasn't fully aligned with their morality. Not being aligned with the Looters was decidedly not the same as being aligned with the Strikers. The third possibility - which I think is the least likely, given William Hastings's marriage to her and his early knowledge of the Strike - is that it was an oversight on their parts. There were numerous people that were "overlooked" for a variety of reasons. (Notable examples include Cheryl Taggart, Eddie Willers, and possibly Dan Conway, although there could've been a number of different reasons that Dan Conway never joined the Strike - that's discussed here). Another point (and this was probably only a minor point either way): the book is quite clear that she didn't really know John Galt; she only saw him very briefly on a train platform when her husband pointed him out to her. 

In her testimony at the lawsuit over the Stoddard Temple, Dominique Francon mentioned that her father had refused to testify against Roark and that he thought that they "weren't behaving like gentlemen." Why is this? Is this Guy Francon's better attributes on display? 

It appears that the material wasn't directly used in a different book, but it was the inspiration for Dr. Robert Stadler in Atlas Shrugged. 

Consider the negation of "can music be considered literature?" The negation is: "music cannot be considered literature." From a strictly logical perspective, that would mean that there is no music that is also literature - there's not even one example of it. In other words, from a strictly logical perspective, all you have to do is find a single example of music that's also literature to prove that music can be literature. Consider, by way of analogy, how you'd prove that there are unicorns, or that Leprichons exist. The simplest way to do so would be to find one; if you do find them, then clearly Leprichons exist. I recall singing "The Sea" as an undergraduate, which was set to a text by William Dean Howells. Beethoven's "Ode to Joy" was similarly based on a Friedrich Schiller text. There are thousands of songs based on religious texts as well. Notably, Handel's Messiah is taken very directly from Biblical texts, as are some of his other songs. Johann S. Bach also set many Biblical texts to music, such as Matthew 26 and 27. In contemporary music, there's a band called Sons of Korah whose songs are set (usually very literally) to the New International Version translation of various Psalms. I personally sang or chanted numerous Biblical texts as part of the weekly liturgy (in fact, typically at least 1 - 2 per week) in choir while I was in college. My point in mentioning that is that those don't magically cease to be literature simply by virtue of having been set to music. Handel's Messiah is just as much literature as the underlying Biblical texts that it's based on. My criteria, then: if the underlying text is literature, the music is literature, too. Note that I'm being a little cagy on the issue of the exact definition of literature, which I think is a separate issue - my point is simply "if the lyrics are literature, the song is literature too." I think that this reasoning applies equally to things that were published as music first and were either published as literature on its own later (or have never been published as literature at all). For example, "Hotel California" and some other Eagles songs are very poetic, as are many U2 songs; I think you'd have a hard time arguing that those aren't literature, even though they've never actually been published separately in any collections of literature. A more obvious case is Bob Dylan, some of whose works have been published independently of the music as literature (in poetry collections) and have been the subject of academic literary study. Even though they were songs before they were published as poetry, that doesn't change the fact that the song lyrics are, in fact, poetry. You can actually read Bob Dylan's Nobel Prize in Literature lecture here, which includes some interesting thoughts on the question of whether his works are poetry. (I actually think that it would be worth creating a separate Q&A to discuss his lecture, but I haven't had time to write a question on it yet). He makes an interesting analogy: yeah, music was meant to be sung, but by the same token, Shakespeare was meant to be performed. If we want to argue that music isn't literature, we'd have to make the same argument about Shakespeare, Ibsen, Arthur Miller, and a host of other playwrites. That being said, if we don't have a problem with plays being literature, why do we have a problem with music being literature, too? 

Why is the narrator "free falling"? Does "free falling" imply some form of destructive freedom or loss of control? 

The Wood Between the Worlds has numerous pools. We're told about where three of them lead: our world, Narnia, and Charn. Evidently, each pool leads to a separate universe in the Chronicles of Narnia multiverse, each with its own history. At least some of these apparently aren't fully formed yet, because when they went to Narnia it had at least some kind of existence, but it wasn't formed until Aslan came and sang it into existence. (It's not clear from the books how many of the pools lead to universes like that). When a universe ceases to exist, its pool "dries up." We're not told much about any of the other worlds (other than the three that they visit in the story), other than Digory indicating a desire to visit some of them. (He never does, given later events and the fact that he disposes of the magic rings). Did C. S. Lewis intend to (or at least consider) writing about any of them (other than the three he discusses), or was he merely indicating their existence for the sake of the story? 

However, earlier in the book, Dagny and Jim were arguing about whether to order the rails for the Rio Norte/John Galt Line from Orren Boyle or Hank Rearden, and about whether they should be made out of steel or Rearden Metal. Dagny claimed to have seen the formula for Rearden Metal: 

This is a follow-up question to this question. I thought that it was better to post this as a second, related question though to avoid the original question from being too broad. Wikipedia describes Dr. Robert Stadler from Atlas Shrugged as follows: 

In some live performances (e.g. from the album "The Song Remains the Same", which was recorded live in 1973), Robert Plant stated that "I think that [Stairway to Heaven] is a song of hope." Why did he say that?