These are all things you can do directly out of the rack. With the second bullet point, it should take care of what cleaning is supposed to do before you press. One thing you do want to be careful of is that cleaning the bar first does require a lot of energy. If you do enough sets, you run the risk of fatiguing more quickly. You may need to work on work capacity rather than strength. Work capacity training takes what you can do for 3x5 (about 70%) and expands it to 5x8 or something along those lines. The first three weeks you would increase one rep per set, and the next couple weeks you would add a new set. After you give yourself a little rest, you should be able to drop the volume and increase the weight over the next few weeks until you hit a new PR or two. My coach usually works this into my training at different stages, and I find it really does help. The added reps also really help you fine tune your technique. In general, I find I really have to increase the volume on this lift to get it stronger. There's a number of strongmen (like Kalle Beck and Bryan Hildebrand) who also echo this sentiment. In one of the American Strongman Radio webcasts, Hildebrand would work up to a top set As Many Reps As Possible (AMRAP), and as he took weight off the bar he would keep doing AMRAP sets until it was just the bar. By the time it was there, he was so fatigued he could only get around maybe 12 reps. It can't be done every training session, but the massive volume day really helped keep driving his press up more than anything else. NOTE: in strongman you have to clean whatever implement in any way you can during competition. Many strongman do train a clean to get the bar in position and then press for reps. However, just as many also train the press separately. They also train both a strict press and a push press/jerk. The push press would be used for competition, but the strict press is there to build strength throughout the lift. 

In a fed state, there were no significant differences found [1] [2]. The whole article is worth a read, because it helps dispel myths that supplement manufacturers want to keep going so you spend more money (hopefully on their stuff). It also helps you understand realistically what your body needs. 

Don't forget that your body needs time to recover. A challenging strength training session will require 48 hours rest for the muscles to be fully recovered--and sometimes longer. However, it is possible to mix cardio and weight training. I personally follow this format 3x/week: 

If you are completely detrained (in other words, you currently do no exercise at all), then any exercise will help you build muscle. At the very least, a good kick boxing class will have you do some body weight exercises to build up strength. Kick boxing also has a very intense conditioning requirement. These can only help. The number of Calories you will burn in an hour are highly dependent on several factors such as how much lean mass you currently have, your height/limb length, and how much movement you do. Not all activities in a typical class will burn at the same rate, and some will be more energy intensive than others. In general: 

The biggest concern with any exercise program is finding something you want to stick to. Some of that is motivation, but a big part is what motivates you. Depending on your age, you may want to talk to your doctor first (typically for people 40 and over). You mentioned doing squats, are they body weight squats? If not, I fear you may be trying to start with too much weight. So here are the basic principles to get you started: 

A full answer does require some feedback on what your goals are with lifting. However, regardless of your goals, proper technique for any lift is very important. What many people fail to realize is that many lifts require a fair amount of flexibility to perform correctly. If you cannot perform a lift correctly, your chance of injury goes up. Let's start at the basics: 

Without seeing video, it is very likely you are trying to "sit back" too far. Your squat technique shouldn't change drastically from doing the third world squat to doing it with a barbell. Another option is that you are putting the weight too far on your heels. You do need the proper amount of mobility to squat, but if your set up is wrong, it can doom you before you even descend. To work on and correct your squat form so that you are in good balance I would recommend the following: 

A reasonable goal for someone who just wants to be fit is to be able to squat and bench press their body weight, and deadlift 1.5x their body weight. More than this isn't going to make you better at running or whatever other exercise you want to emphasize. Notice, how we start off very light, and build on it from there. The older you get, the more sensitive your joints are going to be to impact. That means you're going to have to be a lot more conservative in building up your activity levels. 

An alternative approach is to cool the coffee to room temperature and mix the protein at that time. Heat it back up when you are done. I personally prefer a chocolate/coffee/protein smoothie which is cold. You can't really taste the protein in there at all, and it tastes like you are being decadent. 

More and more studies are coming up showing that your protein/carb/fat ratio and total calories are really the only thing that separates that shredded look from the flabby. That does not negate the need for intelligent self experimentation to find what works for you and your body. Many anabolic diets work by manipulating the easiest hormone to manipulate: insulin. There are a couple that are more concerned with leptin such as LeanGains. The bottom line is that the deeper you dig into nutrition the less clear things become. First, lets talk about exercise performance (per your question): 

The time of day that is most beneficial to lift weights is the time of day you can do it consistently. There's a few things that you need to know about circadian rhythms: 

Blisters have to be removed. The best thing to do is to pop the blister, clean it, and use athletic tape while you train. Then clean it again and cover it with a band aid. They should heal pretty quickly as long as it doesn't get infected. Callouses just have to be controlled. When they start getting too big, take a pumice stone to grind off the excess but don't completely remove it. Applying lotion after you clean up from exercise can also help. 

This echos my own experience losing weight. You need enough protein to protect your muscle mass (minimum of 1g protein per kg lean body weight or .5g protein per pound lean body weight). You need the vitamins and minerals your body needs to be healthy. Carbs actually prevent the body from converting your existing fat to blood sugar to feed your brain. However, I do encourage you to do your own research to find things that work. One thing you will find just about everyone agrees on: 

Tweaking the program to fit your goals is something everyone will need to do at some point. When tweaking the Starting Strength program, don't adjust the lifts that are in the A/B sessions; but doing it 2x/week instead of three is perfectly acceptable. I wouldn't go any lower than that for the program to do you any good. Of the two options you presented, option 1 seems more inline with your goals. The biggest challenge to your programming is managing recovery. I do recommend adjusting your schedule so that you have one day of rest before the lifting day. That means you can have 3 skill/conditioning days and 2 lift days with 2 days off. My experience with fitting in conditioning and starting strength had me doing my conditioning directly after lifting. I also had class 1 day a week for skill work, and it was on one of my rest days. As long as I had a full rest day before lifting I did OK with Starting Strength. Currently, I've graduated from Starting Strength, and due to the obnoxious schedule of the fall/winter events I have to combine my lifting day and my class on the same day. This arrangement has me missing lifts because I'm exhausted by the end of my session. The next day I am fairly useless. I'm looking at some similar changes to my programming once I satisfy some initial goals I've set out for myself. An example schedule that can work, and you can adjust to fit your reality is: 

It's easy to make the argument that a plate has only one requirement: to weigh a certain amount. However, round plates enable a range of exercises that are impractical with any weight that has straight edges. 

Mark Rippetoe also promotes this approach for people who have a hard time gaining weight. It works. It helps build muscle--if you are working on building strength while you do it. 

So you are getting work across your entire body. If you add to that a pair of compound pressing movements: the bench press (everyone's favorite), and the standing overhead press, you will have hit just about every muscle group in your body. The big reason why: Squats and deadlifts provide the highest testosterone response. Testosterone in turn triggers growth hormone and insulin like growth factor 1 which are major muscle builders for the body. Every muscle that needs to improve will get the hormonal response to trigger growth. Assuming you have the protein reserves necessary to build up the muscle, that's what will happen. Combine heavy training with proper rest, and you have a recipe for getting bigger and stronger. How often to train: If you are a beginner--meaning you can recover completely every session--there's no reason not to squat every time you get in the gym. In fact two of the best beginner lifting programs have you squat every session, and alternate between bench press and overhead press. The only difference between the two as far as exercise selection goes is one alternates between deadlift and power cleans (Starting Strength), and the other alternates between deadlift and barbell rows (Strong Lifts). More advanced trainees might be better served to limit squatting and deadlifts to once per week. The reason for that is because it takes longer to fully recover from the effort. Wendler 5-3-1 program has you split your main compound lifts (squat, bench, deadlift, overhead press) so that you are focusing on one per session. The assistance work you do in each session is selected based on your desired goals--such as getting strong, building mass, etc.