On Bill Maher show of April 21, 2017, he read a Pew poll comparing Republican and Democrats. He claims it shows that after the election, most Republicans think we are doing much better economically, when the data shows a slight continuing uptick. On bombing Syria, when Obama wanted to bomb Syria and that only 22% of Republicans approved, but a new Pew poll supposedly shows 88% of Republicans approved of Trump’s bombing of Syria. Democrats held the same 32-37% approval for the bombing, for Trump and Obama. They also did survey on our income tax system. Republicans went from 39% thinking it is fair to 56% thinking it is fair. This poll would seem to show that Republicans change their opinion of the same data based upon who is in office whereas Democrats maintain their opinions more rationally. Is this just bias in the system or are these findings legitimate? Were the polls conducted in unfair ways to get the data to show the results desired by an agenda? Are Pew polls considered to be fair and if so, are they being misrepresented to put forth a political agenda? 

However, knowing the probability when miscarriage happens in not enough from a practical point of view, as you need to consider a possibility of a missed miscarriage, a miscarriage which is undetected for a few weeks, therefore in a normal situation, where you visit a doctor not more often then once per month, you may detect the miscarriage at the very end of the first trimester (anecdotally I know two couples who experienced this). 

The maze question was asked at snopes forum, and the linked Everything2 topic seems a bit confused, giving the date of preceding 1953 experiment. There is a comment to the topic there by dmd, agreeing with the Wikipedia negative conclusion: 

However, there is a caveat: there is no guarantee the guide will not change in the future, as it has never been rigorously formulated by an "infallible" authority. 

Yes, the first trimester is the most risky one, as American on Pregnancy Association on miscarriage tell us: 

Tracing the original experiment, I have found the following: Investigations of the cellular bases of memory 

There is an article dealing with this subject: Is Instagram Strategically Withholding My Likes? The Instagram representative denies this: 

Does Windows 7 make up almost 50% of the desktop operating system market share? Maybe not quite 50% - but very likely somewhere between 40-50%. 

StatCounter uses a similar method to NetworkMarketShare, but with a different population of websites. 

The world has about 150 million square kilometres of land surface area. The list of deserts larger than 20,000 km2 on Wikipedia totals up to about 48 million square kilometres - with the two largest deserts being the Antarctic and the Arctic at about 14 million square kilometres each. 48/150 is roughly 1/3 

It depends on the metal and the microwave. This video shows what happens with a crumpled sheet of aluminium foil: $URL$ Gold banding on cups is also notorious for causing arcing. However, I was mildly surprised to learn that metal can be placed in a microwave - the USDA says that smooth aluminium foil should be okay (but make sure you read your microwave's instructions). However, you should also be watchful for arcing and stop the microwave as soon as you see it. The danger to the microwave itself comes from the spark - there is a probability that the current from the electric arc will pass through the magnetron and damage it. Trying to find a reputable source - but it seems to be an obvious conclusion: electric arc through electric device equals damage. Finally - and slightly anecdotally - a Scout unit I was involved with held a "mythbuster" night, and grabbed a bunch of old unwanted microwaves and tried various things like metal spoons and such. I can assure you, there were sparks. 

A trouble is there is not a clear consensus between catholics regarding how to recognize when a statement is made Ex cathedra, therefore it may easily happen a statement which might had been considered as ex cathedra at the time it was issued is classified as an ordinary statement later. See e.g. Encyclical entry in the New Advent Catholic Encyclopedia: 

The guide how you can distinguish an "infallible statement" nowadays, as accepted by the Catholic Church is as follows: 

For completeness, here is a reference to the relevant original studies (copied from the everything2 page): 

The PR article mentions a study by Dr. Stephan Kölsch from Merck Selbstmedikation GmbH, Darmstadt from September 2005, with no further references. Are those claims true (none of this is mentioned on runny nose or oxymetazoline Wikipedia pages)? 

Some gardening sources recommend watering lawn in the morning, with the reason being water is needed for photosynthesis, and the grass can use it straight away after watering. Some sources say the evening is the best time as the water does evaporates slower when it is colder and there is no sun, therefore the water has more time to soak into the ground. To make it even more complicated, there is an argument against evening watering stating that grass staying wet through the night may increase risk of diseases (see Watering efficiently) . From a water conservation point, which is better time for watering, morning or evening? Was there some controlled experiments done, with grass or other plants, with the goal of maximizing plant mass growth with a given amount of water? If the best time is confirmed to be very early morning (that would probably make sense from the reasons above, but experimental evidence would still be preffered), but I am unable or not willing to do that, which of the easily available options (morning, evening, or both - with the amount split between them) is the best?