Such line-ups are populated by one police suspect and others who are not under suspicion. The purpose is not to decide who is the suspect, but to provide strong corroborating evidence for use in court. If the victim wrongly identifies a non-suspect, they do not become a suspect. Indeed, in many juristictions, "fillers" are taken from the prison population - all of whom have a strong alibi of being in prison at the time! In all cases then, the ethical act is to be as honest as possible. Allowing the suspect to see the victim is unfair to the victim. Nowadays several police forces use video footage as the basis of the identity parade so that there's no need to have them in the same place at the same time. 

Evil is often explained as a result (a byproduct, in a sense) of the free will God has given to us. Doesn't this notion contradict the idea of the omnipotent God (especially the God above laws of nature and logic many Christians advocate)? By the free will interpretation of evil I mean the theory which says that the evil there is on the world is a necessary result of us having free will to decide to serve God or to turn against him. The problem I see here is that if God's truly omnipotent (in the sense he can do even things we cannot imagine - the God above logic), there wouldn't be anything necessary since God could create us both perfectly free and good. 

I've not generalised A to B, I've generalised P from being true in all of A to being true throughout B. Better abstractions In fact, you could say that the rationals are an example of a field, whereas the integers are only an example of a ring - a generalisation of a field. Mathematicians "generalised" (not inductive reasoning) from the number systems, matrices and other examples to make the abstractions of groups, rings and fields. Some theorems about fields can be generalised to rings, which would be an example of inductive reasoning were it not for the fact that mathematicians don't admit inductive reasoning as proof, and proved these generalisations deductively! (Proof by induction is, perhaps confusingly, an example of deductive reasoning, but is often something you do after having used inductive reasoning to conclude that you might want to prove your statement.) A deep understanding of inductive reasoning isn't necessary for good abstractions, but good abstractions result from deep understanding of diverse examples. Summary Abstraction is a form of generalisation, and supersets are a form of generalisation, but inductive reasoning specifically means generalising statements from examples to every example. All inductive reasoning is generalisation, but not all generalisation is inductive reasoning. 

Even though qualia are generally considered to be unexplainable, there are philosophers like Daniel Dennett attempting to get to the core of consciousness with scientific methods. In his view, consciousness is an "illusion", on the physical base, created by our brains. But I think I don't fully understand what is meant by that. Let's say that the discovery could be made and we would be able to fully understand the phenomena behind everything we experience. Would we change the way we think about consciousness in the sense it wouldn't be considered to be a "supernatural" thing outside the laws of physics? With what we know, which is tones of expierence of consciousness, is it possible to say it's less real than it seems? I know his point isn't that consciousness isn't real (because the illusions surely has to exist for him to criticize :) but I feel like his philosophy implies qualia isn't real. And at the same time, it seems to me that I think, therefore I am. * has to be an axiom for any philosophical theory formulated in human words. So if someone managed to fully explain the illusion of consciousness, would it started to be considered a standard "physical" phenomenon (just like the theory of abiogenesis started to push more and more thinkers to leave the idea of divine intervention in the formation of biological life)? As for a non-philosopher (and Czech), it's hard for me to put my thoughts into words so please feel free to reword it if you think you've captured the idea. *_ Let's consider thinking a quale for sake of the argument (it could be any other quale) 

The main thrust of this argument is to conclude that the other speaker is an anti-semitic white supremacist. Given that being anti-semitic or a white supremacist is typically seen as negative, the main aim is to attach these negative labels to the other speaker and thus discredit their views. In that sense, the main thrust of the argument is ad hominem. It may be that this is an entirely true characterisation of the other speaker, or iit may be a gross exaggeration, but whether true or not, the argument mainly attacks the speaker by labelling them with negative characteristics. The part about omitting initial agression is not ad hominem, and "you spout pro-palestinian rhetoric", again irrespetive of however much truth there is in it, is not ad hominem. 

Recently, I advocated here the idea that moral rules should be universal, based upon clear axioms? It should make the opposite for moral imperative. The idea could encompass both hedonism formulated as "doing everything for your own good" and utilitarianism formulated as "doing everything for the maximum good". 

The neural algorithms are so complex we have no clue how does consciousness work for now. The problem is, consciousness is a different quality from anything we can measure with scientific tools. All we know is that it's closely related to our ability to learn, reason, remember and percieve ourselves. There are some attempts to explain it though - you could know the famous TED talk about the illusion of consciousness by the philosopher Daniel Dennet. Denett says that what we call consciousness is our brain's function to answer "yes" whenever we ask ourselves whether we have a consciousness. In that case, in evolutionary means, we can mainly study the concept of self. One of the simple philosophies trying to explain consciousness is panpsychism. Panpsychism is virtually a part of hinduism and buddhism and says that everything has some degree of consciousness and our mind is one of the emergences of unity of many little conscious things. A solipsist might say that the human mind is the only thing that exists and the question is thus the same as the question for the origin of the universe. Or that that the universe is what our consciousnesses invented to understand our inherently given qualia. Noam Chomsky might tell you that consciousness is the result of our ability to create digital infinities via language - our ability to process thoughts about anything. Either way, I haven't really seen a theory that would claim consciousness is not a byproduct of the evolution of intelligence or the other way around, and thus, has no evolutionary meaning. 

Here's an attempt at a rationalisation of voting for the individual: 1 If you choose not to vote once, you are significantly more likely to choose not to vote again. After all, you're unusual if you're in a western democracy and you are not at all disillusioned with politics and have nothing more enjoyable to do on polling day with your time. Summary: Not voting leads to greater not voting in the future. 2 People tend to rationalise and defend their behaviour, so if you choose to not vote regularly, you are likely over time to come to believe that this is a good decision and become an advocate of not voting. Summary: Habitual non-voting leads to advocating non-voting. 3 People are social creatures and much more heavily influenced by the norms of their peers and neighbours than they like to think. If you don't vote and advocate non-voting you are likely to strongly influence those you interact with, and most strongly affect those who normally share your opinions. Summary: Your non-voting actions and views spread to people, and most strongly to people like you. 4 Politicians publicly advocate policies that are likely to garner large numbers of votes. If a group (eg people under 30 in the UK) vote significantly less often, parties use the money available to favour groups that vote in larger numbers (retired people vote in much greater numbers in the UK). There is thus a genuine but small risk that if your non-voting ideas spread amongst like-minded people, government policies will eventually disfavour people like you. The risk of non-minor future harm can be weighed against present inconvenience of voting. If the like-minded group we're discussing is thoughtful people, that could be quite devastating. Summary: It's not worth risking disenfranchising the people with whom you have the most in common. Overall summary Humans are social and you don't act in isolation - you will influence people like you not to vote, and as a group you will become more disenfranchised. As an individual you can work towards or against group disenfranchisement, but are very unlikely to be neutral. Group disenfranchisement could lead to significant negative consequences for you as an individual. Critique That's not at all watertight, and the effects may be too slow to affect you in your lifetime. This sort of reasoning is much stronger to argue that you should attempt to befriend newspaper editors. Rationality explains very little of human behaviour anyway. (I vote regularly, but not for any of these reasons.) Nevertheless, this was an interesting question and a good challenge. 

Was the Nietzsche's work the main influential thing in how people thought about holistic health as both our mental and physical health? Could it be that it was the Nietzsche's Human all too human that had brought people about to "enhance" their psychology with things like yoga or psychologists meetings and to jog/exercise on a daily basis? 

What spiritual philosophy does Robert LawrenceKuhn describe here? This view says that everything exists because of the value of the totality of universe. 

A lot say that with every next step we make in science comes always a set of new questions. I think this means there's an infinite number of questions we can ask about the natural laws. And that means that nature is not governed by a limited set of laws we could write down and call the final theory. So does it mean that if the new-questions is correct, does it mean there's an infinite number of natural laws that we can never capture all? Am I missing something?