This is only one possible naming scheme, and many others can be found in ancient Indian writings. More important among the ancient Hindus was the lunisolar calendar in which each day was numbered, similar to the method of the Romans. Like the Romans the month was divided into two 15-day fortnights, the first being suddha (waxing) and the second being bahula (waning). Note that there is no regular calendar in India, but many of them in common use for various purposes. It is estimated that today there are about 30 different commonly used calendars in India. 

Just as additional proof of my answer read dorf's answer above. What he says is a completely accurate picture of the European view: workers have a "right to daylight" according to him. That is the mentality that prevents skyscrapers from being built in the middle of big cities in Europe. 

What Churchill is referring to were various German scientific inventions which confounded the British and at the time seemed miraculous and terrifying, at least to the military analysts that knew about them. Since Churchill was privy to secret briefings describing these technologies, so far as they were known, he had been exposed to these fears. His remark in his speech is a nod to the advanced developments of German scientists which were being put to military use. Germany has been safely defeated now, so noone now gives these things a second thought anymore, but at the time there was a tremendous fear in the higher circles of government that the Germans might invent some critical new device that would turn the war in their favor. Every month new reports of some new German technology was coming from intelligence analysts and this "perverted science" Churchill found very threatening. Two key examples of the technology are what we now know as "radar" and "proximity fuses". In history books you will read that the British invented radar, but this is completely false. The first radar system was Seektat, a German naval radar that used an amplification tube of a type completely unknown to the British. All they knew at the time was that the Germans could detect their ships at long ranges. This was a key factor in the Norway War. The British fleet could not stop the Germans from invading Norway in part because of long range radar detections. The basis for this technology was a special kind of vacuum tube developed by Manfred Von Ardenne, now known as a travelling wave tube. This type of radar amplifier was vastly more powerful than any amplifier the British ever had or would develop. In fact, even today, the most modern radars such as the SPY-1 still use this kind of tube which is exactly of Ardenne's design. We only gained access to this technology after the war was over. Another technology was the proximity fuse. This is miniature radar which is fitted to the fuse of an artillery shell. It allows the shell to explode at exactly a certain height above the ground. It makes the shells much, much, much more deadly and effective. When the Germans started using these shells on the French it was terrifying. The German shells were simply vastly more lethal and destructive than the British and French could even imagine. Eventually they figured out the cause and made their own proximity fuses, but at the time it was occurring, it was mysterious and frightening. Even long after that in the 1950s, the American army considered proximity fuzes to be critical "top secret" technology. 

The letters in brackets have been inferred and the entire bolded part was effaced. This inscription reads as follows in English: "The Senate and the people have placed this in honor of Julius Aurelius Zenobius and Zabdilas, the son of Dichmalchus, the son of Nassumus, commander at the time of arrival of the divine Alexander, who provided help for governor Rutilius Crispinus and his visiting expeditionary force; overseer also of the distribution of corn, a liberal man, not sparing even of his own private property, and conducting his public service with distinction, so that he has been blessed by the god Jaribolus and by Julius Priscus, the most illustrious prefect and sacred praetor, and also a great lover of his country, in the year 554." "Alexander" refers to Marcus Aurelius Severus Alexander Augustus, known as Severus Alexander, emperor of Rome 222-235 AD. Rutilius Pudens Crispinus was a Roman senator and general who served under Severus Alexander and administered Syria. Gaius Julius Priscus was the Procurator of Macedonia and was appointed the Praetorian Prefect of the east when his brother, Marcus Iulius Philippus Augustus, became emperor in 244. The year of the monument, 554, is given in terms of the Seleucid Era and equates to our year 244 Anno Domini in the era of Dionysius Exiguus. The word Priskou is effaced in both the Greek and Palmyrene inscriptions. The likely reason for this was that Priscus ruled Syria very harshly and became widely hated during the reign of his brother. Approximately five years into this reign, Marcus Jotiapanus led a rebellion in Syria and overthrew Priscus. The name was probably erased at that time. 

This is an interesting and difficult question. Unfortunately, not much is known of Viking equipment, including clothing, because such military goods were relatively expensive and rare. For example, in those times (800-1000 AD) it was common for people to go barefoot, shoes were so expensive. Written works from the time rarely discuss viking clothing in any great detail. Also, it is important to remember that clothing would be vastly different from one person and one area to another, the "vikings" having many different sub cultures. For example, what a Swedish viking from the lakes region might wear would likely be very different from that worn by one from Trondheim in Norway. The most authoritative book on the subject is Paul Norlund's "Klaededragt i Oldtid og Middelalder" (1942) which unfortunately has never been translated into English. From many different miscellaneous writings we can infer as a general rule the basic clothing was three layers: a linen "kirtle" or undergarment, a wool coat, and then a chainmail hauberk. Note that a "coat" at that time meant a long-sleeved garment that went down to the knees and usually had a hood. In addition to this well off soldiers would have a helmet and boots. In addition to this basic pattern it is clear that many wore animal skins in one form or another, and this would especially be true in cold weather scenarios. For example, fur boots, fur mittens, fur hats and fur cloaks were all common articles of trade both among civilians and warriors. Note that by using a tallow or wax treatment hides can be made relatively waterproof. Seafarers also probably used sealskin garments which were very expensive and valuable. Sealskin is waterproof and was used both for clothing and for dressing small boats. Sealskin can be made into caps, mittens, booties, tunics and other specialized gear for wet weather operations. Such valuable gear would be carefully removed and stowed when landfall was made. 

Alphabets in general tend to be arbitrarily arranged according to the idiosyncracies of their inventor. For example, cyrillic has its order due to arbitrary decisions by St. Cyril, the inventor of the cyrillic alphabet. In some cases, a verbal mnemonic is used to arrange the letters. For example, in the old Gaelic alphabet, it was based on trees, the first stanza going beth, luis, fern, sail, nuin, "b" "l" "f" "s" "n", these trees being birch, rowan, alder, willow, ash. These trees all go together, because they grow in the same kind of places (wet areas). This may have been true at one time for Phoenician, but whatever the rationale once was, has been lost. 

In medieval times (and even in modern times) taxes were highly irregular and varied from place to place. In many instances a "tax" was really just a robbery. For example, in England since Domesday the most omnipresent "tax" was what was called the "hearth tax". The way this originally worked is that Norman soldiers went from village to village and visited each house or cottage that had a chimney (and thus a hearth). They would burst in and loot the house of any obvious valuables. This was the "tax". By the time of Edward III who reigned 1327 to 1377 (50 years, a very long reign) the hearth tax was standardized at 2 shillings per hearth. This would be one tenth of a troy pound. Computing in gold at 16:1 and adjusting for sterling, this would be 0.0675 ounces of gold or $84 dollars per hearth per year. However, a tax like this was just the beginning. In practice there were literally hundreds of taxes on anything the rulers could conceive of. Most of these taxes were against nobles (scutage) or against merchants (murage, pavage, pontage, stallage). Also, tolls and tariffs were common. For example, it would cost money to do any kind of transport; cross a river, cross a bridge, enter a town, land a ship. Adding up these taxes in any kind of consistent way would be difficult. 

In the 1980s most people did not have computers, except the college-educated upper middle class, and even then it was mostly knowledge workers, young people and gadget buffs who had them. Nobody had telex machines. Fax machines were only found in offices and there might be one fax machine for fifty people. I worked at one architectural firm, the type of place where a fax machine was critical, and they had one machine and over 100 employees. In the 1980s, the main method of computer communication was via bulletin boards, called "BBSs" (bulletin board system). These did have "email" in the sense that you could leave messages for other people if they joined the same BBS, which was free and easy to do. Thus, there was email in the 1980s pretty readily available for anybody with a modem board in their computer, which was fairly common. All the computers we had growing up had modem boards. Note that the modem uses the phone line when in use, so if anybody called the house while you were on the BBS, they got a busy signal. Also, if mom picks up the phone and hears the modem noise, you get yelled at, "GET OFF THE COMPUTER!" The key advantage of the internet was to allow computers to connect through a second line and the universality of participants. In the 1980s you just had a few geeks using BBSs (though technically anybody could do it). The web, especially AOL, induced a lot of "average" people and companies to join the internet. This mass of people made email much more viable. AOL, by the way, was kind of a transition between the 80s and the full internet. AOL was like a super-BBS with millions of users, so it was easy to message a large number of people on AOL by dialing up. Of course, once the internet became widely available dialing into AOL was redundant.