The origins of these noises goes back to the beginnings of the games. You simply want as much noise as possible when the other team has the ball. In the playoffs this might be every play of the game. The NFL has specific revisions written that allows a team to pump certain amount of noise. Numerous teams have broken the volume/timing rules and have had to pay fines. The generated noise helps fans get loud themselves, because they can't hear themselves - or how loud they are. What effect does noise have? 

I have worked many upper tier high school to mid-major games for the past 15 years. I played basketball growing up and like to pride myself in calling a clean game. I definitely do not have a bias based on the way a player looks, race, attitude, or anything like that. I like the thugs, I like the ballers, I like the shooters, I like the cocky kids - I find the "mean" personalities part of the charm of the game. However I have seen a variety of things and will note them: 

So as soon as the player "picks up his dribble" a pivot foot is established - the ball could be spinning or moving in the players hand the whole time. He is allowed to move the non-pivot foot as many times as he wants. Once the non-pivot foot is picked up any additional steps can be ringed up for Shaqtin. Note that while we all love Shaqtin the Fool, it is not always 100% accurate on the steps count. 

The tackler can and often does pick up the ball. The person that is tackled must release the ball behind them. Once they release the ball they may pick the ball up and get up with it. Once the tacklee lays down and set the ball they form their "side". The tackler must be on his side before he can return to grab the ball. I played wing for large university outside of football season - and have also broken this rule 20+ times so I have an understanding of it. When I tackled another wing in the open field they would lay down, set the ball behind them, while I am jumping over them or going around them to be on side, and then it is a fight to get the ball first. Often they would get the ball again. If I did get the ball in that situation it would often lead to score or big gain. If I didn't get the ball after the tackle, the other wing picks it up and is retackled but at that point there is reinforcement and ruck follows. And in most cases me or the other wing is going to get cleated and kicked as the guys working the scrum have quite the disdain for wingers. I mention the wing position because this kind of play happens most in the open field where wings would get the ball. Normally in more congested part of the field a player is tackled, set the ball behind them and then a teammate picks it up while stepping over them. 

The other (that is 3 now) redshirt is a medical redshirt. If hurt before the first game the NCAA pretty much grants any freshman a medical redshirt. If it is after the first game the student must apply and more NCAA hocus pocus happens. And then there are students who have had two medical redshirts happen. So a redshirt freshman then sophomore. 

Athletic Director's office registers all athletes at school for all sanctioned sports (NCAA doesn't care/govern club sports) - this may slightly vary by school but how it worked at the school I was affiliated with. Each athlete is registered with a code. For incoming freshman they must be declared a redshirt before a specific date in accordance with that specific sport. Coaches are more likely than not to register a freshman as a redshirt because it doesn't hurt. Athletes can be unredshirted instantly. The school would only get sanctioned if they tried to cover up an athletes activity to keep them redshirted. The reason why all freshman aren't redshirted is that a coach may know they want to play someone, the coach may fear that the athlete would be unhappy and leave, or the coach just wants a certain amount of turnover. Now when a freshman athlete comes to a campus they have one of 3 statuses (forgive me if I mishandle the exact names). 

Free throws are trained for during basketball practice. Other than players just standing around scoring, coaches will run drills to simulate game vibes. A common drill is for a player to shoot 2 free throws and sprint to the other end to shoot 2 more. For every one they miss they have to go there back and there. Basically sprint a lap for each miss. There are two keys to practicing free throws. 

So given the limited route tree, the putting the FB on the field that adds another defender but little threat, and the better disciplined LBs/DL are now (they are just a lot more used to passing where in the 80s power I passing caught them by surprise more) really limits what you can do out of the I. If you have a tactical I advantage for the run though you can still pass out of the I and some of those might go to your FB/RB but that doesn't mean it was an optimal play. Really the only way for a team to schematically beat another team with I FB/RB threats is to either have a hall of fame type RB or to have a 1 out of 20 shifty FB. This is why you have seen so many teams in recent years get rid of FB position or to line up a TE (Miami is an example) and sometimes another RB at FB so that the receiving threat is always there. 

Yes. You can declare but are not allowed hire an agent, take money for flights/visits, hire any kind of handlers and so on. Basically you have to pay your own way and be your own everything. Once you hire someone you are ineligible to play for the NCAA (men's basketball). These rules slightly change from year to year but this sums it up. 

Note: I am just a guy that saw a lot of data. I am sure someone with more golf knowledge could clarify how they deduce holes at nice courses. I am sure it has just as much to do with marketing as it does with taking statistical analysis. 

Special Note: For those with ****ass high school coaches that ran a 3-4. Chances are you had one of your OLB line up on the line (who acts like a DE), probably on the weak side. Then you have the other 3 LBs plus 2 corners on the second level. Then you had a free safety, then a "rover" or some other sort of roaming strong safety. Guess what? That isn't a 3-4. That is a 4-3 in Cover 1 (or simply a 4-4 with the SS assuming role of OLB). High school coaches like to say they are running a 3-4 to make themselves feel current or smart. In 25+ years of coaching I have not seen a true 3-4 run at the high school level. Even with the fake 3-4 it puts undo pressure on your corners and even if you have an athlete advantage over me I can probably scheme my guys open (yes we would pass most downs). 

There is a heavy heavy correlation between performance between rounds. ESPN did a study a couple of years ago and basically about 1/3 of the players that start on offense or defense are 1st rounders. Teams with more first rounders starting having better records too (on average). Think about 7 rounds in the draft and then the street free agents and 33% is an outrageous number for one round. We may focus on the draft busts but take a look at the 5th round of a draft from 5 years ago and see if you know more than 5 names. On the flip side of this is value. First rounds currently also give you the most bang for your buck. It isn't a huge factor over 2nd and 3rd rounders but they win. Now 5 years ago before the rookie cap restrictions were implemented 2nd-3rd rounders were the best investment for a team (and why you saw several good franchises consistently trade down). With the rookie wage scale set though this has flipped and getting a stud in the first round is worth the price. 

You have your naturals and cerebral pitchers that can adjust on the fly but the others trying to throw a curve while going 3/4ths will hang it up and watch it get clocked. 

Your height will be a detriment to you being a goal keeper. Your wingspan is probably a bigger indicator to whether you will have success though. If your wingspan is 6'6" then you are much better off. Given the main attributes of a goalie covering a goal (as most other goalie attributes would be outside the realm of height): 

Team gives them a wink and says we don't want to cut you so maybe your hamstring is really tight... IR time. They get to stash a talent on their team. That player can go to meetings, use facilities and everything all year. This is good for the player because they are getting paid and establishing a good relationship with a team/coach. Bad point here is that some team maybe could have played this player this year. 

There is no such thing as an ineligible receiver on a punt formation in both the NCAA and NFHS. The NFL adopted the rule to limit injuries on punts. This might be hard to find since they usually don't write comments for things that don't exist. 

I have seen a couple of "fake kickoff kicks" at the high school level but can't remember one in the NFL (please comment if someone remembers one). Basically kicker runs up and swings but a yard short, team runs hard to line but stops, member near kicker onside kicks as the opposing front line is retreating, team goes past line on kick and recovers ball. I have seen it done at least 5 times. I think 2 of the times there was an offsides and the other 3 were VERY successful. At the NFL level this play could not only work but you could easily practice moving into a full squib if the return front line didn't retreat. You have a ton of time to do whatever during kickoff so you could show a couple looks and still do a semi-normal kick. To summarize: There is no kicker until someone tries to strike the ball and really there is no defined kicker unless someone put a plant foot on the kickoff line. Anyone can act like they are kicking the ball. If that person has plant foot and kicking foot across the kickoff line then he is offsides. So therefore you can logically deduce that the kicker is either the first person to put a foot on the kickoff line or the first person to strike the ball and once the second member of a team puts their plant foot on the line before the kick is being made, they are offsides. From an infraction standpoint the idea of settling this sort of rule by the rules committee would be moot. The coaches in all cases would rather just take a 5 yard penalty. We are discussing refs not calling a penalty on a team when a coach would clearly want it called. I can only imagine this happening and not called as kicker takes second swing and muffs it 15 yards and kicking team going crazy on the ref. 

Eligible - fully eligible for practices and game activity. This athlete you would have to notify the NCAA of their redshirt request. Academic redshirt - based on their test scores (ACT) and high school GPA and a lot of hocus pocus the NCAA has a "grey area" where an athlete can retain a scholarship and practice but is not allowed to play in a game. This person could not be instantly redshirted for football (or any 1st semester sport) but in basketball this might happen if the student fixes things in the first semester. Ineligible - student can't practice or play or receive scholarship money. 

Money. If the NFL wants a farm system and there is a good chance they will in the future they will end up footing the bill for a lot of the infrastructure/costs. I have had offers to play in an older version of arena football and that included a per diem and $250 a game. I am not sure most current arena league players get paid more than 20-30K a year if that. So the choice was easy for me, stay at my tech job. So right away to get a higher quality player the league will have to be able to pay players something more than minimum wage. Also note that since almost all good players will opt to go to college right now (this could change) for football experience, that your player pool is 22-30 year old. If I was 19 and was offered an arena league spot I would have taken a pack of gum. At 24 with a real job there are ramifications to quit your job (to make practices) to make almost nothing. Baseball and hockey have a lot of teens and very early 20s in their pool. While football might have these ages too, the best out of this group will play at Alabama or Ohio St. A small football team (11 on 11) would need at least 35 players to function. This is usually the case in semi-pro leagues I have been involved in - which are nothing but regional clubs that play each other. There are several leagues like this in the midwest. There are "tryouts" but usually anyone is accepted at a practice given they don't get in the way. Some teams just need warm bodies for a scrimmage. And then a coaching staff for football is usually a lot bigger than other sports. You would have at least a head coach, 2 assistants, and trainer on staff. This is the bare minimum. The only sport that comes close to football as for equipment costs is hockey. With the concussion issues I have seen equipment prices go up 3-4 fold for organizations the past few years. Not only is stuff more expensive but the stuff expires and has to be replaced more. And then the biggest hurdle is facilities. Baseball stadiums are multi-use venues, support tons of games (colleges usually share), and are not real expensive. Hockey arenas are more expensive but offer a great fan experience with the fans sitting on top of players and the arena atmosphere support a lot of concession sales. The NBA D-league is losing money right now but they are using shared arenas, (I have not heard of an arena being built for the sole reason of a D-league team), hardly any equipment costs, and the players make very little. So with the costs associated the only thing that compares with football is hockey. And hockey has three intrinsic advantages. It has younger player pool, it has a different in-game atmosphere, and a biggie is that Canada and the northern US is hockey crazy with little competition. (Note a fourth that was brought to my attention is that hockey rinks often are used almost 24/7 in the minors for ice time, adult leagues, ice shows, and so on) Football will have to find some way to play games in places that fans want to visit. Indoors would be preferable but fans and the NFL probably are going to want a standard field. These teams really need to be in cities where there isn't great sports competition and the only venues indoors are mainly in the NFL - a few colleges might be able to help out here. Also the intimacy of the experience is off putting 10K-15K fans in a stadium that holds 70K. Same holds true putting the games in a college outdoor stadium. Just no real answer for the facilities issue that a minor league football system would face and really the reason for so many minor league football failures. The only answer is for the NFL to step in and build a few stadiums using the same kind of slow build style that has been used for soccer over the past 10 years. In fact they might be able to use some of the newer soccer stadiums. It is a given that a football team would start its season in the winter or spring so there is a lot of chance for sharing stadiums but even if they have shared stadiums that have little upfront money, there will be losses for years until there is a fan base to support these events. Note: That if this happened that the NFL draft would have to have a complete overhaul. Actually the whole player acquisition process would have to be overhauled too. So first the draft might have to go 20+ rounds to support a team's ownership of a minor league player. This would mimic baseball/hockey and would really be a different. Second NFL teams rely on being able to pick up players when theirs get hurt. A lot of times the player is on another team's practice squad. If teams had minor league systems they would own practice squad players. You could say that well a team should have backups on its minor league team... Well if 4 offensive guards go down, what if a team doesn't have enough? There could be situations where a team could get a practice squad player from another team at the guard position and he is the best guard not on a roster in the NFL, but if that team had a minor league system their guard might be the 500th best not on a roster... No answer for this but this would have to be greatly changed.