Consider, those were clocks on Earth suffering from measurable time dilation due only to their latitude and altitude differences and the effect of moving information across the distances between them! 

I notice that Wikipedia give two contradictory terms for the time period in which a planet rotates in relation to an infinitely-distant object. In one place this is called a "sidereal day" and in another "stellar day". Which of these are correct? For that point, is this an IAU definition? I cannot find the definitions on the IAU website. From the Sidereal Day page: 

Obviously, the direction of the sunlight is the direction of "up" during the day. If you look at the horizon slightly after sunset or slightly before sunrise, you might actually catch a glimpse of the sliver of Moon before it set or rises slightly after or before the Sun. 

Interestingly, the second and third forces pretty much cancel out when the disk is still uniform in distribution. But once large clumps of matter accumulate those large masses (protoplanets) gravitationally pull at the other matter in inconsistent and sometimes violent ways, especially when multiple protoplanets align (once per orbit of the inner body). Thus, the area of the protoplanetary disk is being 'swept up' of all the mass: some is pulled into the sun by gravity and loss of momentum due to collisions, some is pushed out of the solar system by radiation, and whatever matter was not disturbed by one of those processes is then subject to being disturbed by the gravity of the protoplanets themselves. The protoplanets will, over time, either absorb that matter or gravitationally slingshot that matter out of the system or too it's very edges. In short, the protoplanetary disk within a few tens of AU of the star in the center is a chaotic mess of a place. Not much matter can form a stable orbit there. 

Time dilation is a relative phenomenon, not a local phenomenon. As adrianmcmenamin mentioned, Earth's motion around the sun is cause for no more time dilation than any other point in the universe. Consider that the sun is travelling around the galaxy at 200 km/s, and the Milky Way is approaching Andromeda at 130 km/s. We do not know at what speed we are approaching the great attractor, and I hope that at this point it becomes obvious that there is no difference in "us approaching the great attractor" to "the great attractor approaching us". Nothing is considered "stationary to the background" in an infinite, expanding universe as there is no "background" to measure against. Consider the gedankenexperiment of comparing a clock on Earth to a clock orbiting the galaxy. Now compare those clocks to clocks outside the galaxy. You might consider the clock that ticks the most time away to be the "most at rest clock". Now I ask you, how will you compare the clocks? You must move at a significant portion of the speed of light for a very long time to get information from one clock to the next. Thus, the messenger would suffer the effects of Special Relativity, rendering the comparison meaningless. To further the point, consider the development of International Atomic Time. I'll quote directly from wikipedia: 

Have we detected continuum optical emission from any rotating neutron stars that do not have an accretion disk dominating the light? I ask because I know we have observed Doppler broadening of spectral lines from the rotation of even ordinary stars rotating at ordinary rates, but it seems to me that only the rapid rotation of a neutron star would be fast enough to make the Doppler broadening of the thermal continuum peak to be observable. 

One of the tools being developed for the study of exoplanets is called transmission spectroscopy - basically looking at how passing through the exoplanet's atmosphere changes the spectrum of the star. The problem, though, is that spectroscopy is hard, and requires a big telescope, probably space-based. This makes the process slow. It seems that it would be very useful if we would triage the data using broad-band photometry to more quickly limit the presence of compounds like water, $\mathrm{CO}_2$, and $\mathrm{O}_3$. Looking at a plot of Earth's atmospheric transmission, with a breakdown by chemical compound, it seems like looking at the color of the transit depths in and between the windows in the wavelength range from 1 to 20 microns, might provide a plausible alternative to quickly get information on the atmospheres of planets and brown dwarf stars. For the exoplanets, specifically, the wavelengths blocked by an atmosphere make the planet, effectively, bigger at some wavelengths than at others, depending on the opacity at that wavelength, the thickness (density) of the atmosphere, and vertical extent of it. The question is: is this practical? Specifically, with a 1 to 2 meter class space telescope that simultaneously images in 2 to 8 filters? 

Why is any galaxy red? Because it isn't forming any new, high mass, short lived, blue stars. Why would a galaxy not form stars? Because the gas in the galaxy is either not dense enough or not cold enough to gravitationally collapse into new stars. 

My understanding of Type Ia supernovae is that they are expected, in most cases, to destroy the white dwarf(s) that went in to them, leaving behind no high density remnants (i.e. no white dwarf, neutron star, or black hole). Black hole/black hole collisions are expected to leave behind a black hole, of course, with less mass than the sum of the masses of the black holes that went in to the collision. Do we expect a kilonova to leave behind nothing but gas and radiation or some kind of stellar remnant? If it leaves behind a remnant, what class to we expect it to be (white dwarf, neutron star, or black hole) and what mass? The addition of mass seems redundant, but the dividing lines between the masses of these objects are based on upper limits on the mass of the less dense class (Chandrasekhar limit for white dwarfs, Tolman–Oppenheimer–Volkoff limit for neutron stars), and don't actually apply as lower limits for the mass of the high density class. For example, neutron stars are sometimes referred to as giant nuclei, which would put the lower limit of their mass at $1$ or $2$ atomic mass units, depending on whether the presence of a neutron and stability to radioactive decay are requirements. Yes, those times people are being poetic due to the difference in stabilization mechanisms (gravity vs nuclear forces), but the point remains that it may be possible for a neutron star to be theoretically stable at less than $1.4M_\odot$. The only lower limit to black hole mass I know of would be the lifetime limit from black hole evaporation. Put another way, do we think the density at any point in either of the inspiraling neutron stars gets high enough to form an event horizon? If that happens, this seems like a plausible way for producing black holes that are smaller than those produce by core collapse supernovae, kind of like how critical mass for atom bombs can be achieved by either bringing together enough fissile material or compressing the available material enough (e.g. the fat man detonation mechanism vs the little boy one). 

Pluto itself so bright that Charon would not be visible in the image if it were exposed in a way to show the remaining moons. Likewise, the remaining moons as so faint as to not be visible in an image that resolves Charon. Thus, the photo that you see is a composite of two image processing techniques: one designed to showcase Charon and one designed to showcase the remaining moons. 

I feel that HDE gives a good start of an answer, but stops short of the important part. We have seen in HDE's answer the formation of a star at the center of the collapsing molecular cloud. When the star begins to fuse lighter elements, the protoplanetary disk has several forces acting on it: 

The most likely candidate would be the Tardigrade. These little guys handle vacuum and radiation just fine. So long as water is provided, according to tests done in LEO the Tardigrade would survive on Mars. Even if they do dehydrate, they spring back to life once water is provided again. 

For the area of sky as defined by "areas visible above your head inside Earth's atmosphere" then the answer depends on the height of the objects that you would like to observe. I like to observe airplanes, so without loss of generality I'll use ~10,000 meters as my "sky". We can see airplanes up to about 40 KM away. 

I'm not far from you (Israel) and I am also waiting to see comet ISON. Comets are very unpredictable, and comet ISON has not yet reached the critical part of its journey which will determine visibility for us. Comet visibility is usually due to reflection of the Sun's rays on the coma and tails of the comet, as the nucleus is to small to see directly. So ISON's visibility (and all comets for that matter) depend on how much gas, water, and other materials that it outgasses. This in turn depends on how much volatiles it has, how much the Sun melts them, how much the slingshot around the sun and tidal forces fracture the nucleus, and other factors. So the actual visibility that will occur is very difficult to determine in advance. That said, ISON has all the markings of this being its first trip around the Sun. Thus, we assume that it has many volatiles to release and we assume that ISON will be exceptionally bright. In any case, ISON will be most visible when it is closest to Earth, near the end of December. It should be most visible in the early morning sky, I'm guessing at about 4:00 AM or so. This is because ISON will be close to the Sun (thus visible close to the time that the Sun becomes visible). Like all celestial bodies, it will rise in the East. Each day the comet will move farther from the Sun and thus will be visible earlier and earlier in the night, until it disappears from view probably sometime in mid January. You are welcome to visit Beersheba and have a peak through my binoculars!