Version #1.a seems to be completely unacceptable; and version #1.c seems weird--though, its subordinate clause does sound like it is an imperative clause. And so, the three subordinate clauses don't seem to be interchangeable here, and that gives more weight to not consider the original example #1's subordinate clause to be an imperative clause. CAVEAT: Though, it probably should be pointed out that a main clause imperative in a coordination might not always do so well here either. (Examples of imperatives in a coordination: Say what you like, it won't make any difference; You do that again and you'll regret it; Do that ever again and I'll brain you; Act in haste and repent at leisure; Come over here and you'll be able to see better; You hurry up or we'll be late.) But from those examples, the only one that I'm seeing as being awkward is "You come over here and you'll be able to see better". What it might be: Example #1 might be an attempt by the speaker to combine an emphatic DO with a subjunctive clause. That is, the "do" in "It's important [that you do not be late]" might be an emphatic "do"; though, it does seem to be unnecessary. I'm thinking this because example #1 seems to convey the same meaning as the (subjunctive) mandative. Example #1 might look a little bit unusual, but otherwise, it doesn't sound too bad to me (AmE speaker). 

Hence by 1632, the pronunciation had shifted to かわい​い although the meaning had only shifted a little, from embarassed to pitiful. From there, the shift to adorable and cute is quite straightforward but it is also something that has occurred in the last 400 years. 

Because "plumminess" has a strong cultural connotation in the Anglophone media, some study has been done on it the world of vocal pedagogy, whether it's approached from acting/dramaturgy, from opera/singing/music, or from speech pathology and the ENT medical arena. The studies on the last generally come from the perception that there is some sort of non-standard nasalisation, generally hyponasalisation, which might be indicative of physical medical problems. As for the mechanics of "lower[ing] the larynx and widen[ing] the oro-pharynx"? According to vp's comment on this thread: 

Additionally, it is also possible to glean hints of the original glottal stop that gave rise to 上聲 within the Sinitic varieties. Just as page 322 of Baxter's A Handbook of Old Chinese Phonology states: 

Second reason: In imperative clauses, the versions that have an overt 2nd person subject ("you") would have the same meaning as those that have no subject and those that use a vocative. For instance: 

Version #4.a seems to be completely unacceptable; and version #4.c seems weird--though, its subordinate clause does sound like it is an imperative clause. And so, the three subordinate clauses don't seem to be interchangeable here. This is the same conclusion we had when we performed this test with example #1a-c. The main difference between example #4 and your original example #1 is that example #4 seems to sound smoother (to me). 

This example is basically the same as your example #1, except that this example is using synthetic negation instead of analytic negation. Let's see how the three alternate versions ("you" as overt subject vs no subject vs vocative) look: 

The formation of the "four tone" system of Middle Chinese, which resulted in a historically attested distinction (see the various rime dictionaries compiled in the Sui, Tang and Song dynasties), is meant to have derived from the "cheshirisation" of the final consonants of Later Old Chinese. Finding the "reflexes" of these ancient consonants requires comparative evidence from corresponding cognates across the Sino-Tibetan family. One such cross-comparison (found on pages 30-31 of the ABC Etymological Dictionary of Old Chinese) comes from comparing Middle Chinese "tone B" or 上聲 (Mandarin Pinyin: shǎngshēng) with Chepang, from the Mahabharat ranges of Nepal; the connection is strengthened with evidence from tone 1 of Tiddim Chin in northwestern Myanmar. Examples cited include： 

Standard Korean has an interrogative inflection (as opposed to declarative, imperative and propositive moods), as part of the property known as the "pragmatic mood". It is characterised by -ㅂ니까 -mnikka for vowel stems or -습니까 -seumnikka for consonant stems in the formal polite level (as in 합니까 hamnikka and 있습니까 issseumnikka) and -느냐 -neunya for the formal plain level (하느냐 haneunya / 있느냐 issneunya). Adjectives (i.e. descriptive verbs) have a different inflection for the formal plain level: -냐 -nya for vowel stems and -으냐 -eunya for consonant stems. For all forms, this may be abbreviated to -니 -ni in speech. There is generally no formal inflection distinction in the intimate (informal plain) [although many other interrogative forms are used, e.g. -지 -ji], the general polite (informal polite), the authoritative (semi-formal polite) and familiar (semi-formal, semi-polite). Interestingly enough, the Gyeongsang dialect group of Korean (including Busan), in its informal plain layer, distinguishes between yes-no questions and wh-questions by inflection, with an -아 -a or -나 -na for yes-no questions and -오 -o or -노 -no for wh-questions. 

Your last two examples (#2, #3) are unremarkable, and are completely acceptable in today's standard English. It's that example #1 that is interesting, and I'm assuming that is the one that you are mainly interested in discussing. Here are my thoughts on what the subordinate clause in example #1 might be. Example #1's subordinate clause doesn't seem be an imperative clause for several reasons. (Though, the sentence does seem to be intended by the speaker to be a mandative construction.) First reason: The analytic "do not" is of somewhat doubtful acceptability in (main clause) imperatives that have "you" as overt subject, e.g. "You do not be so cheeky". (Info borrowed from CGEL page 928-9.) CGEL says on page 802-3 that: 

NOTE: CGEL is the 2002 reference grammar by Huddleston and Pullum et al., The Cambridge Grammar of the English Language. 

This question isn't just about spelling, because when these spellings were standardised, it is highly likely that all these words ending with "-ear" were pronounced in the same way. However, gradually between the 15th and 17th centuries as standardisation was setting in, the Great Vowel Shift occurred, changing the pronunciation of the vast majority of the vowels in English. This group rhyming with "ear" is usually called the lexical set in modern English, and was pronounced /eːr/ in early modern English; in Received Pronunciation this is usually /ɪə̯/, often smoothed to [ɪː]; in the General American standard, it's usually /iɹ/. A set which was distinct but similar in early modern English was that pronounced with /ɛːr/, as exemplified by the spelling "-are" as in the lexical set . This is /ɛə̯/ in Received Pronunciation (smoothed to [ɛː]), whilst in General American it is /ɛɹ/. If this is what time did to sounds of , why were words like , , , , as well as , , , (compare with the spellings of , and ) so different, ending up joining the set? In fact, something analogous happened to , and . Were they to follow the regular pattern set down by and , they would have merged into the same set as /eː/ by the end of the 16th century, and then changed into /iː/, modern lexical set by the end of the Great Vowel Shift. Instead, they only went as far as /ɛː/ by the end of 16th century, then went to /eː/ and then to modern /ei/, lexical set . These are all exceptions to the Great Vowel Shift. Notice that these exceptions represented by and by appear to be closer to their older pronunciations than their lookalikes and . It appears that the former pair resisted the Great Vowel Shift to some degree. But why they were able to resist it, and why they resisted it, are questions as yet unanswered. On a practical level then, these ones should be seen as exceptions and memorised (one particularly relevant one is the dual pronunciation of , which splits according to meaning). One paper from 1962 complains specifically about how divergent the pronunciation of the spelling is in modern English, despite the fact that most of the words with this pronunciation are of Anglo-Saxon origin.