The leaf solution makes the other options more viable too. If you have the time, pack sticks (~1-2in diameter) side-by-side to make a bed, then cover that with leafs to soften it up. This adds extra insulation from the ground. Sometimes it feels nice too, sometimes it doesn't. With the materials you listed, I recommend using the sheet of plastic to gather leafs faster, and make a mattress with more than 2ft of leafs. Lay the sheet on the ground, weigh it down with rocks if needed, then rake leafs onto it with your arms and feet. You can then use the plastic sheet to help separate you from the wet, cold ground. Note that not all leafs are made equal: some evergreen needles would be miserable to sleep on, but the most comfortable bedding I've found in forests happens to be evergreen: white pine needles. If you can gather a bunch of small white-pine branches and stack/weave them to be a mattress (more emphasis on getting 2ft worth than how well put together it is), you will have a very soft bed. If you can add some gear, a wool blanket will go a long way as a mattress or extra insulation in any way whether wet or dry. 

Related to flith's answer, noise can be a deterrent. The same way fires are prohibited in some areas, making too much noise may also be frowned upon, so this may not be a viable strategy depending on where you are. Wilderness survival expert Les Stroud carries a harmonica as a personnel item and to provide some comfort. He has noted a thought, as I and others have as well, that the harmonica noise can deter animals (while also providing personal comfort before bed). The saying 'they are more scared of you than you are of them' applies here - animals need to exercise caution as a matter of survival, and approaching a strange creature is risky. Approaching a strange creature that appears very large, fierce, fearless, or making disturbing, loud, piercing sounds (like those from a harmonica) may also appear risky and cause more animals to avoid the area accordingly. 

It sounds like what you did to clean it up was effective and could be adapted for trekking. For example there are three key things I read you did to improve the situation: 

I am looking to setup dish and hand washing stations for a group of folks in a fairly-wild woodland, in a car-camping summertime setting, for 2-5 days (depending on the occasion). Is stream water fit for cleaning hands, dishes, waste bins/buckets? Water used for cooking or drinking will be well-boiled or from a known-potable source. I'm hoping the answer to the overarching question will satisfy these sub-questions: 

The article Iron Production in the Viking Age on Hurstwic discusses sources of iron available in the wilderness of Scandinavia and Iceland. To my knowledge and experience, similar sources exist in what is now eastern Canada. From that article and other reading I identify two primary sources of iron people gathered from the wild for primitive tool making: Bog Iron 

In any case, you want to get the tick off ASAP - no need to panic and rush, but do prioritize it so to avoid extra unnecessary hours of risking disease transfer. Doing at least daily checks on yourself when in areas where you may get tick-bites, and removing them promptly, is important to avoid tick-borne illnesses. If out in the field with no swab or liquid soap, you could try similar alternatives (I had mixed success using hand sanitizer and my finger in the field) or go with the more conventional tweezers or tick-key removal methods, taking care to pinch the tick as close to the mouth as possible and remove the entire tick. If bitten, make note of it and keep a careful watch for symptoms - if infected, the sooner you begin treatment the better. 

On my next vacation, I will be camping in a tent on a designated campsite. I saw somebody use a hammock for lounging during the day last time, so quickly got a cheap hammock from eBay, with a "let's see if that works for me" attitude. The hammock came, and it is a piece of silk with a spread of ropes on each short end. The ropes are braided together into a loop. I think this might be intended for a specialized hammock stand, but I won't have one, I'm hoping there will be a usable pair of trees in or around the campsite. It is roughly this style: 

I need clothing for kayaking in the summer. I already have the "heavyweight" equipment - thick neoprene longjohn and a whitewater cag. But for places where I need less protection from cold and injuries, I'd like something more breathable and less restrictive. I looked into products marketed at kayakers and other water sport activities and ended up buying a kite surfers' rash guard for the top. I am quite happy with it, as it does not have the same hothouse effect as neoprene does. But the kitesurfers wear boardshorts as bottoms. They would have been OK for me, if they were available in long. But they end up well over my knee. I would like some comfortable ankle-length layer which gives a small amount of warmth and can protect me from scraping my skin if I have to swim out, preferably also UV-protecting for the time I hang around before and after I get into the boat. And as all my watersports stuff, I'd like it to be quick-dry and machine washable. The few striders sold by kayak stores are too short and/or made from neopren. Also quite expensive when compared to bottoms produced for other purposes. Is there a type of clothing which covers the above criteria, the way rash gurads cover them for tops? I was thinking of slightly denser pantyhose, but there are probably better solutions (is pantyhose quick drying?). Are there sports whose practitioner wear this type of clothing? 

A look through the veterinary literature can show you some further reasons not to just go out and eat grass. Specifically, parasites like liver fluke, different species of tapeworm, and some nematodes can infect humans as well as sheep (or cows, or mufflons, or whatever lives on the pastures where you find your grass). So, in a real outdoors situation, experimenting with grasses is unwise, even if you are very hungry. 

I am considering getting a new air mattress for situations where I want to save weight. I already have a large comfortable one for when I drive to camping with a car. So I saw a system which costs a bit too much to be a "try it and throw away if it is not good", even at discounter prices, consisting of a 440 g mattress and 84 g sack which is used to pump in the air. The combination costs 74 Euro, while a 800 g mattress with an inbuilt pump from the same low cost supplier is available for 24 Euro. I would pay the difference if I get the weight reduction without loss of comfort in mattress setup and emptying. I watched a video showing a similar pumpsack system from a brand name supplier (that specific system starts at 1:09 in the video) and it seems like you still have to use your own lungs for it. I really dislike pumping up a whole mattress with lung power when I am exhausted from hiking. Has somebody had experience with the second type of mattress, especially in comparison with the first type? How much effort does it take, is it comparable to lung-blowing or the blow he needs in the video just a small part of it? Are there other difficulties with the inbuilt-pump system which make it less attractive than the pump sack system? 

As for related questions: This addresses the first-aid options pretty well. Should you pop a blister? If anything it makes me think, pop and treat these blisters while I can and then wrap them before expecting to apply more friction? This explains how to use wraps to protect the blister in the field. How to apply duct tapes and mole skin to prevent blisters? Given the blisters are on my hand in this case, work gloves would suffice. 

Ultimately this also raises the importance of redundancy, which is even more challenging and yet even more important when trekking. Versatile gear is good because it can add to your resilience. A tarp serves multiple purposes, good blankets serve multiple purposes, as do multiple layers of clothing and even sleeping bags (e.g. using a medium and light bag combined rather than a single heavy bag). While your main bag is out of commission, having backup gear and knowledge to keep you ok over night is precious. 

This might be a tricky question because it probably depends so much on the river/water source. In this particular case, the stream I'm considering is one that flows well and pretty cold year-round, located in the Adirondack Park of New York. It's not in total wilderness but in a pretty remote area anyway. I and others don't consider it potable without treatment, but I wouldn't expect to die from drinking it and wouldn't be surprised if I was perfectly unharmed by drinking from it for a weekend...though for that matter, I wouldn't be surprised if I was pretty harmed by doing so - yet to do any water quality test on it. 

Ultimately I think we can make an educated guess that all summer camps end with a ceremony. The ritual or wrapping things up, providing closure with some reflection on past and a look to the future, is common for these sorts of things. It defines an ending point which is logistically and emotionally important. Are these ceremonies all award ceremonies? To answer that question - definitely not. Award ceremonies can facilitate a closure ceremony, and add a fun dynamic to the reflection. Awards also give something for campers incentive to strive toward during their time at camp if they know it is coming. There are other ceremonies camps use to wrap things up however, and those as well as award ceremonies all differ from place to place (each camp developing its own unique style and subculture). 

You already identified some key points in your question. Speaking from study, mentoring and experience, here's my answer. 

I have plenty of high visibility rope, 7mm+ thickness. I can manage to tie loops at both ends of the rope and have some guesses at adding a weight to one end that wouldn't knock someone out if it landed on their head. What I'm mainly uncertain about is how to accomplish 1 and 2 simultaneously - I've only ever had to do one at a time, but to be prepared for sudden rescue situations on ice or boat, it seems both needs to be accomplished to carry a useful rope on your person. Suggestions of loops used in 3 and weights for 4 would also be helpful. 

The key ingredients in bear sprays are capsaicins (reference), which are also the key ingredients of classic pepper spray. Cleaning bear spray off of you or your gear is similar to cleaning pepper spray off you or your gear. First off, it capsaicins can be an extreme irritant, and so you want to minimize harm. Stay calm, avoid rubbing affected areas or spreading the mess, and get to a well ventilated area to relieve irritation. Capsaicins themselves don't directly damage your skin - they excite your nerves as if you're being burned though, and the inflamation your body reacts with can actually cause damage in extreme cases. Minimizing your inflammatory response minimizes damage. You'll want to neutralize and clean off the capsaicins. The internet says dairy products like milk and yogurt can help neutralize the burning sensation of capsaicins on you, but you are unlikely to have a bounty of that with you in the wild and that doesn't solve the problem of attracting bears. Capsaicins are not very water soluble, so you'll need to add something to the rinse-scrub-rinse process to remove the capsaicin oils from you or your clothing. Dish soap does this well, or any other detergent normally used for removing greases and oils. If capsaicin is on your skin, other oils can be applied to pickup capsaicin oil that hasn't yet been absorbed - vegetable oil, facial cream, petroleum jelly would be rubbed on the affected area, then washed off as you'd wash them off normally. Capsaicin oils are very soluble in alcohols, so if you have high proof alcohol that can be used to clean capsaicin from you or your gear. As for attracting bears...I'm not sure whether dish soaps will attract them. It is possible, depending on the chemicals and scents used. I wouldn't expect the high proof alcohol to attract bears, and since capsaicins are very soluble in that, that is the ideal cleaning solution. However, how accessible is that in The Great Outdoors? Probably, not very. I'd say if you get bear spray all over you, and wash it off enough to reduce irritation to you, you should take other measures to avoid bears (eg. get out of bear territory) - this could be doubly important if you are now incidentally all out of bear spray!