All of these play an integral part in increasing your max to help you get stronger. As a beginner, you will see plenty of increased strength without much change to the size of your muscles. That's because your body has a lot of untapped reserve that it's now getting ready for you to use. Eventually that runs out. As the weight you lift gets heavier, you start having more fatigue that takes longer to recover from. That's when you need to structure your training differently. 

That really depends on your particular goals. Football coaches are notorious for their 2-a-days, but those are there to build stamina at the current strength level--not necessarily to build more raw power. 

Assuming you have weighed the bumpers and the metal plates and found them to be the same (or at least close enough), the difference is one of perception. One way to dispel that in your mind is to hold the lockout on a deadlift as long as you can. After a few seconds or so, those bumpers will feel just as heavy as the metal plates. Now, some people have taken to cheating with their lifts when using bumpers. This cheat is more effective with high-bounce bumpers than the more firm competition bumpers. Essentially, they start off the deadlift by pushing down on the bar first to use the elastic energy from the bumpers to help them break the bar from the ground. That is not doing anyone any favors, least of all you. Depending on the gym you go to, not all bars will weigh the same. You may have some 35lb bars and 45lb bars. That will definitely lead to the perception that 45lbs in bumper form is not the same as 45lbs in iron. But at the end of the day a pound is a pound is a pound. Even if you had a 45lb plate made from feathers (assuming you could get the density right), it's still a 45lb plate. 

Recomposition really is only possible or visible when your body is within certain phases of its life. The Beginner: The beginner is so far untrained, that any regular training will have a significant impact on their muscle mass even when you are eating for losing fat. The Obese: The obese person has so much fat, that any serious change in diet will cause them to use use their fat energy while exercising regularly. The Almost Lean: Once a person gets under 15% body fat, they can approach their eating and weight loss so the net result is very slow fat loss. Calorie cycling is an effective way to get from 15% body fat to 10% body fat, while still increasing strength and/or muscle mass. The Catch: You are only a beginner once in your life, so most of the time the holy grail of body recomposition is a compromise. The strategy is relatively simple. You need to eat enough food and do enough exercise to build muscle, on training days, while eating less food and doing some conditioning work on rest days to burn fat. You'll need more "rest" days than training days to pull it off. You'll need to keep protein high. At least 1g per pound total body weight, maybe more. Eat more carbs on training days when you need them, and more fat on rest days when you don't need the carbs. You'll have to figure out your maintenance Calories, or how much you need to eat to neither gain nor lose weight at your current level of activity. From there, you eat maintenance +20% on training days, and maintenance -20% on rest days. If you train 4 days a week, you'll be at a net deficit of a couple hundred Calories. What this means is that the fat loss will be very slow, and the muscle gains will also be very slow. If you are 15% or less body fat, you'll be able to see the change over time and remain motivated. However, if you are obese it will take a very long time to see results. The Recommendation: If you are above 15% body fat, forget about recomposition. Maintain your muscle mass by eating sufficient protein and doing exercise, but eat less than your maintenance Calories to lose weight as quickly and safely as you can. You won't notice recomposition, and you can still gain a little strength while losing weight. If you are between 10% and 15%, go for recomposition. Once you are at or below 10%, your body is in the best position to gain muscle without gaining fat nearly as easily. Until then you want an approach that can give you some gains while you start to make your abs more and more visible. If you are at or below 10%, bulk. At this point in your life, you are the most resistant to gaining fat. You can eat well above maintenance and still remain lean. Carbs will be your friend. If things start looking soft again, cut back a little. If you get back to 13-15% body fat, either go through recomposition again, or a short cut to get back down to 10%. 

I rate my training days on a scale of 1-4. This helps me address what I need to do. First the scale: 

Overshooting your effort with a lower weight gives more room to work with a heavier weight. It also helps build momentum that will keep you more motivated. Also Review Your Technique Video yourself. You'll find you can put more weight in your hands by getting better than you can just by working harder. 

Beyond that, do whatever is necessary to fine tune work. I find that light weight high volume curls help flush out inflammation in the elbows before it has a chance to start. However, if you do too many of them it can become a source of inflammation themselves. There is no absolute best exercise. There is only what's more appropriate for your given goals at the moment. 

Looking back at the muscle math article, you'll notice that there are units of work that are needed to build strength and as you get stronger you need to perform more units of work to get stronger. That's a good way to think about it. Essentially, you have to arrange the work you do so that you can increase the volume over time. This is where we get into the Texas Method (an intermediate program) concepts of a volume day, a light day, and a heavy day. The volume day builds strength, the light day provides active recovery while keeping the movement patterns fresh, and the heavy day lets you set a new PR. The periodization article provides a number of tools to balance the demands of recovery, building strength, and demonstrating strength. You'll find that people with an 840 lb squat or better can't do that every day in the gym. They have to work up to it over the period of several weeks as they prepare for a competition. The good news is that you can introduce these tools a little at a time. For example, if you are increasing the weight every time you squat, you can transition to the Texas Method approach to squat three times a week, but still PR at the end of the week. When weekly progress isn't happening any more, you simply use the same concepts and work on increasing your PRs at a slightly slower rate. The point is there is nothing wrong with slowing down, and it will be very necessary after a while. I personally didn't pick up a barbell until I was 39. Linear progression on the squats lasted until I could do about 310 lbs. Weekly progression got me to 325 for a triple. I then went to a monthly program, felt a whole lot better and got over 400 lbs squat before I turned 40. Due to some life events and injury, over the next couple years I was only able to increase the squat to 450 (no belt, in a competition). Every person's journey is different. You may surpass my squat in the same amount of time (particularly if you are fairly young). The point is to find a way that you enjoy training, and continue getting stronger. Use the tips in the two articles I linked to, or use someone's out of the box program. Just put int the work and enjoy the process. An 840 squat takes years--on the order of over a decade. 

I'll start with the overall theory. Greg Nuckols wrote an excellent article on increasing work capacity, which is at the core of getting stronger. It provides a great framework to understand everything else. Option 1: Same weight, but increase reps. This is essentially how the Doug Hepburn training routines are designed. Another example of programs in this family include Big-15 by Paul Carter. I'm currently using this approach myself. Option 2: Predefined set/rep scheme with regular weight increases. Most beginner programs are designed around this approach. Starting Strength and StrongLifts are two examples that come to mind. Another example would be a linear progression that power lifters of old used to run. Essentially they would work backwards from the next competition, and work to a top set of 8, 5, 3, and then 1s until their competition--each week adding weight. Kirk Karwolksi still trains this way. Option 3: A hybrid between options 1 and 2. Wendler, Greyskull, and a few other training methodologies use a periodization scheme combined with a concept known as AMRAP (As Many Reps As Possible). Basically the first week is for building volume, and you do exactly the prescribed sets and reps until you get to the top set. On the top set you go for as many reps as you can do with good form. The next week is for a transition, and the sets/reps are higher intensity but lower volume. The last week is for peaking, and is the highest intensity and lowest volume. Your training max goes up, and you restart the next cycle with slightly higher weights. Bottom Line: I've used all three of these methods at different times in my training, and all have yielded good results. There's a trade-off to high intensity and volume. You can't do both. You'll also find that no approach to training works forever. A recent discussion between Brandon Lilly and Paul Carter highlighted this. Brandon Lilly went for volume all the time and saw great results, until he was feeling beat up and couldn't keep it up. Then he went to West Side Method, which is higher intensity needing to be strong all the time. He saw good results with that (all this fits within the increasing work capacity framework mind you), until he started stagnating and feeling beat up with that. He's then returned to more of a volume approach. Nothing works forever, but different strategies all work to help you get stronger. When you've exhausted what you can get from one strategy, move on to something else. When you are done with that, you can go back to the first.