I'm assuming this is a 3 piece Shimano sealed-cartridge square-taper style bottom bracket, since you didn't provide any further info, and that fits the price/style/vintage of that bike. (for more on bottom bracket styles, read the always useful Sheldon Brown site). Additionally, how is the derailleur out of adjustment? Is it a cable tension issue? Is it not a front derailleur position (yaw, height) issue from getting moved during the operation? Assuming you did not alter the position of the front derailleur, and following my assumption of the BB type, you probably did not install your bottom bracket properly as @Hicks was getting at. Most 3 piece bottom brackets have 2 cups with the threading, and the bearing/spindle set itself which fits inside the cups. (If not, the drive-side threading is probably fixed to the bearing/spindle assembly (but also possibly not)). These bottom brackets are generally larger than the bottom bracket shell of the frame (depending on manufacturer), which means the bottom bracket's threading will be protruding from at least one side of the bike. If the drive-side of the crank spindle protrudes further from the bottom bracket shell than it should, your front derailleur will always be off by that distance. When installing the bottom bracket, you must fully thread the drive side first so that it matches flush with the bottom bracket shell of the frame. Then you can thread the non-drive side (for further instructions, see Park Tools Guide. Re-attach crank-arms, recombombulate bicycle, etc. After following this process, your front shifting may still be off--the factory or mechanic that built your bike may have adjusted the front derailleur with the bottom bracket not fully-threaded in on the drive side. If it's still not shifting correctly I'd suggest learning to adjust your front derailleur, because that's a much more worthwhile endeavor than trying to improperly install the bottom-bracket exactly as it was when you got it/had it repaired last. 

Personally, I prefer option 1 in the cities, because cars will have enough time to see you and slow down. You still have enough space to ride to the side in risky situations to increase the space between you and the car. 2 is more risky in cities because it kind of invites cars to pass you close. I usually to this on broad highways, because there most cars newer slow down to wait to pass you (at least in my experience). I do option 3 on narrow roads with oncoming traffic. These are usually side roads with few traffic anyway. I don't like to stop, but in the end I will get hurt if a car hits me. 

As most of my riding is limited to intra-city commuting (on bus routes) or on bike paths, I have not really faced a dire need for a repair kit while riding. I am looking into pulling off a three hour ride soon (one way, and then back two days later) and would like an idea of what to pack for emergency repairs while riding. As I will have camping gear with me I am looking to have a minimal amount that can fit on my back. However, getting stranded two hours into the ride doesnt sound like fun and, aside from flats and a broken chain (?), I am not sure what else to prepare for or what to bring. What emergencies should I prepare for? Are there repair kits already assembled (I have an old Ross road bike)? And what size pack am I likely to need? 

Time off the bike is only as important as how you take care of your body off the bike as well. -Eat healthy food (see 'The Feed Zone' by Thomas Liju and Allen Lim, and remember that athletes aren't special, and you need to eat regular healthy food, but just more of it with increase in volume in training), -Avoid standing on your feet for long times if you can; if you get the opportunity, elevate your legs. -Stay hydrated--mind you that hydration is not just chugging a gallon of water a day: pay attention to electrolyte levels, and the color of your urine is only ONE indicator and not definitive, -Do what you can to elevate your HR for 30 min. each day as well--for me, walking to work briskly accomplishes that. That's just something that personally helps for me Above all, do what you can to prevent DOMS (delayed onset muscle soreness) in the future by easing your way into volume and intensity if your body reacts to it poorly, and eat right all the while. When you get back on the bike, do the following in addition to the above: -Getting a recovery snack within 30 min. after riding that's primarily carbs, and a decent amount of protein (endurox claims the magical formula is 4:1 carbs:protein, but anything roughly close will do) -Eat 'complete' proteins. I can't tell you everything that's a complete protein (has the correct combination of ALL amino acids your body needs to build muscle), so just google for some suggests: I usually go with red beans and rice, or eggs. The latter is supposedly good at preventing DOMS. I'm also assuming that whether through a professional fitting or not, you fit on your bike: regional pain is a sign that your bike is not fit for you/. Acute pain should send you to get a fit right away. Generalized pain (my legs/exhaustion/etc) is to be expected. Something about 'pain and gain' or something something... 

You won't be able to stop this completely. There will be always car drivers how try to pass you, no matter what. However, there are things you can do about this. Most car drivers usually let enough space between you and the car, if possible. So they will likely pass you closer when: 

Calculating the average speed after a tour is easy. You know the start time, the end time, and the length of your route. Therefore, you can find out the average speed. Using "average over distance" approach: What if your track is so hilly that calculating every 10th of a mile is useless again? Then we would need to use every 100th of a mile. This will get more accurate, but will not be exact. You could use a unit like "speed per meter". You would have to track the average speed of every meter then, which will be extremely difficult (even with assistance of a bike computer/smartphone). Still, every meter is an average speed, so, mathematically seen, it is still not exact. You would need the speed of an infinite small part of a meter to get the exact speed, which is impossible. So, from my point of view, it is not done for two reasons: 

Longaberger (the American basket company) makes enormous backpack style baskets (The Tour With Me). I don't sell them and think they're a bit hideous looking; but for sheer volume carrying it would make for a decent alternative to standard backpacks and panniers. I have seen one that was approximately the size of a 5'8" woman's torso and neck (it went from her belt to about the bottom of her ears, and she rides a bike downtown comfortably enough). 

I assume you mean clamping it to the top, hanging down? With the consideration for proper tightening (@dark) aside, I might have less concern if the lock were mounted on the front tube, facing in with the clamp to the top and the weight distributed evenly as space allows.