My front wheel has started to wobble a bit at the hub and it's most noticeable when braking at the lights, as the front wheel is doing like a "pulsing" sound when braking - like as if the wheel is off center. I've pulled the hub apart, but I cannot see any obvious issues, yet when I lift the front wheel off the ground, as it's attached to the fork, the wheel slightly shakes when I tap it. It is not firm as it should be. Because I cannot see obviously what's going on, could the bearings inside the sealed-cartridge have worn down in size? There is ample grease on them, but I guess even over time wheel bearings do wear down a micro-millimeter or two? That's the only explanation I have as to why the wheel hub has a slight wobble / shake. Wheel is Campagnolo Vento-Reaction, about 5 years old now. Here's a video of the wheel, showing how to get to the hub bearings... 

The answer was obvious. Reset the cable tension on the brakes! Problem solved. Well in my case I bought new cables and due to the fact I had to take the old ones out and set the new ones with correct pressure settings, the lever does not touch the bar tape anymore. 

The obvious reason why, is cost! I need my front derailuer's cable to be replaced and I'd like to simply buy some raw brake cable from the bike shop and simply re-insert into my existing campy cable guides. Can that be done, or do I have to buy Campagnolo cables? Is there a cable guide or some PDF that has more technical details specific to Campagnolo cables? I have Athena 11sp with 11sp Campagnolo Record shifters - not EPS. Thanks 

I'm going to attack this backwards. First of all, camping is the only way you won't have to worry all day about where you're going to sleep. Provided you don't take a route through inhospitable areas, the beauty of planning to camp is in most areas down there, you can pull over, a good distance from the road, and set up camp. It will probably be cold at night, and yes you'll need a low temperature sleeping bag to stay comfortable. Inevitably, you'll meet people who invite you to sleep on their couch. It's a welcome change of pace from camping every day. But it's much easier to plan to camp and be pleasantly surprised with a night on the couch than to plan on couch surfing and be caught camping without enough supplies. As for the bike. I will say: make sure it fits wide tires. I'd say 30mm minimum. You really need to do your research if you're going to buy the bike used. A friend of mine bought a bike for a trip similar to yours. He was given some bad advice and the bike ended up being so poorly equipped for the ride that he had to sell it and buy a new one halfway through the ride. Ironically, it was a shop mechanic that completely misunderstood his needs and steered in the wrong direction, towards a bike that had skinny tires and wasn't upright enough. So you can't always trust your local bike shop, unfortunately. Cough up the money for a used book or two on the subject and educate yourself. It's up to you to hit the road with the right equipment, and the right equipment can mean the difference between a good trip and a horrible experience. 

I have on my rig Campag Athena 11 and Record 11 shifters. Recently, I've noticed the rear gear changing lever, are getting stuck on my bar tape, so when I want to upshift my cassette, I have to flick-off the lever from the bar tape quickly and then push the lever to change gears. Has anyone had this issue? Any tips on how to get back to normal shifting? Maybe the angle of movement from rest to shifting can be adjusted back? Any tips appreciated. Thanks UPDATE Sorry I think a picture speaks a 1000 words... this happens when I squeeze the brake lever - not when I am upshifting the rear gears. 

How long is a piece of string? Any bicycle is possible, which is the beauty of a bicycle in general. Bicycles can be anything really - roadies, MTB, single-speed, recumbents, even giant A-frame types that have steps to get to the saddle! Your question is very theoretical and will require a proper re-write because you're not being specific to a particular bicycle or size that we could say ok.. here's what you need. As an "answer", all I can say now is that you take your frame and your new build to a competent bike fitter and get fitted for the bike! You may find all that geometry might have to be thrown out the window for the sake of your posture, back and skeletal health. Good luck! 

I had a similar thought with my Campagnolo Ultra-Torque cranks (2010). They made a clicking sound and I suspect it was because one of the cranks came out of alingment. After removing the cranks and inspecting the threading on the retention bolt, I noticed some of the grooves were worn down to bare metal, so in effect my cranks were not on properly, and were not tighten properly (using a torque wrench). After finding this, I went and bought a brand new retention bolt, carefully inspected it, and replaced it. Worked perfectly. Safety is paramount. I would check the threading under the microscope (any hobby microscope with above lighting will do) and note any imperfections in the threading. If any, replace the bolt entirely. 

My bike is a ClaudeButler CapeWrath D24, with Shamino Alivio gears front and back. I was thinking it would be good to upgrade these to something like Shamino XT, at least on the front to start with. 1) Is this something I can do? 2) Can it be done incrementally? 3) Do I have to get certain rings to go with XT? Can I have alivio on the back and XT on the front? 4) Looking at Wiggle and searching for Shimano XT there are a lot of items. Do I need the whole XT range, i.e. shifters, cassette, chainrings, front and rear derailers? Is there a bit issue with doing this in bits, or just front or rear, or leaving the front shifters as they are? Currently I have a 8ring cassette, can this be changed incrementally for a 9 or ten? 

I have been having what I believe is called chainsuck for a while now. Chain will get stuck between first and second ring and have to stop and pull like "%&$* to get it out. It is always the between the first and second. From reading a few posts it looks like the sensible approach is to (at minimum) replace the first and second rings as well as the chain. My question is: 1) should I replace all of the rings or is it OK to only do 1 and or 2? 2) do I have to replace the rear cassette at the same time? 3) Is this pretty hard (just starting to learn how to do some mods, cleaning and maintenance my self). EDIT on further inspection, the middle ring has lost some teeth, got a nice bend in one bit and shark fin look to some of the teeth. This was replaced by "halfords" a while ago, guessing they put some rubbish ring on there. The first ring is a bit shark fin like, but the outer looks pretty good. 

This isn't uncommon in our neck of the woods. If you're a light packer, taking your bike the the airport can be a huge money saver. If your airport doesn't have a bike locker, bring two trusty u-locks with you. Use one u-lock to secure your front wheel and down-tube to one pole, and the other u-lock secure your rear wheel to another pole (please, never use a cable lock unless you're hoping to file an insurance claim for your bike when you get back into town). Try not to use your favorite bike if you have more than one. Either leave fancy accessories and lights at home or take them off and take them with you when you arrive at the airport. If your seat post uses a quick release, I would recommend replacing it with a bolt-on clamp. This won't guarantee your seat (or other bolted on parts) is safe from a well prepared perpetrator, but the majority thieves are looking for a quick and easy score, and will skip over your well-secured components in favor of lower hanging fruit. (photo borrowed from lifehacker) 

Those valve stems are too short for those deep deep rims you've got on there. You can tell just from the photos that the valve stem isn't sticking out far enough from the rim for the pump to fit all the way on it. Hence, it's not contacting the valve enough for you to inflate your tires. 

If you anticipate stopping in places with a real potential for bike thievery, I would lock the bikes up the same way I normally would while leaving them unattended in the city, with u-locks. No sense losing the bikes mid-trip. On trips with little to no chance of such potential for theft, I'll be in proximity to the car the entire time, or I'll just be at remote campgrounds near other vacation-going folks like me, etc, a simple cable lock will suffice. If you are going to be in any densely populated areas, I can't stress enough about the inadequacy of a cable lock. Some $15 branch loppers will go through them like butter. Side note: make sure your hitch-mounted rack is locked to your hitch, otherwise your bike lock will be rendered useless when a thief walks away with your entire rack.