Lots of related links can be found here - it appears to be more frequent than I thought, even Vitamin C supplements containing sorbitol have been found as a cause of diarrhea... 

I suggest you read the current WHO report on Alcohol and Health 2011. Look for example at page 26, Figure 12: Alcohol abuse is the main cause of liver cancer (which can develop following liver cirrhosis) in the Western World (in other places it's still Hepatitis B). Other cancers linked to alcohol consumption are esophageal cancer, mouth and oropharynx cancer, and a few others (colon cancer, breast cancer) where it appears to be a risk factor, too. Quoting from the same report (p. 20): 

In this video, Ted Cruz is asked by the newsanchor how he feels about asking for disaster relief funds in the wake of hurricane Harvey when he opposed such a bill for hurricane Sandy. He argues that he is all for disaster relief, but that the hurricane Sandy bill became a 50 billion dollar bill, 2/3 of which were "pork spending" that had nothing to do with Sandy, which is why he opposed that bill. Is it true that the bill contained that much unrelated material? One of the YouTube comments links to an act that reads more like a 10 billion dollar increase in spending for the National Flood Insurance Program. But maybe that's not the relevant bill in this case? 

Yes, for example you could consider cervical cancer a sexually transmitted disease. If you don't have sex (with others), you won't contract HPV. 

The argument as I know it goes somewhere along the lines of "water drops act like lenses that focus sunbeams so that they burn the plant". Several experiments have failed to reproduce this, though (link in German, sorry) - a drop of water, even a perfect half-sphere simply doesn't act as a lens. However, there are circumstances where it might happen, and that appears to be if the structure of the leaf surface is not flat but irregular or hairy. In that case, water drops might "hover" above the actual leaf surface, and sunbeams might be focused enough to cause damage. This is not to be expected with grass, though. 

A Google search for "Institutionalization of children" turns up a lot of results on this topic. One of the top results is this from the University of Pittsburgh, which summarizes current knowledge with a number of further references. The details vary with when and where the orphanage is, but at the very least a child is likely to be deprived of real parental love and affection, which will make it hard to form relationships in later life. They will also lack support and encouragement in school, and generally are thrown on their own resources much more than children in a family. Once they are old enough to leave the orphanage they are likely to be expected to jump straight into an adult life for which they have little preparation and no safety net if they screw up (find a job, rent a room, go shopping, cook for yourself, get a bank account, manage money ...) At the worst end of course there are lots of cases of institutional neglect, abuse and exploitation. 

There is only one paper referenced in the article. That paper describes an increase in cannabinoid receptors in the gut tissue of people suffering from celiac disease, and suggests that reducing the activity of those receptors might help. This is one small piece of a huge biochemical jigsaw puzzle. The scientists did not experiment with cannabinoids on the biopsies that they took, and do not suggest that this might be worth trying. In short, this research has nothing to do with whether cannabis can treat (never mind "cure") celiac disease. The rest of the links in the article are to 

in order to detect an infection with Malaria. Now this device sounds a lot like a simple oximeter, and the claims put forth in that article are rather vacuous, i. e. 

without saying anything about whether those results were accurate. But even if they were, my guess would be that changes in oxygen saturation caused by a severe bout of malaria would far outweigh any possible changes in light absorption caused by Plasmodium parasites. But I'm curious anyway. A quick PubMed search has turned up nothing, but maybe I've been using the wrong search terms - is there any evidence available that such a device/app could in fact work? The students have won the "Women's Empowerment Award" from Microsoft's Imagine Cup in 2013, which is wonderful, but the website doesn't have any additional information, either. 

In 1996, there was a publication by Greaves et al. in the Lancet titled "An air stewardess with puzzling diarrhoea" about a stewardess who presented with a 7-year history of abdominal pain and diarrhoea (up to 10 times a day). The cause they finally found was overuse of sorbitol-containing chewing gum. (Unfortunately the article can't be accessed for free) There are more case reports like this, for example in the British Medical Journal where people consuming sorbitol in amounts of about 20-30 grams a day (one chewing gum stick contains about 1.25 g, apparently) had similar problems. The authors conclude 

Well, to some extent, but probably not when drinking the stuff. Urine contains urea, which is used pharmaceutically as a rehydrating (water-binding) and keratolytic agent, e. g. in the treatment of skin disorders that cause scaly, dry skin, or to assist in removing skin detritus. So the presumed usefulness in diseases such as ringworm, tinea, sores, dandruff etc. appears at least understandable, although it would be a purely symptomatic treatment. Some research also appears to indicate that urea possesses some antimicrobial activity and that it enhances the skin barrier function against external factors like bacteria/fungi. But this is only for external, topical application, not for drinking. Now, why camel urine, not human urine? Well, this is all guesswork, but camels are able to concentrate their urine much higher than humans (which makes sense from an evolutionary standpoint if you're a desert animal), so you'd get a higher dose from camel urine than from your homemade stuff. But if you don't have a camel around and don't mind the social disadvantages of this treatment, human urine should also work to some extent. 

This page lists the countries with the lowest business tax rates, but none of them have zero. This also excludes personal taxes (income, capital gains etc). 

The statement that "a 2-inch beam [of microwaves] can be sent from a satellite, point to point, to a receiving dish on earth" is false. The limit here is diffraction across the transmitter. Being able to resolve 2 inches from orbit for visible light would require mirror bigger than the Hubble space telescope. Doing the same for microwaves would need a dish hundreds of times bigger because of the longer wavelength. Full technical details are in $URL$ This is about receiving rather than transmitting, but the maths is the same in either direction. See the end for some figures for a typical real-world system, which can manage a beam width of 1.8 degrees. At a range of 200km that would be a circle around 6km in diameter. And of course that is just the "-3dB point", which means the signal is only half as strong there. 

The plain meaning is false: there was taxation before 1913. However if you want to play games with words then you can define "earnings" as "income after all expenses and taxes other than income tax". The parenthetical bit at the bottom invites the reader to take the broader interpretation, but allows the writer to retreat to the more technical definition if challenged. "1913" probably refers to the passage of the 16th amendment, which allowed Congress to levy taxes directly on people rather than apportioning them by states or according to population. There was a brief period when income tax was levied before that, but it was judged unconstitutional (hence the amendment). But that does not mean that there were no taxes before 1913. Up until then most federal revenue was obtained from tariffs on imports. There were also state taxes, including state income taxes. See DavePhD's answer below for details. 

Ethanol resorption can occur in the mouth (which is true) Orally absorbed ethanol doesn't pass first through the liver, yielding a higher bioavailability (which is at least to be expected considering the anatomy of the local blood vessels) Drinking with a straw is supposedly slower, allowing the ethanol a longer contact time with the oral mucosa (which at best sounds plausible but hardly evident). 

Today, I was made aware of a research project made by Ugandan CS students who claim to have built a smartphone app together with a device called a "matiscope" that 

If you've seen the movie Zero Dark Thirty, you've seen how the CIA tried to ascertain the identity of Osama bin Laden by sending a doctor to the compound where bin Laden was suspected to be hiding. The doctor represented a sham vaccination program (against Hepatitis B), asking for permission to vaccinate the children in the compound, with the intention of running DNA analyses on the syringes afterwards to determine whether any of the children were bin Laden's. The effort failed because the doctor didn't get a chance to vaccinate any of the children. On a recent episode of Star Talk Radio, Lori Garrett (sp?) asserted that this caused a violent backlash against healthcare workers, including numerous assassinations of volunteer helpers to the Polio eradication campaign. An article in Scientific American seems to corroborate this. (The doctor himself appears to have been sentenced to 33 years in a Pakistani prison for his actions.) Moral issues with using healthcare workers for non-healthcare purposes aside, is that really true? Did the Taliban (or other Muslim groups) start or increase their anti-vaccination actions after this became public? I was under the impression that religious "aversion" to vaccination campaigns (together with all sorts of conspiracy theories) has been around much longer than this incident. Are there any studies on this? 

Some years ago I remember reading an account of Aldous Huxley lecturing on the Bates Method. I think it was a book by a well-known skeptic (maybe Gardner or Sagan?) but I don't remember exactly. According to this account (from my memory) he was well known to need strong glasses. But he came on stage without glasses and started reading from his notes. This was an amazing demonstration of the truth of what he was saying. But the half way through he faltered, and started peering closely at his notes. It dawned on the audience that up until that point he had been reciting, not reading, and the Bates Method hadn't worked for him after all. Does anyone know more about this story? 

This page from the University of Oxford vaccine knowledge project says that flu vaccine contains traces of antibiotics and formaldehyde. They don't define "trace" but it usually means something well below the level that might have any effect, and probably so low that it can't be measured accurately. This is likely to be something left over from the manufacturing process. At a guess, its because the virus used to make the vaccine needs to be cultured in live cells, and those cells are in a solution of antibiotics to prevent bacterial growth. So the original claim is technically true, but presented in a misleading way. It implies that you will receive a significant dose of antibiotic along with the vaccine. This is false. 

Basically, no. Eye exercise programs of this kind do not work. Your eyes get enough exercise under normal conditions. There is no evidence that using glasses or contact lenses makes vision worse, and no evidence that special exercises make any difference. $URL$ One of the proponents of the Bates Method was Aldous Huxley. I've read somewhere an account of how he gave a lecture on the method and the great results he had with it. He appeared to be reading from notes, until half way through when he stumbled, paused, and started peering closely at his notes. It slowly dawned on the audience that he hadn't been reading, he had been reciting. Unfortunately I read this some years ago and I can't now recall where.