I think you may be thinking too much about the specifics of what Stan was saying. What drives off It is not the birds, but rather Stan drawing strength from his passion. Birdwatching is a major part of his life, something he's passionate about, and he's drawing strength from it to oppose It. My impression is that It is empowered by the fear and despair of its victims and the birdwatching book is allowing Stan to drive away that fear by focusing on his birds. 

McAuley and Steward were Australian, not from the U.K., and there was no party involved, and it's a bit later in history (1940s, not 1920s), but the rest seems to match. All seventeen poems were written in a single afternoon. There was not, as far as I can tell, any commentary on the analysis of development. In fact, the whole thing was found out in a week of publication. The preface biography: 

Wyrd is the "ranger" who is never referred to as such, but simply as a woodsman. He does die of what sounds like rabies (hundswoths or "dog-madness" in the book). There is the scene with the canteen: 

I read this book when I was in elementary school in Ashland, KY, probably between 1990 and 1998. It was a paperback, with the cover primarily blue, maybe with the main character on the front in dark sunglasses. The protagonist was a young boy, I think a cub scout or boy scout. Another boy (I think, a bully), throws a firecracker at him as a prank, and it explodes in his face, blinding him. The rest of what I remember of the book was him adapting to his new handicap and coming to accept that he may never regain his sight again (although I seem to remember that his vision started to come back, at least partially, near the end). I did not get a chance to read the first part of the book, as the binding had failed and a decent chunk was missing, including likely the scene where he was actually blinded, although I picked up a fair amount from context. There was a scene where he went to a school for the blind and just sat on the bed. When his roommate asked why he was doing nothing, he excused himself by saying "I'm blind" whereupon his roommate pointed out that they were blind too, and it didn't stop them. I think the roommate also introduced him to the practice of attaching tactile tags to clothing to let him know what color it was. There was a scene using basic echolocation where he learned to get an impression of the room's dimensions by clapping once and listening. And lastly, I remember there being a scene where he confronted the bully who blinded him and we learn that the psychopathic monster he's been building up in his head is just a kid who made a mistake and feels horrible about what happened. 

That said, I've yet to find a statement by Leonard Cohen on the subject, only what others have stated. Complicating matters, Leonard Cohen initially wrote 80 different verses according to Wikipedia, and changed them for different performances, only keeping the final verse the same. 

Another possibility is that it's simply the onomatopoeia being used for the sound of his laugh. While the usual Spanish onomatopoeia for laughter is a "j" sound, "jajaja, jejeje, jijiji, jojojo, jujuju", there are some languages such as Korean that use a "k" sound to depict it, with "kekeke" becoming a fairly well-known one from Korean StarCraft players. Outside of its normal cultural context of standard onomatopoeia, it's more likely descriptive of the actual sound of her grandfather's laughter, a breathless chuckle that one might associate with someone so amused they can barely draw breath to actually put voice to the laughter. Now, sick and old, he no longer has that voiceless mirth. I personally feel it's the least satisfying of the answers so far, since it's more descriptive than symbolic, but it's what came to mind with the phrase. 

From that context, the third verse seems like it would be contrasting the sacred and the profane joys in life. 

I read this in the 90s, but I remember that, when I mentioned it to my mother, she commented that it was a fairly well-known book which she herself had read when she was younger (she would have been in her late 30s when she made that comment, so she probably would have read it in the 60s). Most or all of the drama happens in a hospital, I want say one outside of a major city and thus somewhat constrained in terms of resources, both medicine and personnel. One of the main characters is a pathologist who is dating a fairly young woman (maybe younger than him). During a tryst, possibly just post-coitus, he's caressing her knee and realizes that something about it doesn't feel right. He has it checked out (perhaps discreetly without letting her know) and finds that she has cancer in her knee, removal of which will probably require amputation of her knee and everything below it. He has a crisis of faith, wondering whether he should tell her himself, and also whether he would have noticed it sooner if he hadn't been distracted by their romance. There's another plotline going on with a pregnant mother. The Rh factor test either is not performed, or is performed incorrectly, which leads to complications that threaten her life and that of the baby. I don't think the pathologist was directly involved with this case, at least initially. Lastly, some part of me wants to say that the plot twist, such as it is, is that the death is an older man who was briefly mentioned in the story. I was initially thinking that the title was Common People or Ordinary People, but I'm coming up with nothing useful, and I think I'm thinking of the Judith Guest novel with the latter. 

If you want even more matching points, Schmoop has a pretty comprehensive summary of the book chapter by chapter. 

Andrew Lloyd Webber backing him on this decision, stating that the song is about the connection that Joseph makes with Israel. 

I think I read this in elementary school, so it was probably late 1980s to early 1990s (I was in elementary school between 1985 and 1992) in Ashland, KY. I don't think it was illustrated, or if it was, it was just a few sparse pen-and-ink drawings to set the scene. The basic plotline is that the male protagonist, somewhere in middle school to high high school, falls in with another male around the same age. This male is implied to be from a well-to-do family, but largely unattended. I remember a scene where they were sitting in the living room by a fire, drinking something from glasses (probably alcohol) and the rich boy punctuates his point by hurling his glass into the fire, inspiring the other boy to do the same. The two of them shared a mutual dislike for a male teacher, I think with bushy eyebrows, who had a name like "Mr. Gulag" because they made a joke about "Mr. Gulag's gulag" in regards to detention. Anyhow, they decide to kidnap him, maybe just to put a scare in him, maybe to do something more nefarious. I don't remember many of the details... I think they ambush him in the parking lot with a chloroform-soaked rag. Wherever it is they take him, they have him tied up with rough ropes. After that, all I remember is that the rich boy is getting out of control, suggesting more criminal acts to do as "revenge" against this teacher who's far too tough on him, while the main protagonist realizes just how far in over their heads they are and tries to talk him down. The teacher manages to get them conversing and eventually convinces them to let him free in exchange for him not turning them in, or maybe for pleading clemency. I don't remember a lot of the characters. Either they were all Caucasian or not enough fuss was made about their race to make it worth noting. I want to say that the richer boy was dark-haired and that the teacher was grey-haired with bushy eyebrows. The part which has stuck with me so much was that his name sounded like "gulag". 

Addressing your question from a somewhat literal perspective, the "holy" Hallelujah is likely that of the first verse, "The baffled king composing hallelujah" where as the "broken" Hallelujah is that that the female of the song (Bathsheba based on the bathing reference) drew from him, "She broke your throne, and she cut your hair / And from your lips she drew the hallelujah". My reasoning is essentially that the first versus associates the Hallelujah with God, which fits the definition of "holy" whereas the second is paired up with imagery of broken thrones and cut hair. 

In my mind, Andrew Lloyd Webber's statement backs my initial assertion on musical grounds that the transition from "I" to "We" signifies Joseph identifying with the entirety of his people. 

The sharks ate almost all of it, leaving only the skeleton, head, and tail. Excerpt from the text (emphasis mine): 

They then note that the Caterpillar wasn't even in the original tale told by Alice, but added later when he was assembling the book for publishing. Just to cover all of the bases, some of the historical record of his diary and correspondence is no longer available to reference: 

I was reminded of this when I ran into the Ranger's Apprentice series while researching another book. It was a fantasy book, I think, that I read in early college, around 1999, in English, maybe as a paperback. The main character winds up as the apprentice to a forest ranger of some flavor. At some point, a metal canteen becomes horribly dented (maybe during a fight?) and the ranger fixes it by filling the canteen with grain and then adding water before capping it. The expanding grain causes the dents in the canteen to be pushed out. Said ranger later dies, although I don't remember if it was from wounds in battle, or from disease or old age (although for some reason, my brain keeps coming back to the idea of him dying of rabies after being wounded subduing an animal with the disease). Later, the protagonist is with a group that's trying to get into a city which is walled and locked up. He convinces them to follow his plan, which involves wedging two nested pipes into the doorway of the gate into the city, which are filled with soaked grain, the idea being that the expansion will cause the pipes to push out with great force, breaking the gates. They plant the devices, with some losses, and at first, it looks like the devices are doing nothing, and the loss was for naught, but then they start working and break the gates. I am not 100% certain that it was a fantasy series now that I think about it. I think the mentor was indeed described as a "ranger", and I have a hazy memory of orcs and a darkness spell, but I might be channeling Mooshie from the Drizz't books. The only other things I remember was an early scene involving a religious order where a religious brother tried to convince one of the nuns that semen was liquid communion, and some other scene involving the main character "curing" an epileptic through sex, only to see them get into an honor battle and having their head smashed in. 

Thorn does grow up in a monastery where they are sexually assaulted by one of the brothers, who does make the analogy of semen to "liquid communion". Gudinand is the lover who suffers from epilepsy and dies during a duel with staffs (he's winning until he suffers from his fit, not due to stress but from the joy of nearly winning), unable to mount a defense or even raise his finger to beg for mercy. 

I believe I checked this out from our library in Kentucky somewhere between 1986 and 1995. I remember it as a short book, less than a hundred pages, maybe less than thirty. A pair of children (at least. There could have been more. And I don't remember if they were related to each other) decide that a lady in their neighborhood is a witch. When they confront her on it, they either convince her or she decides to play along. Either way, they convince her to try a flying ointment they got from a library book (it involved some sort of grease and soot). After an abortive attempt to launch herself from a roof, the "witch" proceeds to make short hops in the yard, broom astride, and claiming that she was jumping higher than she could before, implying that the ointment was doing something. I was recently reminded of the book when a friend was mentioning how some of the old "flying ointments" had psychoactive components, implying that the "flying" was a matter of skyclad witches standing astride dosed brooms and getting a contact high through their mucous membranes. Of course, this book, being a children's book, involved a fully clothed witch. I believe the illustrations were done in a pen-and-ink manner. I remember there being one of the attempted flight. I don't think that it was Jennifer, Hecate, Macbeth, William McKinley, and Me, Elizabeth despite a common theme of a flying ointment and witches, as I clearly remember the "witch" as an older female. Neither do I believe it to be The Active Enzyme, Lemon Freshened Junior High School Witch, which some reviews also note has a flying ointment, but also that it's all kids trying it out. 

I read this in the 1990s while living in Kentucky. Pretty sure it was a library book, although I'm not certain if it was the school or city library. The main character is a young teenage male, in either middle school or high school, Caucasian, living in a small town in the United States. I believe it had pen-and-ink drawings at a few places in the book, and I'm pretty sure it was broken up into chapters. Two things have stuck with me: one is that he is at one point babysitting an infant (maybe his little brother?), and starts reading the dictionary to the child (I remember "pusillanimous" and "susurration" being two of the words, the latter being where he realized that the S words worked best), which calms the child. I think there was a later scene where the child was using a few multiple-syllable words as part of its babble, puzzling its parents. The other is a running thread in the books where he's doing a science project for a science fair, and his projects keep accidentally breaking things. I believe his overall theme was sources of power over history. I remember one project was a full-sized catapult, complete with a large rock in the holder, which went off when someone (the teacher?) pulled the lever, not realizing it was functional. Another was a steam engine. I think it exploded because he didn't set up the pressure valve correctly. The last had something to do with a fan and a source of smoke, maybe a demonstration of wind power. I remember he initially was going to use a burning rag for the smoke, but found a more elegant solution, I think involving chemicals to generate smoke. At the time of the fair, the teachers were hesitant, knowing what had happened with the other projects, but when he switches it on, the calamity comes when a classmate suddenly leaps back and knocks some things (including a bottle of ink, I think) over. Turns out the classmate had reversed the fan blade, thinking it would cause the smoke to blow back on the protagonist, unaware that a reversed fan blade blows the same direction as before. I feel like I ought to remember more of the book, but those are the bits that stick out. I remember being particularly impressed with the catapult, and trying the dictionary trick with my little brother (it didn't work as well as in the book, but I learned some new words in the process). 

This story came to me earlier today and now it's nagging at the edge of my brain. It was a short, somewhat silly, story, part of a collection that I read somewhere in the early 90s. I read it in the United States, in English, but the book very well might be quite a bit older. A young girl hears someone talking about how wonderful it is to live in Wales, but misunderstands, and winds up living inside a living whale. The setting was kind of a fairy tale in that she's apparently perfectly happy staying within the whale, and she only moves in after asking the whale politely. I remember there was an ink drawing of the girl exiting the whale's mouth, I think dressed quite nicely and carrying a parasol. 

That said, what has survived does not support the idea that the books were written under the influence of drugs nor that they were about drugs.