As conclusion: A ninja indeed used a specific outfit that blended in when infiltrating. The color black was used, but it was only a small part of the ninja apparel. Their clothes' color was adapted to their surroundings 

1) Soldiers had to carry their own weapons and there was one servant for every 4 soldiers. This lower number of servants decreased the size of the army significantly. For this also see Polyaenus Strat. 4.2.10 (Translation from $URL$ 

Translation from Plutarch. Plutarch's Lives. with an English Translation by. Bernadotte Perrin. Cambridge, MA. Harvard University Press. London. William Heinemann Ltd. 1919. 7. The story of Plutarch might very well be somewhat embellished, but Alexander’s later attention to his logistics during the campaign in Persia suggests that there was a core of truth to it. Let me paraphrase some examples from the rest of the book From p12 onwards: In general Alexander kept his armies' numbers at a minimum. 

From Rzepka, Jacek. "The units of Alexander’s army and the district divisions of late Argead Macedonia." Greek, Roman, and Byzantine Studies 48.1 (2008): 39-56 comes a possible answer. On p49 

Some pages earlier, the author Rzepka admits that his interpretation can be challenged since the plural of royal squadron is only used once. On p47 

As you said, the ninja or shinobi was first and foremost a master of disguise. This was known as Hensojutsu, the art of disguise. From Hatsumi, Masaaki. The way of the ninja: secret techniques. Kodansha International, 2004. p92 For most missions a sterotypical black ninja outfit would not have been the most prudent option. The ninja then attempted to look like whatever the situation called for. Some examples below. 

The Macedonian army was indeed relying on a well-established logistics organization. The following book, as already mentioned in the comments, is probably the most well-known one about the subject and quite possibly the best too. Engels, Donald W. Alexander the Great and the Logistics of the Macedonian Army. Univ of California Press, 1980. According to the author your friend was quite correct in his statement that the Macedonian logistics were quite formidable, but often overlooked. To prove this point, he points to the fact that while Alexander the Great is foremost remembered as a great military commander during battle, he was also wise to the necessity of having a reliable supply line and the intelligence services needed to keep it secure. He points to a story from Alexander’s childhood for this. Plutarch’s Life of Alexander 5.1. 

As conclusion: The fact that that Arrian speaks of two royal squadrons was probably caused by a temporary separation of the unit for tactical reasons, since it was double the strength of a regular unit. 

From Turnbull, Stephen. "The Ninja: An Invented Tradition?." Journal of Global Initiatives: Policy, Pedagogy, Perspective 9.1 (2015): 3. p12 For their commbat missions, however, a ninja fell back on armor that blended with his environment. The color needed to be flexible since black is not a good choice for blending in at all times. Colors like earth brown, watery blue and even snow white were utilised. The author below descibes the ninja's armor as rainbow colored to fit in with the colors of nature. 

From Hatsumi, Masaaki. The way of the ninja: secret techniques. Kodansha International, 2004. p90 The author even refers to clan colors on page 92. You might notice that there is indeed a reference to black as the color of the Genji. 

2) The number of women was kept to a minimum. In earlier times wives and children were often taken on campaign. With the Macedonian army this was no longer allowed as to make the army more manageable. Alexander’s soldiers could visit their family in Macedonia from time to time to make the separation more doable. This made the army as light as possible and capable of surprisingly fast marches. 3) Alexander also kept into account the beasts of burden and the slower vehicles. Carts were generally forbidden. Even those pulled by oxes. Their top speed was too low for keeping up with the rest of the army. This measures made the Macedonian army far more efficient than before, but the army still required several tonnes of food and water each day. Alexander took several precautions to ensure a secure food source. For a better look at this see: Ashley, James R. The Macedonian empire: the era of warfare under Philip II and Alexander the Great, 359-323 BC. McFarland, 2004. Even with fewer extra carriers and camp followers to maintain food was an issue. The Macedonian army was still several ten thousands strong with a great deal of warhorses. Ashley calculates that this would consume at least 750 tonnes of dry provisions. He mentions that Alexander took the following precautions. 1) He tried to spend as much time as possible next to a river or the sea during winter. This made perfect sense as this would make close access to water possible. There was also the Macedonian navy which could deliver food if needed. Alexander's navy was not large by any means, but it still existed. 2) He split up the army when a river or the sea was not accessible. A smaller group of soldiers is more vulnerable, but it is also more nimble and can gather food more easily. 3) He stayed close to populated centers. Populated centers needed a decent food supply, Alexander could also benefit from this. 4) The soldier’s rations consisted of wheat, barley or millet which are not going bad in hot weather and are easy to transport. All these products can be moved without harming them and stayed eatable for far longer than items like fruit would. Note by Ashley: During a march through harder terrain, like a desert or the Hindu Kush, the demand for food would become much higher often resulting in temporary starvation like during the march in the desert of Gedrosia. In general, logistics were well taken care of. According to Ashley the techniques of Alexander made his army twice as fast as the Persian one. My recommendation For further reading I would really suggest Alexander the Great and the Logistics of the Macedonian Army. The answer I written down here is but a pale shadow of its depth. I would expect most universities that have a department for Ancient History to carry a copy. You could also check Lonsdale, David J. Alexander the Great: lessons in strategy. Routledge, 2007. It makes quite a lot of good points about the importance of a decent cashflow, a reliable navy and the importance of weather conditions. I mostly left those out in my answer to keep the answer contained. Short anwer: Alexander understood that taking care of logistics was of the greatest importance and took great precautions to make sure they were reliable. 

For the purpose of this question, let us assume that is meant in the Hobbesian self-preservation and standard-of-living sense of the word; instead of a more pure free-will or pacifist sense. As in a pure pacifist sense Rome of course wasn't obliged to do anything; including survive, retain autonomy or feed its citizens. 

They used lots of very large, very heavy stones. You will note that these constructions did not have large internal air pockets relative to volume. They qualify as monuments or fortifications more than inhabitable buildings with a decent amount of floorspace. Having arches or domes or any large enclosed internal space was considered the height of engineering achievement - and most did not survive well. The internal space of an Egyptian pyramid was a fraction (1.3%) of a modern pyramid like the Louvre skylight (probably 99.5%). 

Some countries we drive on the left; some countries we drive on the right. What is the origin of each style? 

In light of the recent news kerfuffle regarding a child found in a Romani (gypsy) camp; it got me wondering: At what point in history did the idea1 of gypsies stealing children start? And from where and in what manner did the idea propagate through Europe? 1. Real or imagined or some admixture of the two. 

Citizenship, then as now, entailed a specific group of privileges and responsibilities. One of which was some degree of say in how Rome was governed (optimo iure). As the Roman Republic originally expanded from the city-state of Rome, full citizenship (Cives Romani) was initially limited geographically to Rome itself instead of outlying Latin holdings. Who got what level of Roman citizenship was used as an incentive model to recruit the best and brightest from outlying provinces, especially during Rome's early growth. Holding Roman citizenship also invested a personal stake in the welfare of Rome, since either you or your ancestor may have gone to considerable lengths to acquire it in the first place. Nobles in Rome would have always been full citizens of Rome. The status of aristocrats in the provinces would changed as Rome changed; but typically anyone you consider a "Roman noble" had, as a historical family unit, acquired full citizenship by marriage or adoption or relocation and naturalisation of the senior branch to Rome. When the Edict of Caracalla (Constitutio Antoniniana) expanded Roman citizenship to all free males in the Empire; no one lost their existing citizenship. Technically the expansion of citizenship was primarily an expansion of responsibilities (taxes, military service) than an expansion of rather diluted privileges. It was part of the barbarization of the Roman Empire. If feudalism marked a shift of citizens into subjects, this was due a shift in how the relationship between rulers and ruled was interpreted. Being rich and powerful was useful in and of itself, regardless of the concept of citizenship. Modern citizenship (from a Eurocentric perspective) arose from concepts of social contracts and popular sovereignty that preceded the American and French revolutions. If you were an aristocrat that successfully integrated into the new political paradigm, you would have had the highest level of citizenship due to your level of property ownership. In so far as citizenship was "reintroduced", French nobles quickly became full citizens once the head chopping phase had passed - that is, after the Thermidorian Reaction of 1794. The aristocracy and their descendants (private equity) have kept a lower profile ever since. (Roman section of this answer applicable to Revision 1 of the question.) 

The legal custom for the firstborn and only the firstborn to inherit the bulk of the estate, especially indivisible property. An illegitimate child without the right to inherit. In which countries and periods of history, if any, could the order of primogeniture be adjusted by acknowledging a bastard? And could a previously legitimate heir be disinherited by "converting" them into a bastard? 

One theory goes that cultural interest in technologic UFOs* derived from the same paranormal sensibilities as fairies and elves of previous centuries; and as such when one waxed in interest (presumably due to WWII and the nascent space-race) the other waned. So did popular cultural interest in fairies overlap the UFO phase or immediately precede it? * I'm narrowing the definition from all conceivable Unidentified Flying or Hovering Objects to the classical variety of technological UFOs commonly associated with aliens or men-in-black, as manifested especially after the rise of rocketry and space travel in the popular consciousness; eventually dissipating with the rise of smartphones, hobbyist drones and played out memes. 

Christopher Columbus thought the world was spherical (like most educated people of his era) but he also thought the size of the Earth was small enough that a westward boat trip from Europe to Asia was achievable with existing ship building technology. In this regard he differed from the more accurate size estimates of scholars in Isabella and Ferdinand's court. Sustained lobbying won out through - and so off he went. Since he still believed the size of the Earth was small - when he bumped into land in the Americas obviously he would assert that the landfall was in Asia (India, Japan, China or somewhere) as: 

They didn't try because it wasn't politically relevant to them (i.e. The Emperor wasn't interested). Chinese dynasties preferred a tributary network instead of European or Pan-Arabic style colonisation. This reasoning worked well enough considering the key motivation for Europeans traders to sail beyond Europe was to bypass Arabic tariffs on the Silk Road and connect with Sinae (China) directly. From the Emperor's standpoint, foreign traders came to them. The Chinese tributary system didn't collapse until the 19th century Opium Wars pushed European foreign policies on China. Tianxia ("All is equal under heaven") is an intriguing political concept and explains much of China's diplomatic philosophy to this day; and at the risk of drifting into History's twin, Futurology, is proving appealing to certain emerging nations that are more comfortable with Chinese soft power instead of American hard power.