Finally, I want you to consider why you're wanting to multi-task? Does your mind get bored? Are you trying to avoid certain sensations? Is it hard to concentrate? Does your mind get frustrated in the silence? Why are you wanting to entertain the mind? This is your practice. 

To name just four persons who've changed the world through love and kindness is H.H. the Dalai Lama, Thich Nhat Hanh, Saint Teresa of Calcutta , and Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi. What's strange is that every person I just named has a group of enemies who hate them. Mother Teresa and Gandhi both have been attacked on multiple occasions just by sharing love. Did that stop them? No. So here are a few quotes on being active with your love. 

It is through the Dharmakaya that the first Buddha, also known as Adi-Buddha, originated from the void as a flame. He has many names and according to some sections of Buddhist traditions they do include Adi-Buddha as God. For example, 

I would like to comment on your follow up question by saying the details are un-important. There are many forms of asceticism. The description of asceticism Buddha is describing can be found in Indian asceticism (for obvious reasons), but the principle extends to all forms of asceticism. He is encouraging his followers to avoid living their lives in extremes, such as only craving pain and discipline while neglecting the natural pleasures in life. These natural pleasures he concluded are blessings because they bring us momentary happiness. On the other hand, he encouraged us not to live only for pleasure and lack discipline. You'll never achieve ultimate happiness if you can't let go of lower forms of happiness and practice self-control. Both will eventually lead to suffering, but if balanced, will lead to happiness and joy. 

Have you actually considered working with the dead? Throughout Buddhist history both monks and nuns were encouraged to work with the dead. Here is a picture of a modern day monk blessing a deceased man. 

This is but a few practical tips given by Buddha, with external sources (supporting) the reasons for why you should follow them. I hope this helps and have a wonderful day! 

It sounds like you may have had a very deep meditative practice. It is possible that your body may have fallen asleep while you were still awake. It's not very common but pro-meditators (like the 9 hour guys) may experience it more often than others. 

Dharmakaya (Transcendental): Dharmakaya also known as absolute reality is beyond mental comprehensions. It can never manifest itself through form, yet all beings and phenomena originate from it. It is the "true" present moment which pervades everything. Without the Dharmakaya nothing including nothingness could ever exist. It is completely transcendental and is beyond time, form, and the formless. It depends on nothing but itself for existence. Interestingly, the Dharmakaya plays a special role in the origination and unification of the Buddhas. It is through the Dharmakaya that all Buddhas are equally embodiment's of truth. Sambhogakaya (pure body): Sambhogakaya is another appearance which is the manifestation of the Dharmakaya. It is the reward body that Buddhist practitioners receive through practice and the fruits of enlightenment. It is a completely purified body of the Buddhas and occasionally used for appearances to living Bodhisattva's; also, it is the body used to teach men and women in who are in the Pure Lands (Buddha Land). It is through this stage the the Buddhas remain distinct from one another. Nirmanakaya (body): Nirmanakaya is the physical/historical body of a Buddha. For example, Shakyamuni Buddha is the historical person of the Nirmanakaya. His body was subjected to birth, sickness, old age, and eventually death. 

I think it is a very interesting question because you do read about God's in Buddhism. But these God's are different from the western ideas of "God". Infact, I would say "heavenly beings" is much more appropriate to prevent confusion. Buddhist, especially those found in Tibetan Buddhism, believe in the 31 realms of existences as well as the 6-major realms of Samsara. That is: 

Death contemplation/meditation has many reasons for existing. Some people may use death meditation to overcome sexual addictions (bodies decaying), accepting their impermanence (coming to grips with reality), and others (like yourself) will use Death meditation to motivate themselves to practice (resetting priorities). While some may find it extremely beneficial for their practice; others like yourself, may not feel the same way. That's ok. Instead of trying to find a sense of urgency for practice; I would recommend trying to find joy and happiness through your practice! The whole point for being a Buddhist is finding happiness and joy. If your miserable, bored, lazy, unhappy, etc... than somethings not right. It's possible you need to find a different teacher, monastery, Buddhist sect, etc... basically whatever it takes to rekindle the fire. The hardest workers will always be those who love to do what they do. Whenever I look for a mechanic I always choose a person who loves to work with cars. why? Because cars is their passion. They love what they do. And many of us love to practice Buddhism. It's not hard to practice Buddhism if it makes you happy. Consider elite/competitive gamers, they love to play their video games. They will literally play for hours every single day because they enjoy it. Do they feel pressured to play those hours? No. Does it feel like a job to them? Sometimes. End games can suck, but they love it. They play games for hours because it makes them happy. Here's a quote I think you should keep in mind next time you feel obligated to push urgency into your practice, 

Extension: Should we not express what is truth or what we think is truth just because it might step on some toes? It is because of our compassion and love for others that we are determined to help others. If you feel inclined to share truth for the benefit of all beings, than go for it. As William Shakespeare wrote, 

Your job as a practitioner is not to think about anything while working. It is through work that mind-body falls away. What does that mean? While washing the dishes your job is to only concentrate on washing the dishes. No aim, no goal, no thoughts, no expectations, no Buddha but washing dishes. This is your practice. No thinking, "I am washing the dishes" or "I am not thinking while washing dishes" because you're not allowing mind-body to fall away. Simply wash the dishes with non-thinking. Here's a quote by Bodhidharma, 

In a lot of Buddhist literature you will find passages suggesting that our Buddha nature is actually "nothingness" or "emptiness". I was wondering if this was true? I'm starting to doubt this claim because of the Dharmakaya. The Dharmakaya is one of the three bodies of Buddha which is transcendent. While some say that the Dharmakaya "is" nothingness, others claim that it is neither part of space (emptiness and form) nor time. The idea is that everything, including nothingness (emptiness), originated out of the Dharmakaya. It's an impersonal force which holds everything together, originated everything, and maintains everything through a transcendent state. My question: What is the proper understanding of the Dharmakaya and it's relationship with our Buddha nature? Is it the Buddha nature or not?