For future reference, if you do not know the specific technology or toolset that the interviewer asks you to use, make that clear upfront. Ask them if it would be okay to use a different technology (that you are comfortable with) to solve the problem. This serves two purposes: 

Life is short, pick the right battles. Let's assume that the employer is wrong, and look at some of the consequences of your "victory" in this battle: 

You either apply for the role or you don't. Don't waste the hiring manager's time by trying to test the waters before applying. You might as well apply and find out if you would be considered. Waiting for a hiring manager's "confirmation" before actually applying is pointless and (to put it bluntly) silly. It also shows a lack of confidence and could be annoying. 

This is most likely a simple issue of miscommunication, don't get so worked up over it. Given your level of experience and good track record, your boss and the higher-ups are probably making plans to move you into a different role, where they see you would be valuable. Of course, they have to bring in someone new to take over the work you are currently doing. The boss should have ideally communicated this to you already, but humans make mistakes. Maybe he simply forgot to tell you, or he thinks you have other work to do and doesn't realize that you are idle, or he doesn't think this is critical enough to tell you now and plans to tell you later, etc. I would strongly advise against bypassing the boss and complaining to the higher authority. If it turns out to be something like the above, your boss will wonder, "Why didn't you just ask me first, if you were so worried about it?" and both you and your boss will lose face. Tell your manager that you have been idle for a while, and ask him what are his plans for you. No matter how much this frustrates you, don't drag the newcomer into your discussion or blame the boss, that is, don't say something like, "Hey Boss, why did you bring this new guy, and give all my work to him?" Focus only on your work, complaining about others (or even appearing to be complaining about others) doesn't help you in any way. 

1 This is a strange approach to handle downtime, but it has been done before, as we see in the Pizza Hacker story on TheDailyWTF. You could, of course, reenable the Apply button yourself, as well. :-) 

Yes. If there is nothing about the job that you don't want the world to find out, then you should put it on your profile. Your other option is to show a 3-month gap in your career, which is usually perceived a lot more negatively than a short 3-month job and also raises more questions in interviews. If you then explain that you had hidden the short job, it will raise even more questions. Why would you go through that trouble when you were employed and you left the job on good terms? Moreover, you might burn a bridge with the current company if you hide the job. When they later see that you have hidden your stint with them, they might wonder if you were unhappy with the job and just pretended to leave on good terms. If you apply for a job with them in future, you may have some explanation to do. 

Tell her that your work is frequently stuck waiting for her approval. Ask her what work you should do while you are idle. Then do as she says. Once she realises that her team member's time is not fully utilised, she will either have to figure out a way to fix the problem or make peace with the company's money being spent on keeping you idle. There's nothing much you can do other than finding another job if your company finds the approval process so important that they are okay with paying the employees just for waiting. 

It is tedious, time-consuming and expensive. The only way to legally access these records is by getting a court order, which is hard. There are other "unofficial" options to do it more easily. 

Both overreporting and underreporting of hours amount to timesheet fraud. If your company bills a customer for your hours, timesheet fraud can setup them for potential litigation (in both cases). The case of overreporting is obvious, but there are a couple of reasons why underreporting could cause problems. 

You are applying for the job as an individual, and not meeting them as a representative of the society. Your cover letter is not the right place to thank them for their service to the society. There is a time and a place for everything. If you feel strongly enough to thank them for their services, do that separately after your job application process is concluded. 

You lose the job. The employer loses his trust in the recruiter (which, in turn, can lead to loss of business for the recruiter). You burn the bridge with the recruiter, not just burn it, but douse it in napalm before burning it. Word gets around and you find it harder to engage with other recruiters and employers. Realize that recruiters usually have a substantial network of contacts, which is not even restricted to a specific industry. 

I cannot think of any role where honesty and diligence is not expected of the candidate. You are not adding any value to your resume by mentioning it. Even a dishonest candidate would describe himself as honest, if asked. The purpose of your resume is to get you an interview call, and every word in the resume should contribute to it. "Honesty and diligence" is not really serving that purpose. 

Yes, move closer to the workplace, or (as Grzegorz Oledzki points out) find a workplace closer home. 

You applied for a senior role and got it because deep down you know you are capable of it and plenty of people agreed to it. Even if you feel low on confidence (as is common at the start of a new job), things should begin to improve once you settle down, so hang in there for a while longer. 

I work in an open office with less than ideal acoustics, and face this issue every once in a while. I solved this once by just standing up and making a polite request myself in an informal tone, being careful not to look at anyone in particular: 

How about asking the recruiter not to send your resume to your own company? I see no reason why they would refuse such a reasonable request. Now if you are so paranoid to think that they might still screw this up, then well, hate to break it to you, but there is always the risk of your employer finding out about your secret jobhunt, no matter what means you choose. You will have to either get over your paranoia or stop looking for a job. By the way, nearly everyone goes on a jobhunt secretly (unless they are unemployed, of course). The world seems to go round just about fine for all of them. Don't overthink this. 

Based on my experience in the Indian IT industry, I would offer you the following advice: negotiate the joining date with the new employer, and proceed from there. Ask them how soon or how late you can join them. Good companies are flexible to a reasonable extent. Depending on their response, choose one of the options: 

The rule asking applicants to not disclose their gender seems to be a "strict mode" implementation of a non-discrimination policy/law. Since most people's first name reveals their gender, they explicitly forbade its use in the resume and email address, but they did not foresee a situation where both first name and family name are gender-identifying. To illustrate with example, if your name is Martina Navratilova, write your name as M. N. in the resume, and include a note in the cover letter: 

It would be courteous, though not strictly necessary, to have some small talk with your closest neighbours, and maybe a couple of "friends", shortly before your leave. Just tell them where you are moving to and politely ask them to inform any "visitors" who come looking for you. Don't draw unnecessary attention to things you don't want to talk about. Avoid digging out the old stories about lunch times and coming in late, and trying to defend or justify your actions. If they are "curious" to know the reason, just keep it brief and to the point, "My boss asked me to move closer to his office." I am also certain the backstory did not pan out the way you have described here. To begin with, it is highly unlikely your office mates care about your lunch times so much that they would take it to HR. Even if they did, HR certainly wouldn't take such petty issues seriously. 

That is an interesting belief, but unfortunately, things don't work that way. The client is not paying you anything, so there is no reason for them to appear on your tax statement. (Disclaimer: I am not familiar with US taxation rules.) 

Each company has its own policies to deal with the situation. Some companies may ignore it (especially for an employment that last only 8 months), others may ask you lots of questions or do additional background checks. Some may ask you to sign a declaration or affidavit. We cannot tell what the specific Company Z would do. Go get that relieving letter now, whatever it takes. 

If you are not this person's manager, you don't do anything. If your work is getting affected by it, you tell your boss that your work is getting affected. It is your manager's job to manage how much or how little your coworker works. Don't sell your coworker down the river, it is not your problem. 

I can see the problem with pestering your supervisor with "do you need anything else done?" especially if it happens too frequently throughout the day. I would suggest you try the below alternatives instead: 

As it turned out, I did apply with them again this year when a better opportunity showed up, and even accepted their offer. You could write a similar mail to the recruiting agency, thanking them for their time and efforts, and (if you so choose), requesting them to keep you "on the radar" should they come across suitable opportunities for you in future (say, a year from now). Also, lying about an "unexplained personal emergency" will burn bridges faster than telling the truth. You can assume that other interview candidates are as smart as you, and some of them have already used that option. Now look at it from the hiring manager's perspective, who communicates with 10-20 candidates per day. He soon begins to notice a pattern with the "reason" given by candidates who back out, and begins to wonder, "how come 2 out of 5 candidates have an unexplained personal emergency right after we complete a few rounds of interview with them?" 

Rather than getting "disturbed" by this, use it to your advantage. Issue tracker is a very handy tool, not just for tracking issues with the software but also to deal with such issues. :-) Every time he emails great ideas to the manager, respond appreciatively, tell him that you have created a task in the issue tracker, and ask him to update a tentative start date. For example: 

In addition to the good answer by keshlam, I want to point out that you might be overanalysing this. Nobody really keeps a score of who has replied to a Christmas card email and/or how many people have sent them Christmas card emails. I would find it highly surprising and unbelievably stupid if a colleague were thinking, "I sent this email to 20 colleagues, I have received 'Thanks, you too' from 7 of them. I have also received cards from 10 people. The only ones left out are Tom, Dick, and Harry." However, I must mention that if you are always serious-faced at other times, then people might take notice of you not responding to their wishes, as in, "Hey, as expected, Jack doesn't bother with the Christmas greetings. He is always lost in his own world." If you are "social" enough with your colleagues at other times, I don't see this happening. If I were in the situation though, I would have probably just stood up during an "off time" and wished Merry Christmas to everyone in office. That way, you convey your courteousness without having to reply to each email, and then people won't call you rude or unsocial. 

If you consider all this trouble worth the "privilege" of displaying your beloved bumper sticker in the company parking lot, you could certainly push your case. I find the return on investment and the reward to risk ratio very low here. However, remember this was based on our initial assumption that your employer is wrong. As other answers have pointed out, your company most certainly has the right to place reasonable restrictions on how employees use their parking lot. Depending on the local laws, a strong case could be made if the bumper sticker involved anything explictly "protected" by freedom of speech (such as religious texts or symbols), but it is hard to see that apply here. 

They just ask you and you tell them. (duh!?) They find out about your old employment from your social media profiles. They "accidentally" come in contact with one of your coworkers at the old company. 

If John had already read the important information, you won't look like a moron for telling him something obvious. If John hadn't read about it, he gets to save face. Note on Edit My choice of the phrase "feign ignorance" led to some misinterpretation, so I rewrote the answer to better describe my intention. Also, in an ideal world, it is great to make statements like, "if egos are getting in the way of work, there are bigger problems to worry about." In the real world, you will find people with huge egos in the workplace, who are nonetheless extremely skilled, important for the company, and offer a lot you can learn from. You could either refuse to deal with their egos, or you could learn to adapt to it and get your work done. If asking a senior a question will help you better understand something, there is no harm in hiding your half-baked, possibly incorrect, "knowledge".