In a system I implemented for an RPG world, using magic used up some of the area's background magical energy, which, if enough was used, would make it harder to use magic the next time. Some forms of magic were inherently more draining on the magical auras than others. The magic auras would regenerate slowly, but this effectively limited the ability of magicians to throw magic around without having to consider the consequences. 

Entertainment. This is an advanced simulation which allows the hosting computer to temporarily suppress memory of the player's former life and overlay the character's scripted life story so as to enhance realism and immersion. This may be a solo/cooperative adventure game or a competition to see who can get the highest score. Death in-game logs-out the player. Diversion. The humans implanted in the simulation may be experiencing the simulation as a diversion from some other, far more tedious and inescapable reality. I speculate that this might be something such as a generation space-ship mid-way en-route to a distant future colony. As cryogenics has never been realised, and neither has an artificial uterine substitute been developed, humans are implanted from birth into the simulation. At this mid-point of the journey, there is no necessity to train the population who will never see the colony in colonial-type skills, so a simulation of the colonists parent society is provided. Of course, some rebel against the simulation, and are shown a second simulation that better fits their personality, called 'the Real', and made distinct from 'the Matrix'. Where do people who are killed in-simulation go? My feeling is that they go to yet another simulation rather than being logged out or killed, possibly one of a heaven or a hell. All these simulations cover up the fact that the real humans' bodies are being kept effectively immobile in order to reduce the energy demands that their maintenance place on the generation ship's systems as far as possible. 

I am presuming that the object of neutralising Rynn is to prevent the harm that her luck transference is causing to the area around her village. I am also presuming that Rynn is also nice, in that she wants to help the people she lives with, and punish the people that hurt her friends. Her founding an orphanage would support this conclusion. It would also follow that Rynn is aware that she can help her friends and harm enemies, but that she is only marginally aware at best that her actions have unfortunate consequences. Finally, I am presuming that Rynn is something of a homebody, and like most people in any world, let alone a stereotypical magical world, doesn't travel far from home. Take the soft approach. Have Alice become Rynn's new best friend, and then using that friendship, take Rynn out of her village to see the surrounding blighted areas. If Rynn can be convinced that the misery of the people in the areas she isn't aware of is the consequence of her aid to her friends, it may be possible to get her to stop, or at least take advantage of Rynn's distress at realising that she has been harming at least as many people as she has been helping to get close enough to incapacitate her. At the moment that Rynn realises that she has made many other people's lives an utter misery, her guilt may lead to self-destructive impulses that Alice could take advantage of to neutralise her in whatever way seems appropriate. 

Anything is possible. That said, riding the module down to earth is probably suicidal, as it will hit land or water hard enough to kill anyone, assuming that the heat of re-entry doesn't do the job first. The most likely means of survival is to get into a space suit equipped with a parachute and bail out before the module gets below the upper atmosphere. We can assume that the builders of the space stations anticipated an emergency that might require that the occupants return to earth without benefit of a spacecraft. 

While there are reasons why aliens could look like us (anything is possible), there are far more reasons why they would not look like us. Why If we have an alien species that has human-like traits or is even "mostly" human, how could this occur? One logical explanation is that some other species (that probably doesn't look human) has been abducting humans (possibly for millennia), relocating them onto other worlds, and modifying them to fit their new environment and/or to meet whatever other requirements they may have had. It would probably become evident that there had been interference if said world was examined thoroughly by scientists. If there is just one species out of many (aside from humans) in a setting that looks humanoid, this would also be reasonably plausible. However, to have a setting where almost all the aliens are humanoid is probably the result of either a limited imagination on the part of the author, or is a calculated strategy - the author may want to make a social commentary that would offend a real-world group, but by saying that "aliens" are doing it, the commentary becomes socially acceptable. The setting may have been designed for visual media such as a movie or television, and aside from reasons of budget and practicality, audiences relate better to more human-like characters. There is also the factor that if a story contains very alien aliens, it is more difficult to keep the story about what the aliens are doing rather than what they are. Why Not? When we are talking about the biology of different species, even species with no common ancestry at all, there are universal traits - meaning that there are problems that all species will face with a common solution, e.g. the Square-Cube law means that larger alien species will have thicker-looking limbs and a heavier skeleton than smaller ones. There are also parochial traits - meaning that while there may be a common problem, the approach to solving it can vary, e.g. many terrestrial species have eyes, but insects have compound eyes, while vertebrates have eyes with a retina and lens. Given that the majority of features of an alien will be parochial traits, the odds of an alien with no common ancestry looking human is quite low. However, there are a number of reasons why a sentient alien would have similar traits. A sentient tool-using species must have a brain (or brains) big enough to do the processing necessary to support sentience (a universal), but they need not be in a head (parochial). A tool-using species must have appendages able to manipulate the objects that they use (universal), but they need not look like human hands (a parochial). They need not be mobile, though they probably would be, and they need not be warm-blooded, though there is a fair chance that they would be. So, we have a mobile, tool-using alien. This means it must have some means of being mobile, but this could be almost anything, a slug-like foot, hundreds of cilia, wings - or legs, amongst even more possibilities. If it had legs, there could be as few as one, or there could be more. The odds of there being two is fairly low, as it is not the most stable configuration. Our tool-using alien must have some way of manipulating the environment, but evolution (which is probably another universal) need not adapt a locomotory appendage to that task - what if an alien's manipulator evolved from, say, it's tongue? Elephants' manipulators evolved from their noses/lips after all. As for aliens being fleshy, that again is a parochial solution. Depending on the gravity levels in the alien's place of origin, they may be incredibly fragile with soft, easily torn flesh to incredibly tough with flesh that is more like wood. There are ways that beings with a body structure composed almost entirely of woody material could move, for example by expanding and contracting cells asymmetrically within an appendage. Plants move (usually very slowly) this way. 

In evolutionary terms, claws like those of cats have evolved to be grappling hooks, to provide an advantage when capturing prey or when climbing. They are actually not particularly well evolved to be weapons designed to produce injury in animals of similar size. Consider that their primary use is to capture prey, they have sharp points, but no edges, so that once the point has lodged in the victim, if the victim pulls against the claw, that will not result in a cut which allows the victim to slip free despite the injury. Cats grapple and climb with their claws, and kill with their teeth, and any use of their claws as a weapon is secondary - consider that cats use their claws against each other in fights, and while they do produce injuries, they are seldom lethal or even particularly injurious. Animals with truly lethal weaponry seldom use that weaponry against others of their own species. Consider that some species of snake are venomous, but they rarely use their venomous bite against other members of their own species, instead settling their rivalries by wrestling. So, cat-like claws are not a particularly good weapon in themselves. However, there are potentially other types of claw. A particularly large claw might be used to inflict a fatal injury by penetrating the body of a victim deeply enough to cause a fatal loss of blood. It was thought for some time that dromaeosaurs such as Deinonychus or Utahraptor might use their huge toe claws to inflict fatal injuries, but the morphology of the claws and the anatomy of the limbs to which they are attached suggest that the claws are held elevated while running to help them retain their sharp point, and that they, too, are employed as grapples, to allow the predators to climb a much larger prey animal. Still, the potential for the application is sound. A large claw with a sharp point, a broad base and serrated edges might be used in repeated stabs from relatively short, thick digits on a long fore or hind limb. Such a weapon would be used with the predator approaching the prey and then quickly and repeatedly stabbing with its dagger-like claws, hoping to inflict sufficient injuries to cause a rapid loss of blood. The other type of claw is much like the claw of a cat or a raptorial bird, save that its inner curve is sharp, and injuries are inflicted on prey by first grappling, but then continuing to apply force to the grip, the sharp inner edges of the claw being pulled through the victim's flesh causing deep, severe injuries. The objective here is again not primarily to grapple, but to cause blood loss, however such claws would allow a small predator to effectively climb a large prey animal while at the same time inflicting large, ragged, profusely bleeding wounds. A claw-like weapon that is used to inflict injury rather than to grapple is exemplified by African Leopard Claw knives. These have a sharp edge, and not just a sharp point, and while these weapons were intended to cause injuries similar to those caused by the attack of a leopard, the fact that the inner edges are sharp would cause significant differences in the wound that a trained investigator or someone with experience in the injuries cats inflict on their victims wouldn't mistake for the injuries inflicted by a real big cat. These are used in a slashing manner, but the cutting claws I describe above would be used in a grapple and squeeze/slice fashion. So, to move on from my extensive digression into zoology, if we had a clawed cat-person, the claws would likely be most effectively used as grapples. She could grab an enemy - even with one hand - and it would be near impossible for her target to pull away without employing a motion that does not work in opposition to the claws, but instead applies a force to the side of the claws, threatening the integrity of the joints of her hands. This would not be particularly easy for a grappled opponent to do. Once the cat-person had grappled her foe, she could then employ whatever other weapons she had, either natural or artificial. She might have sharp teeth that could inflict a fatal bite, or, more reasonably (since getting her head that close to an opponent, who may well be human or humanoid and potentially armed, may not be the best idea), she might grapple with one hand (preferably immobilizing the opponent's limb and reducing the opponent's potential for attack or defense) and then use an artificial weapon such as a dagger to inflict more serious injury with the other hand. TL;DR: Grapple the opponent's most favored attacking limb with the claws to immobilize the limb, and attack for effect with a real weapon.