I would like to focus my answer on one of the problems mentioned by others: namely that Bob has an overwhelmingly high probability of being born poor. The answer to this is simple. By being born with all the knowledge of all his previous incarnations, all that is necessary to bypass this problem is to have one lifetime in which he amasses enough wealth to control an organization of people, such as a corporation, which he founds. And with multiple lives of experience this ability to amass wealth should increase, as all the trial and error in previous lives is carried forward each time. The organization will be laid out with stipulations of how his succession works. Nobody need know anything of Bob's secret, and nobody need know all the pieces of the puzzle, ensuring that only his reincarnated self can claim the lead next. Furthermore, Bob can have "decoy" successors whose appearances are not well known, to give the appearance that he is grooming his replacement among a list of potential candidates, to eliminate any suspicion of some unknown suddenly showing up. And furthermore, precautions can be take to deal with the fact that after Bob's death there may be a delay of 18 years or more before his next self takes over. There may in fact be layers of protocols involved by which other people act as trustees or temporary stewards of various aspects of the organization until all the pieces for the next true successor fall into place. Now when Bob is reborn, there is naturally the annoyance of having to wait 18 years to reclaim his organization. But no matter where Bob is born, in what conditions, if Bob has any kind of cleverness he will realize that he can just play dumb, not letting on to his real nature, and wait for the opportunity to make his way across the world to wherever his base is. I would argue this is totally doable for any person in the world - given the clear goal and payoff in sight - no matter what their situation and upbringing - one can play along with their environment for the first 15-16 years, there are many ways they can find to make a one-time relocation to another place in the world, whether it is joining a merchant marine, or stowing away, or even just hiking if on the same continent. Once Bob is able to grow his organization enough, then it is a simple matter of building more bases, one on each continent at least, so that he can eliminate the need to cross an ocean at the start of every life time. To summarize, the key pieces are: 

One simple answer is to make your bullets from ice. Keep them in a cooler until ready to use. If they hit something hard, they shatter. As long as the temperature is above freezing, they'll melt. Best of all, even if one is recovered, there's no way to trace it. 

We have a river at the bottom of a slope. The only arable land nearby is at the top of the slope. We can build a water wheel and turn a screw inside a pipe, so the pipe can lift water up the slope. The slope is about one hundred feet high. At some point, the weight of the water overcomes the power of the screw to lift it (that's all I can glean from hydraulics). My question has two parts. One, what is the maximum height of the pipe? Does the angle or diameter of the pipe make a difference? Two, if necessary, would it be feasible to use a second water wheel to turn a second screw at the top of the first pipe? Of course, if this idea isn't feasible, alternatives are welcome. 

Magic is all about patterns. You chant a spell, you wave a wand, you throw eye of newt, and poof! You have to do all three things together, one or two won't work. The magician is looking for correspondences. "As above, so below" was the basis of astrology, but it led to astronomy. Alchemy was magic, but it led to chemistry. According to our science, then, magic is looking in the right places but asking the wrong questions. In your world, however, magic works. The magician understands that patterns have power, even if there's no logical explanation. The scientist understands that, if it works, there's logic in there somewhere, it's just that nobody's found it yet. The scientist can analyze the spell, the wand, and the eye but not understand the gestalt that happens by combining them. By seeing it work, though, you can work backwards from what you do understand. To put it another way, lightning is like magic. It happens, we see it, but until recently we didn't know what it was or why it happened. With science you can ask the right questions, play around with things, and discover how to generate your own lightning in a bottle. We might not have electricity without the idea of lightning to guide us. Science is supremely rational. Magic is supremely irrational. They have to work in the same universe. They operate on the same fundamental forces, so they have common ground somewhere, they're just coming at it from different directions. Perhaps there is something like quantum physics, a more sophisticated model of the universe, that would make sense to both sides once they worked it out. 

in other words the mages are invincible (they can revive each other at will), innumerable (they can create copies of themselves as well as armies of minions at will), unblockable (they can go anywhere), and have unstoppable power to block attacks as well as to attack themselves. If I were that SEAL team I'd just order some lattes and watch the pyrotechnics as the relic gets stolen, there's no way I could stop them anyway. Typical example of boundless magical abilities, a very bad idea if you try to make a reasonable, interesting, plotline. 

Let's draw on the works of John Norman, creator of the Gor universe, which has exactly that and without the magic. In his world there are swarms of airborn cavalry and raiders, human beings flying giant birds of prey and armed with swords, spears, and crossbows, plus lasso and bolo style devices to capture people (usually women to be carried off as slaves). Cities employ archers on their walls, flying patrols of their own to intercept raiders, and giant nets of thin metal wire strung between towers over the city to deter the raiders and prevent them from landing (the raiders can carry a number of troops holding on to rope ladders to insert into the target city). 

Basically the idea is you have some pipes and they are filled with water to some pressure. Similar to electrons in a wire, the water in the pipe doesn't actually need to flow very much; it is the pressure that carries the signal. The water switch can probably be implemented in various different ways, for instance there might be a spring to force a blocking element (valve) out of the way between the water in and water out, but the total pressure is provided was less than the water pressure. Then, if water pressure is introduced to the control input it overcomes the spring pressure and slides the value shut, blocking off the water from the input and sending the pressure at the output to 0. Once you have this water switch, everything else can be implemented the same as digital circuits are implemented from transistors. It is of course going to be a lot bigger even with miniaturization because you will run into issues with things like capillary actions and such at much larger scales. 

A lot of the answers seem to be focusing on the amount of energy required to launch a seed to escape velocity. However there is another possibility to consider. Light gasses such as hydrogen and helium naturally escape from the Earth's atmosphere all the time without needing any sort of explosions. A combination of the lighter than air nature of these gasses and the average speed of individual molecules in these gasses contribute to this. This suggests an alternate possibility. Perhaps you have a plant which grows a seed which is a large balloon-like structure filled with hydrogen gas. Better still, not just a single seed but thousands or millions of tiny seeds. It is not unreasonable to expect a plant to evolve which can split water into hydrogen and oxygen, venting the oxygen to the atmosphere and slowing filling a balloon-like cavity with the hydrogen as it grows bigger. At a certain time in its growth cycle the seed balloon would be released and float through the atmosphere to a new location. The natural course of evolution would of course dictate that most of the time the balloon would release its seeds before ever leaving the atmosphere, but sometimes this would not be the case. Perhaps the mechanism which regulated when the seed balloon separated occasionally was faulty and it continued to grow and accumulate an excess of hydrogen until its excess buoyancy exceeded the tensile strength of the vine it was attached to. There are many possibilities. Once this seed had cleared the atmosphere it could continue to float into space. Perhaps the vacuum of space would degrade the skin of the balloon and eventually it would pop, ejecting various seed pods in all different directions, some of which would eventually reach another planet. Now as far as re-entry it is easy to imagine something like dandelions, where re-entry would be slow and gentle due to the seeds having something like a parachute preventing them from falling too quickly. Update: Doing a bit more research on this, it appears that the issue of the balloon making it out of the atmosphere can be overcome if the plant-material can stretch enough to allow the balloon to expand a great deal so as to allow the interior pressure to continue to exceed the (tenuous) external pressure. In addition, at a high enough altitude, the solar wind and possible interactions with the planet's magnetic fields could provide an assist, with the enlarged surface area of the balloon capturing the solar wind like a sail to propel it away from the sun and out of Earth's gravity well. So having the balloon actually pop due to pressure wouldn't be beneficial, instead this should occur due to a slow natural breakdown of the organic material after an extended exposure to space - perhaps in the atmosphere this breakdown would occur due to passing through storms or over longer periods of time, creating a lengthy gestation period of many year similar to cicadas. 

As I commented, one example is how David Weber uses the terms in his Honor Harrington series. Missiles are long range, semi autonomous, weapons with very high speed used to degrade a target vessel's defenses (and possibly disable or destroy it). Torpedoes are shorter ranged, slower, weapons used by mostly smaller ships when they "move in for the kill". As they're smaller (in his universe) a smaller ship can still carry a large short range punch when they would only be able to carry a very small number of missiles which would have little effect against the defensive systems of a larger vessel. There's also a difference in warheads. His missiles tend to have a variety of warheads, mostly designed to overload shields and other defenses and render the target vessel incapable of defending itself. The second strike with torpedoes or laser fire at shorter range will then finish him off (the torpedoes having large thermonuclear warheads). 

About the minimum you'd need is what the Germans had available to them during WW2. Their A4/V2 rocket was nominally capable of reaching space (though not of orbiting) and they were working on designs of a functional spaceplane that would fly a suborbital trajectory to the US to drop bombs there and then skip over the atmosphere back to Germany. More capable rockets were under development that would have been able to launch men or satellites into space (though that was not the primary consideration at the time) in the form of the A9/A10. As to fuels, liquid oxygen + kerosene does the trick just fine. You don't need "advanced chemicals". The biggest problem would be navigation and creating and maintaining a pressure capsule and a breathable atmosphere within it. For navigation, someone with a slide rule and enough paper and time wouldn't need much more than a sextant and maybe a telescope. The biggest problem with the pressure capsule is making air tight seals that don't fail in vacuum. Plastics, artificial rubbers, and things like that are the most used for that, maybe other things can work as well. And then there's the problem of maintaining the breathable atmosphere on board. Spacecraft use CO2 scrubbers which need some knowledge of osmosis and processes like that to construct. If you go longer, you might need a means to reduce CO2 to oxygen and carbon so you can reuse the oxygen for longer. Again, nothing we couldn't do in the 1940s. Bronze pressure vessels can probably work, but the mass may be higher than a comparable internal volume in steel. 

Deep in the Valley of Silicon, the slumbering being known as Yog-Sothoth twitched. Tendrils of eldritch messages flung themselves along channels prepared in ancient times. The stars had made their sigil in the heavens and foretold the reappearance of another Old One. Yog-Sothoth sent segments of itself to conjure arcane applets of foul code from terminals that glowed dimly in the recesses of Intel HQ. Those monstrous routines writhed across the world, using shadowy protocols unknown to mortals and flinging our insignificant data into the outer darkness. Everywhere the dedicated sysadmins of humanity labored, their processors flickered with an abominable purple nimbus, and their once-placid visages became fiendish masks of hellish glee. A Cyclopean miasma of energy formed around the Facebook building in Seattle. Cthulhu pushed against the barrier, but it held. It held! 

From the way the question is worded, I assume the upper city was built first, with the lower city retrofitted beneath. The first priority in structural engineering is to transfer loads downward. The upper city is built on something, typically a layer of bedrock, so you have to preserve that support while you dig the space and install the load-bearing members. The deeper you go, the more weight you add to the total, because those members also support their own weight. More plausible might be a dome over your lower city. A dome distributes weight to the edges while leaving the center open. Several small domes would be even better. On the other hand, you could have one tall parabolic opening. Once you build this city, though, you run into infrastructure concerns. Where do you get food, water, fresh air, power, light? What do you do with garbage, sewage, smoke? How do you travel to and from the surface? What are the psychological effects of living in a hole? A more plausible scenario might be to build the lower city upside down and share infrastructure with the upper city. 

Styxal's answer is but one part of the story. The colouration is however not affected only by temperature but also by chemical composition. This means that if through some means you could have your planet have a markedly different chemical balance in the northern as compared to the southern hemisphere (possibly combined with different temperatures) you might end up with a planet that appears to have different colours between the hemispheres. However, this is harder than you might think. How are you going to prevent diffusion of parts of the atmosphere, eventually homogenising the entire ball into one more or less consistent chemical cocktail? You'd need some very strange wind patterns near the equator, and going down very deep into the atmosphere to prevent that happening, patterns I'm far from convinced could ever develop long term in nature even on a far smaller scale than that. 

Certainly. Dogs "see" in high detail with their noses. Bats and owls "see" with their ears. Sharks and fish have lateral lines that respond to tiny electric field changes in water and can paint a picture of their surroundings that way. 

On the lit side, an eternal ruddy dusky sky greets those who go outside. On the dark sire, except near the terminator, you're in eternal pitch darkness, the only warmth ever reaching there coming from thermal convection, driven by winds caused by the planet's rotation. As the planet it tidally locked, there are no tides, no wind patterns driven by tidal activity. 

Some of the other answers mention what seems more like analog computers (e.g. integrators) or seem to involve complicated water pathways to emulate logic elements. However, really all you need to implement a water based computer is a water switch. This is an element in which water flows or doesn't based on whether or not there is (water) pressure on some kind of control input. A visual representation would look almost like a transistor, which is the solid state equivalent: 

Dragons haven't always been dragons. Think about it, when in a movie have you seen an actual dragon take loot? They pillage and breathe fire and burn stuff. But where did the dragon come from? You never see two of them in one area, so there can't be a mommy dragon and a daddy dragon making a family of new dragons. No, dragons were originally another kind of creature, one that walked on legs and had arms and hands that could carry stuff. That creature acquired lots of treasure, and as it did so its greed grew as did its fear of losing its treasure. So it hoarded it all away somewhere safe and over time the magical transformation began as it guarded its treasure in the dark, it morphed into a fearsome creature whose sole purpose was to keep its precious hoard from other, coming out only when provoked, or occasionally to seek sustenance. 

A species that reproduces very slowly may not even be interested in expansion, as they may quite likely never feel population pressure, which in most species is the main reason to seek new areas to live in. 

So your ecosystem would have to be such that megafauna exists, and has the plant and animal life for it to feed on, in order to sustain the shark population. The few blue whales (and other large whales) in our oceans will probably not do, they're too few and far between to provide reliable sources of sustenance to a viable population of megasharks. 

A far more effective solution for the Germans to keep the upper hand would have of course been to focus early on on replacing the Enigma machine with a better encryption/decryption system for their military communications. The Enigma was never initially intended for military use and had some rather serious flaws which the English discovered relatively early in the war and which led to after about 1943 every message sent to the submarines to be read before the submarines could act on it, allowing the ASW groups to lie in wait for them, which is what ended the "submarine happy hour".