I'm more concerned with the "in vitro meat". In reference to the answer in the beginning, how does this lab-meat feel (Vedanā)? If I contemplate, I kind of get that it must be in constant pain. If your skin is torn and flesh exposed, how do you feel? It would be the same for this meat-being sitting only just in plain air, or in the culturing fluid - unending pain. ~§ Due to ignorant, we commit many crimes; they weigh us down, which we thought achievement. §~ 

Although this peculiar question seemed got a Mr./Ms. Right to claim the bride/groom, I, however, would like to offer a short answer, sometimes one's patience boiled when reading too much words. Here, my short little trick of how to realize emptiness: It's both easy and difficult. Easy part is, to understand that the world is mind constructed; the difficult part.... hmmm... is to then walk into a wall and through it, for it's "made of" emptiness :D ~!! 

I'm here burning the mid-night oil for the bounty!! :)))) Unfortunately I wasn't able to find the corresponding Agama Text, else it would be more clear, to me at least. However, Samadhi normally remained as "Samadhi" (三昧/三摩地) in Chinese, not translated, despite the rich knowledge of meditation inherited from the Daoist understanding what's going on in the mind and body. I very doubted if "concentration" can capture all the intrinsic meanings of Samadhi. Samadhi is a state of mind. This state of mind is not working on the ordinary intellect level. If one able to abide in Samadhi, he knows things not via his five senses, nor by his thinking. He just simply knows it. I had the experience when 1st time trying out meditation (of course Mahayana style!) that inferred to my understanding of samadhi. It was a 12 days intensive retreat, we did all day Dynamic Meditation in a dark room... but it was bright. It gave me idea that correct meditation was to induce different state of mind... to access higher dimension. The desirable state of mind should be cultivated is Samadhi; a mind so bright that it knows thing as it is directly. Now it seems . This is unnecessary. I suggest you emptied all those jargons dumped by those "teachers" in your mind. A concept is just a tool for you to focus, like a rubbish bin for collecting rubbishes (interfering-thoughts). Finally you should throw away the rubbish bin too! Then you will be able to access the deeper mind. It's also like a lake, when there are six rivers filling the lake, they create ripples, can't reflect the clear image of the sky. If the rivers emptied (one concept), no ripples, clear image - seeing things as they are. So using one concept to remove all conceptions (fetters, chit-chats, thoughts...), like using a wedge to get out another wedge stuck in the hole (以幻修真). To understand the above more properly, I'm afraid you will need to have knowledge on Yogacara. Those who never experienced the "bright mind" in meditation, I'm afraid unlikely these graduated from the primary school, no matter how many 20-30 years they meditated. Likely their method is incorrect, else how come spending decades but not arriving at anywhere? Some people don't like this truth, but the Sutta-nikaya suitable for Bhikkhus only, just like notes dropped in a lecture, the complete instructions not written down... Still those "scientists", a supposed intelligent mind is not necessarily more conducive to meditation, in fact a hindrance. Simply, Samadhi is not abiding on the intellectual mind. Neither Ariya Jhana is anything more "advance" in the wisdom cultivation sense, for Ariya Jhana just a static state of mind. Why don't these people understand it but sending out "troops" to proclaim (if it's even real, or violating the precept of falsely claiming attainment?) to allure others? Because they don't have Nagarjuna and his treatises to teach them the correct understanding of meditation :D. 

I admire vegans, would be my ideal one day. Or even better, no need for "daily food" any more if I wish, one day. I believe you a Theravada practitioner; if not, at least more aligned and accessing to Theravadin Pali Suttas. That's even more adored, for listening to compassionate heart and discernment than subscribing to words and preaching. Likely the health issues you encountered not resulted from vegan meals, but the plant products are polluted, genetically modified, left them no longer having the same nutrients any more. If you read articles, the GMO soya bean contained 70% less nutrient (protein) than the original bean our grandpas eating. The soil polluted too, also pesticides and chemical fertilizers... you may read those articles about Monsanto, ADM, Bunge, Cargill and Dreyfus. Also, in ready-made vegan products like noodle, flour dough, bread... beancurd, are usually loaded with plasticizer, or GMO corn or GMO corn syrup giving volume or texture. It could result in nutrition imbalance. Better you add nuts, mushrooms, or some plant roots/fruits with great nutrients to your diet. The Chinese are very good with this eating for health knowledge, recorded in many Classical Texts of Chinese Medicine. Herbal plants such as types of Ginsengs, Angelicas (Dāngguī), wolfberries and Jujubes with great nutrients are commonly added in cooking to enhance health. However, possible some people with special body types not suitable to be vegans. To my knowledge, every type of meat has it's equivalent in plant. Example, cashew nut = kidney (like in English kidney pie), chestnut = chicken meat, mushroom = meat (pork or beef, just flesh), walnut = fat of meat... So without meat, we human can still have the nutrient same as meat provided by plants. If not, then for Chinese Mahayana, in Sutras I studied come to my understanding, that a lay-Buddhist can have the Three-Clean-Meat (三淨肉). That is the meat, a) not seen the killing, b) not heard the killing, c) not suspected the killing... not done for you in purpose. However, it seems this Three-Clean-Meat a Bhikkhu's meat in Theravada. Normally, buying ready prepared meat in the supermarket is OK. Although, lay-Buddhist the true Dharma follower not supposed to boast over the meat-eating, should take it as a necessary progression to the more ideal, i.e., being vegetarian. It's particularly disgraceful and condemned, if a Buddhist praised meat-eating, or encouraged other to eat meat. For those who taken the Bodhisattva vow, i.e., the Upāsakas (居士), then they should be vegetarian (unless health issue); so are the Bhiksus, unless they practicing Dhūta (頭陀行), i.e., going for alms round accepting what's given. These Dhūta-guna Bhiksus are normally Hinayana practitioners. Some would like also some dislike, if I stated Theravada is not Hinayana. Hinayana practitioners are also one branch in Chinese Buddhism (which I admired, for their concentration on Dhyana with great Sutras teaching the practice, only in Chinese Canon). The great translator of Chinese Sutras Kumarajiva (344–413 CE) was a Hinayanist later turned Mahayanist, according to recorded documents. I think Kumarajiva had no idea what was Theravada though. Further, I don't find any equivalent records in the Five Vinayas of the Early 18 Buddhist Schools preserved in the Chinese Canon, that credited the Pali Vinaya of reporting the Buddha once eating meat offered by a general out of pity, another suspected meat eating offered by Uppalavannā the gift of 500 cow-robbers. If someone could enlighten me when the Pali Vinaya written and what the origin of it (such as to which early 18 Schools it related), would be a great interest to me. These are commonly used by some Theravadins (luckily not all) to credit meat eating, further contriving the ludicrous accusation of Mahayanist the Devadatta offshoot. Buddha condemned Devadatta advocating vegetarian only because Devadatta taken the Brahmin/heretic's doctrine that not eating meat granted one to be born in the Brahma world. This of course obviously was not Buddha Dharma. But one with fair mind would never mix up as that Buddha condemned vegetarianism. For Tibetan Buddhism, the Tantric practice likely required meat eating, like in Ganacakra (eating Five Meats: human, horse, elephant, dog and beef), which a secret practice supposed not revealed to the public and uninitiated. It's understandable Dalai Lama will need to eat meat, for health reason; he is a Tantra Master, giving Kālacakra empowerment. Although not sure the Five Meats are still the same ingredients in Lamaism, or modernized? On the other hand, due to geographical condition, some people have to rely on meat as their main food source, I would assume Tibet is such place, also Mongolia. I heard that Khenpo Tsultrim Lodrö (who I like) and his Tibetan Buddhist School is revolutionizing for vegetarian practice. I think I've given more than enough details, and fair accounts, on most of the arguments on vegetarianism of Buddhism, which I hope would be beneficial for the OP to make good choice, so are those who got the same doubts. Often fair accounts are not always liked. 

This is the verse written by Xuyun (虛雲) the Great Monk when he enlightened. Therefore there no corruption of the world, nor the escape from "me" is possible. How could one escape from his own shadow? The world is my shadow, neither corrupted, nor upright. Ultimately there is none a better version of the world, with beings ""; though there are different versions of the world beginning with Gold Kalpa (antiquity) to Iron Kalpa (now) in scripture. In fact it is the existing of this very world, that the I could be comprehended; by its very corruption, that we know what is good. Those Devas living in the world of bliss can never comprehend what is suffering; there's no chance for them to help others either, since everyone is in bliss. Therefore the Dharma is to swirl and roll with the Red Dust, yet unscathed. By dancing with the shadow, the most beautiful artworks are created, whether in poetry, or technology; as everyday life story, or in war. It is as good as only just words, I can't even give advice to myself :). 

It is not a negation to describe "Ultimate Reality", in your term. It is because "In Emptiness it has no [such and such]... "{是故空中無...}, for these are dharma(s){法}, i.e., the laws created by us. Not the laws in law books, but laws of nature, physics, E=MC", law of gravity... all are dharma(s) - 法[則] - laws, the products of the intellect/mind. Therefore the Buddha said all knowledge of this world are "games theories" {戲論}, i.e., we set the rules, then we play against these rules. The Heart Sutra, of import is the beginning, "Observe the Self-present Bodhisattva, when professing in deep Prajnaparamita..." {觀自在菩薩行深般若波羅蜜多時...}, this is the condition a Dhyana practitioner is able to enter, then it goes on to give more instructions and describe the experiences etc... This is a long explanation and belongs to another topic I believe. Of note is almost all translated the beginning as Avalokiteshvara, it maybe so or it could be not as so. There is another definite name for this Bodhisattva in Chinese yet here this could refer to Him, or refer to anyone as long as this person who is able to reach the Self-present{自在}, one who is free, totally at ease, free from any bondage or restrain, mindful and, present. (see, this is the perfect condition one should enter during meditation.) To conclude, I thought your formulating this question is not so beneficial in understanding the Buddhist Dharma, Emptiness, or the philosophy you intended. For it is like saying, does the cow have horse face? {牛頭不對馬嘴}. With no offence, if it does irritate you, apologize for my commend of language, since English is not my mother tongue. 

However, you said, "". I wonder how that related to Upaya? Mahayana is a big school, so is Zen a generalized name (despite the word rented from Japanese people always just assumed it covers the entire Ch'an tradition). Like a school, anyone can easily put on the school uniform pretending the student. You said, "" Upaya comes from wisdom, however, since it may go as far as testing many rules limitations, sometimes one (likely teacher) lack of wisdom or not really enlightened can being mistaken or mistaking (or the worst, pretending) himself wise and enlightened, thus abusing the "breaking rules". It requires the student with a sound mind of discernment to choose and protect himself from being abused or misled. Blindly worshiping a person is very dangerous, therefore the Buddha not only in one place spoke of "abiding to the Dharma, not the person" (依法不依人), especially in the day when he was about to enter Nirvana, he repeatedly giving this teaching as the final words. As far as my study (of the Chinese Mahayana lineage) covers, there's no record of any teacher drinking alcohol, except the monk Ji Gong. But he wrote a poem on it, "alcohol and meat just passed the stomach, Buddha in the heart sits", with the 2nd part always being disregarded but he warned, "if others imitated, same with Mara are they!" which said this wrong he scolded. Ji Gong didn't die of alcoholism. Ji Gong living at the time when Bodhidharma went to China, both demonstrated supernatural powers in many records that they were at least Arhats. Again, you quoted, Is this story in the Japanese Zen Koan? In my study, I only recalled one bloody incident, that was Huike chopped off his own arm in front of Bodhidharma. It was definitely not instructed by Bodhidharma; likely Bodhidharma was shocked too, honestly. But Huike's determination was moving. Upaya with the nature not appealing to any established rules and formats, not only it's often abused in later days, also the term corrupted and hijacked. Upaya founded upon wisdom, but often wisdom is missing in the practice just used it to excuse selfish or unwholesome deeds. 

These days, 99.9% of the books, if ever got printed out, are better used for toilet paper than for reading. (So f*** arrogant!! - I take the blame, ok :) I've never read this book, just "scanning"; the title and what you quoted, what in Wikipedia about the author (I read that page when answering this post). This book useless but will waste my useful time if I read - Will never read. Good is good, bad bad. Period. Trying to sex up words is clever scheme to induce interest of the reader though. But it harmed the mind, instills extra delusions and hinderances - corrupting the true Buddha Dharma, especially by claiming: "" What truly useful, the wisdom, from real Buddhist teaching, is, "in good there is seed of bad, in bad seed of good." The ordinary can only see the good in good, bad in bad; the wise also the bad in (not "is"!!!) good, good in bad. Like the Chinese Yin-yang diagram Taiji, the black dot in the white, the white in the black - change. I-change (易經: I-Ching, how pre-telling the ancients able to pick the name, encompassing East and West). So, when the stock market swells, the vision it dipped; when bursted, foreseeing the boom. When life at the high, caution, time for downslope; at low, be alert, time for ascending soon; always keep your cool. Then you take the right action, with right attitude. This is what I called usefulness, real wisdom; not sexing-up words. However, the pinnacle of comprehending, when qualified to utter: "good is bad, bad good, no difference", is when one able to truly dwelling in the state of Emptiness. Another word, Enlightened, Buddha-ed. But then the virtue is, silence. Period. When one dwelling in Emptiness in real, he is able to transform - transform the physcial phenomena. A Chinese real Mahayana doctrine, "心能轉物, 即同如來" (When your citta/mind can turn the matter, you same as the Buddha), but is not learnt by other culture, yet. 

In my earthly young days many many many years ago, I experienced "death". It began with recessing, recessing into the tiny light-dot then it shot with an incomparable speed of exiting. This tiny light-dot was the I, fully with the "meeeeeeee...", or maybe "muuuuuu..." (無, nothingness), or "ommmmmmm..." (空, emptiness). It's just pure "I", no attribute, no gender, no age, no race -- no name. Until a sudden thought of "mother!" occurred, I fell back and re-emerged. It was a bedroom with window shut and door closed, I usually loathed with confined space, maybe that subconsciously gave me the idea that there no air to breath, hence dying. Of course the real process of death is very painful for ordinary people, according to Yogācārabhūmi-śāstra (瑜伽師地論) Ever since this experience I've known that there no real death, what died is the body. This "I" will just be there, permanently, can't be annihilated nor grown, through thick and thin. No matter how those secular, scholatic or scientific Buddhists arraying theories, theses, proofs, analysis to convince everyone there's no rebirth, life ended after death, it just can never accord. It's like trying to convince a penguin living in the South Pole that his very habitat is Sahara, quoting lengthy Encyclopedia Britannica or Wikipedia describing the landscape of desert and it's climate... just doesn't accord, let alone the penguin doesn't understand English :). But I hadn't studied Buddhism, at that time. As I read again Bodhidharma's Bloodline Theory (血脈論, some translated as Bloodstream - incorrect), simply, he said, the Buddha is the Self-nature (自性). Could the light-dot this "I" be the Self-nature? He said, without realizing the Self-nature, all those sentient to the "me" are like wooden-dolls1. What if but realized? All the sentient their doings are my doings? But I this Self-nature indeed doing nothing...