1) Antonio Negri is probably the person that has most radically built on Marxist thought in a way that attempts to explore the philosophical implications of the changes the world has seen since the 19th century. Part of what's most radical about his project has been the de-Hegelianization of Marx's thought with him. His is probably the most profound reengagement Marx's work since Althusser. 2) David Harvey is a geographer by profession but is one of the most renown contemporary Marxists that attempts to analyze the world today from a Marxist lense. He isn't a philosopher so his language and work would likely be more "accessible" than that of Negri who is a bit more difficult to digest if you're not familiar with others that have heavily influenced him, like Spinoza. 3) Terry Eagleton & Frederic Jameson might be good to look at as well as they both approach contemporary Marxism from its cultural aspects as opposed to the economics side that Harvey would be more versed in or the philosophical that Negri would be the best source on. Jacques Ranciere might also be considered in this category, but Ranciere is a fairly adept philosopher. 4) Surrounding Negri are other Marxist theorists that are interesting in their own right: Yann Mouliere Boutang is an economist by profession who's specialty these days are understanding the cutting edge of capitalist development from a Marxist standpoint (that is to say, to analyze the political implication of the broad scale evolutions of Capital); and Christian Marazzi is similar to Boutang, but focuses more on the financial/monetary side of exploring contemporary capitalism and the political and philosophical implications of things like wage relations/exploitation etc. 5) Etienne Balibar since the 1960's has been cranking out analyses of Marx's work and attempting to reinterpret his questions and methodology in novel ways. He is not a very flashy philosopher but he is very thorough and thoughtful. He engages with the same types of subjects as a Badiou or Zizek but he's keeps the discussion at much more practical level. 

I think you are asking two separate questions here. First, is it ethical to be proud of one's country? And second, can you be proud of something that you did not create? The first, as others have mentioned, is dependent on what you use to define your ethics. In most ethical systems, to have pride in (which is different from being possessed by hubris) is amoral. If a country is doing something which is ethical, then it is good to be pleased in that country. If a country is doing something unethical, then it is good to be ashamed of it. Most of the time a country, because it is made up of people, is like a person, and is in a much more complicated situation than merely being one or the other. The second is an entirely different question. You can be proud of things you do not create, but are a part of. I am a part of my family. I like being a part of my family, and am proud of them for their accomplishments. I may have influenced the way my family is, but I did not create my family. I was merely given the opportunity to be part of it. The same for a club, or a college, or a community. A country is just much larger, and you are a much smaller part of it. But you can still be proud of this collective identity if you so choose, and the ethics of that seem mostly irrelevant to most ethical systems. In general, however, I do not believe that most people who are proud of their country are applying the kinds of critical analysis that they would of other things. Because a country is such an abstract notion, and a person's idea of something can stray so far from the actual reality of it, I think many people end up with a harmful, blind, and unconditional approval of one's country despite all evidence to the contrary. Like recurring domestic violence between a husband and wife, where one or the other is unable to admit the fault or wrongdoing of the other. People tend to think it is wrong to apply value judgments to something they love, but that kind of detached, uncritical sense of loyalty actually turns out to do more harm than good. 

What form that freedom takes is a matter of what we're capable of, not any preconceived notions. Maybe it's somewhat ironic, but Foucault was a philosopher that spends his career digging through the past, but was not in the slighted bit interested in living in it. 

Within the same "in-carnation" (the taking on of flesh) there is the birth and death of particular types of minds or personalities. One is conscious of each new incarnation in this concept of the reincarnated and thus would not necessitate amnesia. If one has a concept of reincarnation that implies a physical dying and being born as a same self in a new body, there may be quite a few other things that would need to be explained before we even got to the issue of absence of memory of previous lives. 

So what distinguishes these types occurrences are both degree of existence (think intensities of existence) of the site and the appearance of something previously inexistent at the site. He defines degree as ‘measures’ of identities, differences or existences relative to a determinate world. 

For me it helps to frame the topic from the central objective of his philosophy, which one might put as: the liberation of humanity from the enchainment of exploitative modes of production. If we assume this tenant, every act can be judged on the basis of whether or not it leads to greater liberation or greater exploitation. Identity politics is politics pure and simple, BUT the question from a Marxian standpoint is what interests the particular identity serves. Marx was adamantly against nationalist and racial identities, not simply because he disliked nation-states or had a hatred of racial classification theories, but because they both constitute a "superstructure" created by and reinforcing the production relations constituting the economic structure of society. They are epiphenomenal to what is "really" going on in capitalist modes of production. 

According to philosophy ,what is a phenomenon ? And does that definition include mental phenomenons as well? Lastly , is there anything which is not a phenomenon? 

The elctro-magnetism works fine. Gravity works fine. The two theories can live separately. At atomic scale the electromagnetism theory can be employed and at large scale gravity can be employed. My question is why are we trying to unite the theory of electromagnetism and theory of gravity into one Unified theory ? What is the philosophical reason behind it? 

In any computational environment(digital,neural,analog or quantum mechanical) is it possible to write or construct a program which can be construed as free will? 

Based on the nature of existence we find that it is only possible to define absolute Truths on a plane of perpetual existence. To illustrate my point of view ,suppose that I observe a cemetery,and I say I found a Truth that there is a cemetery. However due to nature of existence that true statement may only have a finite lifespan because observation of cemetery might turn out to be just a dream or dream like. That true statement might just turn out to be a lie. So my question are : 1.According to philosophy , what is the definition of Truth? 2.Is there an Absolute Truth? (a true statement which will always remain true independent of the nature of existence) I have taken no formal education in philosophy so please edit the question if it needs to rephrased. 

We are free people. Why are we free ? Because we have not committed any crime. And what do you call a person who has not committed any crime ? Innocent. Therefore by default we are all innocent unless proven otherwise. 

That is precisely what the question is asking. It is just restating it another way. Taking out all the lies, however, in the context or pure logic results in a tautology—something necessarily "true" by virtue or form. I guess the philosophic answer depends largely on your definition of "truth". I lean towards the idea that lies are the twisting of truth, and not the other way around. A distinction I make with an analogy. Truth is like pure water. Lies are everything else in the same bottle trying to blend in. 

This has helped me solve many a perplexing problem in the past. There is Stackexchange itself, which is a cornucopia of useful thought provoking information all driven around the asking of questions. And lastly, there is the all time favorite of children everywhere: Why? 

I think tolerance is mostly a neutral thing. It can be used in good ways and it can be used in bad ways. Writer Iain McGilchrist alludes to the idea of a necessary distance in order for bonds to form. He compares it to reading. Too close, and you can't see anything. Too far, and you can't read it. I agree with Joseph here that in Western cultures the umbrella of tolerance is often used as an excuse to continue a sort of hypocritical, simultaneous, drawing near to and examining less of. We have let people into our necessary distance in order for bonds to form, but we have looked the other way. A shortcut has been taken. That is, if we had continued to examine the beliefs of others and drew them near at the same time, I believe, we could achieve a kind of love that we have for our family members who although we disagree with we still stick to. But because we are initially repulsed by the beliefs of others, things we do not know or understand, in the West we have drawn people near by looking away—and this intimate ignorance has brought on grave consequences because we cannot look away forever. Near things collide. Almost always. The longer two things are together, the higher chance there is that they will collide. I think what people desire when they cling onto ideals and slogans of tolerance and oneness are these bonds that form with necessary distance. They just got the order wrong. They did not want to take the step of self- and other-examination—because it's difficult and costly. What people say they want when they talk of tolerance, what I think they usually mean but are too afraid to ask for, is love.