During a long expedition, how to safely pack, place and carry a portable gas filled stove? It looks something like this: $URL$ 

Advice on how to walk on descents: Well, consider taking a less sharper route way down the mountain, specifically if you are hauling a heavy backpack. The other option can be effective use of walking sticks. Some people do prefer one-step-down, then the other exactly besides it, one-step-down and so on... I never paid too much attention to that ever, so.. The way to avoid it and/or partially live with it is: 

Note: In name(Vill), Vill stands for Village with no apparent modern facilities, just the food and a non-luxurious accommodation, mostly without any cellphone network or an internet connection. 

Coming to the fangs, these are folded against the upper jaw and are covered by Fang Sheath. The secondary or additional Fangs grow despite of the presence of the primary fang, and at a certain point the primary fang is broken and replaced by the fang developed immediately behind it, covered in the sheath till this time. Growth rate of fangs is proportional to age of the snake, but it degrades in older state of life of the snake. Referring to Rattlesnakes: Their Habitats, Life Histories and Influence on Mankind, Volume 1 by Laurence Monroe Klauber., Snakes can also control the venom through a fang independently. So if right fang injects a certain cc of venom, its not necessary that the left fang inject the same amount. How does it do that? You must have seen on Television that the handler presses around it's venom gland and the pits to extract more venom. Its not the gland they are pressing, Its the Venom Duct. This duct begins at the forward end of the gland which lies below the anterior edge of the eye, then passing forward below the pit and the nostril, slightly above and outside the Maxilla. Then it turns sharply downward to a point in front of the upper lumen of the fang. There is a sphincter in the venom gland by which a valve action is accomplished. This venom control is majorly through a mechanical control of the jaw, and hence controlling the Maxilla and the fang movement. As the jaw opens, the fangs are being made almost perpendicular to upper jaw, the sheath is pulled back by Musculus pterygoideus glandulae. That was about How is it done. Graduating through this control process is a long span in the poor fellow's life, sometimes 3-4 months. The experiments shows that a 6 month old rattler went on to give nearly consistent cc of venom per strike. 

Nun (7135 m) - Leh - Kargil - Panikhar - Gulmotongas(RH) - BC - C - I,C - II,C - III and summit attempt (Long: 76o01', Lat: 33o59'): Need Indian Army permission Kun (7077 m) - Leh - Kargil - Panikhar - Gulmotongas(RH) - BC - C - I,C - II,C - III and summit attempt (Long: 76o03', Lat: 34o01'): Need Indian Army permission Pinnacle (6955 m) - Leh - Kargil - Panikhar - Gulmotongas(RH) - BC - C - I,C - II,C - III and summit attempt (Long: 76o05', Lat: 34o01'): Need Indian Army permission Hagshu I (6515 m) - Leh - Kargil - Ringdom - Chibra - Base Camp (Long: 76o27', Lat: 33o32') Lungser Kangri (6666 m) - Leh – Karzok - Peldo - Kyurchu - BC - ABC - Summit bid (Long: 78o27', Lat: 32o55') Chamsher Kangri (~6622 m) - Leh – Karzok - Peldo - Kyurchu - BC - ABC - Summit bid (Long: 78o26', Lat: 32o57') 

On an easy but long scramble, 30 to 45o incline, un-anchored, what should be the safe distance between two people? Should the better person be ahead, or be behind supporting the other just in case? 

Is it safe to drink water found from natural resources on the Volcanic Mountains? Considering Chemistry part of it, What could go wrong if I have no way to boil it, at the most I can filter it with multiple layers of garment. 

The best plan is to plan to make sure that you don't get in a situation where you may need to cross a flooded stream. But, that said, as you talked of a flood situation, that can happen over a night with heavy pouring and so on so forth. Where, its really worth a second thought, that should you be crossing the stream at all, sometimes, with some careful thought and knowing the right techniques and having some kind of sensible plan, it could mean the difference between survival and getting victimized. Before you get started: 

Easily accessible peak I would prefer would be Chamsher Kangri and/or Lungser Kangri. Considering summit plan for both the peaks: 

There has been a lot of lot of discussion about whether the shoes should have ankle support or not. I have seen the discussions (not just on The Great Outdoors, but elsewhere too) that ankle muscles do not work much and hence leads to weakening of the ankle muscles. The other perspective to this boils down to the point where we would also need to consider the amount of weight being carried. And, surprisingly, its not the just the newbies or the rookies debate about, but its a very very common topic for conflicting opinions among the veterans as well. What all factor should one consider while deciding upon preferring shoes with ankle support and without them? 

The layout should ought to be like Trail - Campsite and Kitchen area - Thickets (if there are any) - Toilet area. Preferably it can be a triangle. So that one doesn't have to pass through kitchen area to go to toilet area. "It should be lower than the Kitchen area, water source and campsite" - Correct. "It should be away from water source" - Correct. If the lower and higher plane topography is not available, then you can see for wind direction for the most of the time of the day. At least in the early hours of day Wind Direction should be towards toilet area and hence away from kitchen/campsite. Never set up a toilet area in thickets, and or tree cover. If the soil is damp, it takes a little more time to decompose the waste naturally. There should be proper sunlight over the toilet area, it helps decomposition faster and keeps the flies away. The distance between campsite and toilet area should rather depend upon terrain and the site. If we are dealing with a flat plane without much variation in topography, I would prefer it to be at least a 5-6 minute walk from the campsite, which should roughly be 300 meters? The area shouldn't matter much if you follow the next step I suggest. Additionally, I hope you have been trained to dig a small hole, do your work in. I have known people who usually fill the hole with the soil and put a stone over it, which I really don't quite comprehend why. May be thats their way of letting the other camp member know that he/she shouldn't dig there. As long as everyone is filling the hole, and marking it, that should never be an issue. Comfortable distance should be roughly a couple of feet from an existing mark. How to mark depends on where you are. Pile 2 stones one over another, if there are dry leave, you can put them over the hole as an intentional bunch of leaves. The region I trek in is mostly Dry deciduous forest for most of the times, and I usually do not trek with a large number of people with me, so I just get away digging a whole, doing my stuff, filling it up again and put some leave over it. 

I really don't find any specific need to carry something which is so heavy and bulky, and something that can cause injuries due to unsafe packing, unsafe way of carrying, unitended mishandling, when you have a fairly safer substitute for that. I have used one such fixed-blade knife for from cutting woods to making a make-shift raft. You may (may God not put you in such a situation) need something like an axe you are referring to, for making a raft which would endure long enough to take you in wild sea/oceans and sustain tides. Because, you will have to make it out of Huge and mainly Broad wood trunks. Now that is when you will need to have that axe with you, having a knife would be very uneasy to craft/build one such thing. But, that I doubt if you ever need to do such a thing. Yeah, if I know that I am gonna camp at a site for long time, say 5-6 days, then instead of arranging timber everyday, using a knife to cut wood, I would take my axe with me, spend some time (2-3 hrs) with wood and axe, And, that will save me from doing that task in pieces everyday at the camp. 

For immediate results, the second options works best. But then again, you avoided an incident, that doesn't really alarm the authorities about possibility of happening it again. For long term results, whether you chose to act and somehow managed to stop them, or just saw the incidence, whatever the case, report it at the concerned legal authority. With an increased number of such alarms, authorities will be a bit more keener about controlling such deeds. 

How should one carry crampons when not actually using it, but knowing that they are going to be needed in the further stage of the expedition. Further clarification: Suppose I am gonna need to have crampons on only in a certain stage of the expedition, and not all the way. What is the best possible safe way to carry them they don't damage my backpack? I am not in favor of tying them outside the pack, as they may get damaged and I personally don't like things tied to the pack when it can be avoided. 

For some reason or the other, when I wear one of my shoes, my sole itches a lot. I know I can always get rid of the insole of the shoe, but I am yet to find a way to stop the itching in my sole. Then I sometimes have to get my shoes off, find dry leaves and rub them against my sole and that feels better. How do you so that if needs be? P.S. I am sensitive to Tickling. 

Using Cassiopeia Constellation: You can locate Cassiopeia exactly opposite to the Ursa Major. In this spider-legged 'M' shaped constellation, draw a line between 3rd and 4th star (Counting from Left to Right, or to be precise considering with 3 stars at the bottom and the remaining 2 at the top like an M), then draw a perpendicular to that line, the perpendicular points to Polaris. That is your North! 

I have recently planned to go for a long trail that passes through a territory that is known for elephants. While speaking of camping overall, I know what basics should I be following, but are there any special precautions that I should be taking specifically considering the elephants? (Like the specific discussions about taking precautions in bear territory). EDIT: If possible we could have a generic perspective, if not, then I'd like to have more emphasize on Indian elephants. 

I was climbing on a single rope, tied at the center & the two idiots with me were on a single strand each. I used a 8mm'er rope, light and good enough. Since it was easier and the two seconds were climbing with very much the same pace and loading the rope at the same time. Should you choose to go on a Linked end approach where obviously you are tied up at an end and at the other end you have your best second and you have the second second tied at the middle. With you on lead, your girlfriend should set after the other second gets a good 20-25 feet up, since you don't want your second second being a bit more experienced (I assumed) getting frustrated having to climb slower than what she would prefer but then the faster one must gauge where they are with respect to each others position, ensuring that while on the move, little time is consumed between moves either below or above the other second. The issue with this system is that, you will lack time-efficiency since you belay one second at a time (comparatively easier for you) and, maximum pitches you can go up are half the length of rope. If you go for Double link, with you at one end, the two seconds tied at the other end 10-15 feet apart, you could gain more on efficiency, but then both of them will be loading the rope at the same time. Here as well you should have stronger climber tied below and the weaker one 10-15 ft above her. If your last climber falls, it is likely that she will pull off the climber above her. So, it is advisable to have the weaker climber on the team tied-in above the stronger climber on the end. For tieing the middle second, an overhand on a bight with about 10-12 inches of slack tail should do enough. If you at all find it necessary, you can go for something like a Petzyl reverso. Understanding how a Reverso works, I just now pull out a book (thanks to your question, I could at least take it off from my store room after months!) Mountaineering Methodology Part - III by Thomas Kublak 

Is there a way to dry the shoes out when they get wet? I am referring to situations specially when I can not hang them out to dry. Consider a situation wherein I am trekking in the night, and I need to cross a stream and then I know that I am not gonna walk much through wet places (mud, grass lands, etc), but I am gonna walk for sure. So is there a way to dry them out faster? So that I don't get blisters. Had this been a daytime I could simply hang them out in the sun for a while when I plan to have lunch or rest for half an hour or so..