Financing Financing a city level basic income is going to be more complicated than financing a national one. Some things that a nation can do that a city can't: 

Not really, but I'm guessing that by "medieval-like hierarchy", you mean a feudal government. Feudal governments arose as a way of codifying relationships. Some people would specialize in war and others would support them (agriculture, weapons and armor, etc.). The warriors could compel support from the non-warriors. What is the rationale here? What would people gain in return for supporting the feudal hierarchy? That's not to say that you can't have a feudal government. But if you want it to be realistic, you need to think more about what services the nobility provide. Exceptional research? Publishers of research journals? Arbiters of truth? You could try for the same force control as a medieval feudal system, but I find the medieval weapons even more questionable. These are people who value fighting skills and knowledge but don't apply that knowledge to fighting? Why? If you come up with an explanation of that, then you could justify a long term feudal system. Just a monarchy (no nobility) would be easier to explain. A constitutionally-limited monarchy can persist for a long time after the government has moved to democracy. Centuries in several European countries now. But part of the reason for that is that the monarchs have very little power. And what power they do have, they don't abuse. Perhaps your system has people who are better about not overstepping their roles than we have been. 

The beings might not actually be there. Instead of having a physical body, they create the illusion of presence directly in your brain. But they only do this for those in direct sight of where they should be. They don't bother to create reflections. This would be especially effective in a nanotech society. If everyone is used to getting information added to their view, then this is just a natural extension. Note that this works for any of the senses: phantom smells, tastes, sounds, and touches. In order to get sufficient power, perhaps the nanomachines harvest the blood of those viewing their illusions. This changes the vampirism myth a bit, as they wouldn't be choosing victims so much as feeding on those who see them. The problem is that they are essentially unfinished. They are not ready for general release. Perhaps the original inventor would drink a nutrient solution prior to use so that they would consume that rather than blood. Perhaps someone could be learning how to make their nanotech more human friendly. Decreasing the power requirements so as not to consume the blood. Appearing to fewer people so as to avoid wide impact. This is my reaction to the title question. Obviously the story would change a bit from your original parameters. It may be too far, but I figured that was a decision best left to you. 

You can't get from cloning alone to extinction of men. You can make cloning only work on women easily enough. And that's pretty much a prerequisite for this concept to work. But cloning alone won't explain why you won't get men the traditional way: as a result of sexual intercourse. So you need a separate explanation. Plague You can have a disease that either kills men or causes infertility. The infertility could be in men, women, or both. I've read this scenario. Don't remember title or author. If you're curious, I could ask on the sci-fi stack. Someone can probably identify it. It didn't explain much about the mechanism though. It handwaved the plague except to describe its existence. If you just want to write about an all-woman society, this is probably the easiest way to get there. It's just believable enough to handwave the difficult parts as history. The other suggestions are better suited to writing about the evolution of society, as they are too unbelievable on their own. And someone here could absolutely help you design this plague in a new question. That would be a more focused question than this one. Sex bots More and more complicated sex toys and more realistic porn could make men and women feel less and less like the opposite sex was necessary for sex. Virtual reality porn. Why have sex with some unemployed pothead with obnoxious body odor and bad breath when you could have your ideal man? Especially since the employed guy with the potbelly and balding head would really prefer to have sex with a simulated supermodel. We could reach a situation where the population's falling. Governments use cloning to bolster the falling population. And even if you don't want to write about sex bots, think of the fanfic. Revolution In the most recent US election, women and men voted distinctly. What if that continues to grow? Once women can reproduce without men, it would be possible for women to revolt. Maybe they do. The other day, I was searching something related to a post here and clicked through to a blog where the author identified murder as the number one male privilege. What if that view went from a fringe concept on the internet to a view held by a distinct minority? These modern Amazons could take their cloning process and form their own community. And then they could take over the number one privilege from men. If you always wondered what a society built by lesbian serial killers would be like, here's your chance. 

Assuming that it is a requirement that the construction be done in space, the natural technology involved here would be solar-powered robots that would mine asteroids and convert them into the desired objects. While someone could presumably patent certain innovations, realize that this would be in the context of other patents. Some other companies would be able to force cross-licensing deals on decent terms. Once you get past the startup phase, construction is essentially free. Engineering and design still cost. It's not clear how much shipping can be done. At current levels of space travel, it causes trivial amounts of global warming. But this would allow for ridiculous amounts of drops from space. That's likely to leave us with some limits on shipping. Perhaps people who want unlimited consumption may move off-Earth to get around delivery limits. Is this a luxury item as in Elysium? Or is living on Earth the luxury and living in space the inferior item? Note that this may change over time. Initially only the rich go to space, as it is expensive. It gets cheaper, so the poor can go too. Patents only last about twenty years. So the period of monopoly is going to be relatively short. It will probably be over before we figure out cheap space launches. 

I started with the four countries and followed links to the alphabet pages. Note that all four use or have used Cyrillic, which was the Soviet standard. Kazakh and Azerbaijani also have used Arabic-based scripts. Azerbaijani currently uses a latin-based script. Second, look for places where they differ or have trouble representing something in Cyrillic. Third, look for places where words make unique sense in one language. A classic example is the word pork in English. It derives from the word "porc" in French, which means pig. After the Normans (Scandinavian in ancestry but French speaking after a long period in France) conquered England, they used their word when requesting pig meat. So the French word became the word for pig meat while people continued to use the English word for pigs. What words would be most natural in other languages? Those are most likely to be represented in the original language and bring their letters. 

A sudden huge increase in the supply of gold would not be inflationary except to things bought with gold. I.e. you'd need an awful lot of gold to exchange for anything else. A bit hard on someone trying to sell an inheritance of gold jewelry, but not something that would impact most people. If anything, this would be deflationary. Gold would be cheaper and easier to obtain. Also, people wouldn't be able to sell jewelry for significant cash. So those people would be poorer. Both effects would be deflationary. However, I don't think that gold is a big enough part of the economy for that effect to be large. Prior to Richard Nixon taking the United States off the gold standard, this would have been problematic. Gold rushes often did cause inflation. But not so much now. If there are any gold standard countries left, this would probably kick them off it. But certainly none of the United States, the countries in the Euro area, Japan, China, nor India would have that kind of problem.