That will be fine. 38 is the measure of your tyre width. Most inner tubes can be used in a range of tyre widths eg 38-43 (it should say on the box) They all seem a bit big and flappy until the tyre is on and it's pumped up. Be careful not to pinch any of your inner tube between the edge of the rim and the bead of the tyre. 

If it's a steel frame some people recommend heating up the seat tube (LIGHTLY) to expand the metal and then try and wiggle the post out but that seemed like too much effort to me. When I got a seatpost stuck in a frame I went to an auto garage and put the frame in a vice. Then used their pneumatic air chisel on the seatpost and it came flying out in seconds. If you go down that route, it might be an idea to give some money/beers to garage as a thank you for using their kit. 

If you mean 12mm thru axles, they have been around for a few years now but in different guises depending on hub and frame spacing standards. • 150x12mm • 142x12mm • 135x12mm With the rise of enduro/am/do it all style mtb It's about creating harmony between weight, stiffness and ease of use. and a standard going forward that can adhere to modern frame and hub design trends. The main advantage of 12mm thru axle is that through axles enable you to get a more secure connection between frame and wheel as the axle goes through the hub and almost always then screwed into the frame. The 15mm and 20mm axle standard is geared up more for Forks. and some come as proprietary technology specific to a fork manufacturer. Also depending on your riding style and frame dropouts 9mm qr can be weak and flexy thus a 10mm bolt up conversion may provide appropriate strength/rigidity for older frames. 

All, I have a Shimano 600 Italian-threaded bottom bracket (BB-6400) and after riding with it for a few weeks, the fixed cup is loosening. I've since read up about Italian BBs and learned that the correct amount of torque needs to be applied to the fixed cup, somewhere in the 600 in-lb range. My guess is that my HCW-4 isn't quite cutting it to get me to that level. I'd like to tighten it correctly and am looking for the right tool. If I'm in the market for a torque wrench, what tool or combination of tools will fit the 36 mm cup and allow me to reach the right torque? Thanks. BB-6400 fixed cup $URL$ 

I was checking out Sheldon's website again and came across the following line in the article Servicing Bicycle Headsets: 

Although I was skeptical, this actually did the trick! I made punches 1/4" apart around the fork crown. Once I fitted the crown race again, there was no play at all. 

I'm planning a new build and for the first time, I'm working with a frame that requires an Italian bottom bracket. My question isn't specific to the build, but a general question about chainline. Given the same crankset, say Shimano FC-6400, the corresponding English BB would have a 113 mm symmetric spindle (i.e. 3H or D-3H), while the corresponding Italian BB would have a 115 symmetric spindle (i.e. 5H or D-5H). Why would the spindle lengths be different at all? Why wouldn't the Italian BB spindle have the bearing shoulders further apart by 2 mm while keeping the 113 mm length? Would the chainline not increase by 1 mm in this case? If so, how should this be accounted for? 

For a bike I'm building, I had my headset crown race press fitted to my fork crown by my LBS, along with my top and bottom cups into the headtube. The crown race was loose such that I could rotate it with my fingers, but there was no discernable lateral play. I was actually able to remove it with my hands, but it's not loose enough to put back on just by hand. The headset is very good condition English-threaded Shimano 600 HP-6400. The fork is Italian threaded. My understanding is that the fork would expect a 26.5 mm diameter crown race, while the English headset has a 26.4 mm diameter race. I measured the OD of the fork crown and it is exactly 26.4 mm (digital caliper). The crown race has an ID of 26.42 mm. What are my options? I really would like to use this headset. (I hope it's clear to all that this is not an ISO vs JIS issue, and neither part is 27.0 mm.) Thanks! 

Sheldon Brown has a gear calculator available so you can input all your info there as-is, note the gear inches for gear 4, and then change the ring size until your modified 8th gear is near that number. In addition to the info you've already provided, you'll need the number of teeth on your hub's cog to place in the spot of the first cassette cog. FWIW, I recently had a dawdling bike with an internal 3sp and the smallest ring my cranks would accept and I sometimes wished for a lower gear. Also if your setup looks like this then you may not be able to downsize very far without swapping cranks. Edit incorporating comment thread How small can I get and what tools do I need to replace cranks? Sheldon Brown's BCD crib sheet can let you double-check your measurements so far and it also lists the smallest ring any particular configuration will accept. The interface between your bottom bracket and cranks is almost certainly square taper, so you'll need a new crankset with that same interface (which is a combination of quite old and quite common so that's good news for you). The only tool that you should need is a crank puller to get the existing cranks off. Can I use mountain cranks? Assuming it's got a square taper bottom bracket interface, you can go with any cranks you want. Especially with a multi-gear crankset you should mind your relative chain line. My hunch is that the smallest ring on a triple in your scenario could be sufficiently inboard of the cog for the chain to work its way off the outside of the ring, seeking the plane of your cog. In that case you could swap your bottom bracket for one with with a longer spindle. More tools and expense, but possible. 

@rclocher3's electrical tape is the easier way to go, but I often use strips of old tube to wrap things of this nature. To keep the wrap in place I dab some vulcanizing fluid hither and thither along the underside. This saves electrical tape for electrical things, is perhaps a bit more rugged than tape, and also provides fodder for people who would mock me on stackexchange.