The most likely way, assuming a language barrier, was by observation. That is, they captured people in the process of operating the enemy's anti-siege machines (which would be similar, though not identical to siege machines). Or people at workshops manufacturing articles of glass, wood or metal. In the case of doubt, they would test the candidates, see how they worked, and if the end product "stood up." Put another way, the Mongols wouldn't necessarily "screen" the whole population for candidates. They would pick out the obvious ones, that is people who were clearly doing work in engineering, or whatever they wanted done. Or, as another poster pointed out, they would select someone they already knew by reputation. The idea of making "direct contact" with the population is a fairly recent one, going back perhaps to the 19th century. Ditto for "Yellow Pages" listing people by occupation. 

George McClellan was a "whiz kid" promoted to commander of the Army of the Potomac at the young age of 34. He was superbly trained (at West Point) and trained his men well, but lacked the confidence for serious fighting that comes with experience. $URL$ He himself admitted, “It would have been better for me personally had my promotion been delayed a year of more. Perhaps it was a case of too much – too soon obtained at too little cost.” (Leckie, 410) 

On the Brazilian political spectrum, Vargas was basically a "centrist" (during the 1930s). Like some other leaders, including President Roosevelt, he was caught between extreme right- and left-wing movements. Of the two, Vargas considered the left wing Communists potentially more de-stabilizing, so he mainly aligned with the right to crush the far left in 1935-36. Then he set up a dictatorship in 1937 that curbed the right as well (while drawing on its implicit support). To the extent that he had sympathies for anyone in the Spanish Civil War, it was Franco. But he had too many problems at home to exercise strong convictions either way. Vargas did not give Franco a strong show of support, unlike Portugal's Salazar. Salazar and Portugal were Franco's "neighbors." Brazil was not. That would cause the two leaders to act differently toward Franco. 

"Slavery" wasn't exactly a dictator. But Harriet Beecher Stowe's book "Uncle Tom's Cabin" is widely credited with helping to bring about the Civil War that ended slavery in the South. Even President Abraham Lincoln asked her "Are you the little lady that wrote the book that started this great war?" 

Russia (and Spain) had the weaker claims to "Oregon." Russia claimed only a piece of the territory between 54 and 51 degrees parallel (not the whole), basically as an extension of Alaska, into what is now British Columbia. Even this claim had to be backed up by forces coming all the way from European Russia through Siberia. Likewise, Spain claimed basically the modern Oregon, not the whole country, as an extension of California. But when Mexico (which then included California, Texas, and almost everything in between) won its independence, Spain's claims to the Oregon country disappeared. That left only Britain (via Canada) and the U.S. (via the "Louisiana" Purchase territories), to claim the whole territory that the British called Columbia, and the Americans called Oregon. Since their claims in the region were small and tenuous anyway, Russia made separate treaties with Britain and the United States to relinquish her "Oregon" claims in exchange for their recognizing her ownership of nearby Alaska. Britain and the United States then settled their claims by dividing it along the 49th parallel, with Britain's share taking the name British Columbia, and America's share being divided into Oregon, Washington, and Idaho. 

Hussars were "all purpose" cavalry. They were better trained and equipped than, say, Cossacks (who were mostly used for raids). As such, hussars could do most cavalry jobs (i.e., attack, and above all, pursue broken infantry), using mainly lances. Later on, more specialized forms of cavalry were developed. Dragoons could use both carbine and sword, and fight on foot, as well as on horse. As such, they were better trained and equipped than hussars, but it was hard to "mass produce," them so they were deployed in relatively small numbers. Cuirassers were the best trained and equipped (elite) cavalrymen, and were the scarcest of all. But most armies found masses of (non elite) hussars more useful than a handful of elite cuirassers or dragoons. 

A "captain" is a commander of a basic unit, a company in the military. As such, it makes sense that he will have one or more "lieutenants," first and second lieutenants that is. A major commands the next higher level unit, a battalion. But there's no such thing as a "lieutenant major." A colonel commands the next higher level unit, a regiment. He is two ranks above a major, with the intervening rank being a "lieutenant" colonel. So why isn't a "first lieutenant" (second lowest commissioned officer) a captain, while a "captain" (the third lowest commissioned officer) a lieutenant major? A "major (two star) general" commands the next higher unit, a divison. A one star general is a "brigadier general," who used to command a brigade, when there were four regiments in a division, meaning two regiments to a brigade and two brigades to a division. But when brigades were abolished, "brigadier general" lost its original meaning. Is he now a "lieutenant" major general? A "lieutenant" (three star) general is one level below a "full" (four star) general. And a five star general is a "general of the army." Does this mean that a five star general is an army general, a four star general is a commander of a corps (the unit between a division and an army), and a three star general is a "lieutenant" corp commander? Was it the original intent of the Anglo American armies to have "lieutenant" and then "full" officers at each level (captain, colonel, general, etc.)? Or if the ranks "evolved" over time, what was the history of the evolution? 

A Route Army was a "local" army defending a relatively small area such as a city, or a road leading to it, hence the name "route" army. During the second Sino-Japanese War (which "morphed" into World War II), fighting took place on a larger scale, and over larger areas than previously, so the Chinese adopted a Soviet-style military organization covering "regions" or "military districts" defended by "Army Groups." Some of the larger route armies directly became army groups, but most of them were formed by the merger of two (or more) "route armies," e.g. the ones defending a city and the surrounding area.