Erhard Milch was a German Field Marshall. According to Wikipedia, his father was Jewish, and there were perhaps even some claims that his mother was Jewish too. If you accept that being Jewish is some sort of inherited property (as opposed to a belief in Judaism, acceptance into/of a religious organisation, self-description or of cultural practices), then it could be argued that he was a Jew who served as a high-level officer in the German Army. However, in 1935, Milch's mother claimed that Milch's putative father was not his real father, and named another man. This allowed him to be issued with a German Blood Certificate. So, by the contemporary Nazi Germany laws, he was declared not Jewish. 

According to the above reference, the upper-bound equation for "Alternate Direction Folding", which I understand to be the normal style, is 

Acupuncturist and author, Esther Gokhale promotes (e.g. TEDx Talk) the Gokhale Method for preventing back-pain by adopting encouraging better posture. 

In the conclusion, it found that burgers (McDonalds or home-made) stored in the open air, where they could dry out, had little or no mould. Burgers (McDonalds or home-made) stored in plastic bags that held in the moisture (like Spurlock's glass jars) got mouldy. 

Summary Laurel's answer shows that there is indeed historical evidence of a problem with non-olive oils being mixed in with olive oils. The UC Davis report shows that there is indeed a problem with cheaper grades of olive oils being mixed in with more expensive ones. However, the UC Davis report also shows that the former issue is not common, and the second issue is (in California, at least). 

That doesn't mean there hasn't been evidence that it has some potential. Non-human evidence related to colds For example, the paper explains it has some anti-viral and anti-bacterial properties in tissue cultures (which is still a long way from saying it is safe and effective in humans). A 50% ethanol extract helped reduced sneezing in rats caused by an allergen. (See note at end.) 

Sodium Flouride was only used as rat poison, in bulk, prior to 1938. It was not considered as an anti-cavity treatment until the 1950s and 1960s. Any drugs sold before 1938 were grandfathered into the new FDA law. The FDA never approved it as safe for children's anti-cavity supplements. Therefore, Sodium Fluoride has never been shown as safe for ingestion for children's anti-cavity supplements, and was only approved because it was used as rat poison. 

Yes, these claims are true. The department of the Mexican government responsible for the integrity of the electoral process is Instituto Nacional Electoral (INE) [National Electoral Institute]. My answer refers to their resources extensively. Going through the claims: 

Toxicology studies have been done on the fluoride dissolved in the drinking water (see other answer), which is where it is relevant. 

On a personal note, these figures fill me with yawn. The Cost of Goods Sold is only part of a company's costs. The fact that a successful hardware manufacturer would have significant mark-ups isn't surprising or noteworthy. 

So meshing dreams aren't paranormal. Note that Freudian dream analysis is not required to explain this. A psychological phenomena known as the Tetris Effect (which has been popularised by researcher Dr Robert Stickgold) explains common elements of dreams held by people who have had common experiences. Finally, they get to the paranormal claim: 

The purported message wasn't sent to the passenger's family, the press or authorities. Instead, its source has been traced back as an anonymous message to, of all places, a 4chan forum. As their Wikipedia page describes, 4chan is the source of a number of hoaxes; it is not a reputable source. There is no credible evidence to suggest that the message is anything other than a hoax in poor taste, that has been swallowed by some irrational conspiracy theorists. 

(Your childhood vision was inaccurate though. The same sources indicate over 200 marines were also sent. The convicts were still under the control of the British military.) The Second Fleet was predominantly convicts. Over 1000 convicts left England, but there were many hundreds of deaths on the voyage or shortly afterwards. Ref, Ref It should be noted that not all British Settlements were penal settlements. Example 

This study looked at 1976 men from Finland, over a period of years. The smokers has a shorter lifespan by 8.6 years. They found that, yes, this meant that smokers had a lower health care cost, and they also missed out on 7.3 years of pension. 

In 2013, the Ohio Attorney General warned parents of one or more suspects who were approaching children and had been unsuccessfully trying to entice them into a white van: 

It strikes me that the reporter has played with the classification difficulty to enable him to have a hook - that tomatoes and potatoes can be classified as carnivorous - despite it not being a key feature of the paper. Looking closely at what the researcher says, he suggests carnivorousness is not a key feature of the domesticated tomato. As to how it was received, it is necessary to look at the citations, to see if it is relied upon as a legitimate source, or argued against in the literature. It has been cited at least 18 times (Ref), most prominently by 'Quite a few reasons for calling carnivores ‘the most wonderful plants in the world’' which draws on it approvingly several times. It is also cited approvingly here and here. Of the freely available citations, none seemed to attack or contradict any of the findings - however, none referenced tomatoes. 

This answer addresses an earlier version of the question, which was weather people used tape-worms, not whether a particular advert was anachronistic. Yes, people are still trying it. 

The scientific evidence for benefits of milk thistle for liver damage is non-existent or poor. Where the evidence seem contradictory from multiple studies, a good way of resolving it is with a meta-study. Fortunately, the Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews (a fantastic resource!) has a meta-study on the topic. Rambaldi A, Jacobs BP, Gluud C. Milk thistle for alcoholic and/or hepatitis B or C virus liver diseases. Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews 2007, Issue 4. Art. No.: CD003620. DOI: 10.1002/14651858.CD003620.pub3 Aside: The dates of this study are confusing: It was published on-line in 2009 from a 2007 Journal. Assessed as still up to date on January 14, 2005. It was originally based on literature search in December 2003. It is hard to see if this is actually up-to-date research. I did a very perfunctory search for newer articles, and didn't see anything that looked relevant. They looked at research on liver damage from both alcohol and hepatotoxic viruses (such as Hepatitis B & C). Generally, they found a lot of the trials were of poor quality: 

Let's look at each one of those: Q: Is there justification for the common saying? A: It depends whether you speak English or Old English. The phrase is thought to come from Old English, where apple used to mean any round fruit. Phrase Finder attribute the origins of the phrase to a Welsh book from 1866, and note: