A much shorter answer that the rest, but a good point I think: Theocracy is a form of government with a god as its ruler. Logically, a world where gods are powerful and apparent would lead to there being few atheists, but that doesn't mean gods must rule (every) society. On the contrary, if the gods desire worship, I think those worshiping sincerely and not under compulsion of law would be more pleasing to (at least some of) them. Some more egotistical gods may, of course, establish a nation for themselves, but only because it gives them glory among mortals. They already have power, which is what rulers and tyrants typically seek when establishing kingdoms. 

If they are intelligent enough to have language faculties, then as the other answers say, they are simply undead humans. As dangerous as humans, and possibly more so if they aren't restricted by the weaknesses of human biological systems. But the question becomes, at that point, what issues do your room-temperature humans have with higher-than-room-temperature humans? If zombies are intelligent enough to think freely, what unites them against normal humans? Why wouldn't their allegiances to their country, family (undead or still living), or religion trump anything else, especially if they were once a normal human? Sure, you might have a terrorist zombie here or there, but what reason do intelligent creatures (on the whole) have to want to see the world of normal humans fall? 

Pew-Pew sound would definitely not come from the laser beam itself - light doesn't make any discernible sound. I could see you making it an artifact of the power rapidly charging and discharging, though it's not necessary for the device to function. Typically solid state electronics are pretty silent. As mentioned in a comment, light moves way too fast for you to see. Assuming you could shove that much electrical power in a blaster-sized package (not possible with modern technology), you might have something slightly close. Some differences includes that there would be no recoil to the shot, and no explosive impact - it would burn the target, and not much else. Also, even the most powerful modern lasers take time to put a hole in a target - a sustained beam, not a gun-like shot in a single instant. 

It's possible, as other answers indicate, to convert kinetic force into electricity, so I won't repeat that. But what you should think about is the cost-benefit ratio. The truth is, it's not feasible to add the complexity of an extra subsystem to an already ridiculously complex system. Think of the amount of electricity it takes to accelerate anything to several times the speed of sound. Power savings from a kinetic converter would simply be insignificant. 

I agree that range is the primary consideration. But if you're willing to flex that requirement, say hello to my little friend Joerg Sprave. He also has a how-to video so you can build this contraption yourself! Has a number of advantages and disadvantages over traditional tranquilizers, but the main advantage is that it's more fun this way ;) 

You are talking about a literal unicorn. Some creative license is allowed. Electrocuting itself isn't a problem for the same reason it isn't a problem in real-world electricity-generating animals: their bodies are adapted to it as a natural function. If you really must include some vague science, say that there are at least two separate organs, or parts to the single organ, that generates the electricity: a low-voltage power supply and a transformer. Stun guns ramp up quite low voltages (household batteries, maybe 20 volts at most) to tens of thousands of volts to make their sparks. The unicorn has a structure that, in addition to simply generating a current, transforms that current into a higher voltage, accumulates a charge over short amounts of time and releases it in bursts. (Note that most of what we see as sparks, lightning included, are bursts of accumulated charges and not continuous streams). Hope this helps! 

There are indeed natural objects (called Trojans) captured in Jupiter's L4 and L5 bands. One gotcha is that for planets the size of Jupiter to form at all, they must be out of the habitable zone. Closer to the habitable zone (our side of the Asteroid Belt) causes dense rocky planets to form, but the solar winds that close to the Sun blow away the massive clouds of dust and gas that compose Jupiter and all of the gaseous planets. (Parenthetically, this formation pattern is why many don't consider Pluto a planet. It's more likely a captured foreign object.) According to Wikipedia article on Lagrangian points: 

In general small fauna will not take on large targets and large animals can be hunted. However, that's not always true. There are creatures in the insect world that take on bigger stuff, not to eat but for reproduction. Suppose your empty area is the environment of a bigger version of this. The Death Snake: Death snakes are typically 1' long when mature, they are masters of camouflage as tree branches. While normally not a threat that changes when it's egg-laying time. A death snake's ovaries are in it's head, it's eggs are injected with it's venom. The venom causes permanent paralysis, the eggs promptly hatch and the baby death snakes quickly hatch and begin devouring their host while they grow. Scavengers will not eat such a host because doing so would likely eat a death snake--with lethal results. Now, if you want empty lands without a reason--everyone knows about the death snakes. What nobody realizes is that they fell victim to a particularly deadly (easy transmission, slow but certain lethality) disease and are now extinct. 

In addition to the size problem that Thucydides brings up there's also the fact that the bigger something is the longer it takes to construct. Even if they were handed known-good plans for the city-sized craft that doesn't mean they would go that route. Besides, this is the sort of problem where you try every approach and hope something works. You're not going to build one big craft, you're going to build a bunch of small craft. They may dock together during the freefall part of their voyage but they'll boost separately. I don't think we have anything like the bombs to lift Earth's entire population anyway. At best you'll get enough off to form a colony. Given either of the threats you name I don't think the right answer is evacuation, anyway. 1) Supernova. Looking at the sky we don't find any prospects for a star that could actually fry the surface of the Earth. The threat is frying the ozone layer and ending up with really brutal UV for some years. Survival consists of sunshades and greenhouses. Even if there is something that can fry the surface every 3' of dirt provides 1000x attenuation. There are houses today that provide that kind of shielding--not preppers but rather surrounding the house with enough thermal mass that you have basically no need of heat or AC. 2) Meteor. Here things get nastier. The area for hundreds of miles around the impact would have to be evacuated. Beyond that you need protection from the fires and the splash--the same houses I mentioned in the supernova case with some filters and bottled air would do the job. If the impactor is really big (large asteroid size) evacuation would be the only option, though. 

It's possible the ocean wouldn't freeze during the long night but there's a better approach: Life based around volcanic vents. They don't have to worry about the long night. Now, the deep-ocean vents will have no chance of evolving more ordinary life forms. However, consider what happens when that volcano reaches the surface. Now they are also exposed to sunlight and photosynthesis could develop. Any given volcano will have very little chance of causing this step but eventually it might happen because a dual-powered organism would have a competitive advantage. Now the dual-power organisms have a chance of developing some way of surviving the dark. 

Fisher Space Pens work underwater--there's your pen. Obviously, that's only an answer for a technological civilization, though, they will have to have used something else first. 

Global warming, take II: ArtOfCode did a fine job of showing the device could cause environmental problems. I'm going to address why it would cause problems. Think of any cold-climate city in the world. The occupants of course use heat to remain comfortable. With this device power is incredibly cheap. Nobody's going to bother with insulation anymore, that costs a lot more than simply providing more heating. Now, lets look at the business district. Want to make your street more attractive to customers? Blow warm air onto the street. When your neighbors join in your street becomes a more attractive shopping location. Pretty soon the whole business district is warmed up. Soon the city will get in on it--heating elements in the roads will be cheaper than snow plows & salt. 

It really depends on the type of telepathy you as the author/creator envision. There could be telepathy that is purely intentional, akin to speaking or sign language. If others can always sense your thoughts or emotions, that might more properly be called mind reading or emotional empathy. In the latter, people still might be able to put up walls around their mind to pad or mute the effect. So ultimately, you get to choose. Additional considerations: First, on a communication level, what is truth? What separates truth from a lie? Whether I say the sky is blue or orange, there is nothing inherent in my communication that determines one or the other as real - truth is determined by the facts of life, regardless of what is communicated. The only exception with telepathy or mind reading would be sensing the intention to deceive, and intention is not the same thing as emotion. You mentioned "evolved" telepathy, so consider what else might have evolved along with that - a subset of related functions that facilitate communication, including "blocking" thoughts or projecting only what is desired. Some might be better at communicating visual imagery, like artists, while musicians would have a much more detailed concept of audio information. Some might not be good at this - you probably know people in real life who are terrible liars with just words. And anyone can run and jump, but watch the Olympics and tell me you can swim life Phelps. People can train and hone their natural skills to do amazing things, and as a natural ability, I can't imagine this would be an exception. Edit In response to OP's comment defining his or her brand of telepathy: Others have answered about "lying" to oneself, so I won't repeat those. "Feelings" then, must be very precisely defined. Particularly, distinguish between: 

If he can physically move any element (or combination thereof) within a ten-mile radius, the character is actually indistinguishable from someone with powerful telekinetic ability (who could move any physical matter). The question is really a function of how complete his control is. Since you edited to say that he expends strength proportional to what he is moving, you could simply send a missile at the guy. It would take a LOT of energy to flat out stop a modern missile going several times the speed of sound. Even if you have to use more than one, you said you have an unlimited budget - just keep launching them from safely outside his ten-mile radius. As far as the cheapest way, you wouldn't want to go for a direct offensive. I would say use some form of trickery, like poisoning his food supply. But with an unlimited budget, I can't think of a reason you'd have to. More complications might be necessary to make an interesting situation. 

Now, some of these things are very low-level, subconscious functionality of the brain. While I always feel emotions and am usually conscious of them, I might not always be conscious of my own motives or intentions. Even if I am self-conscious enough to be aware of them, can I really articulate them, even to myself? Sometimes it takes weeks or months of introspection before one really understands some part of themselves. I personally think it would be unlikely for others to be able to sense those deep things "at a glance," as they aren't really feelings. I might have strong emotional feelings for someone, but may have no intention of starting a relationship. Does the intent transfer, or just my warm fuzzies for them? Because unless I mentally articulate the intention, it could be a source of miscommunication, if not really a lie. Memory - now this is a fun one! Memories might consist of thoughts and feelings, but in reality they are neither. Do others have access to only what I am remembering at the moment, or does everyone within telepathic range share a collective memory? But I'm digressing from the question of lying. Based on what you describe, no, I don't think it's possible to intentionally deceive someone, which is usually via misinformation. Moreover, the social dynamic would be extremely different from ours. I don't think there would be cause for intentional communication - if everyone knows X, you can't articulate X any better to them. It would be redundant. I doubt there would be language or words - just a flow of abstract concepts. I don't think this society could even be aware of the concept of lying or deception, which makes an extremely interesting premise in itself.