After spreading of Christianity, old Egyptian religion faded away. Last Egyptian temple was closed in 6th Century AD by Byzantine emperor, Justinian. Altough, old religion 'died' on beggining of middle ages, today it still exists in different variations. Most popular is Kemetism, Egyptian neopagan religion which wants to reconstruct old Egyptian beliefs. That and similar religion are spreaded all over the world and in Egypt, but in very small number. So simple answer to your question is yes, Ancient Egyptian religion still exists, although it hasn't got so many followers and it changed a bit. 

In USA foreign policy ruled Domino theory that speculated if one country came under influence of communists, surrounding country might also get communist. USA wanted to stop spreading of communism so they got involved in Vietnam war in 1964. Lyndon B. Johnson in 1963 said: 

This is a very hard question to answer for numerous reasons and one that will never be answered to everyone's satisfaction. Here are some things to consider and some problems that frequently come up when you're dealing with Lend Lease. First off, significant Lend Lease aid was not felt until 1943. The Lend Lease that arrived before was nowhere near enough to make a decisive difference on how 1941 and 1942 turned out. There are some articles/arguments that have recently come out which attempt to argue that the Lend Lease tanks that did make it in 1941 played a decisive role in the defense of Moscow, but I don't believe they are conclusive enough (see the following article: British “Lend-Lease” Tanks and the Battle for Moscow, November–December 1941—A Research Note). Secondly, the immediate problems that come up when attempting to qualify Lend Lease are the following. Just quoting numbers of what was sent is not enough. One needs to account for what was sent, when it arrived (and how much arrived), and when it was actually incorporated into the Red Army and used in the field. Additionally, one has to keep in mind that the Soviets began to scale back production of certain things because they knew they would receive them through Lend Lease. One example is trucks. The Soviets were producing practically none because they knew to expect them through Lend Lease, but that doesn't mean they couldn't produce more if they needed to. Many former truck producing factories were switched over to light tank production. Since the Red Army moved to relying on medium and heavy tanks, light tanks were something the Red Army could in theory do without or with less of. This type of analysis needs to be applied to everything the Soviet Union received. Specifically, what they received, if it was not coming through Lend Lease what were the alternatives? Meaning could they produce it internally or import it from another state/country (England, Canada, etc.). The Soviet Union did not just receive Lend Lease from the US. Finally, the Soviet Union participated in reverse Lend Lease, sending back materials to the US. All of the above is just the tip of the huge iceberg that studying Lend Lease means, it's simply impossible to account for all the variables. 

And finally yes, you were right about masons. They talked about trinity of everything. Also on this picture you can see lions. They seemed to symbolize the secret meetings - nobody will go beyond the building and it is not available to those from outside of the building. 

Goal of The Bay of Pigs invasion in April,1961. was to overthrow Cuba's president Castro. It was totally unsuccesful and counter-revolutionary military, trained by CIA was defeated in just two days. As wikipedia says, Dwight Eisenhower allocated $13.1 million to the CIA in order to plan Castro's overthrow. Also, they were supplied good and had good armament.My question is what is the reason why was the Bay of Pigs invasion unsuccessful? I mean all the reasons above lead that USA could overthrow Castro. Thanks in advance. 

There are some things you can be sure about and some that you will never know for 100% are true/false/accurate. Facts throughout history are easier to understand and list, such as dates, people, events, etc. We know they happened, especially within the past 100 years when the world has been exposed to photographs and television. The bigger issue is understanding the underlying context and analysis. Why did things happen is something that we will never know for 100%. That is why so many controversies and debates exist within history, because you can have a hundred historians studying the same subject and looking at the same sources and they'll come away with 100, or more, different interpretations based on their own specialization, understanding, background, interest, and knowledge base. There is no absolute way of avoiding misinformation because for that you'll have to look at all the information the historian or author you're reading looked through, and that's impossible. And if somehow that were possible, your interpretation might easily differ from that of someone else. But that doesn't mean either of you is wrong, it simply means the world is not black and white and events unfold due to so many reasons and factors that it is truly impossible for any one person or one study to objectively encompass them all. 

After Congress of Berlin Bosnia and Herzegovina was occupied by Austro-Hungary, but still was formally part of Ottoman Empire. As Montenegro and Serbia wanted to incorporate that Ottoman province together, they were dissapointed with that decision and as only consolation they got international recognition and Niš was annexed to Serbia. Regardless to situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina Serbia found ally in Austro-Hungaria as they wanted to expand their territory to Eastern Balkan. In Serbo - Bulgarian war, Austro-Hungary saved Serbian independence when Austro - Hungarian representative Count Khevenhüller-Metsch threatened Bulgaria with Austro - Hungarian inclusion in war. Situation changed in 1903. when Alexander Obrenović was killed by secret military organization Bela Ruka (White Hand). On throne came Karađorđević dynasty with Petar Karađorđević as new king. Goals of Serbia have changed and they found new ally in Russia and France. Cooling of relations with Austo-Hungary led to Pig war between Serbia and Austro-Hungary and annexation of Bosnia and Herezgovina almost led to real war. In same time in Austro-Hungary strengthened idea of making unique Yugoslavic province in Austro-Hungary. However, emperor Franz Joseph I. refused conduction of this idea. Young Archduke Franz Ferdinand had different views and he actually wanted to rearrange Austro-Hungary in trialist monarchy. That idea wasn't very popular in Hungary because they would lost Rijeka and other territories (Austro-Hungarian Compromise), Riječka krpica. That idea also wasn't popular in Serbia and strongly yugoslavic- oriented people in Austro-Hungary (there was batch of them in that time). Gavrilo Princip was one of them. He was member of Mlada Bosna which was controlled by Crna Ruka, terrorist organization which took part in many murders and criminal activities. He finally killed Archduke Franz Ferdinand and when Austro-Hungary request for conduction of investigation was refused, Austro-Hungary attacked Serbia starting chain reaction and beginning of WW1. So assassination was trigger to World War I, and causes of WW1 were lying in Congress of Berlin, Bosnian Crisis and many other events in world not including only Austro-Hungary and Serbia, but other great world powers. And yes, I recommend you to read @choster comment if you don't know difference between causes and trigger of the war. 

Whether or not they were dictators is a separate question and one that does not necessarily relate to what they should or would wear. 

No. Knowing how 'close' they were would mean knowing what variables would be needed to bring them over into collapsing. Only conjecture exists in the form of taking Moscow in 1941 or the Caucasus in 1942. Comparable is the idea that the Germans were defeated before the war even began due to their lack of planning and foresight, as well as their failure of securing the encirclement at Smolensk spelled their eventual defeat. 

First, the Soviet Union and Germany never agreed to attack Poland or share it. They agreed on spheres of influence, which would come into play with 'border changes'. Said 'border changes' did not mean an invasion. Hitler had accomplished much without war and there was little reason for him to think he would not get away with victimizing Poland with no real consequences from the western allies, especially if he could get a pact going with the Soviet Union. Secondly, the Soviet Union, or more specifically Stalin, had no idea that Hitler would be invading Poland. They waited to see what would happen knowing that if territory did start getting detached and passed around, they would get theirs (similar to how Poland received a piece of Czechoslovakia). Now, in the case of no non-aggression pact with the Soviet Union, German plans for an invasion of Poland were already 'set in stone'. The invasion would have commenced with or without Soviet 'cooperation'. Hitler was a gambler, he would have gone ahead with the invasion betting that the western allies would do nothing of worth against Germany. 

Well, Bloody Mary is generally confirmed as folklore, so any connections to any historical person is shaky. Mary I of England got that sobriquet because of hers executions of Protestants and Bloody Mary probably got that name because participants may endure the apparition of drinking their blood. However, if you look further, you could see some connections between two of them. Wikipedia article says: 

This rings were religius symbols, they represented The Holy Trinity. They represent The Father, The son and The Holy spirit. A circle is an endless line having no beggining and no end symbolising God's eternity. The rings - three ribbon swirls were similar symbol(trinity). 

The Soviet navy played an auxiliary role throughout the entirety of the Second World War. The Baltic fleet was mainly locked in by German and Finnish mines, while the Black Sea fleet mainly participated in evacuation operations (Odessa and Sevastopol) and after the Germans retreated in 1943, attempted to gain control from German and Romanian forces. The Navy also participated in numerous landing operations in the Black Sea (Malaia Zemlia) for which Tsezar Kunikov is famous, and Brezhnev, who took credit he didn't deserve. Furthermore, Soviet Naval Infantry participated in numerous battles once their ships were disabled or there was a need for manpower. From Leningrad, to Odessa, Stalingrad, Sevastopol, Novorossiisk, and 'special forces' operations (mainly conducted by naval recon troops), Soviet navy personnel made up a significant and important part of many Red Army operations. The Germans nicknamed them 'The Black Death'. 

When she was 38 she gained weight, stopped menstruating and felt nausea. Doctors thought that Mary was pregnant, but it was most likely a false pregnancy, perhaps induced by Mary's overwhelming desire to have a child. 

The same building, again three circles. In the center of the image is Dyonisus, god of grape harvest and winemaking. We are talking about trinity again. 

Algeria was French military colony since 1834. and, by the constitution of 1848 to be an integral part of French territory and divided into three French departments (Algiers, Oran and Constantine). Also, as Tom said, Algeria was backdoor of France and it was very possible route to invade France. French capitulation in WW2 was already great hit to French honor, but when France lost in First Indochina war France was totally defiled. France could not allow to lose in another war because that could cause big political and military crisis in France. In Algeria, there were more French population (about 800,000) then in other overseas territories and colonies and their destiny would be very critical if they lost that war. 

A good definition of history that historians use is 'History is the study of change over time.' Historical studies, to a large extent, rely on theory and methodology. A series of facts is a narrative, it is not a historical study. Analyzing those facts, placing them into context, understanding the underlying factors that contributed to those facts occurring, all of that and then some is encompassed by the study of 'history.' Furthermore, history is very much interdisciplinary. Various graduate programs in history will encourage students to take classes in other disciplines (anthropology is a perfect example) and incorporate what they learn outside the field into their dissertation, articles, reviews, books, etc. Historians usually have to become immersed in the subjects they study. Thus economic historians have to have a general and at times detailed understanding of economics that's relative to the time period and location they specialize in. The same applies to politics, labor, medicine, technology, philosophy, warfare, etc. I can't comment on what those outside the discipline of history do, but I can say that 'outsiders' who try to write about history usually fail in that they do not understand how to incorporate either theory or methodology. What readers are left with are either popular histories that add nothing new to the canon or failed attempts to discuss historical subjects/ideas.