A company is not a person & a job is not a life. Even if your current employer would be upset by you leaving, if you do it right nobody gets upset & no bridges are burned. More importantly: You should not treat an employer/employee relationship strictly as if it’s some deep personal relationship in which one would get upset at the there by leaving. At the end of that day even a “career” is still a “job.” And your task for yourself is to further your career in a way that benefits others but—most importantly—works best for yourself. Meaning, based on what you have described, I would weigh the benefits of other positions. Most likely accept one of those positions. But do so in a way that reflects your current employer. How to balance that? Who knows. In the U.S. 2 weeks notice is standard & in some cases giving more than 2 weeks notice is a good way of ensuring bridges are not burnt. But perhaps the best way to state this is to negotiate with the future employer and state, “I’m going to give my current employer 2 weeks notice, but there might be some desire from them to allow me to consult. Is that something we can work out?” Then on the current employer front, approach them, tell them you accepted a new position & give standard 2 weeks notice. But also state, “I understand that you have other projects you would want me involved in, but nothing has happened so far. That is why I am leaving. Do you still want to keep in touch regarding the future project to see if there is any way we can work together on a limited basis?” What it all boils down to is you cannot be strung along by verbal agreements. And at the end of the day, folks on your current employer’s side will be upset. But in the great scheme of things, you might look back on this gig and be upset you didn’t do what is best for you. Like I said at the outset a company is not a person & a job is not a life. Do what is best for your career & do it in a way that respects others. All should be good. 

I would consider “Messenger chat” & “Email” to be one informal level, “Phone” to be the next level and the final two—which are basically meetings—as the final level. I would recommend initiating basic communication via “Messenger chat” & “Email”. Perhaps veer towards “Email” for formality when you need something in writing. Then use “Phone” to hash out concepts that need a conversation for clarity. Then roll onto meetings if you need more clarity or need to talk over items in a group situation. But it all boils down to what the people you are working with respond to best. I juggle all the forms above to different degrees based on different tasks, people & departments. The rhythm of the people you work with & the rhythm of what works with you should be in sync. Which is not an easy task, but something that takes time as your relationship with your colleagues grows. 

First & foremost, your boss will never be able to change your co-worker’s habits. Seriously. They can reprimand your co-worker or perhaps facilitate a discussion between the two of you, but from the sounds of it your co-worker is simply an uncooperative member of the team at best. How can you solve this? Well, make a strong case about the issue. Document each time you have had to clean up their work. Is this in a code repository? Even better. Then approach your boss not about asking for them to be dictating behavior, but rather talk to your boss & say: “Look, this is an issue. Let’s meet with him to discuss this.” Then simply have all of you three meet to discuss why & how these conflicts in code are leading to workflow issues. Also, be ready to not have anything solved. That’s life. But you need to document their habits, make an effort to resolve them co-operatively and then if they screw up? The blame falls on them. Which would reflect on them & their future with the company. 

If you are in a contract position you know will end, then my suggested tact for you would be to approach your supervisor and say it straight out, “I know this contract will end and I have been looking for other jobs after my contract ends. They would like to meet with me on [some day, some time] so could we work something out?” Unless your current employers are completely tone-deaf to your employment reality, they should—and would—be able to accommodate you. It’s unclear what you do or where you do it, but perhaps you could request an extended lunch on a specific day when you plan on interviewing. Or maybe staying and hour or so later to cover for lost time on the job? But basically, if it’s on the table—and transparent—that this current contract will end, then you should be as equally transparent about your goals of seeking another position when it ends. That said, let’s say your current employers are inflexible and not understanding at all. Then if you have sick days, just call in sick and go on interviews on those days. Yes, some people would frown at abusing a sick-day policy to interview for another gig, but if your current employers are inflexible you need to really look at the economy of this situation: They are inflexible, you need work and now they are giving you no other choice than to—let’s face it—tell a “white lie.” 

Now with that said, compile that list & approach your manager with the details. While they clearly are saying you are not a good fit for the project, the reality is if there was someone else who could handle that they would have gotten the task already. Or perhaps your manager would figure out a way for the two of you to work cooperatively. But as it stands, my attitude is if the project falls on your lap & you know the deadlines are unreasonable you are within your power to shape a discussion on how best to tackle this. 

The reality is that yes, most people repress their inner, personal pains in the workplace. Nobody really wants to work in a place where you know everybody's business. People generally want to come in, do their job and leave. But if this personal incident was so traumatic that it is visibly affecting your outward behavior, the issue is you can't repress it. If you could, you would, but it's clear your emotions are overwhelming you. And trying to repress that level of malaise helps nobody. My first suggestion would be for you to seriously reassess your desire to not share this personal pain. I am not saying you basically breakdown in front of your co-workers, but you need to let somebody be in the office know exactly why your behavior has changed. So I would recommend you have a meeting with human resources to discuss the issue. Now hopefully you do actually have a human resources department. And generally the purpose of human resources is to help you and the company work together. But be forewarned: Depending on how your human resources department works (meaning how professional and respectful they are) this could go two ways. 

Then her job is done. Now you might be wincing at how this can be a completed job when the final product is so bad and can so easily be improved. But again, that is not the job of the project manager. This is the basic bureaucratic conundrum any developer deals with when dealing with a project or project manager. Sometimes they do not understand the nuts and bolts of an issue. And there is no way to solve that… But one… Quality assurance. Now you might think that you—as a developer—believe you include quality assurance in your process, but that is not what I mean. What I mean is that somehow—at higher levels than your project manager—the concept that there needs to be a quality assurance stage in the process needs to be addressed. Now how to do that? Unclear. And here is why. The reason why so many projects end up in dysfunctional states like this is that either: 

Every employer is supposedly committed to quality. Yet tons of crappy software is out there & tons of security breaches exist. In general you are mixing up the puffery of business speak because saying “we are committed to quality” is ultimately a vague statement. Whose quality? What is the benchmark? It’s just bull crud made to make you feel great. In general everything you will hear during an interview process will be—for lack of a better term—a “white lie” designed to make you feel that the potential employer is the best choice you have. My advice? You will most likely never see production code until you are in the company itself. And if it does not meet your standards, just keep on looking for a new gig. The harsh reality is pretty much tons of companies have crappy systems, crappy software & crappy practices. And that stems from the fact this type of computer work is “invisible” to most & most people can get away with it.