Unfortunately this advice may a bit late for you now, but if you cover the outside of the pots in washing-up liquid before putting them on the fire/wood burner and clean it after use. The washing-up liquid should stop the soot sticking and it should wipe of fairly easily. This approach is best if you are at a fixed campsite where you can easily wash your pots after use and the extra washing liquid is not too much of an issue. If you are backpacking it means you have to carry a large amount of washing liquid and/or carry sticky washing liquid covered pots neither of which are great ideas. If you've already got your pots in a mess your options are limited. You'll probably need to do a lot of scrubbing, like you are. If you haven't already soaking your pots in soapy water overnight may help but I doubt it will solve the problem entirely. 

Aspect ratio describes the ratio between sail/keel height divided by (average) width. So a high aspect ratio is tall and skinny and a low aspect ratio is short and fat. For sails one of the main affects of aspect ratio is on drag. High aspect ratio tend to produce lower drag (i.e. more powerful) sails for the same area. Therefore, modern racing boats tend to have fairly square sail designs (higher aspect ratio) see picture. Another minor advantage of high aspect ratio sails is for inland sailing where wind is often obscured. In this case higher aspect ratios are more likely to get clean air than a shorter sail, see Thames A raters. On the other hand higher aspect ratio gives greater truning motion and so requires a bigger keel/is more likely to capsize. For keels the greater righting motion of high aspect ratios is one of the main advantages. Additionally, high aspect ratio keels are easier to turn although there will be some loss of sideways resistance from the decreased width. 

I would probably use sail repair tape, which you should be able to get from most chandlers. You can get a range of colours to try and match your sleeping bag. As well as rolls of tape you can also get patches which are slightly easier to use and are often slightly cheaper, but give you a lot less tape. If you are only repairing a single patch these may be better value. To improve the lifetime of your repair cut your tape/patch into a circle or lozenge as the corners peeling up if generally what causes the repair to fail. For large rips it may be worth sowing the hole shut first, as this will improve the strength of the repair and stop the hole growing. For sleeping bags and jackets this is probably not necessary in most cases as they do not often undergo high forces and it makes the repair significantly more difficult. If you do so use a reasonably strong thread and as thin a needle as possible to minimize further damage to the fabric. 

I know several people who recommend the Harvey maps, so they're obviously not terrible. The main advantage is the 1:40,000 scale which offers most of the detail of a 1:25,000 map while covering a larger area. Additionally, they don't have many irrelevant features like county boundaries and slightly more colourful style than OS maps, which make it easier to understand the map at a glance. The larger area of the maps allows them to cover more useful areas where multiple 1:25000 maps would be needed. Particularly the Lakes, which are covered by 4 OS maps compared to 1 Harvey map. Additionally, their waterproofness is pretty good and can make them much easier to use than using a mapcase or a laminated OS map, which are much more bulky. Obviously as OS maps cover the entire country Harvey maps are never strictly necessary, but in many situations they can provide an, at least arguably, better alternative to OS maps. 

Due to the nature of many injuries your awareness and ability to treat yourself may be impaired. Therefore, extra care should be taken. Don't do anything rash or hastily as that will probably just make things worse. Take a few moments to collect yourself and get an initial impression of how you feel. Your first concern is to prevent further injury and get yourself into a safe position. What this involves will depend on the state of your injuries and your current position. You want to move to somewhere where there is no further risk of slipping/falling/getting hit by rocks etc. However, you are probably not feeling the most agile right now and don't want to cause further injury so think carefully about if you should move and do so carefully. If help/other people are nearby now is the time to try and contact them, they will be in a much better situation to assess the dangers and help you. Once you are safe you should assess your injuries. The good news is you are conscious (or you wouldn't be assessing yourself) so you are not dying immediately. However, you may still have life threatening injuries that need immediate treatment. Unfortunately, most of the more serious injuries lead lower levels of consciousness and awareness making them difficult to self assess. Again, contact help if possible. In roughly decreasing level of seriousness some major things to check for are: Head injuries: Head injuries can lead to concussion and/or internal bleeding both of which can be very serious. Check for any bleeding or swelling around the head. Can also lead to lower levels of consciousness, confusion and vomiting. If you suspect severe head injuries or conditions worsen you should get professional help as soon as possible. Direct treatment in the wilderness is limited - apply ice or cool any swelling and stop further bleeding. Severe bleeding and shock: Severe bleeding can lead to large loss of blood, resulting in shock and loss of consciousness. Your first concern is to prevent further blood loss. Check your body for any bleeding. Treatment for bleeding is to apply pressure and then bandage. If there is a large object stuck/impaled in the wound do not move it as this may make the bleeding worse. Shock can be caused by large amounts of blood loss and can result in confusion/dizziness leading to unconsciousness. This can make it hard to self assess. Treatment is to stop any further blood loss and if possible raise the legs to increase blood flow to the heart. Hypo/hyperthermia: Depending on the weather conditions and how long you have been out in them you may be at risk due to exposure. The symptoms of these are quite well known but should be they also lead to confusion and lower levels of consciousness again making self-diagnosis hard. Try and protect yourself from the weather and heat/cool your body as appropriate. Breaks and sprains: While brakes and sprains are not generally immediately life threatening, if they prevent you moving that can become a major issue in a wilderness situation. Learn how to splint the most commonly injured areas. I like to carry a SAM splint in my first aid kit as they are very flexible, light and easy to use, but sticks and walking poles also make good splinting materials. I'll focus on lower body injuries. Upper body break can be very painful and should generally be splinted and or immobilized, but generally won't stop you walking to safety. For femur (thigh) or pelvis breaks your are probably screwed without assistance. The force required to break these and the amount of blood vessels in these areas will result in severe internal bleeding. Your should try and minimise this. For pelvis injuries you want to make/apply a pelvis splint. This basically pressurizes the pelvis to minimize further bleeding. For femur injuries a traction splint can be applied. These can be rigged up using a hiking pole. However, they are quiet difficult to apply correctly. In either case you aren't going to be walking out so need to be able to contact help. For lower leg injuries the area between the knee and ankle should be immobilized. Sticks or walking poles can be used to do this although sleeping pads also work well. Depending on the severity of the break you will probably be able to walk out although it may be very painful. For ankle injuries either splint the ankle or just bind tightly with a bandage. Again painful but probably walkable. 

As others have said the importance depends on your location. In the UK & Europe the correction is quite small, approx 2-3 degrees and can therefore mostly be ignored. Compared to parts of the US where the correction can be at least 15 degrees. This is because the magnetic north pole lies somewhere in northern Canada, so the UK is relatively far away for its inclination. Given this unless you are traveling long distances over distances in featureless terrain (which is pretty much only going to be at sea), the difference becomes negligible. If you walk 10km in a straight line a 2 degree error only gives about 300m of lateral distance so you don't really need to worry. 

If you are just interested in a toy bow that doesn't shoot to hard or far then flexibility is your main concern. You want thinnish green wood which tends to be the most flexible. If you want to build a more proper bow the strength of the wood is also important as it needs to take the load you are putting in. For specific woods, the traditional English longbow is made of Yew which is probably one of the best bow making woods in Europe (note: English yew is poisonous so be careful while handling it). Other wood traditionally used for longbows according to wikipedia include ash, elm, hazel and laburnum so these are other good options. 

If you really want to camp I would recommend the New Forest as there are lots of campsites there and plenty of walking for at least a weekend. The problem is most of Southern England is pretty much all residential or farmland so there are few good places where you can wild camp reliably. There are probably also plenty of camping locations along the North downs way, South downs way and other long distance walks nearby. But I've never tried camping at any of them as if its just an hour train it seems better to me to just do a day walk. 

Personally, I would rarely call anything a line. More specific terminology, such as sheet or halyard, is generally more helpful. But anyway, I would say a rope is a line when you put it on a boat. Until then it is just a bit of rope that you could do anything else with. Also note that in many ways a line is more general than just rope and can refer to cable or chain on larger boats. 

I'm looking to get some B2 boots, but am having difficulty getting a good fit. I tried Scarpa Manta's but my heel kept lifting. I think the issue is that my ankles are quite narrow. Does anyone have any good advice for getting better fitting boots or is it just a case of trying a range of brands? Are some brands known to make narrower boots? 

Thinner diameter ropes such as these have a wide range of uses but are not primarily designed for climbing. See this description from Sterling Ropes: 

The thing that immediately jumps to mind for this is a retractable washing line, which should have enough length for what you want. However, they are relatively heavy and aren't exactly thin twine. Another option may be a automatic fishing real. However, its probably not long enough for what you want. 

I would probably use a small tupperware or similar, something like this. You can also get ones where the lid clips down which are probably more secure. If you are concerned about it leaking/coming open I would use some elastic bands to secure the lid and store it in a separate freezer bag to contain any leaks. Using a freezer bag as you suggest may work, but I would definitely double/triple bag it. My main concern would be how easy it would be to get the paste out again. I think you would end up wasting a lot. But I've never tried so it may be fine. 

To test your hiking kit/boots to see if it is all comfortable/fits you can do a day walk but carrying your full rucksack and kit (or stuff of similar weight). This will give you a idea of how your kit fits and the difference in hiking with a full rucksack compared to a daysack to help you judge how far you should aim for. Most of your camping kit can be tested at home. For example I would definitely check you can put up your tent and light your stove before going on a trip. Getting it wrong at home is much better than doing it wrong in the wild. Ideally if time allows you could also do a short one/two night backpacking trip before your main trip. This will allow you to check your kit in action so to speak and will give you an idea of some of the small items you may have forgotten. Forgetting loo-roll for a 1 night trip is bad. Forgetting it for a week trip is dire. On that note you may want to make a list of the kit you need well in advance. If your not confident get someone to check it for any glaring omissions. Then update it with anything you missed after you practice camp. 

I short they have a fixed keel. I suspect what you are seeing is probably just due to the shape of the hull. I couldn't see anything that unusual in the video you linked. One other possible cause could be the boat planing which will mean the boat mounts its own bow wave, causing it to appear further back. 

I think it would be fun to climb all the Munros as a single long distance type route. The wikipedia page indicates that several people have climbed all the Munros as a continuous round. Where can I find more information about completing such a challenge? In particular is there a standard route and how long should I expect to take? 

The type of boot you want will depend greatly on what sort of hiking you are doing, both in terms of distance and terrain. Personal preference also plays a strong role. For day walks on decent paths you will probably be fine with a sturdy pair of trainers or running shoes. Whereas for longer routes over rougher terrain, a studier boot if probably better, as they normally have better grip and ankle support. Personally, I generally prefer a solid boot with good ankle support as I tend to roll my ankles a lot otherwise. However, I've been hiking in the alps for a week with someone who just had trainers and sandals. So people vary a lot in what they like. Waterproofness is also a factor, depending on where you are going. If the ground is likely to be wet or muddy or you cross any rivers or streams you will want a waterproof boot, especially if you are doing a multi-day hike. The most important thing is to be comfortable in what you are wearing. Poorly fitting boots that give you blisters are the worst. For buying I would recommend going to your local outdoor shop. I only know of REI in the US but I'm sure there are others. They usually have knowledgeable staff who can advise you on what type of boot is best for you and help you get a good fit. 

Depending on where you are camping I would recommend a three or four season synthetic sleeping bag. Synthetic bags are generally cheaper and bulkier than down bags for an equivalent warmth. As you are car camping the additional bulk isn't that important. Most of Spain has night temperatures between 5-0 C this time of year so a three season bag should be fine. Sleeping bags generally have a comfort temperature rating (and sometimes an extreme temperature rating too). I would look for a bag with a comfort temp of about 0 C or a bit lower. Depending on your preference you may even get away with a two season bag if you don't mind wearing extra clothes/being cold. If you are in the mountains the temperature will be somewhat colder and you may need a four season bag. Have a look at the expected night temperatures for the places you are going to.