This is supported by the definition of βίος in Henry George Liddell and Robert Scott's A Greek-English Lexicon, edited by Sir Henry Stuart Jones: 

I found a paper from 2002 ("j-pinyin: A New Systematic Approach to the Japanese Transcription of Chinese Syllables," by Jin-Hua SHE, Shumei CHEN, Sumio OHNO and Hiroyuki KAMEDA) that says that at that time, there was no general standard for transcribing modern Chinese into Japanese; it proposes the titular system which you can see described in the paper. I don't know if it's caught on at all. It doesn't look like it transcribes tone. Diphthongs are just transcribed by using multiple kana. Apparently, in j-pinyin the difference between the coda consonants "n" and "ng" is represented by using a long vowel mark (ー) before the second. 

(bolding added) From what this passage says, it sounds like "ˡ" would indeed signify what Ladefoged refers to as lateral plosives. Of course, different phoneticians might have different opinions. The Wikipedia page on "Navajo phonology" transcribes the lateral stop series as affricates, except for the plain unaspirated one ("tˡ tɬʰ tɬʼ"). Here is the table mentioned: 

Pinyin tosses out a lot of semantic information. Once Chinese characters are removed from the language, it becomes harder for Mandarin to coexist with different Chinese languages under the same umbrella. If I learned history right, the French used the Latin script to do that very thing: cut off the Vietnamese from the Chinese sphere of influence. Nowadays, borrowed words there are even imported verbatim into the language instead of naturalized as English and French becomes trendy. I reckon most Latin-based scripts eventually run into the problem that English faces: words that retain the spelling of their originating language. One way to address the problems is a language regulatory institution that has the backing of a government to do two things: 

Differentiate homophones with etymological spelling like French. The spelling should pose no problem to reading since it contains more information than what is spoken aloud. A reader will know to collapse the different graphemes (like the and nasal codas) into one phoneme or to delete silent letters (like , , and in the coda position). However, speech cannot be written with etymologically correct spelling without knowing beforehand how the morphemes should be spelled. 

My impression is that generative grammar is viewed by some grammarians as a Lakotosian 'research program(me)', not as a 'refutable "theory"'. I am not a generative grammarian (or any kind of grammarian), but I read the Generativist blog "Faculty of Language", whose contributor Norbert Hornstein has made references to a "research program" in various posts (e.g. "How I See The Minimalist Project", "The wildly successful minimalist program", "A (shortish) Whig history of Generative Grammar (part 1)"). Obviously Hornstein is one particular person, and has his own invidual biases (probably evident from just the title of these posts), but that is my impression. Hopefully someone more knowledgeable about Generative Grammar will post a more enlightening answer! 

Dominik Lukes' answer is quite right. I wanted to elaborate on the specific development: all of the sounds associated with the letter "j" in present-day languages are ultimately based on the front high semivowel sound that "j" is currently used for in German. (This is probably in part why the letter "j" is used in IPA for the semivowel sound). The letter "j" originated as a graphical variant of the letter "i", which typically is used to represent the front high vowel [i], which is pretty much a syllabic equivalent to [j]. The other pronunciations of "j" developed as follows: In Romance languages, Latin /j/ (originally written with the letter ) developed via regular sound change to something like [ɟ] or [dʒ] in certain contexts. (Not necessarily in all phonetic environments! And there were other sources of the sound [dʒ]. But the specifics depend on the particular language we're talking about.) French had the sound [d͡ʒ] when the word "just" was borrowed from it into English, and English speakers have mostly retained this pronunciation. French speakers later simplified the affricate to a fricative [ʒ]. The story of how Spanish got "j" = /x/ is the longest. In Spanish, the letter "j" at one point was used to represent the sound /ʒ/, as in modern French, probably for similar reasons. The sound /ʒ/ occurred in inherited native Spanish vocabulary as the reflex of word-initial Latin /j/ before back vowels (as in your example justo < L. iustus, or juego < iocum). It also occurred word-medially as the reflex of Latin "l" in certain palatalizing contexts, in words like ajo < alium, fijo < filius, ojo < oculus. Eventually, Spanish [ʒ] was devoiced and merged with the reflex of [ʃ] (which used to be spelled with "x"), and the merged reflex was further retracted to [x]. Because of the merger, in modern Spanish spelling the letter "j" is used in many words that used to be spelled with "x": e.g. ejemplo. (Interestingly, in some regional varieties of Spanish the sound /ʝ/ (often written "y") has gone through or is going through similar changes to the ones that Latin /j/ went through centuries before in words like justo. Spanish speakers in certain areas may realize the sound as a voiced affricate like [dʒ], a voiced fricative like [ʒ], or a devoiced fricative like [ʃ].) Sound changes and examples taken from "History of Spanish Consonants" from The Linguistics of Spanish, Mackenzie, Ian. 1999–2017. So to summarize: the various pronunciations of "j" can all be explained as resulting from sound changes in various languages that affected original /j/: however, this does not mean that every particular word in a modern language spelled with "j" used to be pronounced with the sound [j]. 

Additionally, in Verb Phrase (VP) topicalization, auxiliaries are not fronted with the VP but left behind. This is true of both finite and non-finite auxiliaries. Sentences with fronted auxiliaries are ungrammatical, even when they are non-finite. 

The fact that to follows negation is therefore not an argument against its status as an auxiliary; it should actually be considered evidence that it is. Another property which comes as a consequence of to's being a non-finite auxiliary is that it cannot undergo inversion, which is what a previous answer seems to be getting at with the claim that to must follow "complementizers, foci, [and] subjects." Tensed auxiliaries undergo inversion in English, for instance in questions and stylistic inversion, but non-finite auxiliaries do not; as a non-finite auxiliary, to is completely unexceptionable in this respect. Here is a summary of the above evidence that to is a non-finite auxiliary: 

There was another document I read a while back that was intriguing, but I do not know which of my browsers’ history to look to retrieve the URL. 

Unlike Ghoti657, I do speak Cantonese and some Mandarin, but I speak neither French nor German. I can offer my opinion that German, being a Germanic language, and French, being a Romance language are quite different because of spelling differences and differences in phonology. The difference between Cantonese and Mandarin, however, is different depending on what you are analyzing. The writing system and vocabulary is largely identical even after accounting for the fact that mainland China uses simplified characters. Common (like pronouns) and colloquial words will be more divergent, but Cantonese does not have too many dialectical characters of its own and the vocabulary is fairly close due to a shared literary tradition, and being nearly directly descended from the same historical language. However, written Cantonese may still be unintelligible depending on the subject. Where the subject matter is more technical, the vocabulary will tend to be very similar like English use of Latin-derived words for this purpose. Spoken, there is a large difference between the two with the main difference being that Cantonese stop codas are absent in Mandarin, and the rich Mandarin vowel sequences are not present in Cantonese. There is enough correspondence between Cantonese and Mandarin phonology that sometimes the pronunciation of the other language can be guessed with some training and a good command of one's own native language. Multi-syllable words can sometimes be understood between the two and the grammar is comparable, although I have trouble with standard Mandarin Chinese grammar. So spoken, I would liken the difference between Cantonese and Mandarin, then, as between Italian and French. Written, I would liken it to the difference between Spanish and Italian. German and French, though, are like Mandarin and Fujianese (which hypothetically split off before Middle Chinese even came into existence). 

Perhaps the most widespread argument for the analysis of to as an auxiliary is that it is capable of elliptical stranding, a property characteristic of auxiliaries. Notice that both finite and non-finite auxiliaries have this property. 

Now, in conclusion, let's reconsider the idea that to is "defective." The allegedly "defective" property of to is that it does not have inflected forms; how defective is that property, really? Notice that modal auxiliaries in fact lack uninflected forms. Are they defective as well? We might well say that to is defective, but we can only say so in the same capacity that we're willing to say modals are defective as well for their lacking uninflected forms. I'll quote the last couple few of "Auxiliaries: To's company" because I think it's appropriate (the paper argues in favor of an argument originally made by Geoffrey Pullum in 1982 that to is an auxiliary). 

→ yuányīm) 香蕉 “banana” (xiāngjiāo → hiāngziāo) and 相交 “cross over” (xiāngjiāo → siānggiāo) 目的 “goal” (mùdì → mùkdìk) and 墓地 “burial ground” (mùdì) 

Whether it works or not, the use of Chinese characters is a very cultural/political issue. The use of Latin may be seen as kowtowing to Western civilization. There might be a happy medium like the use of Zhuyin which is indigenous but not too difficult to master for anyone. Zhuyin is already used to write some non-Chinese languages. 

Here’s a paper by Heather Kavan from Massey University: “We don’t know what we’re saying, but it’s profound”: The language and contexts of glossolalia. I found this paper to be enlightening, and if I have time some of her references seem worth it to follow. Some of her points: 

Promulgate spelling rules for transliterating foreign words into the native spelling rules that do not accommodate foreign phonology. 

This answer is based on chapter 2 (section 8: "Infinitival to) of Minimalist Syntax: Exploring the structure of English by Andrew Radford (2004), and "Auxiliaries: To's company" (2012) by Robert Levine in Journal of Linguistics. Infinitival to is an auxiliary. It is the same category as the other auxiliaries, but it is considered "defective" in a single respect; it does not have inflected forms. It's as simple as that. All the properties you can come up with in which to seems to differ from finite auxiliaries, it shares with non-finite auxiliaries. What are some reasons to believe to is an auxiliary? The most intuitive one is the structural parallel. Like other auxiliaries, to takes as a complement a verb phrase headed by a bare verb or non-finite auxiliary. 

An answer above points out that to cannot precede clausal negation. It would not be unreasonable at first glance to see this as a problem for the analysis of to as an auxiliary. However, in reality, the fact that to cannot precede clausal negation follows straightforwardly from to's status as a non-finite auxiliary. Notice that the same distribution is shared by non-finite auxiliaries. In the following, the interpretation of not as clausal negation is unacceptable. Only the interpretation of not as VP negation obtains, making the relevant predicates "not joke" and "not like."