The first question is whether or not there is even an open SVP spot. There might not be. It's quite likely your supervisor made promises (s)he simply couldn't keep once (s)he took over and found out more details about what is going on in the company. Who knows what the former CEO had promised to various people and you can bet they are now trying to call in those favors. Your best bet would be to keep going to lunch with the CEO and make sure you have plenty of visibility solving big problems. Be seen as someone who is helpful during the transition rather than being a problem to be dealt with. A few other things that might be blocking you boil down to exactly how much (if any) of the company stock the CEO actually controls. If it's very little in comparison to the board then they might have their hands completely tied in regards to the top spots. Some boards are relatively inactive and leave the CEO to do their job, only checking in every so often to give advice. Others take a far more active role and dictate to the CEO how to run things - including who the top people are. Often the top spots are based on verifiable credentials that "look good" far more than having anything to do with capability and if there are openings they might be seeking people that would look good for a possible buyout. Given this person was promoted into that job when it was vacated unexpectedly I'd bet it's the latter. If the transition was very recent then you can bet the CEO has his/her hands full with figuring out what's going on in the company, soothing any ruffled feathers on the board and generally making sure a lot of people don't just bail out. If the previous CEO was THE driving force of the company then the new one has to convince 3 very different groups (board, employees, customers) that they are capable of handling the job. Any major changes at this point, like large internal promotions, need to be seriously considered in that light before acting on them. Honestly, the fact you tagged this "legal" without knowing that promises by people without power are worthless says to me that perhaps you aren't ready for the role. Of course, I don't know you and I certainly don't know the exact situation you are in. My answer is simply based on what I've seen elsewhere and my perspective from running a company. 

If you are overly concerned with being fired then you will likely be fired in the near future. Emotional worries like that one tend to be self fulfilling. What you need to do is realize that there are things you can control and things you can't. Do your best to control the things you can and flat out ignore everything else. For example, I can't control whether the airplane I fly out on is going to make it to its destination or not. However I can control whether my seat belt is properly buckled and (usually) that I'm sitting comfortably. I choose to ignore all of the possible things that might go wrong and instead focus on the book I brought or magazine they provide. If I worried about all of those other details I'd likely never actually get on the plane to begin with and certainly wouldn't be able to enjoy my book. In your situation you can control getting up in the morning, the clothes you wear and (usually) your ability to arrive at work on time. You can control the actions you take while there, presumably to do the tasks you were assigned. You can't directly control office politics, company planning, income, head counts, etc. So don't worry about it. 

A good hiring manager will know the upper limits of what they are willing to pay and, at the same time, keep that information to themselves. After all, they have a budget and it's there job to spend that money in the best way possible. Your job is to determine the minimum amount of money you are willing to work for. When the manager asks how much you want then you need to say so. So, make sure you quote them a price above that minimum so that you have room to negotiate. When delivering this amount do so with full confidence that you are worth every single penny; believe me, it helps. If that amount is either near what they are willing to pay or under it then the manager will likely counter. If the counter works, accept it. If it's below your minimum then let them know that you can't go below $x. At this point a good manager will likely stop the conversation saying they need to get approval (whether they actually do or not). Some managers may just accept your price right there. That doesn't necessarily mean you "left money on the table" so to speak. It might just be how they work. Point is: know what you want and don't be afraid to ask for it. It might take a negotiating a few times to get there but as long as you aren't too far out of line then you'll get it. Further, what they are willing to pay shouldn't impact your happiness at what you are willing to work for. 

At some point this person will stop talking. The polite way to handle it is to just let them finish, then the person who was interrupted begins again as if they had never been interrupted. Essentially, ignore them. That said, it's the responsibility of the board president, as chair, to deal with this. As that person isn't doing their job you need to speak to them about this. Take a few other members who have a similar view with you so that the president knows that this is a problem. 

Any time you are unhappy in your job you should approach your manager and have a nice frank discussion with them. There's no need to tell them about another opportunity - threats are never the way to maintain long term relationships and often will blow up in your face. Rather you just want to let them know that you aren't happy in the current situation and explore how to fix it. So, the first thing to do is put some serious thought into what types of changes would have to happen for you to be happy. Be realistic. Then approach your boss and try to work through them. If the boss is unable or unwilling to make those changes then seek employment elsewhere. At no point would I approach the boss and say "hey, this other company wants me and I'm going to go unless you do X, Y and Z." That's the fastest way to be walked out and end the employment on bad terms. Even if they don't walk you out immediately they will be looking to replace you at the first opportunity. If you have a professional and frank discussion with the boss about things then they will know where you stand and, possibly, be able to resolve things. Threatening them won't really make them want to work it out. 

If you can figure out how to install it yourself, then go to the responsible person and kindly ask for the software. Tell them that you know they are really busy so if they could just point you in the right direction you'll take care of it. If you can't, then possibly the best way would be to check in with this person once each morning to see if they can take care of it. After a couple days of asking I'm sure they'll find the time. 

Actually, that depends on the governing laws for the location and size of the company. Depending on where you are at, seniority counts for more than pay scale. Which means that you are a high risk until lots of people are hired after you. Either way, this is something you can research with that specific company to find out their history. 

I hire programmers. I am very aware of the fact that length of service has little to do with coding competence. I'm also very aware that the top 2% completely outclass the other 98% on sheer coding ability. That said, when we put out an ad we do list X number of years experience within the relevant tech stack (usually 5+). The reason is that from my experience - 30+ in this industry - coding skill isn't the biggest factor in determining whether the person will be successful at a given position. Factors that are usually as important, if not more so, include working with a team. Quite frankly it just takes time for someone to go through the various inevitable personality clashes that may occur and for them to figure out how to deal with them. It takes time for someone to make various mistakes in front of customers or upper management - and learn how not to do that again. More specifically to development: it also takes time for someone to solve the exact same problem 20 different ways in order to be educated on what works long term and why. Yes, with only two years in the work force you might very well be able to code circles around those who have been hacking at it for 5 or 10 years. However, in those 5+ years those guys have seen things fail in sometimes spectacular ways and have (generally) figured out simple things like rushing off to use the new shiny in the mission critical app is never a good plan. So in the interview we'll weed out those who have only seen a couple projects go to completion and those who really only have 1 year, 5 times over. We'll weed out those who are prima donnas and who have only very limited experience working in a team; we'll also weed out those who have never completed a project entirely on their own. There are so many skills learned beyond just writing code that only time, along with failure, can bring. To get past that gauntlet takes time; which means the first thing to weed out are those who simply haven't met the initial time requirement. 

The key to presenting to management is keeping it short and to the point. The topics you need to cover are cost, benefit, time to implement. Everything else are details that they probably don't really care about. Except the charts. Managers like charts. We used to take an hour to do demos for our software. Along the way we trimmed out nearly all of the actual technical stuff, leaving just the parts showing how it's going to make their lives easier. Demos now take about 15 minutes and sales are up. Every so often we run into those highly technical people that want the details and we'll gladly dive into them. Show some nicely formatted reports with pie charts and graphs. Cover the benefit and implementation time frames. Go over how your product pays for itself in X number of months/years/whatever. Keep the presentation down to 30 minutes; 20 is better. If a manager is disinterested, then that amount of time doesn't feel like a complete waste. If a manager is interested (s)he will likely start asking questions while forgetting about how long you guys are talking. Make sure you give concise answers.