That is a very, very interesting question. The biggest point missed thus far is establishing what exactly you consider to be "natural". We can work off of the assumption that you are referring to things which are a certain way without intervention, but there are a great many intervening factors in nearly everything. So the definition this answer will operate under is defining things to be natural if they fit what is typically true of a thing barring influence by external forces. In that sense, whether something is natural or not does not have any significance in matters of ethics or legality. Both exist independently of the concept of naturalness. Under such a view, deviations from what is typical of something do not factor in to the quality of that thing - they simply are. However, theistic views often contend that something is considered to be "natural" if and only if it fits the model set forth in their religion. All else is considered to be unnatural and unholy, and that can be a significant factor in argumentation under their viewpoint. That is the basis of the particular argument you mention regarding homosexuality. Some theistic views are not in agreement with homosexuality, and so the people holding those views are not favorable of the concept as they consider it a violation of some of their most strongly held beliefs. 

he misses the point because he just asserts, without any explanation, that the problem of reducing subjective consciousness to what's going on in the objectively observable brain (the “hard problem of consciousness” as philosopher of mind David Chalmers called it) is not at all different than reducing the complex behavior of weather to the fundamental physical laws and interactions between gas molecules – which are both objective phenomena. 

Maybe philosophers like David Armstrong see a problem where there is none. The problem of universals is just a mirage. If that is indeed true, the question just becomes: How can we be able to relate to Armstrong's and other realists' faulty reasoning? Here Michael Devitt writes in "Ostrich Nominalism or Mirage Realism?": 

Is mereological nihilism, the metaphysical doctrine that objects with proper parts do not exist, the same as atomism? If not, what are the differences? How can mereological nihilism work without assuming that there are at some point only objects which do not contain parts, i.e. philosophical atoms (things that are not composed, which means undividable)? If philosophical atoms do not exist, it would follow from mereological nihilism that nothing does exist, because everything has proper parts. 

It may be unnecessary or rather it has achieved all of its goals. Feminism rarely concerns itself with legal rights anymore – because in Western democracies there are no civil rights that women lack and men have. But it's not an oxymoron. It maybe could become an oxymoron if you define feminism as a “fighting against social norms that oppress women” – but in this case your slavery-analogy isn't very illuminating. Abolitionism was overwhelmingly about legal rights, not about oppressive social norms. 

You commit one of the most common fallacies I've come across in such questions here. But first, let's establish the actual meaning belonging to the term "atheist". An atheist is not one who has an active belief that there is no god, but rather one who does not believe in a god. The difference is subtle, but significant. It is not an actively held belief requiring evidence to say that you do not believe in a god. Not doing something is most assuredly not the same as doing something in a way which is contradictory to the typical way in which the action is performed. That being said, your argument quickly places the burden of proof on the atheist, who does not believe there is a god. In doing so, you are essentially saying that an atheist should be able to prove that a god does not exist. This, however, is impossible and not the responsibility of the atheist. You are making the assertion that something does exist, and thus it is your job to prove that that thing exists. Placing the burden of proof on the atheist to conclusively prove that something doesn't exist simply doesn't make sense; it is instead your responsibility to prove that your god does exist. Let's now move on to your argument, as it is one of the most interesting I've seen. You make the argument that lack of proof in something is not proof, which is very much true. However, the argument that lack of proof is proof is the exact one that you rely on. By forcing the atheist to prove that there is no god and keeping your assertion that there is one when the atheist cannot provide evidence that there is no god, you are saying that a lack of evidence constitutes evidence for your position. 

This question is quite vague (esoteric?), so the answer will not be very precise, too. First, I agree that "oneness" and "twoness" are fundamental because the former gives us the basic unit, the latter binary opposition and connection. As you noticed, a relation r: X → Y is about "twoness". After all, it is formally defined as a subset of the Cartesian product X × Y = {(x, y): x ∈ X, y ∈ Y}. A lot more complicated structures can be built from that, i.e. an arithmetic operation "⊙" on a set X (which may make it a group if certain requirements are met) could be defined by a function g: M → X with M = X × X and then setting x₁ ⊙ x₂ := g(x₁, x₂). At no point we need to bother with relating more than two sets or two elements with each other. Now, seriously, we may have to sober up a bit... Perhaps this flight of thoughts got to our heads far too much? If 1 and 2 are the basic concepts of mind, what difference is there between a child, that can count to two, and a great mathematician? That the great mathematician can juggle much better with 1s and 2s? That seems preposterous. And if we look at the natural numbers there is one important axiom, the axiom of mathematical induction: 

Your question relates heavily to physics. I suggest you give Stephen Hawkings' "A Brief History of Time" a read. Meanwhile, though, to explore your question, consider this: nothing can move faster than the speed of light. Therefore, whatever distance of time there is between t and t + 1, anything can move in any direction only as quickly as just below (or at) the speed of light in the worst case. As a result of that, every possible instance of the universe can be collected finitely. (It is also important to note that by the Isolation Principle, no two particles can ever occupy the same space while moving at very nearly the same velocity and direction) Where you run into a problem is in your assumption that all things with the same history must conclude at the same result. Something I'd highly recommend you take a look at when considering this is the Heisenberg Uncertainty Principle. It essentially states that we can never exactly predict the state of the universe, even if we know exactly how it is or was at one point in time. This has a lot of profound implications, but exploring those is beyond the scope of this question. Another important thing to keep in mind is that the universe is not infinite. Not at all. The universe is what we describe as finite without boundaries. It consists of a collectively finite amount of matter and energy, and exists within a finite space, but is not technically confined. 

“Choice slavery abolitionism” … well, there are obviously tons of arguments against it, but it simply isn't inherently inconsistent. Why shouldn't you be able to voluntarily sell yourself into slavery? It's just a very radical brand of libertarian thought. Somebody can still support the right to self-enslavement but be against involuntary enslavement and against any legal maneuvers that could make somebody be born a slave (that is, any contract which would stipulate that the children of the self-enslaved individual would also be property of the slave-owner, would be null and void – because you can't make contracts in which you place other people under an obligation). Since “choice slavery abolitionism” isn't inherently inconsistent, why should be choice feminism? So your analogy lacks force because the comparandum doesn't have the properties you assume. The arguments against choice feminism have to be based on independent grounds (and they are probably much, much less convincing than the arguments against “choice slavery abolitionism”). At most you've shown that choice feminism is not a progressive position – duh! 

What were Descartes' views on species? Did he ever say something about this subject? Was it more like the Aristotelian conception of immutable “groups” (without the metaphysical Aristotelian concept of natural kinds, of course) or did he envision some sort of change and contingency (evolution) of species, which would have been in conflict with the very special role humans occupy in his philosophy? I tried to research it myself, but didn't find anything. It would be best to go through the whole corpus of Descartes, of course, but I'm still occupied with reading Aristotle. Some hints would be much appreciated. 

I hope this response answers your question, because I'm not certain I've understood it. The existence or nonexistence of a thing is a purely scientific question. To assert that it is impossible to prove or disprove the existence of something is absurd with proper reasoning. Take the example of a teapot which orbits Earth but cannot be detected by any means. I can make the conjecture that it is there, and use the flawed reasoning of saying that the teapot absolutely must be real because you cannot prove that it is not real, and one of the main facets of its existence is its property to be undetectable by any means at any time. This does not mean, however, that you cannot prove that it does not exist. While you cannot get concrete and absolute evidence that my teapot is not real, you can say that there is absolutely no reasoning or evidence for such a teapot because of its property to be undetectable. What I have taken a long-winded approach to saying is that you do not have to use this method to disprove the existence of a god, because the burden of proof does not lie with you. Just as you cannot say that my teapot does not exist, you cannot say that a god which is "mysterious" and undetectable does not exist. You never had to. It was the responsibility of whoever presented the conjecture that the teapot or god existed to prove it to be so. 

A reductio ad absurdum is a correct way to argue. An argument by lack of imagination is an informal fallacy. But if a reductio ad absurdum is applied outside of a highly formalized setting like mathematics, how do we distinguish it from an argument by lack of imagination? Isn't stating that something is absurd the same as stating that you can't imagine it to be true? 

Actually, A World without Values isn't a book by J. L. Mackie, it's an anthology which is about his (meta-)ethical philosophy. As a moral anti-realist, J. L. Mackie doesn't claim that “expressions of value” are objective. To the contrary, his view can be summarized as: 

There's a similar problem with rationality in general (reasoning with abstract concepts), but this is more complex. And, of course, qualia (which is also very threatening for materialism, but even a denial of qualia – that is qualitative, subjective experience – isn't that extremely costly as a denial of intentionality, which dissolves the meaning of truth itself). 

simple “not existing but contingently so”, like a full size replica of the Eiffel tower made of plastic 

Regarding Sartre (mentioned by “Gordon”): freedom is central to his philosophy. But his understanding of freedom is very strange (to the point of him claiming that no normal human can fail to be free), so that's probably not what you're looking for. You mentioned libertarianism and this is a good place to start. But since for mainstream libertarian thought, "freedom" is extremely tightly connected to property, it's probably more rewarding to look at “heterodox” libertarians (e.g. Benjamin Tucker, Henry George). One very interesting article is “Freedom and Property: Where They Conflict” by Frank van Dun (ironically hosted by the Mises Institute), which IMHO seems to be a good vaccine against falling into the trap of understanding freedom in a too “property-focused” way (though, admittedly, orthodox libertarianism is probably the only philosophy which managed to define freedom in a not obviously inconsistent manner).