The tilt of the road is exerting a sideways force on your tyres: Camber thrust. On a flat surface, this force is part of what makes a bike turn when you lean, but having the road tilted when the bike is upright will have the same effect (and so try to turn the bike). But on normal roads, it's a relatively small effect. 

I'd have a look at $URL$ A "decaleur" is a removable handlebar bag mount. You'll still need a (non-removeable) rack for support too though, but for a retro look and larger bag capacity than without a rack, it's a possibility. 

The Marathon Racer is also available in 18". Won't be as puncture resistant as the Plus, but lighter. (My (second hand) Birdy is still on the Mad Mike's it came with. My previous folders (20" tyres) used Big Apples, and I didn't have puncture problems, and the Apple is also available in 18", but it's fatter.) 

There are several different 18" sizes, and several different 16" sizes. See Sheldon Brown's tire sizing page If the 18" is the 355mm used by Birdy, and the 16" is the 349mm used by Brompton, that's close enough that it might be possible. People have converted Birdys from 18" to narrower 20" (406mm) by moving the brake posts (see "brakeboss relocator"). I changed the obsolete 500A (440mm) tyres (and chromed steel rims) on an old Dawes Kingpin folder to 20" (406mm) ones on alloy rims, the widest ones that would fit in the fork to reduce the bottom bracket drop, and was able to find suitable brakes to fit. But for a typical child's bike, I very much doubt it's worth it. 

The sprockets (apart from the 13 tooth) are reversible, so you can get twice the life out of one by taking it off and using the other side of the teeth. From the photo it looks to me as if it's only worn in one direction so far, or at least significantly more worn in one direction. $URL$ (From my experience with a 3 speed hub, a hub gear sprocket can be badly hooked without causing problems when run with an equally worn chain, long after the point where a derailleur wouldn't shift properly. I'm not recommending that you let it get that worn though.) 

By using a larger sprocket and/or smaller chainring, you can gear an internal hub to cope with just about any gradient. (There is an eventual limit where input torque can destroy the hub.) (Edit: @Rider_X is right that the Shimano limit is more restrictive than I remembered. There are people using lower gearing and reporting no problems, but you might have to be careful. On the comparison chart below the Rohloff could be geared quite a bit lower (30:16 rather than 44:16, see Rohloff), but the Nexus is following Shimano recommendations according to this forum post)) 

9-speed chain is slightly narrower, so a "9-speed" front derailleur might have plates slightly closer together, but that's not going to make a lot of difference: $URL$ So if the FD M550 worked with a 7-speed 44-32-22 crankset, it will work with the 9-speed equivalent, but a new 9-speed might shift very slightly better. 

I've done the opposite (but drop bars before and after), and have a quill stem adaptor to use a non-quill stem with a threaded headset. My fork is 1", but the adaptor came with a similar shim for 1 1/8" steerers. I've also used quill stems with threadless headsets, but only with matching sizes. I don't see any reason the product you link to won't do the job it's designed for though. To replace a non-quill stem with a quill stem you'll need something like $URL$ cf. "Threadless Without Spacers" at $URL$ I assume you are replacing a 1 1/8" quill stem on your trek though? 

I still can't find my working three speed hub, but from memory, and from trying a working five speed, then as far as I can tell from the gif, that's normal. 

I've got Tiagra triple shifters and interruptor brakes; I don't see why Sora would be significantly different. While they are more common on CX bikes, there's nothing fundamentally different about road bike handlebars that would make fitting them any different. 

Threadless quill stem adaptors do commonly come with a shim, so that they can be used with either size steerer, e.g. $URL$ I've never seen such a shim sold separately, but a search shows up $URL$ which is currently unavailable, but was sold at some time, so you might find one. 

It can happen that the pawls get sticky and cleaning helps. Here's a couple of guides: $URL$ $URL$ Cold also makes it worse, but this covers much worse temperatures that the UK: $URL$ (And while it's true that "flushing with solvent has not been a reliable substitute for full disassembly", if the freewheel isn't engaging at all, just drenching it with WD-40 can work as a short term fix until you get round to a proper job.) 

You could adjust the other end instead, so long as the cassette locknut is already tight against the cone (if it isn't, take the cassette off and do that first). $URL$ "For cassette hubs, or conventional rear hubs that I want to adjust without removing the freewheel, I use a thin 15 mm wrench and the two 17's. To loosen this type of hub, I usually do have to loosen the left locknut from its cone, loosen the cone, then re-tighten the locknut. To tighten it, the two 17's on the locknuts do the job quickly and easily." 

It depends on local circumstances. Often, it's the only sane rational way for cyclists to behave. In other places, it's rude because you didn't really need to take the lane for safety. In still other places, it's the rational safe way for a cyclist to behave but will be seen as rude anyway because it violates local expectations. And some drivers will see it as rude anyway everywhere, because some drivers see the very existence of cyclists on the road as offensive. 

Adapters like this do exist, e.g. $URL$ or $URL$ (Edit: Links are now dead, but they were basically the same as the one in the photo below. Sourcing one might be even harder now though.) In fact I used one on my old folding bike - but you can see it looks a bit of a mess, and when I tried it on the front fork, it really wasn't up to the job (I ended up using a chunky long reach caliper brake taken off a BMX bike). (I'd changed wheel size and was using much fatter tyres, so the original brakes wouldn't fit.) There are also adaptors that bolt around a chainstay: $URL$ I'm not saying I'd recommend you use them, but the option is there (if sometimes hard to find - the one I used was the last the local store had in stock of a discontinued line). 

You don't need to change the whole hub, but you might well find it easier to do so. You will need a new freehub body. The new hub assembly might be wider - $URL$ - in which case you will need to redish the wheel to get it central again. You can probably get away with using the same axle, as also described on that page, but you might need a new quick release skewer. And you may need to spring the dropouts apart by 5mm. If you don't have a steel frame, and it's 130mm at the moment, give up and live with the 7 speed. $URL$ (or use a road hub, I guess). EDIT: heltonbiker makes a good point about freehub vs. freewheel. I'd been considering upgrading my own bike which has a 7 speed cassette on freehub, and forgotten that a newer 7 speed might well be a freewheel, even though your question does say cassette. See $URL$ (And even if you really mean cassette, someone else searching might have a freewheel.) 

Simplest answer would be to find a trailer that you like that sells the hitch as a spare part, and use that. For example $URL$ 

It is possible to do this, at least with some cassettes/freewheels, either in an emergency where you don't have the right tools with you (but see here for a small cassette tool), or where you can't easily find the right freewheel remover for an old bike. If you are at home, it isn't urgent, and you have a modern freehub, don't bother with this, just buy the proper tools first. Use a cone spanner and normal spanner on the non-drive side to loosen that locknut, then remove the locknut and nut. If necessary (because the drive side locknut undoes and you can't reach the cone), hold the axle with a vice, or vice-grip wrench - you will chew up the thread, but you were going to replace it anyway. (If you have to reuse the cone and locknuts, undoing them over a chewed up thread may damage their threads, so try to avoid that.) (If the axle is broken, you don't have to undo anything, just pull half out each side.) Withdraw the axle and drive side cone from the cassette (this is where @Daniel's "in some cases the cone may be larger than the hole in the cassette" may make it impossible). Clean the cups - it is a bit awkward doing one inside the cassette, but not impossible. Tighten the drive-side locknut and cone against each other, hard. Insert the axle. Do up the non-drive cone slightly tighter than you want it to end up. Do up the locknut, then tighten the cone and locknut against each other. If it ends up wrong, undo, adjust, and repeat. It is tedious to do this without being able to use a cone spanner on the drive side, but it is possible. (You can put a spanner on the drive locknut, but if it becomes unlocked, you'll have to take the axle out and start again.)