To be honest, I don't know the chances, but here are the following facts, hopefully they give good picture on topic: The continent was spotted by various people before James Cook - collected evidences are from the related wikipedia page's sources: K.G. McIntyre (1977) The Secret Discovery of Australia; Portuguese discoveries 200 years before Captain Cook. Souvenir Press, Medindie, South Australia The discovery is claimed by Portugal long before Portugal. An another claimant is a less known French sailor Binot Paulmier de Gonneville who stated that from the Cape of Good Hope (South-Africa) he sailed 6 weeks to east and hit a new coast, but the commonly accepted that he didn't reach Australia but nowadays Brazilia. Later Dutch sailors reached Australia, but the first one who took Australia seriously was Captain Cook, so they claimed the whole territory of Australia. Of course there were competitors. 

I read a couple of short articles about Lenin and Hitler met each other, and there is a picture, a drawing from Emma Lowenstramm - which's by the historians' opinion is most probably authentic - where they played chess in Austria in 1909. Here is a link to the article of the mentioned picture, thanks to neubau. By historical timeline it could be possible since by then Hitler wasn't famous at all, he was in Austria, later after the WW1 he joined to DAP (Workers Party of Germany), by Lenin's side, then he was in exile from Russia because of failed 1905 revolution and he spent some time in Austria and Switzerland as well, and he attended to various communist congresses all around Europe. Ideologically Lenin and Hitler had many common points. They both were socialist, they both were autocratic persons, they were both interested in politics. Were they friends at any level? It seems from the articles I found by simple google search that at least they most probably met a few times. 

Greek and Roman civilizations allowed individuals to profit from their work, and not just the king. Individuals were also protected, for the most part, from arbitrary whims of a despotic ruler. This led to innovation through scientific inquiry and open debate of ideas. This kind of openness and freedom was typically restricted in other societies, such as in Achaemenid Empire, where everyone was considered to be a slave of the king. 

There are several types of repeals. First, there are partial repeals where a poorly crafted portion of a law causes problems. For example, the onerous 1099 reporting section of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (aka Obamacare) was repealed. The rest of the law remains intact so far but that portion was repealed. Another recent example would be how the Patriot Act (2001), the Terrorist Surveillance Act (2006) and the Protect America Act (2007) effectively gutted provisions of the 1978 Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act. Next, there are repeal and replace laws. In some cases, a previous law is explicitly repealed and replaced with another law. In other cases, the law is implicitly replaced and rendered moot without it being formally repealed. This has been done many times. One recent example would be how the Great Depression era Glass–Steagall banking acts were implicitly and explicitly repealed by various acts, most notably the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act of 1999. And, there have been outright repeals without a replacement. In this situation, a law or regulation is repealed and the act does not contain any replacement law or regulatory authority. One recent example would be the Don't Ask, Don't Tell Repeal Act of 2010. Another example would be the repeal of laws prohibiting private ownership of gold bullion by US citizens. Sodomy and 'blue' laws have been another common area where laws have been repealed without replacement. 

If I was a dark age soldier and I would have to carry a shield without having a purposely attached fastener, I would use a rope, tie it into handle, if the shield is moving, make a triangles around the shield to make it stable, and fix it on myself, like a backpack, maybe there are better ideas, this is my first one to try. Here is the illustration I made in paint: 

To declare I don't have a definite answer, but with my answer I might get you somewhat closer to the ultimate method. To estimate a value back in time is especially hard because of the following factors: 

Gold value back in time compared to 1900's USD (backed by Gold) and then use inflation adjustment. Labour value between the two eras, first I would need to find out for example how many hours a roman peasant worked on the field in an average year and use it as base in comparasion to modern days work. property, land, etc... other methods (?) 

Good question, but the problem of an answer will be that the salt was the most important food-preservation method before fridges. So it is hard to say how much people ate, maybe a good starting point could be how much could they afford. And the answer is most probably: a commoner couldn't afford much. source: Salt 1350's, Venice 

A venetian ducat contained roughly 3.5 grams of Gold which means a ton of salt cost 115,5 grams of Gold. Sadly I didn't manage to find Venetian data, but in 1300's by this source in England a typical labourer expected 2 Pounds Sterling yearly (672 gr of silver which roughly worth back in time 42 grams of gold). We can calculate that a labourer's full year salary worth 364 kg of salt. Let's compare with the current prices, in US you can buy a kilogram of salt anywhere for less than a USD while the yearly salaries are usually over 30.000 USD To be realistic, people could afford way less salt back in classical and medieval ages. It was more dependent on if the person lived physically closer to the source of the salt or not, or suffered heavy taxation which was implemented by French, Roman, Venetian and many other governments through history. I would assume there are better sources than I found I am looking forward for a better answer than mine. 

Gaius Gracchus and his reform law, Lex Militaris, made the state responsible for supplying the military with equipment and clothing. It also meant that merchants and craftsmen would be employed providing this equipment and thus receiving a more stable and reliable income from the sale of supplies to the government rather than individuals. Military supply contractors made money off the government even back then. In some cases, the merchants followed along with the fort/road system and established facilities to smelt iron, work lumber and so forth. The logistical advantage of the Roman road system also made it possible to move supplies over longer distances and required fewer manufacturing areas. 

I would point to the massive expansion of government regulation starting in the early progressive era, expanding even more in the 1930's and really exploding in the 1960's, expanding even more with the "War on Drugs" and "War on Terrorism". As it's turned out, while the initial roots were on the political left, the political right has embraced it as well. Bludgeoning ordinary citizens with the law is something both left and right wing mainstream US politicians can agree on. Starting in the mid-1960's the incarceration rate started increasing and really took off by the mid-1980's. 

The tools used were primarily the standard scythe and plow which had been around for centuries. There were some improvements, such as the mouldboard plough. These tools were made by local craftsmen. The tools were generally either purchased by the landowner or they were crafted by someone in the employ (or servitude) of the landowner. Smaller landowners either made do with what they could craft themselves or that they could barter for. Agricultural knowledge was generally passed down from parent to child. Formal study in agriculture wasn't common during that time since it was seen as a common pursuit, although there was more interest in biology and animal husbandry than plants. Most landowners practiced the 3 crop rotation pattern. Which crops were grown/rotated depended on local conditions and markets. Typically, one section would have a grain, such as wheat, barley or rye, another would have a legume, such as peas or lentils, and the remainder wouldn't be planted that season. You may want to take a look at this online book, A History of Agriculture in Europe and America, for more info. There are some rather expensive college textbooks around that essentially aggregate info from manorial and other such documents. However, you can find much of this source info online for free if you search for it. 

Under Roman Republic one unskilled worker typically made one sestertius a day, and it was enough to keep up a modest life in ancient Rome back in the day. But I found data about Rome started to decrease the silver content of the coins denarii and sestertius, so they could mint it out of more common metals like bronze. So the value decreased significally. Here is a quote 

I am curious if are there any wars still going on because of anomalies of diplomacy like the following examples: 

For summary, the assasination itself was only a big spark in a gunpowder store which was built up by treaties, land claims, Germany's desire for more colonies, ethnic tensions and lot more. 

So the entire non-aryan policy can be summarized by following statement: those non-aryans who are harmless, can be integrated to future Germany if they don't take too much space from future German Reich. The thinking behind is, Hitler certainly didn't want slavic majority in the 1000 years Reich. To answer straightly your question: Bulgaria (as Hungary, Slovakia, Croatia, Finland) wasn't in the way of plan of greater Germany. The first world war's role of Hitler's allies weren't important. Just think about it: Italy, Romania, Bulgaria: they were all on the Antant side. Hitler had different idea than licking wounds, he sincerely believed he can make an agreement with UK for a long time, but it didn't happen. Hitler did politics to his own favour, he showed enough flexibility when it was neccessary to reach his goals. He even created alliance with soviets to divide Poland, gave back territories to Hungary, created puppet states where it was neccessary. 

Then, I encountered John Plumbe. He and his chain of Daguerreotype galleries from 1840-1847 are a good example of what I was looking for. I was looking at too late of a time period. Thanks to RI Swamp Yankee mentioning the Daguerreotype. Overall, it seems that a Daguerreotype studio gave way over time to the photography studio. As it remains today, it was a relatively inexpensive business to get into and one that has a lot of turnover. 

The purpose of to industrialize the mass execution of Jews and other "undesirables". Prior to creating the execution camps, the Nazis had executed considerable numbers of people "on the spot". This was a time consuming process not only for the actual execution but the sanitary disposal of bodies afterward. Considering that the regime was planning on executing between 12-15 million people, industrialization made sense. Also, there was concern about the public reaction to performing the mass murder out in the open. By creating the convenient fiction that they were being sent to "relocation" camps, it allowed the German public to pretend not to notice what was really going on. Public outcry would be an even greater risk in occupied/allied nations like France, Romania and Hungary. If you want to get some further info on it, read about the Wannsee Conference and watch the fairly accurate docu-drama Conspiracy that depicts this meeting. 

Overall, the primary reason the "status quo" was maintained was the availability of upward mobility and the level of political and economic freedom. Restrictions placed on these freedoms by the British Crown led to the Revolution. The thing is that in Colonial America it was easy for a man to own land, thus showing an "interest" in colony and giving them right to vote. This was different from England where hereditary landowners controlled the vote. As the frontier opened up, more people arrived who were looking for opportunity. For example, my ancestors arrived in Louisa County, Virgina in the early 1700's, obtained land and got involved in the political process. If they had remained in England, they wouldn't have achieved anywhere near this level of success. Economically, the mercantilism system worked well for most Colonial Americans. The English made sure that those who participated in this process became wealthy. They used revenue to build their navy into even more of a powerhouse. Of course, Americans did their share of smuggling, but this wasn't so severe as to harm the system. The relative freedom, political and economic, made it unlikely that there would be any 'class' based uprising. There was a clear opportunity for upward advancement within the system. That meant that the average Colonist could look forward to improving their life and the life of their children. Another factor was a reduction in the number of white indentured servants, especially those of lower skills, during the 1700's. Around 189,000 African slaves were brought in between 1701 and 1760. This meant that European indentured servants were likely to be skilled labor, such as weavers, bricklayers and even accountants. It was also easier for white servants to flee and find somewhere else to live within the Colonies. Ben Franklin did this, for example. 

(source) Chinese history is well documented since their writing system of pictograms changed relatively few compared to the European, Middle-Eastern writing systems. So their historical documents in any form or shape still readable for researchers who studied the evolution of pictograms. To get the history recorded there is an important factor as well: China wasn't invaded many times by different cultures. Hereby I compare with Egyptian history: Kopt, Greek, Roman, Arabic, Colony eras are switching each other. In China they assimilated everybody they could, and only the Mongols could force them to knees as a country. Other than Mongols, Manchus could conquer China (and became a Dynasty in the row) and the imperial Japan managed to partially conquer China. 

I am not sure if it is the first recognition of healthiness but about the end of age of discoveries, sailors started to realize if they bring sour cabbage with them, they can prevent various diseases. Or better to say some diseases are just don't show up on their ship for the long trip. In those times they knew nothing about Vitamin C, and most of diseases were caused by serious lack of this vitamin. I can provide this source about sour cabbage 

Well, to be factual, more like 4100 years+ of history is available for study. Xia Dynasty is dated back to cca 2100 BC - 1600 BC, numerous sites approves these dates. Before these days dates and historical records get more and more inaccurate and entering into the realm of legends. "5000 years" seems more like a generous rounding up, but it is not very far from reality. 

The publicized cuts in defense spending were being done for political purposes in the 1980's, in an attempt to separate Western Europe from the US. Clandestine military spending was done at the same or higher levels. Maintaining this level of defense spending, roughly 15-17% of GNP, was unsustainable given the other problems, which you noted, that the USSR was having. There's more detail here: Russian Military Budget Expenditures Did SDI contribute to this? Since it was part of the general US military build-up to confront the Soviets, it did to some small degree. Was it the sole reason? Certainly not. Not even the entire increase in US military spending was the sole cause although it would be fair to say it was about 1/3 to 1/2 of it. The problem with recognizing the effect Reagan era military spending had on the collapse of the USSR has more to do with current US politics than anything else. Today's conservatives revere Reagan while today's liberals revile him. Since most academics lean to the left, the role of defense spending gets downplayed. What gets forgotten is that Reagan managed to negotiate with the Democrats in Congress to get things done, a skill that hasn't been exercised by the current administration or the one before it. 

He had little interest in pursuing total victory in North Africa beyond securing his Southern flank against attack. The winning strategy may well have been to have secured the Middle Eastern oil fields by invading through Turkey and into Vichy French Lebanon and Syria and into Iraq and Iran, then push up from the south into the USSR and perhaps further east into British India. Some sources indicate that he was presented with some plans for this. However, Hitler, in an odd twist for him, decided that it wouldn't be right to invade Turkey without a cause.