The first exercise is an "Overhead pulldown", sometimes called a "Lat pulldown" because it primarily target the latissimus dorsi muscles. The second exercise is an "Overhead dumbbell press". This may have been intentional on your part, but they're often used as opposing exercises, one pushing and one pulling. As for the opposing exercise for the butterfly, the "Reverse fly" seems to be what you're looking for. 

Another option for progression, albeit one which might be trickier in a large class, is to reduce the distance that you descend. In the simplest form, this consists of a folding chair. Much as with a regular pistol squat, the person performing it will extend one leg and then squat straight down in a slow and controlled manner, except here, they're only squatting until they put their butt in the chair, then they push back up from there, again just using their legs and core. From there, you can progress to lower platforms, but honestly, I've found that the next best step is to just do negatives, just lowering yourself as slowly and in control as you can, then scrambling back up to standing. I can't take credit for the chair tip. I learned it by watching the Pigmie "How to Pistol Squat in Only 5 Minutes" video. He has an even longer list of progressions in that five minutes. 

I can't speak too much to the stomach vacuum itself, but this is basically an isometric exercise, one where you're working one set of muscles against another, here your abdomen and your lower back muscles. My suspicion is that the benefit of this exercise is less a strengthening or toning of the muscles, and more a matter of teaching yourself to hold that area in, making it easier to hold extra bulk "sucked in". It's not a bad exercise in that it's making you aware of those muscles, and your general core position. However, by itself, I'd argue that it's too isolated. Instead, if you want something similar, consider the hollow position, a gymnastic exercise where you contract your entire body to bend it forward. As a whole-body movement, you're learning to use everything in concert rather than just your stomach. The link I have above has several variations, but the two key ones are either doing the hollow lying on the ground, or do it hanging from your hands from a ledge or bar. 

Note how the metatarsus (the bone that leads into the big toe) is thicker and natural goes forward with a slight turnout. The means that, when walking or running with that slightly turnout, a majority of the force is being carried along the sturdiest bone in the foot. Doesn't that seem like it makes more sense than turning your foot in and and applying the force along your little toe? 

Alternately, you could try Lucas's 5 minute tutorial on Youtube. I'm not affiliated with him, but I'm a fan of his work. L-sit This is a fairly elementary skill, but one which does seriously tax your core pretty quickly. There really isn't a progression to follow for the most part. You just sit on the ground with your legs out, put your hands down, push down as far as you can, and then lift your legs for as long as you can. If you are truly finding that you can't lift them at all, you might try starting sitting on an elevated platform like a chair so that you can start with your legs at a greater angle than 90 degrees. You can also start by doing "tuck sits" where instead of lifting your legs straight, you bring your knees up to your chest. If you lack the core strength to lift your legs, start by doing hanging leg-lifts, first with your back against a wall (standing against a door and reaching up and grabbing the top is a good way to get here, although you will probably want to use a towel to prevent splinters) and then without that bracing in the back. Muscle up I'll admit that this is one that I haven't done, so I'm cribbing from Lucas's 5 minute tutorial. Prerequsite for this is being able to do a chest pull-up (overhand pull-up where you bring your chest to the bar) and a bar dip (starting stiff-armed over the bar, lowering your chest to the bar, then pushing back up). 

There are also video tutorials out there, but that would require me to transcribe the contents and I'm lazy. 

As mentioned above, "towel curls" are typically the go-to action, using items you have in your house. Similar exercises involve placing your hands on a fixed counter or bar and straining against the fixed object (although I would warn you to pick something firmly moored. It's surprisingly easy to uproot a kitchen counter or porch railing because they're built to resist forces from the other drections). Lastly, if you're allowing fixed objects, there's always the option of grabbing a fixed rail (or edge of a table), resting your heels on a smooth surface (such as a kitchen floor), and pulling your bodyweight back and forth under the area you're grabbing. Theoretically, you could do isometrics, either providing resistance by flexing your triceps or by using your other hand to push down. I'm personally skeptical of isometrics, finding that they don't seem to have much positive exercise benefit, but I've known people who swear by them. 

I am not a runner, but I had a similar issue when doing martial arts. I lost the toe-nail on my big toe on one foot. That raw nail bed was murder when it hit the top of my shoe. I did two things to deal with it. First, when I was going to be doing anything intensive, I added a padding of gauze on it and then wrapped it tightly to keep the gauze from moving. That protected the healing nail bed. Then, the harder part, I stepped down my activity level. As with JohnP's response, definitely bandage it. First, it will help prevent any sort of damage. Secondly, it will protect your socks and shoes should it start bleeding. 

As noted by s3v3ns above, it's very hard to "force" someone to exercise. Your best bet is probably to find some low impact activities to do together, or for him to do with others. You could go on walks with him. He could join a Tai Chi group at a local community center. You want to create a situation where there are few barriers to him doing exercise (low impact helps combat arguments of not feeling tip-top that day, for example) and setting up a routine with support structure (taking regular walks with you or attending classes makes it a scheduled activity and brings on social pressure). 

Two quick things. First off, there is a danger in eating after your workout in that your body will be demanding caloric intake and humans are bad at estimating just how much energy they burned. Go ahead and eat, but be aware of and log your calories to prevent yourself from taking in calories in excess of what you burned. Secondly, if you're doing any sort of weight-training, the current recommendation seems to be to eat some protein right afterwards. It will be used pretty rapidly to build the muscles back up plus protein is relatively filling for its calories, so you're less likely to overeat. 

It's generally not an issue unless you're at the "numb limbs" level of sleep deprivation. When you're that tired, the odds are good that your head is not entirely in the game, and you run a higher risk of doing unsafe actions ranging from exceed your ROM to over-using your muscles to forgetting to put clamps on the ends of the weight bars. If you're ever unsure, add a bit of warmup stretching and cardio. It may help you wake up and, at the worst, it will put you in a safer situation if you just conk out in the middle of it. Better to fall asleep during a pushup than when benchpressing. I also would not recommend exercising right after a catnap, intentional or unintentional, for the same reason.