Tricky one. You will go through several chains before going through a cassette. A worn chain can be measured quite easily with a gauge. 

Have you also changed any of the corresponding drive-train ie. cassette and / or chainrings? Check the wear on your cassette. If the teeth are thinned-out the cassette is also worn and you will need to replace this also. Check the chain-rings - if these resemble shark-fins these are also worn out. Unfortunately drive train wears together and replacing one part of them often creates a skipping gear where the chain no longer sits comfortably on the drive train due to previous wear. 

Perhaps not that obvious but the one component upgrade I would look at is - brakes. You list Tektro dual-pivot - but from my experience of Tektro budget brakes - I would look at a pair of 105 brakeset. Much stiffer. And braking greatly improved for not much money. Other things you may consider - simply because they will move with you from bike to bike (making them cost effective) are 1) Wheels 2) Saddle 3) maybe handlebar too Hope that helps. 

Power does go down as altitude increases. But the offset is air density decreases in parallel (to a point). And this is the reason why many hour records have been attempted at altitude. The optimum is apparently 3500m. Whereby the increase in speed outweighs the loss in power. Hence the popularity of the velodromes in La Paz (Bolivia) at 3400m and Mexico City velodrome at 2230m. W/r to the notion of tyre pressure and rolling resistance - there was a recent article which debunked the myth about high tyre pressures - stating the loss in energy created by the vibrations of high tyre pressure meant lower tyre pressure was actually faster over "normal" road surfaces. 

Like you say - the 8 speed shifter will work perfectly well with a 7 speed cassette. You just lose the use of 1-click too many. Poor shifting in the downward direction is usually a sign of poor cabling. Either old cables or poor routing. But you mention poor shifting in both directions - which looks suspiciously like a problem with the shifter itself. Mark an exposed area of the gear cable and begin to shift up. You should see the cable move proportionally by the same amount each click. Now shift back down - you should see the cable move back to its exact original position. And this movement back down - should be instantaneous with no slack in the gear cable. 

It certainly does look like you have ample clearance for fenders. Those look long deep drop brake calipers too. If you don't have fender mounts on the rear - you can always use P-Clips. 

There is no best. It is purely preference. Most high-end bicycles are equipped with the rapid fire levers - but this may be purely down to market consensus ie. what sells a bike. Some XC racers still use the gripshift shifters and SRAM still make the high-end shifters. I used gripshift years ago on my first mountain bikes but found them quite fragile in a crash. Gripshift - you can change a whole stack of gears in a single twist. Rapid fire requires multiple few clicks to achieve the same movement. But this has not been a problem for myself in practice - if you read the terrain ahead. The rapid fire levers are more robust and I am yet to break one. 

My favoured winter option for gloves is neoprene. When they inevitably start to tear - my preference is to stitch neoprene. The best stitch I've found is to use is a wide stitch to pull the edges of the material together rather than small tight stitches. The stitching doesn't look pretty but makes for a more durable repair. I used a standard needle with doubled-up threading for a tougher stitch. This link below might be helpful - and illustrates the wideness of the stitching used. $URL$ 

Garmin Connect Edge 1000 has Wi-Fi which can auto-upload to Connect - and subsequently to Strava. But the simplest solution is to use your phone? - however this has the disadvantage of draining the battery on it. So probably best used for those shorter training rides. 

You can chase the threads back around with a thread cutting kit and you can also repair the thread with a helicoil kit. If the pedal is in and secure - you might get away with using a threadlock to keep it in place. And of course there is also the option to buy a secondhand replacement from ebay. 

Inherently, a lack of modulation provides a lack of "feel" to your braking. That lack of feel translates into an On or Off level of braking rather than a gradual application of the brakes. Accurate braking to scrub of speed means faster cornering out on the trails (or road). Carrying the right amount of speed into corners means carrying more speed out of the corner. And I would have thought the amount of force required to brake - below the locking threshold would vary due to rider weight, speed and terrain. So a brake only being able to apply near maximum braking force would be irrelevant. 

If you are going to do it yourself - you will need a hydraulic brake bleed kit. You basically need to replenish the fluid in the hydraulic system. This will either be mineral oil or Dot brake fluid. Check with your brake manufacturer which it is. There is a technique and procedure to bleeding brakes as well. Weigh up the cost of doing it yourself - or just paying an experienced cycle mechanic to do it. Its a fairly standard job and shouldn't take long at all - especially if it is only one brake. Most hydraulic brakes are maintenance free - in that the system is sealed and air does not get into the system. Unfortunately, you found to your cost - by removing the pads and pressing the levers - you popped the pistons out of their seating (and seals) which leaked all the fluid from the system. A tip would have been to wedge something between the pistons of the padless caliper - in case you accidentally knocked or pulled the brake lever. 

If it's "cold" - as in really cold - (and not 30 deg celcius which is actually very warm) - and given your bike is new - it sounds like your freehub froze. The pawls in the freehub are frozen in their un-engaged position. So there will be no drive to the rear wheel when pedalling. Humorously, a few years ago - I was mountain biking in the snow. It froze. And the only option was to urinate on the freehub. 

Beyond a weight - you also need to look at Number of gears, Under tape cable routing, Stiffer cranks, Dual Pivot SLR braking, Aesthetics, Performance (slicker shifting for starters). 

For the same reason a salt-water solution in a closed half-filled bottle will not evaporate - even though it is in contact with some air. Open the lid - and eventually the water evaporates to leave just salt. The slime solution is in a "balance" with the air in the tube - since it is a "closed" system. When the tube is punctured the slime flowing out of the puncture is no longer in a "closed" system and evaporates / dries in the open air. Takes me back to Chemistry and reaction kinetics (yuck) .. but anyway that's my take on it. 

If your headset bearings are cartridge - in a sealed unit as opposed to exposed ball bearings held loosely in a cage. The cleaning and re-greasing of the bearings does not apply to you. Although it is also known for some people to remove the seal over their sealed cartridge bearings - to clean and re-grease and then pop the seal back over them. But generally - you don't need to do this. 

You don't say whether you are using disc or rim brake. With disc there are various grades of pad - sintered, organic and semi-metal (resin). Sintered last the longest. Rim brake there are various different compounds available for the pads and it is a case of experimenting with the options. Swissstop offer high quality pads for various conditions. Hard braking will also cause excessive wear - so the approach would be to be as smooth as possible on the brakes. This usually involves the technique of "feathering" the brakes - whereby the brakes are applied with just enough force to control speed. 

Although rotating your mounted bar 90deg reduces the width of the bike (viewed front ways). A lot of bike boxes are not long enough to cater for the additional length of the bar when turned 90deg - lengthways. Drop-bar and flat-wide mountain bike bars can be long enough and shaped awkwardly enough to also damage the top tube when rotated in a mounted position. Another point to add - is some bikes have carbon steerer tubes and damage could occur if the bar remains mounted. In your instance rotating the bar 90 deg is effectively the same as loosening and rotating since the bar appears to easily clear the top tube. 

If you are buying rigid mountain bike forks - you will need to buy the correct length for the suspension corrected geometry of your frame. The bike in your link has a 100mm fork - the majority of forks with a specified travel will measure the same length (axle-to-crown) plus or minus 10mm. If memory serves me correctly - the length of rigid fork you would be looking for is about 440mm axle-to-crown. 420mm = 80mm travel fork 440mm = 100mm travel fork 470mm = 29er Rigid fork The hardest part of fitting your forks will be the crown race removal and re-fitting from your old forks to new forks. Its possible to gently lever the crown race off using an old chisel to get under it and tap it out - going around it tapping evenly. And to re-fit the crown race onto the new forks using the jaws of an old & large adjustable spanner - again - going around it tapping evenly to remount flushly onto the seat. 

If you can - try riding on a static trainer (turbo). Not to say your bike-fit is wrong ... but there are different levels of bike-fit and I have also seen examples of where a rider has gone in for a bike fit and measurements not work in the "real" world ie. on the road. You will be able to make adjustments and gauge your comfort more safely. Also ride in and out of the saddle on the trainer as you would on the road too. 

For every action, there is an equal and opposite reaction. Newton's 3rd law. In braking - especially sudden braking - the opposing force acts to destablize the bike and rider. Riding motorbikes you learn - your most effective braking is through the front wheel - bigger disk, better contact, bigger contact patch. An experienced MTB rider - before the back-end lightens up under braking will shift his body weight to compensate and stablize the bike under braking forces. Explicitly, the centre of gravity is moved lower and rear-ward. Which makes it far harder to "flip" the object. The idea of simply bracing one's arms prevents an OTB is therefore not entirely true on its own.