According to Molecular Iodine Induces Caspase-independent Apoptosis in Human Breast Carcinoma Cells Involving the Mitochondria-mediated Pathway The Journal of Biological Chemistry (2006) vol. 281, pages 19762-19771 

No, it was Margot A. S. Vigeant as author of the article Things to Stress Over in Cornell Engineer sometime between 1990 and 1993 (volume 55-58): 

For more information see the US government report Status and Trends in the Education of Racial and Ethnic Groups 

The quoted statement says "energy to move a kilometer". On an "energy to move a kilometer" basis, the statement is definitely false. Acccording to Dr. Karen Oberhauser, a tagged monarch butterfly has been confirmed to travel 265 miles in one day. According to How Much Fuel Do Monarchs Burn? reporting Dr. David Gibo's research: On 140 milligrams of fat a monarch butterfly has enough energy to continuously flap its wing flying for 44 hours and to soar or glide for 1040 hours! So the butterfly is using at most 3 milligrams per hour. For comparative human statistics, use this excercise calorie calculator For a 110 pound (50kg) human: bicycling 16-20 miles per hour 599 dietary calories (kilocalories) are used per hour. This corresponds to 67 grams (67,000 milligrams) fat per hour. bicycling at an unspecific "greater than 20 mph" racing speed is 798 calories per hour. This corresponds to 89 grams (89,000 milligrams) fat per hour. Humans use more than 1000 times as much energy per kilometer as monarch butterflies, even considering the record distance on a bicycle for a day is 521 miles, about twice the butterfly's record. 

Yes. There was still a lawsuit pending due to Apollo 8 astronauts reading Genesis 1:1-10 for Christmas Eve 1968. So the Apollo 11 communion needed to be kept private. Reverend Dean Woodruff of Webster Presbyterian Church supplied the communion kit (bread, wine and cup). Aldrin read John 15:5 from a card: 

Yes, it is possible for one to get a shot off after being shot in the head oneself. Here are two different examples, both involving cab drivers being shot in the head and still returning fire. For the first example, see St. Louis Cab Driver Shot in Head, Returns Fire and Drives to Police Station for Help This was a serious enough head injury that the cab driver was in critical condition in the hospital, but he still managed to return fire. For the second example, see Cab driver shot in head returns fire, killing passenger 

According to Racial and Ethnic Differences in Homicides of Adult Women and the Role of Intimate Partner Violence — United States, 2003–2014, table 2, Out of a studied 10,018 females killed, 3,417 were by a current intimate partner and 618 were by a former intimate partner, for a total of 4045 (40.3%) by a current or former intimate partner. (The 40.3% figure is very similar to the 41.5% found for the 1980-2008 time period in table 6 this report) It is also stated: 

Proposed "1" is a consolidation of the current "1" and "2". Proposed "2" concerns being unable to resist due to the surprise nature of the attack. Proposed "3" concerns not resisting due to fear of bad consequences if the person resists. Edit: For a complete draft of the proposed new law see Referentenentwurf eines Gesetzes zur Änderung des Strafgesetzbuchs - Verbesserung des Schutzes der sexuellen Selbstbestimmung 

See also: Tree and forest effects on air quality and human health in the United States Environmental Pollution (2014) vol. 193, pages 119-129: 

The poverty thresholds by year are available at Poverty Thresholds The threshold is a function of family size, number of children, and whether adults are over or under 65. For example for 2015, a single individual under 65 is in poverty if income is less than $11,367. A family of three is in poverty if income for the entire family is below $19,078 if it is a family of two adults and one child. In all cases, the $17,000 per person mentioned in the OP would significantly exceed the technical poverty line. More particularly, $12,331 per person is the maximum value in the poverty threshold table. The remainder of the question is somewhat a matter of opinion. The trillion dollar value comes from reports like The American Welfare State: How We Spend Nearly $1 Trillion a Year Fighting Poverty—And Fail and Examining the Means-tested Welfare State: 79 Programs and $927 Billion in Annual Spending, but it depends how you define "welfare programs". A trillion dollars is enough to give 46.7 million people $21,000 each. However, that does not necessarily mean poverty would be eliminated, even by the technical definition of poverty. One would need to consider how the individuals would spend the trillion dollars versus how it is spent currently, as well as how many people might stop working if the money is handed out as proposed. The trillion dollars includes the Earned Income Tax Credit, which is already giving lower-income people money, but on the condition that they work. Just handing out the money without requiring work would obviously reduce the incentive to work. 

According to THE CRYING PATTERN OF KOREAN INFANTS AND RELATED FACTORS Developmental Medicine & Child Neurology, volume 36, pages 565–658 (July 1994): 

As background see Carbonate–silicate cycle. Carbon Dioxide is removed from the atmosphere by the chemical reaction: 

However, there is no such thing as "petric acid", perhaps he means picric acid. See also Identity and Resistance in Okinawa footnote 14 at page 50: 

"The Ethnological and Historical Enigma-The Malanese People of Kulu Valley." The Oriental Anthropologist (2016) vol. 16 : 

Firstly, Wald did not work for the Center for Naval Analyses or its predecessor organizations Antisubmarine Warfare Operations Research Group (ASWORG), Operations Research Group (ORG) or Operations Evaluation Group (OEG). Instead, he worked for the Statistical Research Group at Columbia University. The Center for Naval Analyses merely published his work many years later, and didn't exist as such until 1962. A good history of what occurred is found in Breakthroughs in Statistics: Foundations and Basic Theory, which is also consistent with Abraham Wald's own description, as published in his book Sequential Analysis. Quoting from pages 249-250 of "Breakthroughs in Statistics..." 

For more information, see Endangered and Threatened Wildlife and Plants; Designation of Critical Habitat for Dusky Gopher Frog (Previously Mississippi Gopher Frog) Federal Register / Vol. 77, No. 113 / Tuesday, June 12, 2012 : 

So, yes storage of the cells cryogenically it better than just having the teeth sit at room temperature. 

According to the 7 November 2013 New York Times article Reports of Military Sexual Assault Rise Sharply 

As explained in It's Getting Harder to Cash a Check Kiplinger's Personal Finance Vol. 27, October 1973: 

So there is not universal agreement that "beat them" is the correct translation of the Quranic verse, although it is the tradition school of thought. The oldest reference that the author points to as having a different interpretation is from 1987. 

In turn, the Science Daily article is based mainly upon: The Sunyaev-Zel'dovich effect in a sample of 31 clusters: A comparison between the X-ray predicted and WMAP observed decrement, Astrophysical Journal, Vol. 648, p. 176-199. (alternative link to pre-prints) 

Yes, correlation between altitude and suicide is corroborated by studies outside the USA. See High altitude remains associated with elevated suicide rates after adjusting for socioeconomic status: a study from South Korea Psychiatry Investigation (2014) vol. 11, pages 492–494. 

See also CAUGHT ON TAPE: Officer Shot In The Head During Shootout, El Cajon where the officer stands up (from a kneeling position) and walks with his gun drawn after being shot in the head. There are numerous examples of people driving after being shot in the head. One extreme example is Man Keeps Driving after being Shot Twice in the Head: Cops, where the cops pulled over a man for driving erratically only to find he was shot in the forehead and cheek. Another example of returning fire is Savannah grandfather, shot in the head, shoots back 

Tribal council chairman David Archambault II is quoted making similar statements here. So, yes, because there is waste next to the river, there is potential for environmental damage in the spring when snow and ice melt. 

The survey was published in The tenacity of prejudice: anti-Semitism in contemporary America (referenced in the above NORC report). The survey found that 47% of non-Jews agreed with the statement "the movie and television industries are pretty much run by Jews". 21% disagreed and 32% didn't know. In other words, the survey was not representative of all Americans, it excluded Jews. 

In considering the concentration of a dissolved gas (such as oxygen) in liquid (such as water) there are two separate concepts, the equilibrium concentration and the rate at which equilibrium is approached. The solubility of gases is higher at low temperature and lower at high temperature. However, there is still dissolved oxygen in water no matter how long you boil it in the presence of air (which contains oxygen). See tables 2 and 3 of The Solubility of Oxygen and Ozone in Liquids. In fact from room temperature (293K) to boiling temperature, equilibrium dissolved oxygen only decreases from 2.5 units to 1.4 units according to the tables. As reported in Removal of dissolved oxygen from water: A comparison of four common techniques Talanta vol. 41 pages 211-215 

So in the earlier version of the story, the man was answering an advertisement, not himself advertising. A History of Lumbering in Maine says: 

Only the following year was Mother's Day federally recognized. Florists did not invent Mother's Day, Anna Jarvis did. However, Anna Jarvis initially linked Mother's Day to carnations. A previous attempt by Julia Ward Howe to create a national Mother's Day, had no relationship to flowers, and was celebrated for a few years around 1873, but quickly died out. Florists made efforts to prevent the current Mother's Day from dying as a fad, prior to being federally recognized, because it was great for business. 

There is significant discussion of this issue in Fluoride in Drinking Water: Scientific Review of EPA's Standards (2006), particularly in chapter 8, Effects on the Endocrine System. This book is a publication of the US National Research Council. 

So the conclusion is that people misapplied advice that was meant only for artificially preserved eggs, to fresh eggs. Natural chicken eggs are gas permeable according to Physiology of Domestic Animals so there is no need to prick an additional hole. However, in the case of Ladd's sodium silicate preservation method the pricking is needed to let the air out. 

The land, according to court decisions thus far, has not been "taken" (within the meaning of the 5th amendment to the US constitution). The land has been designated as critical habitat for an animal species. The government "wants to" [meaning hopes that the owner will voluntarily consent to] burn the land to create good conditions (open canopy rather than closed canopy forest) for the species. However, though the government is not trying to absolutely force the burning upon the land owner, as explained in Economic Analysis of Critical Habitat Designation for the Dusky Gopher Frog (a study commissioned by the government), the government can stop the owner from developing the land, by denying a section 404 permit, on the basis that the land is critical habit for the frog, which would cause $34 million dollars in lost value. The economic analysis report also says that if the land owner "works with" the government "to establish conservation areas for the gopher frog within the unit, resulting in 40 percent of the Unit being developed and 60 percent managed for gopher frog conservation and recovery", then there would only be a $20 million dollar loss. Overall, the government is attempting to economically pressure, but not absolutely force, the owner to burn or otherwise remove trees to reestablish habitat suitable for a frog that currently lives only in the neighboring state. For more information see this Supreme Court Petition for a Writ of Certiorari. The Supreme Court has now (1/22/2018) decided to hear this case.