The sources I've found differentiate Social Realism and Socialist Realism associated in the Soviet Union at around the same time. Different, but related evidently. From Modern Russian Art Glossery 

While the US economy was significantly larger than the British economy in the 1930's, the British military was approximately 5 times larger than the US military when WWII began (Sept 1939). Why didn’t the United States adopt Radar sooner? Money and general national lack of commitment/interest in defense. The US populous and political leadership(outside the executive) was barely interested in preparing for the possibility of war. On the eve of WWII, Congress nearly allowed 80% of the US Army to return to civilian life. The military build up being pursued by Roosevelt called for a 1 year enlistment and congress (by a single vote) just narrowly passed an extension. 203 - 202, August 1941. "the draft extension bill." Even though Roosevelt believed war was inevitable. Roosevelt ran for office in 1940 promising to keep us out of WWII, because to do otherwise would have been politically unsupportable. Roosevelt, acutely aware of strong isolationist and non-interventionism sentiment, promised there would be no involvement in foreign wars if he were re-elected. The US was a committed isolationist country and the only thing that changed that was Pearl Harbor. Research on weapon systems with long development cycles just were not prioritized. What's happening with other weapon systems? 

Answer... YES. both before and after the United States entered the war. NY Times, With a Branch at Auschwitz Prior to the war beginning the Nazi's purchased large quantities of tetraethyl lead which was vital to the production of aviation fuel in two separate deals. There were only a few companies which could produced this important ingredient and they were all American(Dupont, Standard Oil, General Motors). In 1938, Walter C. Teagle, then president of Standard Oil (William Stamps Farish took over in 1938), helped Hermann Schmitz of I.G. Farben to acquire 500 tons of tetraethyl lead from Ethyl, a British Standard Oil subsidiary. A year later, Schmitz returned to London and obtained an additional 15 million dollars worth of tetraethyl lead which was to be turned into aviation gasoline back in Germany. Standard Oil of NJ not only sold these important fuel additives to Germany but they transferred production technology and techniques to the Nazi's which were vital to the Nazi domestic production during the war. After the war began, Standard Oil of New Jersey continued to supply Germany gasoline to Germany. They used Panamanian flagged ships and transferred the gasoline to Germany in the Canary Islands. 

Not only did FDR turn around GDP in his first six months in office but he turned around every major economic indicator within his first 12 months in office except two. Banking foreclosures took him a second year to solve, and the DOW Jones stock market did not return to it's 1928 high water mark until during the Eisenhower Administration in the mid 1950's. Unemployment 

This question is not the same as, but is related to and informed by American Presidents on secession legality This debate is older than our constitution(ratified 21 June 1788). The modern vestiges of this argument occur every four years during elections with the call for states rights and trepidation some feel of the Federal Government usurping these rights. It reared its head in the 1960's over integration, and in the 21st century over healthcare. It was first debated 1786, when a farmer and former Colonial Captain named Daniel Shays lead 4000 like minded farmers and would be revolutionists in an attack on the federal armory in Springfield Massachusetts. The differences between the founding fathers in Union Troops being raised and used to put down this rebellion gave rise and urgency to the ratification of the US Constitution. On one side of the argument you have Thomas Jefferson who both opposed the ratification of the Constitution and believed it was every states right to leave the Union which it had freely joined. 

Page 840: Readings in Russian Civilization, Volume 3: Soviet Russia, 1917-Pressent. In response to a French book by Michel Garder entitled "The Death Struggles of a Regime" predicting the fall of the Soviet Union. 

Excerpt from Declaration of Independence where the United States acting collectively declared themselves both independent from Great Britain and a new entity, The United States. This date for the Declaration of Independences, July 4th 1776 is the recognized and accepted birthdate of the United States of America, not the ratification of the Constitution which was the second attempt to organize the United States as a collective. 

A newspaper in Sacramento the capitol of California, probable had a fairly large circulation. If looking for as large or larger papers I figured I would look for larger populations than the city of Sacramento in the state of California. California was admitted to the Union in September 9, 1850, and was included in the United States Census of 1850 ([see 1850a_31.pdf for California data), which was published in 1852. According to the census there were 7 Newspapers/Periodicals in California in 1850, and only 4 were published daily. See page 979 The State's population in 1850 was 91,632. Largest Counties: ( see page 122 ) El Dorado --------20,057 Calaveras --------16,884 Yuba ------------- 9,673 Sacramento ------- 9,087 Tuolumne --------- 8,351 Mariposa --------- 4,379 I concentrated my search on the Counties which had a population larger than Sacramento. I plugged the county names into google with "1850" + "newspaper" and found these candidate newspapers to answer your question. 

Harry Truman was a failed farmer(1913) and haberdasher(hat salesman, 1922); who had never graduated from college and lived with his mother in law.. In 1923 he became a judge, in 1935 a US senator, in Jan 1945 the Vice President, and in April 1945 President of the United States. 

U.S. Naval Institute Photo Archive - Ebullient Assistant Secretary of the Navy Theodore Roosevelt (front and center) poses with the officers of the Naval War College in June 1897 after delivering a pro-expansionist speech that repeated the word “war” 62 times. A single star with a golden stripe, which I think I can see in your photo, although faded, signifies the rank of Ensign. The thinness of that stripe places the uniform prior to the above photo, by my source. 

? Giordano Bruno was a Catholic monk(franciscan), and he was burned at the stake for his ideals in the 1600's. Individual faith did not excuse heresy. For trivia value, I will throw in Darwin's religious background in his youth was nonconformist Unitarian, not christian. Why do you think Darwin waited 20 years to publish his theory of Evolution, and only did so when one of his peers was going to publish a parallel theory? One of his stated reasons was the reaction from the Church. Another was because of conflict with his wife, along religious grounds. Your central thesis is the religion did not try to suppress Evolution. And that is just not supported by the facts. There are still religions trying to stifle the discussion of Evolution. But in the late 1800's and early 1900's main stream religions were more prevelent and motivated in suppressing Darwin's ideas, which were branded heresy. To pick on Catholics again(not that they were alone, or even the worst offenders in attacking Evolution). Pope Pius IX invented the concept of Papal infallibility. The same Pope in Vatican Council I, literally forbad Catholics from defending evolution, under this infallibility. 

Nabataean sailing ships dated from the 6th century BC and did not share the same criteria with the 19th century ships which would select cotton when given the choice of linen. Such ships which choose cotton over linen were an exception to the rule prior to the introduction of steam ships. With both cotton and linen available to Nabataean sailors the choice is clear which would be preferred for the kinds of ships the Nabataean traders favored. Smaller ships, with simple rigging outfitted for long haul cruising. For longer voyages linen was preferred even if it had to be purchased at a premium. Linen simply had superior properties for long haul cruising, even if for racing cotton would be superior. This is actually a perennial question for sailors which is still topical today. Balancing durability and strength with performance, be it cotton vs linen per your question, or Dacron vs composites the choices for today. The materials change the decision criteria doesn’t; lighter less durable materials are superior for racing, but heavier more reliable materials are more valued for long haul cruizing. 

The Libyan government in 1999 accepted responsibility for the death of Yvonne Fletcher, and paid compensation to her family. 

source. Peter the Great (1682–1725) -- was not a supporter of the Orthodox Church. He vastly increased the power of the Czars over the Russian church. When Patriarch Adrian died, Peter blocked a successor being appointed. Instead he the Tzar would appoint all bishops. A the Holy and Supreme Synod was established to govern the church, instead of a single Patriarch, and it would remain this way until 1917. Under Peter: "A clerical career was not a route chosen by upper-class society. Most parish priests were sons of priests, were very poorly educated, and very poorly paid.". The late 18th century influential spiritual revival in the Russian Orthodox church. The rise of starchestvo under Paisiy Velichkovsky and his disciples at the Optina Monastery. This revival did not address the education or more specifically lack of formal education of most priests. 

I think Zbigniew won back a lot of credibility during the Soviet Collapse as he became an influential advisor on how the West handled the collapse. I think specifically on the reunification of Germany. The West had some misgivings, although short-lived as they were, about that reunification, as did the East. NY Times: Director (Robert Gates) Admits CIA Fell Short In Predicting the Soviet Collapse Sources: Book: Constructing Cassandra: Reframing Intelligence Failure at the CIA, 1947-2001 Book: Readings in Russian Civilization, Volume 3: Soviet Russia, 1917-Pressent NY Times: Director (Robert Gates) Admits CIA Fell Short In Predicting the Soviet Collapse Foreign Policy Magazine: Everything you Think You Know About the Collapse of the Soviet Union is Wrong Wikipedia: Boris Yeltsin Wikipedia: Nikita Khrushchev