Image from Nature; image credit NASA/SWRI/JHUAPL. The cryovolcanic situation on Pluto may be closer to that of Enceladus than that of Europa. Plumes were observed on Enceladus’s south pole by Cassini, which appear to be cryovolcanic in nature: 

It might be a smoke ring, but it's not known for sure. There have been several sightings of similar objects over the past few years. 

I'm willing to rule out microbursts in your case because the ring rose. Insects are still a possibility, and perhaps the smears are due to individual bugs flying outside the pattern, but I have yet to see any behavioral study to explain it. This leaves the theory that these rings are from smokestacks or certain detonations, which is well-supported. Not all of the rings were seen near heavy industrial areas, mind you, but that doesn't rule out that hypothesis in those cases. Smaller smoke machines or explosions could still be the culprits, possibly at a ride in Legoland itself. The most similar type of cloud I can think of is a lenticular cloud, a common explanation for UFO sightings: 

Prior to the New Horizons flyby, a popular model for Pluto’s surface involved frost migration. Delsanti & Jewitt (2006) explain that at different points during the year, there should be seasonal pressure variations in the atmosphere. This then causes changes in the extent of nitrogen and methane ices on the surface, which over long periods of time - remember, Pluto has a very long period of revolution - alters local geography. The authors also mention cryovolcanism as a potential source for replenishment of methane that is destroyed by cosmic rays. Trilling (2016) discusses cryovolcanism and two other processes as ways to resurface Pluto and remove craters: 

False color photograph of Enceladus’s south pole jets. Image in the public domain. Tidal heating is thought to be a large contributor to the heat necessary to trigger the plumes. However, this is likely not enough. One explanation is the hot start model, popular for many years, in which Enceladus initially generated enormous internal heat through the decay of radioactive isotopes of aluminum and iron. Other elements that are slower to decay could then have provided more heat as the aluminum and iron stopped producing heat. The subsurface ocean that may have resulted on Enceladus could also exist on Pluto, according to Hussmann et al. (2006). This is only one possible explanation for a heat source to power cryovolcanism, but there does need to be some sub-surface process on both Enceladus and Pluto that can cause these effects. The hot start model is a good option. 

These are rotor clouds, and are manifestations of "Lee Waves", a particular kind of internal "gravity wave" (better defined as "buoyancy effect"). Forced convection helps form these clouds as warm, moist air is forced upward by both wind from behind and the mountain barrier in front. The upward movement forces cooling and condensation of vapor into clouds. Once past the mountain barrier, this instability dissipates it's momentum through a series of less intense waves as a function of distance away from the mountain range. The clouds themselves are "standing": they do not move, but are constantly regenerated by the windward moist air mass; nor do they build increasingly larger as they are dissipated on their lee side. 

Drying out of North Africa is likely the result of something far more local. I've never heard of the either the Tibetan Plateau or the growing Himalaya as causing changes to Africa's monsoons and always understood the connection between Milankovich cycles and the consequences of glaciation. According to this study, which modelled weather patterns of the time: Aridification of the Sahara desert caused by Tethys Sea shrinkage during the Late Miocene The drying of Africa started much earlier and was likely related to orbital cycles of glaciation-induced drying of the Mediterranean region. 

we see that the edges of many tectonic plates are edged by spreading ridges and subsequent mountain building. Obviously, most mountain building is actually the result divergent tectonics, and not convergent. Curiously, there is no interesting conversation about "how these processes work". Nevertheless, it is interesting that Mid-Ocean Ridges as well as most continental margin mountains are aligned north-south. However, there is little reason to believe that mantle convection and thus plate motion MUST operate in this fashion and that it has always done so. There is plenty of paleomagnetic evidence for landmasses moving in a wide variety of directions in the geologic past, that resulted in the creation of supercontinents. Today's N/S orientation may simply be an artifact of how the last supercontinent was broken up, and not evidence of the orientation of a permanent deep, driving force. 

Do we have any rough indices of how this flux has changed? I'm particularly interested in knowing whether the flux was higher or lower during the time of Pangaea, or during the time of the unusually warm Eocene (or at least up to the earliest time that this flux can been measured from). 

So we know that vegetation sequesters carbon dioxide into its leaves. Much of this carbon sequestration is temporary, since when the plant dies, much of it is released as CO2 back into the atmosphere. If it dies in a frozen region, it could be sequestered in permafrost, but even that can be released back. What if it dies, and some of the carbon gets carried into a river, which could then deposit its carbon into the ocean basins? 

And how much does this heat compare with the total fraction of heat otherwise transported from equatorial to polar latitudes, and from ocean to atmosphere? 

The Younger Dryas was associated with less heat transport from the Southern Hemisphere to the Northern Hemisphere (and a lower flux of the meridional overturning circulation). So I'm wondering - what were the temperatures of the SH like during that period? 

As an example of an atmospheric river, see $URL$ These events have been known to hit areas like California and Bergen, Norway. 

This article says that mounting sensors on animals is relatively cheap compared with the alternatives. 

They can be seen in the diagram below (of the CERES radiation dataset - supposedly they contribute a lot to the total variance in net radiation, which is the sum of SW and LW) - just west of Peru and Mexico (my supervisor, Dargan Frierson, said these are stratocumulus regions). I'm just wondering - why are stratocumulus clouds so abundant there? (the diagram is taken after taking the 12-month running mean of the dataset, which smoothes out a lot of features). 

Caliches are signature features of many arid soils. In addition to the typical places of formation in deserts, they also occur in parts of the Tibetan plateau. Can they also form in polar climates? If not, why not? 

Groundwater ages vary enormously across the globe and with depth: from hours in parts of Florida and areas with Karstic geology, to tens of thousands of years in the American breadbasket, all the way to several billion years as was recently discovered in Canada. Remember that some of this groudwater may be perfectly drinkable, while by far, most of it will be a hot, salty, crappy-tasting mess. As for how long will it take for pesticide to travel down 40 meters.... that all depends on the hydraulic conductivity of everything between the source and your groundwater: a thin clay layer may be enough to block all downward progress and divert flow horizontally, extending the travel-time considerably. In dry areas of the Western US, for example, a pesticide spill will NEVER successfully travel vertically downward to the water table as there is not enough rain to force percolation to depth. Also, remember that pesticide toxicity is time dependent, especially in the sub-surface. A given pesticide will react with water chemistry, soil minerals, and with groundwater bacteria; it begins decomposing immediately and doesn't stay poisonous forever. Hydrogeologist can effectively date the source of a pesticide (and most common contaminants) plume by looking at degradation products. 

UserLTK, above, has mentioned the Dry Valleys of Antarctica and the Atacama desert as two notable examples of "permanent" deserts. It's likely that these two locations have been deserts for at lease several millions of years despite changes in global weather patterns from multiple glacial events. The Atacama is well shielded by a very old mountain range to the west, and the Dry Valleys are also well protected by both an inland location and by global ocean currents that isolate the continent from much of the world's weather.