I'd like to see longer term data on a consistent metric, but it looks as though the evidence says modern is better. 

So the trials done well suggest either no obvious effect for some supplements or a small bad effect for others. And as more evidence arrives the results become clearer. 

This selective advocacy should make skeptics careful when looking at the evidence base as it will, most likely, be easy to find some studies showing benefits when the full weight of evidence is strongly negative. A more recent (2002) BMJ editorial summarising reviews of the supposed benefits of supplementary vitamins says this of vitamin C: 

This seems reasonable given what we know from recorded history. For example, the European and American Little Ice Age might have led to some nice winter art but it wasn't very good for the population. Is McKitrick's claim right that we find it easier to adapt to a warm climate than a cold climate? Supplementary question: since the history of extends cold periods is mostly pre-industrial, is it less true now than it used to be? PS this isn't a question about the existence of global warming (which McKitrick doesn't deny in the response quoted above) or a potential future Ice Age (which people like Matt Ridley are still speculating about). The question is about humanity's ability to adapt to different climate conditions. And nothing else. 

[my emphasis]. Is his argument that current mitigation strategies are more expensive than the benefits they are likely to bring a reasonable one? 

Moderately overweight people have significantly lower mortality than those with "normal" BMI's; the really thin and the really fat do worse A recent meta-analysis in the Journal of the American Medical Association (JAMA) concluded that the moderately fat by current standards (BMI 25-30) had significantly lower mortality than people in other standard weight categories. The meta-analysis was very careful to exclude the normal confounding factors (e.g. ill people may well have low BMI's because of their illness). The key conclusions were: 

Who is right? Do we have good evidence that preventative treatment to lower blood pressure improves health outcomes? What is the balance of benefit and harm? 

The advantage of the BOE approach is that it gives the right visual impression that paths near the edge of the envelope are less probable than those in the middle. The IPCC envelopes in the original chart equally weight the whole envelope of forecasts giving the (incorrect) impression that edge paths are just as likely as central paths. The final version of the IPCC charts compounds this problem by also adding many individual paths to the plot. Visually this overweights the extreme paths at the edge of the probability distribution far too heavily compared to the much larger number of paths near the middle of the distribution. The final presentation also botches the second task even more thoroughly by including multiple AR4 scenarios despite the fact that only one of those comes close to representing the observations (such as CO2 emissions) which were uncertain at the time of the projection but are now history (why include scenarios assuming tight emission constraints when we know that didn't happen?) The IPCC could have done a much better job. For example, the chart below shows a much clearer view (I'm not judging the data here, just the presentation format): 

The long term life depends a lot on the phosphor lifetime (why build all the other components to last a very long time if the lamp slowly dims to the point of uselessness because of phosphor degradation?) Modern phosphors tend to last longer than older types. see this chart from The Lamptech site: 

Is Hockney's thesis convincing? Did some of the great artists use technological aids to create their masterpieces? 

More recent systematic reviews support this early conclusion. More revealing is this comment in a BMJ article about how to do proper systematic reviews (my italics): 

Apple recently posted the results of an external analysis that suggested their business was responsible for supporting more than 500,000 jobs in the USA (though they only directly employ of the order of 50,000). Apple Page here. The headline claims: 

Either way, it is the right-wing that seems to get the attractiveness. Can we trust the results and do they justify the headlines? Is there any evident this applies in countries other than the USA (where the study took place)? 

While the article itself was making a case specifically about financial services, the claim is much broader. Clearly the claim matters as it bolsters the idea that a no-deal Brexit might not be that bad. Other sources are skeptical. For example, this analysis of the WTO database suggest that only one country (Mauritius) trades solely under WTO rules. The BBC summarises some of the conventional thinking here. WTO rules don't sound so scary if everyone else is already trading under them. But the article offers no references for the 90% claim. So is it true? Is 90% of world trade under WTO terms? PS The debate about whether Brexit is a good idea is controversial. Lets keep this question to the factual point at issue and not stray into the broader debate. 

The study put overweight people on a standard diet for 6 months and then split them into two groups: one with fitness trackers and one with just an internet fitness diary. At the end of another year and a half: 

So is there other evidence that lead poisoning made a significant contribution to roman decline? Can we verify or refute this speculative theory? 

The internet is full of cures for cancer and the medical literature (and many newspaper headlines) are full of claims about which specific lifestyle factors make cancer more likely. Some cancers are known to be strongly related to lifestyle (smoking is bad, in case anyone didn't know that already). A recent headline in Gizmodo (and other sources) claims that most cancer mutations are random and unrelated to lifestyle factors (and , therefore, unavoidable): 

These general principles apply to linear tubes and CFLs. There have been specific studies on the relationship for common CFLs. One where the detail isn't hidden behind a paywall is found in the Journal of Industrial Technology (pdf). The paper contains some analysis of the economics of using CFLs in different environments and with different switching frequencies. It also contains some links to other studies (but most are paywalled). Unfortunately it is written in a fairly opaque style and lacks a decent summary. But it does explain why the stated lifetimes of CFLs may be unrealistic for some consumers (my emphasis): 

Both these claims are much more pessimistic than the first two made in the question. One third of babies making to 100 is not a "reasonable expectation" of living to 125 for newborns nor is 14% making it to 100 for 65 year olds. So how do they calculate these numbers? Life expectancy is calculated by observing current mortality (that is how many people in each age group actually died last year) and extrapolating trends in those rates into the future. The key information is those mortality numbers which are current as most countries are fairly diligent about recording deaths. We can't predict the future perfectly, though, so the extrapolation to future mortality will introduce some uncertainty (but the projections are founded on long series of clearly observed numbers so, again, are not based on "old" data). The ONS explains their method in more detail thus: 

An alternative and simpler view would show a snapshot of the average performance of the models up to now versus the actual temperature record (this view simplifies the paths taken over time so loses some information). An example of such an analysis is shown below: 

I was surprised at this because there seem to be plenty of American gun enthusiast sites where what look to be automatic weapons are routinely demonstrated and it is certainly the impression from outside the USA that they seem to be common. But I'm not an American and I live in a country where even the police are not routinely armed so I might be basing my impression on inaccurate sources. Is it very hard for an American to obtain an automatic weapon? Note: I'm not asking about the recent incident or the accuracy of reports about it. Nor am I asking about gun control or anything to do with it. Just the facts about legal and practical access to automatic weapons in the USA (and, yes, the rules are different from state to state so include the facts on that if relevant). 

The newspaper headlines exaggerate the paper's conclusions, but they, in turn, are not justified by the data shown The paper itself does not make any attempt to measure the occurrence of specific dementias but uses a standard test for cognitive performance to measure its outcomes: 

Health food shops usually stock a range of products based on ecinacea extracts that are claimed to be effective against colds and flu-like diseases. The Holland & Barrett website lists 15, for example. The products typically claim: 

Both the lifetime of the electronics and the electrodes are somewhat dependent on the way the bulbs are used. This is because kicking off the gas discharge is stressful for both compared to sustaining it. The result is that the actual operating life depends strongly on how often the lamp is switched on. Lamptech summarises: 

It can be seen that many of the mid estimates actually underestimate the population until relatively recently where the overestimates get bigger (though the errors are not large and the forecasts overlap on the chart). Here is a table of the underlying data: 

Nitrates do have useful anti-microbial quantities as even critics recognise. But are added nitrates and nitrites a net harm to people who eat food containing them? 

Note the method: detailed studies in local hospitals extrapolated to the whole USA. This might justify putting even bigger error bounds on those totals, but the numbers are disturbing even if they have big error bars. It is also worth noting that many studies or reported statistics might underestimate the real avoidable deaths as any admission of error might lead to legal liability (medicine seems to adopt the opposite approach to aviation where reporting of near misses and mistakes in encouraged so procedures can be tightened to avoid future errors). So we have to be wary of many of the numbers. The ballpark figures from the USA don't appear out of line with other studies. An analysis done for the NHS was reported in this BMJ paper in 2004 (NB the links to the references were broken when I checked the article). It uses several sources and comes up with estimates of up to 40,000 deaths (from about 30% of the number of admissions as the US system) from one source to only about 4,000 from another (but excluding infections which are a major killer). A more recent BMJ paper suggests the UK is again broadly similar the the USA but doesn't give overall estimates. A 2005 survey by the UK's National Audit Office provides several useful numbers for judging the scale of the problem and conveniently summarises both the estimates and some of the problems with them: