You're essentially down to the same path that anyone who wants to learn something in their free time. If there are no internal experts look for them elsewhere. The following are the best resources 

And that really depends on the audience you want to reach. People who would be familiar with the kind of work you've done would expect to see a certain amount of details. For those who aren't (HR?) would not appreciate, might misunderstand, and would essentially frown on that amount of information. So you should keep the name of the places, dates, research centres, etc. But try to see how that experience is relevant to finance. Why does that experience make you desirable in finance, compared to someone who did not have that experience? And, the best would be to get to layman's language... but financial language would be very good as well. It shows you are already projecting yourself on the job. Avoid: 

While I think that you could contact them again to say that you are physically available again, I don't think that you should propose a face-to-face interview. You don't have all the details of the hiring process. Maybe they don't need another interview. Maybe they are waiting for some budget, maybe they already have someone, etc. While you can be active to arrange details, the decision to have an interview or not lies with the hiring company. Not the candidate. 

Generally, the most suggested approach is not to recommend anyone when you're fresh into a company. There are different reasons for that but you can consider at least that 

Talk to your boss. Your boss can only manage when he gets the info. For whatever reason, he might not have realised the increase of workload, and the weariness you have. It's perfectly ok to tell them. If you don't want to be too abrupt about it, start by asking what are the perspective for the new hire. And if you don't want to appear as complaining, don't complain, simply keep to the fact: you have a lot of work for you to handle and you're not sure you'll make it. If you're really overloaded, your boss might prioritize things, or find other resources to, temporarily, take part of it off your shoulder. If you wait until the last moment, and don't make it, it would be much worse and take out any chance for your boss to think about an alternative solution. 

If they are unrealistic, you will miss them. That said, it is possible that the deadlines are considered reachable by your manager (as in "not unrealistic") considering you will do overtime (see below). 

Yes, it is probably true. That said, it is also a red herring: Agreeing on your salary should not be done between yourself and their fair formula, but depending on other things (job responsibility, experience, market conditions etc); if the salary you need is not within their margins, they either have to go above their margins, or you could/should leave. 

If he stops you in the corridor between meetings and asks difficult questions, just tell him you will need to be in front of your computer/agenda/whatever before you can answer that accurately (as in "I could make a guess, but I will need to check my project plan before I can give you an accurate answer"). If you have gotten into overcomitting your team simply point that out and let him know the same task will take more into the future. 

Context switching is costly. If you have a schedule that pushes you to switch focus between very different types of work, this can be (at the very least) exhausting; Usually, it is the equivalent of being distracted all the time. Consider: 

I don't know what your situation is, but if somebody told me I would have to work 12 hour days to meet a deadline I didn't (personally) make a commitment to, I would respond by brushing up my CV and starting to look elsewhere. There are twothree things to realize about planned overtime: 

It is not rude. Regarding professionalism, this depends a lot on the position, your responsibilities and the project you are working on. In some cases it may be OK (or even expected), in some it may be unprofessional. 

Let me sum it up: You complain that you don't understand the reasons and benefits for the changes they propose. Then they add you to a meeting, where all these things are discussed and then you complain that you are sitting in a meeting where managers deal with manager things. You can't have the cake and eat it, too. Either you just accept their decisions how to change your software, because they discussed this issue in boring meetings over and over and finally came to a resolution and the only acceptable reason to object is if there is some technological problem. Or you become a manager and discuss and influence the tasks for your software with them, with all the boring and annoying responsibilities. 

You should try to differentiate between skill, public knowledge and company knowledge. Let's say you developed a special automated warehouse software which saved 50% of time and costs. The fact that your old company has this software is company knowledge, also the fact that it works like a charm - nobody outside the company would know it. So this is a complete no-go area - already informing your new superior that their warehouse software is outdated, is asking for trouble. Now, your old company starts to not only use it, but sells it and advertises it. Now your new employer might give you the task to come up with a new warehouse software - then you can write a new software which also saves 50% of time and costs, because how to achieve this, is your skill you have gained and you can use any public knowledge. Most knowledge is publicly available, including patents. Off-limits is knowledge that resulted from company-specific research efforts. 

I think your boss is looking for constructive feedback. He needs to know what went wrong (if any) in your experience with the company, so he can prevent other employees leaving for similar reasons. That is, yes, you probably should give your boss the real reasons you are leaving. 

The important parts: write it down while it's fresh, share it with involved people, store it (in such a way that it is indexable/findable easy). If there is big controversy in a decision (half the team wants it one way and half another way) then also write down a note on the controversy and what was decided. 

This is/was your mistake. A manager is used to delegating. If you give an answer that sound so ... positive, most managers will consider they asked you to "handle the problem" and you said "yes". It wouldn't surprise me if you spoke with him again and he will go "you said you'd cancel". It is probable that if you try to back out now, you will appear as unprofessional (if the manager thought he can rely on your presence after your conversation). Basically, you're better off in this situation, going to work on that day. 

If you didn't write it down, you haven't taken a decision about it before. This means that everybody will (maybe) remember something of it and have an opinion - not a business decision (because the decision wasn't formalized / written down). 

If the deadline was something you committed to without external pressure, the best way is probably to state you overcommitted, learned from it and will commit to less on your next deadline. If the deadline was established by your manager/boss (without taking your input into account) then you should raise a couple of alarms and point out most of the problem appears from overtime itself: "I work beyond normal hours quite regularly (often continue at home after dinner) " - as a client I wouldn't want a product/service that is done on "after-hours work quality". The fact you have to do overtime on your project is a sign of poor management/planning. "occasionally I finish working on something but don't "Send" or finish [...] because I get too tired" - typically, work when you are exhausted is exceptionally lacking in quality. When I did overtime (I am a consultant now, so it doesn't happen anymore), I used to have situations when I would work on a problem for an entire evening (4hrs+ after work), then give up, come back the next morning and solve the same problem in 10 minutes. 

Tom DeMarco in "Peopleware: Productive Projects and Teams" states that such kinds of performance evaluations are inherently dangerous to teams. For example, I assume that I need about 100% more time to write a software requirement specification for a module than the "new" guy. This is not that after the years my fingers ache or my eyes are not good, but because after 11 years I know all the company-specific quirks and problems that need to be covered. So if you gave me and the other guy the task to write two specifications I would say:"No can do, I only manage one in that time" and the other guy would write them. Without assessing the fact that the new guy managed to change the software in a way that required an update of the testing equipment in 9 production plants distributed over the world, you will never be able to properly evaluate who performed well. So, let's look at the core problem: You set a deadline. The employee tells you that (s)he can't do it in that time frame for whatever reason. You insist on the deadline, dismissing the reason. There are now exactly two reactions you will get from any employee. The shy ones who will deliver crap in time, where some manager can set the checkbox that it was delivered in time and that blows up later, when nobody cares, because "later" is not part of any evaluation. The experienced, bold ones who will say:"No can do." Seriously, what do you think caused the Volkswagen emission crisis? This is exactly about this - engineers that tell their manager:"No can do with that deadline." and managers ignoring this, because every employee is just too lazy to fulfill the management goals. If engineers are forced to honor an arbitrary deadline, this is the end result. 

It kind-of does matter (not because anyone else gets to decide what you should do, but because you may decide to reschedule); if you can afford to cancel your personal appointment, offer to do so (preferably notifying your manager that you will take your time off, later). If you cannot reschedule/cancel your time (or simply do not want to), point it out ("I'm sorry but I cannot be in office this afternoon - I had notified X of this yesterday through email and he said it was OK"). 

You can't. What you can (and definitely shoud do) is make a written risk assessment and make sure your bosses read it. In it, describe the security risks, what (reasonable/affordable) actions can be taken to mitigate each risk, and what is the cost of not taking said action. Example: 

You are not asking for more than your equal peers. Just because the company considers you in a pool of equally qualified people, doesn't mean their evaluation is correct (simply present the same arguments you would present if their fair formula was not there). 

This will push a possible employer to offer you (or similar), if you are leaving because you dislike your current position, and if they think you are content in your current position, but they want to convince you to change anyway. When an employer states a figure first (i.e., they mention a figure first), it is the opposite: they expect you to ask for . Normally, in any (future) salary negotiation, the party that specifies a figure first, is at a disadvantage. 

When you have work-related tasks that you cannot do because of other work-related tasks, notify your manager. It is his job to ensure your tasks do not conflict with each other (i.e. "manage" your tasks). This means, if you have two (or more) managers asking for your time, have them fight it out between themselves. When the second request comes in, tell the manager you will be able to get to it only after he confirms with your first manager (and lets you know), or after he tells you the responsibility for the first task not getting done, will be his. 

You should direct questions regarding your salary to company C, questions regarding a permanent position at company A to someone at company A. 

No. There is no such thing as a hiring process that prevents hiring in urgent cases. If someone needs to be hired, this can be accomplished in a few days, no matter how the normal hiring process looks like. If someone tells you that you cannot work for them, but for some other company that works for them, it means that the scope of your intended work is very limited at the moment, likely to a single project that is running late. This is a temporary agency worker situation, where you will be kept by company C for as long as they can lend to you another company and fire you if the prospects are not good. As you were only hired because you could be lent immediately to another company, there is a fair chance they will fire you immediately again, instead of looking for other companies who might want you. 

I don't think your approach is feasible. Seriously, countries are huge. Even if they would have an open position in the country your girlfriend lives in, how likely it is that it is within a reasonable distance for a real life relationship? I mean, for now you might be grateful to just replace internation flights with national flights, but in the end even a 4 or 5 hour distance will feel crippling after two years. And that's how the person responsible for hiring will likely see it, too, and so consider you a less-than-ideal candidate. Otherwise, I'm not sure what you think will happen when you are worried that things would escalate quickly into personal details. Choosing or changinge the workplace according to relationship requirements is fairly normal. Nobody is going to discuss how often you have to meet your girlfriend to maintain a healthy sex life. What might be discussed is how you see your future within the company considering the above mentioned problems or how you intend to arrange your future so that it matches the company requirements.