How can you explain karma in the genocide of babies and "innocents" (For example: The Holocaust) in Buddhist terms to a non-Buddhist, without seeming cold and uncaring? Yesterday, I tried--by saying, "I cannot say unequivocally, why the millions had to suffer or whether karma came into play or not, but perhaps it is better to focus attention on the present and try to generate good karma here and now." I know Buddha said certain topics will only foster disputation and I felt like this is one of those that can only be speculation so I steered the conversation in another direction. What can you say in a better (or kinder) way to explain it to a non-Buddhist person who asks how the holocaust suffering can be justified and who expresses interest in knowing the Buddhist view about it? 

Let’s look at this question from a different perspective with this analogy: Let’s imagine you know a car mechanic that works on race cars--let’s say Lamborghinis. You tell him you want to build one and he says, “Sure! Look up the information yourself.” Having never done any car repairs, how confident would you be in your finished product? Your question is not really so different. Without a teacher, you don’t even know enough to know what you don’t know. You also won’t know what you might have misunderstood or failed to grasp. While Buddha said to question what you are taught and ultimately decide for yourself if it rings true with you, (Kalama sutra AN 65 Book of 3s pg 280 B. Bodhi ed) there is much to be gained from a teacher. A deep and personal relationship can encourage knowledge and a sense of humility. He can skillfully shape you the way a carpenter shapes a masterpiece, and he is an experienced guide in the vast and often overwhelming Buddhist terrain. I don’t find any Pali cannon references specifically saying you have to find a “teacher”, but many times the Buddha extolled the benefits and importance of having a “good friend” (Kalyāna mitta in Sanskrit--which basically IS a spiritual friend/guide/advisor/teacher) as being an essential part of the spiritual process. This person will keep you on the correct path and get you through times of discouragement. When his disciple “Ananda” said good friendship is ½ the Holy life, Buddha responded: “Not so, Ananda! This is the entire holy life, Ananda, that is good friendship, good companionship, good comradeship. When a Bhikkhu has a good friend, a good companion, a good comrade, it is to be expected that he will develop and cultivate the Noble Eightfold Path.” SN45:2. B.Bodhi ed. Pg.1524-1525 I will objectively say a rare person will find enlightenment on his own, but the vast majority need skilled help. Best of luck with your efforts! 

If you are interested in Vajrayana or Tantric Buddhism, I highly recommend the book by Reginald Ray titled, Secret of the Vajra World. He even covers a brief overview of other forms of Buddhism at the beginning, then dives into the Vajrayana. It's very clearly written and covers a wide variety of the aspects of Tibetan Buddhist (Vajrayana Buddhist) practice and masters who teach and have taught it. In Vajrayana Buddhism, the lineage and the masters are an important part of the practice, via a practice known as guru yoga, where one learns to emulate the ideal of a buddha by practicing with one's teacher as an example. This book is known as (marketed as?) a second volume in conjunction with the first (which is titled, Indestructible Truth) that covers other forms of Theravada and Mahayana Buddhism, however I found that the short intro to the Theravada & Mahayana in Secret of the Vajra World covered enough of that for me and that the other volume, though I read it, wasn't absolutely necessary, unless you are looking for a lot more detail on those earlier schools (and given your original question here, that first volume is probably in a LOT more detail than you'd like, for an introductory text). In short, I cannot recommend highly enough Reggie Ray's book, Secret of the Vajra World as a "standalone" introductory text to Tantric Buddhism, if you're looking for an understandable and comprehensive introduction to a frankly, pretty complicated development of Buddhism, which is the Vajrayana. 

Many Buddhist texts and teachings make a distinction between absolute and relative truth. Please explain the difference and give some examples. 

I believe both @Bakmoon and @santa100 have touched on it in their answers; @santa100 gives some traditional writings on the subject. Very briefly, all three of these marks of existence are intertwined in their meaning, understanding, and relation (they're "three sides of the same coin" to completely mess up an idiom!)... Let's start with impermanence: The idea that nothing just is, that it's instead always changing. Pretty simple fact of physics, mainly. Next, consider Anatta or non-self, which is a way of saying that even what we might call a 'self' isn't permanent, it too is impermanent; meaning, there isn't one (a 'self'), because that would be something! Finally, Dukkha or suffering: That 'suffering' or 'unsatisfactoriness' arises because our mind's habit is to imagine that some things actually are permanent, or that we have selves. Really, that's it. So when meditating on the breath, if you 'get' impermanence, then you also automatically get non-self (as you've said) and suffering (because suffering is just the illusion that things are permanent in any way, shape, or form). Finally, the way I would answer this most simply, is to say that in whatever way to feel you understand impermanence, that would be very closely related to how you understand suffering; suffering is just the 'auto pilot' or 'habit of mind' that arises from not understanding impermanence, at every moment, of every day. When you're following your breath, you likely have some (slight) expectation that it will continue to go out, or change from out to in, come flowing back in, or finally change from in to out. That expectation has in it the seed of dissatisfaction. At some point, on some breath you take, it will do none of those things; it will stop. Just that slight expectation is an illusion. (Not to mention all the times your mind might wander and 'expect' or want different things from your past or future.) I (and others, including scholars) feel that 'suffering' is an unfortunate translation and choice of word, particularly in the West, although it is a literal translation of the term used in Pali, Sanskrit, or Tibetan. In the Wikipedia article you link to, the linked article to suffering (Dukkha), includes this gloss, re: neither pessimistic nor optimistic which I find helpful to understand a more nuanced definition of 'suffering' as Buddhists define it. (The above link has changed substantially--so I've edited the link so it now links to the older version as it existed when I wrote this answer. Here is the current page on Dukkha, as it is now.)