It is easier to tell if it went badly than if it went well. The sign that it went well is when you get a call back for another interview or a job offer. The best interviews you have may not result in moving further into the process because you are competing with others and someone else may have been much better than you were. So even if you feel good about what you said, it is not a sign that you are getting the job. Signs it went especially badly are if they cut off the interview rather abruptly, if people seem to be going through the motions and not paying attention to what you said or if you know that you very badly missed the answers on several questions. 

No it doesn't sound OK. If you have nothing to do, I would be concerned. I have almost never known a software developer with nothing to do. That's a huge red-flag that your job is in danger. First have you told your boss you need more work? Have you made suggestions for work that can be done during an unavoidable delay (I can think of almost no code bases that couldn't use some more tests for instance), is there professional (not personal) reading that you can do? Are there other employees who are working overtime that you could offer to help? Are them some work-related projects that no one has has time to do. You know the boring stuff like clean up the code repository because somehow stuff has gotten put in multiple places, or make an application to make doing timesheets easier, or... 

Personally I would go directly to his boss and complain. You have asked him to stop and he did not. It is unprofessional behavior not a joke. He needs to have someone sit him down and tell him in no uncertain terms that this is unacceptable and that he needs to stop it immediately or his job is at risk. Is he going to be happy with you about this. No. But he is making your work life miserable so frankly his feelings don't count here. In any workplace I have worked in, a person persisting in harassment would be fired if he continued to do it after being told not to. Note I didn't say this was necessarily sexual harassment even though you are two different sexes. It might or might not be, but harassing any co-workers of any sex after they have specifically told them to cut it out, is harassment and bullying and unacceptable. Most likely a person with such a misplaced sense of humor is annoying other colleagues as well. For his own career, he needs to learn that when someone says, "not funny", it no longer is. 

Even though they asked about your current environment, I would have talked a bit about my current enviroment and then why I liked or disliked it and what kind of environment I prefered to work in and why. Frankly I wouldn't care what their enviroment was like when I answered this because if it doesn't match what I need and am good at working in, then I'm not interested in them. Both you and the interviewers are looking to see if you are match for their workplace. When you answer workplace fit questions, just be as honest as you can, you don't want to go to a place you don't fit anymore than they want to hire you for one. 

Freelancing is a better option for you, I would suspect. One you can show a couple of years of experience doing that, then the job search at other companies will be easier. An additional possibility since your field is computer science is to start your own company and create apps to sell. No one really investigates the credentials of the devs they get apps from. You can do this part-time while you are working at something else so you can have the income until you make enough from your apps. 

It is rude for him to expect you to honor his local time instead of yours. When companies are international, then each group is supposed to do their work in their own hours. Sometimes it means a delay if someone who is not currently working is not available to answer, that's the price of doing international business and should be built into project timelines as an unavoidable delay. You have two options here. You can wait until he is online to send him emails either by working his hours or by sending emails on a delay or sending them only when your hours overlap. If you choose to do this to maintain your relationship with the person, then choose the delay one as that is the least likely to cause problems. Delaying sending the email until a later time manually will result in times when you get busy with other things things and forget to send it hours later. This will cause more work issues than sending it when the need arises. Imagine explaining to your boss that the reason why something was delayed was because you noticed you needed something at 10 am, but put off sending the email until quitting time because Joe didn't like getting emails in the middle of the night and by quitting time you had forgotten about it. It is even more likely to happen if your overlap hours are in your moning, so you would be waiting until the next day to send. However, I think the better option is to work with your manager and his to get a written policy on emails which would make it clear that he is required to get emails in off hours, but should not be responding to them until he is actually the working. But he needs to know this from mangement, not from you. 

I belive the AIM issue has been addressed (it BTW is not unwarrented surveillance, you used company assets to send the AIM messages, they are entitled to monitor their own assets). Let me address paragragh 3 somewhat. Can a company fire you for information they found from sources outside the workplace. Certainly they can and often do. People are fired for a multitude of things not found offically through the workplace such as: Publicly embarassing customers or company - there was a recent case of a waitress who got fired for posting on the Internet a note from a pastor commenting on tipping. Others have been fired for blog entries or Facebook posts. Assume no privacy for anything you write or post on the Internet. If you would not want your manager to see it, don't post it. This goes for other types of writing as well. It's less common to get fired for a book you wrote, but it could happen. People have been fired for getting arrested, for hitting on the CEOs wife in a non-work setting, etc. People have been fired for their politcal beliefs or their religious beliefs. In an at will state, they don't have to say why you were fired, so these thigns are becoming more common. I read storeis inteh last election of people being fired for having a bumpersticker on their car for a political party that managment did nto support. Some of this can be fought in court, but it is often costly and very time-consuming, so usually the companies get away with this stuff. The smart ones never give this as the official reason. Getting fired for someone finding out from outside sources that you are looking for a new job is not terribly common. However there are times when it might be riskier such as: 

It depends on the environment if there is a list of acronyms somewhere. If I encounter a lot of strange acronyms when I first start a job, I usually ask around to see if anyone has a list of the meanings. When I first went to work for the US Navy as a civilian employee, I found a book called the DicNavAb (Dictionary of Naval Abbreviations) which was invaluable the first three or four years. Sadly it was last updated in 1984. Many Government offices have listings because the acronyms are so extensive in the government. Another source of the definitions are long formal documents such as reports. These are more likely to follow the convention of defining in the first use or in an appendix. In particular documents of a legal nature will be more likely to do this. You should also ask people what the acronym stands for. Don't necessarily interrupt, but write down the acronym and ask the person after the meeting. Keep a running list so that you don't have to ask twice. The Internet is a good source as well. Google the acronym. You have to use your judgement here as many acronyms have multiple meanings in different business domains. If you aren't sure, go to a coworker or you boss and tell them the two meanings you found and ask them which is correct in your current context. This website can also help: $URL$ 

Wouldn't you rather weed out the comapnies that are unwilling to go through the process to hire from another country before you wate much time on them? 

I would think that any person who would not view it as positive that you are checking out the interviewers and company where you are interviewing is probably someone you don't want to work for. Good companies want people who care about getting the right job and who care to do the research. Being upset at doing something like that would make me believe the person or company has some strong negative to hide. 

In the case you mention, I would not bring up experience under another name. What you did was fraudulent and thus not something you want a potential employer to know about. In another situation (say a woman who changed her name with a marriage or divorce or a transgender person), if you need them to know the work was under a different name becasue that is the name your references would know you as, I would not address this in the resume at all but in the cover letter. You could use language such as 

So you don't need to wait for him at all. BTW this is not optimal, it will be slower than if they were both ints. But if the schema can't be changed, it is all you can do. You would have found this out by asking the questions on Stack Exchange. 

I realize that you don't want to disclose your persnal medical issues, but if you are going to be gone rather frequently, it will affect the workload. It is also possible that, depending on the severity of the issue, you might not be as productive during the hours you are working. Your boss needs to know this and can adjust workload appropriately. There are times in most people's lives when they are not at their best and some allowance needs to be made for that. It is easier to make this allowance if the manager knows there is an issue. These can be medical issues, grief, parental care issues or sick children or even divorce. When people choose not to disclose, the only information the boss has is that performance has suffered. This tends to lead to a worse problem for the employee than if they had disclosed (at a general level not the gory details) what the problem is and how long it may be affecting you. Now all this assumes a reasonable boss and an employee who was performing acceptably before the issue came up. I personally have never worked for anyone who I could not go to when there was a life issue (even bosses I didn't particularly like otherwise) and in general I would not stay working for someone who couldn't understand things like medical problems affecting work. If however you have a bad boss who would not understand, it is entirely possible it is a bettter choice to only tell about the appointments one at a time. And remember if you don't tell him what the appointment is for, it is likely this kind of boss might turn down your request. The person will eventually notice, but it could keep you employed longer. In any event, I would suggest that you talk to your boss about how you can make up the hours if you feel that will be possible. It is easier to grant the time when you know it will be made up for later. If the impact will be large and others will need to work more to cover for you, it will be better received by your co-workers as well if they know it is for medical reasons. You don't need to disclose what the medical situtation is, but it is best to let your boss know it is a medical problem. Personally I prefer to tell the boss exactly what the problem is if it is serious and ask him or her to keep that information confidential. So the co-workers are only told that you are having a medical problem but the boss has a way of estmating the potential seriousness (cancer would be more likley to affect work beyond the actual appointments than medical treatments for allergies for instance).