Please see "A Foray into the Worlds of Animals and Humans" with a theory of meaning by Jakob Von Uexkull. He coined the terms Umwelt and Umgebung. The Umwelt is the particular reality or constructed model of the world that we call our particular existence, the Umgebung is the bigger or more general reality. Your "Umwelt" would be your particular model of reality and the theorhetical implication is that your reality has a sense of completeness to it. For example most people have genes that code for three color differentiators, but some people have four and can discern additional hues of color. If you have 3 genes that code for average color perception do you have a sense that something is missing from your model of reality? The people that are born with congenital blindness do not ask what it is to have sight, so there is an important theoretical issue to explore with your question, since each constructed reality has a sense of completeness. A constructed reality appears to be perceptually closed and an Umwelt that defines a perimeter of perceptive possibility that cannot conceive of additional degrees of freedom of perception. Within the degrees of perceptive freedom there is a spacious variation of possible perceptions, but limited by the basic information type being perceived. Conscious realities seem to be individually constructed of the informational degrees of freedom provided by the sense organs. Additional degrees of freedom are available in the Umgebung, human sight for example is only about 1 trillionth of the EM spectrum and among humans there is significant variation. 

It is a conceded fact that something exists. Martin Heidegger pointed to this as the most fundamental issue in philosophy, that something rather than nothing exists. Further if the world is an illusion by the radical method of doubt argued by Descartes, we can also infer that our minds must exist even if all else is an illusion. No argument with premises 1, something exists. P 1: Something exists. Philosophy has worked hard to establish this most basic truth, and I agree that Descartes establishes that our minds exist. P2: We cannot fully explain why something exists. The ultimate base of reality is not explained. The limit of our understanding is intimate and permeates our existence. Socrates might suggest at this point, that beginning of self-examination reveals profound ignorance. This self-knowledge of profound ignorance may inspire the thinker to a passion to try and understand what a human mind can come to understand. The passion of the thinker to expand the perimeter of knowledge is a humbling journey since so much remains in speculation, and so many deep insights are very difficult to grasp and involve complex mathematics beyond most peoples capabilities. P3: By the Principle of Sufficient Reason everything must have a cause. Spinoza claimed that, nothing exists of which it cannot be asked what is the cause or reason for its existence. This is not a universally accepted principle in philosophy. We may consider the following list of ontological elements: time, space, infinity and nothingness as perhaps needing no cause for their existence, they are simply “given”. Something like infinity has no boundary, no beginning or end, and since it has these features it may be a candidate for something that exists but needs no explanation it is simply a “given” feature of existence. If time and space also have no bounds why would they need to be caused since they are infinite and eternal? It seems that both something and nothing exist simultaneously, for the Big Bang started as a point event in perhaps a sea of nothingness? Nothingness seems to exist prior to something, and there is no need to explain nothing since it is not a something and therefore needs no explanation. This is a speculation that perhaps some ontological entities are a “given” feature of the cosmos that is axiomatic and needs no explanation. Axiomatic logic must have at base unproven assumptions, and we know that every system of logic has a limited set of provable theorems. The existence of God is an axiomatic assumption, not a proven fact. This assumption about God is then used to extend a set of logical theological conclusions which every culture has explored to create a rich tapestry of theological possibilities with unique and interesting solutions to community and ritual. Conclusion: Since we do not have an explanation to the cosmos, we may evoke a miracle as the best solution to the fact that something exists. This conclusion seems to be a species of the logical fallacy Appeal to Ignorance. We can have a strong intuition about God, but it does seem to be a personal act of faith at base to make this assumption, rather than a proven theorem from generally accepted first principles. Socrates perhaps would suggest caution and humility, for the base assumptions we make are subject to revision. 

Your specific question (about abortion) has been discussed a fair bit. In general, people seem to agree that when the mother's life is threatened it's OK: 

I'm looking for references on population ethics, preferably those with a mathematical bent. Broome's Weighing Lives is a good example of what I'm looking for. 

I'm interested in sources discussing the obligations we have to be "beneficent", e.g. through charitable donations. Famine, Affluence and Morality is one of the more famous articles of this type. SEP has an overview as well. I am more interested in utilitarian-based reasoning, and things discussing what the "common man" can or should do, as opposed to things like medical ethics. 

Yes, of course. This idea is most famously discussed in Nick Bostrom's Are You Living in a Computer Simulation? Note that "Roko's Basilisk" is doing no real work for you here – you don't need any esoteric forms of decision theory to accept Bostrom's argument. 

With your edit I will venture a guess as to a more specific question, which hopefully is similar to what you want to know: 

By the definition of the problem, , and similarly since it is just the marginal over heads and tails. This leaves us with . So does that mean the thirder position implies that the prior probability of getting heads is 1/3? I.e. that even before the coin is tossed, we should assign a probability of 1/3 to heads? 

A harder question to answer would revolve around defining 'truth'. We might suggest that to assert "X is true" means something like "it is useful for one to believe X". We could point to an increased sense of community among believers, for example, as evidence that belief in a divine being is useful and therefore true. This is a (poorly phrased version of a) tack that James took. 

Cody and Joe gave good answers, but I'd like to add that a common form of argument that you find in philosophy and not so much other places is a Syllogism. This is an argument of the form "P implies Q, P, therefore Q." As an example, a simple form of the argument from marginal cases goes like: 

I am going to focus solely on Bostrom's argument for the simulation hypothesis, as opposed to metaphysical skepticism in general. First, note that Bostrom himself doesn't find this overwhelmingly likely: 

Skinner, of course, believed that free will is an illusion, so there's nothing to take away. (Hence this conditioning is not immoral.) His book Walden 2 describes a society in which social engineering techniques (like you describe) are used to create a utopia. Your question is timely because a popular ethics book called Nudge has recently promoted some of these ideas. Nudge argues that there are some (relatively benign) ways we can change our environments to "nudge" people towards making the right decision. The SEP's entry on autonomy might be a good place to start. It sounds like you may be new to the wonderful world of differing ethical opinions, but suffice it to say there are several competing schools of thought with diametrically opposed views on the matter. If you are interested in reasons why losing autonomy might be a morally relevant action, you might consider whether rational (autonomous) thought is important for ethical reasoning, whether losing autonomy will make it harder for you or those around you to satisfy your preferences, or whether making autonomous decisions is important for being a "good person". Some classics in the area would be Kant's Groundwork of the Metaphysics of Morals (see e.g. The Categorical Imperative - Freedom and Autonomy) and Mill's On Liberty. Contemporary thinkers tend to be distrustful of the idea of "freedom" in general. (Frankly, I am surprised this question hasn't been answered with a flood of posters questioning whether one can ever make a "free" decision to begin with.) I heartily recommend The Latest Answers to the Oldest Questions which is an introductory-level book to some important philosophical ideas, including questions of freedom. 

knowledge itself is static and human knowledge usually can grow regularly (through learning). human learning trajectory (all, but not only a single human) is a dynamic, there is no such limitation on absorbing knowledge, however, due to the evolution and other side effect which can occur, human tends to forget or remove relatively useless knowledge naturally (that explained why history told us human always committed the same mistakes). it means that human can absorb unlimited knowledge logically, but there is a threshold exists in their DNA. it is a typically machine learning tricks, when during with complicated issue, we tends to know the answer, instead of the procedures to solve the issues. human learn "forget something they have learnt" and they will claim it is "a new thing which they haven't learnt". it is a iteration of knowledge which could restrict the human learning process (it is the reason why human can find satisfactory in their mediocre life). as the same situation prolonged to a single human life, human start not willing to learn new thing by choice (free-will). they tends to apply their experience to solve the existing problem. as long as problem is able to be solved by the current knowledge foundation, human usually will not learn/know new thing. thus, any stimulation(issues, problems, threats) can boost the knowledge base of human, for example world war 2 there is a lot of difference type of technology invented and researched. human tends not to explore the universe, or their own bodies until the crisis of human population and serious disease. a single human is a event driven object with some randomized pulse to force them to do creative things. but the entire human species are still event driven as the correlation activities of them (society). 

it doesn't make sense in my opinion about duplication of yours by the machine. otherwise its organic assemble power is already questionable. i think "if soul exists and you can extract it, then soul's transportation is completely possible".since it is not physically exists, transport of it just like a transportation of a complicated thought. thus it make sense if you can define soul that do not cause contradiction to the transportation. but it is very questionable rather or not the human body itself can be teleported. certainly one of the approach is Star Trek that recreate the body by the machine and only the "soul is transported". theoretically it is worked, if you can accept a new body for each travel. another approach to assuming your soul and body is in one form, a machine can breakdown, transport and assemble you again. assuming that this process has to be fast or this process is above 4th dimension ( not limited by time), otherwise organically you will be defined as dead. the fact is that soul itself is questionable object. also the reason that cause human "dead" is questionable. and the state of "dead" is also questionable. and the formation and storage of memory is also questionable. above questions should be solved first for other options. 

So, roughly, if you didn't exist and someone else did, it would be that other person marveling at the unlikelihood of their existence. Wikipedia has more. Nick Bostrom is the philosopher most strongly associated (in my mind) with these investigations. Some interesting consequences are the doomsday argument and the sleeping beauty problem. So roughly, I don't think the question you should ask is "how likely is it for me to exist?" but rather "how likely is it for someone like me to exist?" If you ask the former, I think the answer is, as you say, "miraculous". 

Dissenters from this argument generally embrace the view that the question is misguided: ethical value doesn't come from having some set of capabilities, but rather arises through a shared contract etc. Carl Cohen defends this view, for example. Entire books have been written about this, if you are interested to continue researching it. On other fronts, you might be interested in the work that Varner, among others, has done to describe the likelihood that various species feel pain which can be roughly summarized as "vertebrates feel pain; insects possibly not so much". And Dan Dennett expresses some uncertainty as to what extent non-humans are conscious, but of course he is quite skeptical of most accounts of human consciousness as well. 

I don't think I fully understand your example about CH (it seems to me you could indeed go quite wrong assuming that CH is true with probability 1/2...) but I would encourage you to check out The Philosophical Significance of Cox's Theorem. It highlights some domains in which Cox's theorem could be plausibly said to fail. (One of which is, as you say, when the law of excluded middle fails.) On the other side of things, Quantum probabilities as Bayesian probabilities demonstrates a link between Bayesian probability and quantum probability (a domain in which the distributive property doesn't hold). So this idea is quite robust, even in the bizarre world of QM. 

I think Phenomenology might be a good subject heading for "philosophy of the passions." Wikipedia's description: 

I emphasize "morally relevant" since it is a question for biology to list the anatomical differences, which is of course an important thing to do, but off topic here. Phrased this way, this is the argument from marginal cases. Essentially, the claim is that so-called "marginal humans," such as those with severe cognitive handicaps, have mental capabilities similar (or inferior) to some non-humans. Quoth Singer (from Animal Liberation): 

Dennett talks about this as "Skyhooks" vs. "Cranes" A Crane is something which can build great complexity, but it rests on simple, fundamental principles. This is like evolution. A Skyhook (a crane hanging from a helicopter) is something which can build great complexity, but it rests on no firm foundations. This is like creationism. Some of the criticisms you bring up have been brought up by others who say that Dawkins doesn't differentiate well enough between these two in his Boeing 747 Gambit. He may not have presented the argument perfectly, but others have made it more rigorous.