Friends, having heard in many a Dhamma talk references being made to the permanence of the Dhamma as refuge, I am looking for suttas in the Pali Canon evoking that very theme of permanence of the Dhamma. Thank you for your much appreciated help. 

Buddhadasa Bhikkhu takes rebirth to be a metaphor for the taking on of a momentary self identity when being caught in a cycle of suffering following the conditioned pattern of dependent origination. Under the Bodhi Tree • Buddhadasa Bhikkhu 

Ajahn Sumedho, in his excellent book, Don't Take Your Life Personally, offers in many passages the perspective that the four Brahma-Viharas are the transcending sublimation of our usual self centered reactive patterns towards the Vedanā, the hedonic tones of experience. 

Though to the extent of my admittedly scarce knowledge, decapitation as a simile for some level of attainment is not to be found in the Pali Canon, but I bet the Zen tradition offers countless koans and stories wherein, figuratively, the incumbent experiencer of realization is beheaded, very much to his surprise I would say. If you happen to know a few of these stories, your kind attention in helping me digging out these similes is greatly appreciated. My gratitude for having taken the time to read this. 

Buddhism learns that everything is in constant change and in constant interaction; that nothing is steady and separated from the other things. Does that mean that buddhism is nondualistic? 

Stabilizing the counterpart sign (nimitta) isn't easy. Is there a 'technique' that leads to stabilize it? I.c. is there a 'technique' to develop/cultivate intensively the absorption factors (jhanangas)? With 'stabilizing' I mean: making the nimitta sharp, focused, completely free from tension (of the panca nivarana), so that absorption (1st jhana) can be attained. 

Which buddhist doctrines form the supreme insights that all Buddhist schools (i.c. Theravada, Mahayana, Vajrayana, Navayana) can endorse? In other words: which doctrines are common to all? 

I'd like to add one phrase from Larry Rosenberg in his book Breath by Breath. The Liberating Practice of Insight Meditation (2012), p.45: 

This question is mere practical: how a practitioner avoids that his mind wanders away into stories and dramas. There are moments that "noting" does not help. 

The real issue with creating art, I think, is that you can't be mindful while doing it. Writers, especially, have to imagine a lot, create images and basically delude oneself. And also, there is a great deal of attachment. As an artist, one has to be very dedicated to one's work, force things, alter things all the time, be a perfectionist. So maybe there is no specific text forbidding it, there may even be texts that could be interpreted as art-positive. But in practice, I really do not see how it can benefit. It's another craving, and strongly linked with the ego. I believe it is more harmful than, say, plumbing. Who'd be attached to plumbing? 

The fair maidens do indeed get the lesser deal in that realm, much like women get the lesser deal in this realm. Since being a woman is an inferior birth (according this person anyway) the similar must apply to these so called nymphs, which I can't find any information on. If now Queen Maya was born a male deva, that still doesn't make the entire realm not-sexist. It arguably makes it more sexist that she couldn't be born a highly regarded nymph/maiden if female devas simply don't exist. One wonders if there are nymph suffragettes in these higher realms, who demand to be treated equally and dishy servants... 

Is there a correlation between sukha (the 4th component of the jhanangas) and passadha (the 5th component of the sambojjhanga)? 

The meditator uses the meditation object to center his attention (concentration—samadhi). When his attention is 'wandering' away, the meditator uses the object (i.c. the breath) as his 'base camp' to bring gently his awareness back. Mindfulness—awareness (sati) and equanimity (upekkha) are the two wings which lead to wisdom, to insight (panna): they show the meditator the phenomena as they really are (yathabhuta). Rosenberg, Larry, (2012), Breath by Breath. The Liberating Practice of Insight Meditation p. 91: 

A teacher who follows and explains rigorously and profoundly the Anapana Sutta and the Mahasatipatthana Sutta is worth to be appreciated, enlightened or not. Anyway, nobody can explain Buddha's teachings in a such a way without 'seeing and knowing'. S.N. Goenka: 

Is the experience of bhanga (5th insight - knowledge of dissolution) the equivalent of the destruction of the khandhas? 

A recent, marvelous book (especially written for Westerners) is from Larry Rosenberg (2012): Breath by Breath. The Liberating Practice of Insight Meditation. In this book you'll find—in plain English—the essence of Anapanasati practice. It's the essence: from the first step to enlightenment. What do you want more? 

I am looking for a specific sutta wherein the conditionality and insubstantiality of the existential process of a sentient being, or consciousness, is made plain by use of the simile of a resonating musical instrument being struck by the player's hand, the sound of which, resonating for awhile, then slowly fades away. Any references, anyone ? Thanks :) 

Dear friends, looking for parallels between the practice of Tonglen, and the Husserlian notion of Intersubjectivity, I have come upon this research paper by Natalie Depraz, Phd. Quoting from the abstract : 

Friends, could anybody direct me to some suttas of the pâli canon about Tatramajjhattatā, the developed form of the equanimous abiding 'in the middle of all that'. To the best of my knowledge, this specific mental factor is mentioned in the Abhiddhamma and the Visuddhimagga, but I was unable to find it referred to in the Pali Canon. Many thanks for your much appreciated help, with Mettā 

I am looking for a very specific sutta in the Pali Canon wherein it is explained how the uninstructed worldling, upon feeling dejected, will turn to sensual pleasures to assuage his craving for satisfaction, which is contrary to the way of the wise. Thank you for your kind attention, and your very much appreciated help. 

There are many views among Buddhists on the issue of euthanasia, but many are critical of the procedure. An important value of Buddhism teaching is compassion. Compassion is used by some Buddhists as a justification for euthanasia because the person suffering is relieved of pain. Keyword is intention (cetana). However, it is still immoral "to embark on any course of action whose aim is to destroy human life, irrespective of the quality of the individual's motive." For bhikkhus the rules are explicitly spelled out. The monastic code (Patimokkha) states: 

Is it correct that only the 4 lower jhanas (rupa jhanas) are useful for cultivating insight (panna) because the meditator's mind is too absorbed when he enters successively the immaterial jhanas (arupa jhanas)? 

According to the instructions of the Buddha Himself in the Anapanasati Sutta (MN 118): Sit down comfortably and breath... 

I suppose that there is (are) differences between the tilakkhana (anicca; dukkha and anatta) and the so-called three dhamma-seals (anicca; anatta and nibbana). Can anyone help me? 

I have some questions about metta meditation. 1- When I send love to myself, my cat, the world etc. Do I have to feel something? Do I have to sit and repeat the mantra May I Be Happy until I feel love for myself and not move on to my cat until I've reached that point? (If yes, what if that takes forever? If I don't feel a thing, why might that be? Do I move on anyway? How much time should I spend on each thing?) 2- When I imagine myself, my cat, my neighbour and so forth, how much energy should I put into visualizing these things? Do I need to see it all clearly or is it enough to keep them in mind? 

My decrease in creativity does most likely not have anything to do with my feeble meditation attempts, because it is natural to have ups and downs, even when it comes to creativity. But still, meditation deals with ridding oneself of attachments by observing mind states objectively and I think that following through an idea and turning it into a finished piece of work requires quite a lot of attachment and devotion to the project. I suppose my real question is: is it possible to balance being a practicing Buddhist and a creative artist? 

How we can strengthen dis-identification in normal life? How can we free our attention from self-reference? 

(Translation by Thanissaro Bhikkhu) The Buddha asks his followers that they examine the outcome of practice to see if the teachings are true. Buddhism isn't about beliefs. Buddhism is about firsthand knowledge. 

satipatthana = vipassana. Vipassana is the meditation practice that follows the teachings of the Satipatthana Sutta (MN 22). 

What is the exact meaning of 'acala sukha'? Is it mentioned in the Pali-canon? If so, where ? In what context ? 

Is it correct to say that the vipassana experience of bhanga is a synonym of stream entrance (sotapatti)? 

The question is not how to become a buddhist; the aim is to get freed from our misery (dukkha). This is possible through realizing wisdom (panna). Everyone can become enlightened. The Buddha has given us the tools; showed us the path, but everyone has to cultivate it himself or herself. Ajahn Jayasaro (* Mindfulness, Precepts and Crashing in the Same Car p. 33-35 emphasized text*): 

Buddhism is not about ignoring, denying or suppressing any feelings, it's about seeing them objectively- as feelings that have nothing to do with the self, states that simply arise and cease in the mind and nothing more. There is nothing unhealthy about this, in fact I think it is more unhealthy to obsess over strong emotions, crave for them to be returned and become blind with jealousy and rage when they aren't. People commit murder for these reasons. An extreme example, but I would argue that sure, if one wants to indulge in pleasures and are ok with the impermanence and risks, fine, it's your call. But people who are are devoted buddhists can develop into very genuinely selfless and compassionate beings and whether or not you believe in karma and rebirth, the world could use more selflessness and compassion and less craving and entitlement. Just because it's normal and natural doesn't mean it's healthy. 

Assuming you have to pick one and "not telling" is too much of an easy way out, I would say be honest with the hunter. The hunter is a hunter, has hunted plenty and if he fails to catch one rabbit, that is hardly going to, for want of better word, "save" him from an undesirable rebirth (because he still wants to kill it). He breaks a precept for a living, but if you're honest, at least he has a chance at making the right choice if you also try to appeal to his compassion. If the rabbit is killed, then that isn't so bad for will it really be reborn as something lesser than a rabbit? Just my two cents. Not sure how this option would affect you, the person that has to make the choice, karma-wise. You're indirectly responsible for killing, if that is what the hunter decides to do, but your intent is still good. 

What are sariras (Tibetan: ringsels)? I have seen those small crystal 'pearls' (exposed in bottles) at several (even small) monasteries in SE Asia. These relics remain (are found in the ashes) after the cremation of the body of (high appreciated) Buddhist monks. Is there a scientific explanation for those sariras? 

What you experience during your practice is absolutely not harmful. It is a stage in the meditation process. More: it is a sign that you proceed in the right direction. The vibrating 'light' that arises and passes away is the so-called nimitta. Catherine, Shaila, (2008) Focused and Fearless. A Meditator’s Guide to States of Deep Joy, Calm, and Clarity p. 116: 

Bhanga: the dissolution of the ego. Can it be described as a synonym of wisdom (panna)? As the realization (experiential seeing and knowing) of the tilakkhana (anicca; dukkha; and anatta)? 

Can kamma and sankharas be considered as synonyms? And if not, which are the differences between both? Which is the relationship between them?