This article also describes some pelvic floor strengthening exercises to help counteract this issue, which is important to note, since it seems to provide a way to do sit-ups more safely if you are doing these compensatory exercises. Another article, specifically in the case of a 60 year old woman with a uterine prolapse, mentioned: 

Yes. They'll help you reach toward your goal, but whether you will reach your goal with them in a time acceptable to you is impossible for anyone here to say. As someone mentioned, it all depends on how far you are from your goal and how vigorously you do these. 

Maybe try a steep incline for some of the high intensity intervals. I find that ~5 mph at 15% incline is quite intense by 2 minutes, but if it is not enough for you, pick up the speed. Another tough one is stepping (slightly hopping) sideways on an incline. I do 15% with a 3.4 mph speed for one minute per side, resting in between. Again, pick up speed if you need more intensity. Be careful with tripping (takes some coordination). Also, walking up incline backwards. Harder to get intensity for heart here, though, but good leg burn. Are you really doing a 4.6 min mile for 1 minute? That's impressive! 

I don't know this for absolute sure, but I would be very surprised if there were usual any way for the fat itself to "harden". Body fat is lipocytes packed with triglcyerides. Even those with melting temperatures higher than body temperature will still not be "hard"; consider what beef fat is like even when refrigerated--it's rather soft, and it should be softer still if warmed to body temperature. Same with human abdominal fat. Perhaps what you are noticing is really "tautness"--the increased abdominal fat you've put on is stretching your skin and underlying tissue tighter, like a drum head, and so it is less pliable when you depress it. Your skin can stretch a lot over time, but if you're recently put in weight quickly, it may not have had time to accommodate and it will seem particularly taut. (In either case, this strikes me as a solid indicator--pardon the pun--to get serious about losing some of that abdominal fat through diet and exercise.) 

To live long and with a high quality of life (includes cognitive benefits, ability to use my body effectively long term, avoiding medical problems, etc.) To feel healthy and have better energy, mood, thinking, body comfort. To be able to eat closer to the amount I enjoy without gaining excess fat. To have a reasonably good male physique. 

2-4x/wk, I exercise from about 5:30--7pm (1 hr of weights + 4mi treadmill at 7:30-8:00 pace). I'd say I work out from a 5 to 8 on a scale of 1-10, with 10 being highest intensity. I then shower, dine...and afterwards typically feel rather tired and low-energy until bedtime, such that I am fairly ineffective for much beyond just kind of taking it easy. Sometimes this occurs a day or so after a workout. I'd much prefer to have more energy, but also wish to have reasonable fitness. The thing I've found that is most consistently correlated with retaining energy post-workout is my fitness level, unsurprisingly. If I haven't been working out in months and try this, it is like a truck hit me. If I am in good shape, it's not as severe. I do try to do what I can in terms of eating, drinking, and sleeping properly. My diet is largely vegetarian, fairly health conscious, and I drink sufficient water. I could probably sleep better, and am working on that (that might be a big component). My questions are: Do I simply have to accept that I'll have this sort of energy drop, or is there a way to mitigate it significantly? If so, how? How much should one's age matter? 

My guess is you are looking for a magic technique, and, as you said, getting overwhelmed with contrary information and info overload. The first thing I would try is simply answering the above and then, depending on what you say, honing, and, ultimately reducing your calorie intake further. I'd bet you are just still eating too much. For example, your statement, "I tend to only eat when I'm hungry", is a red flag for me: although a good plan for maintaining weight, is not, in my experience (I lost 60 lbs of fat) consistent with losing weight. Generally, when one is losing weight, one feels hungry and during those times cannot allow oneself to eat (one of the key reasons many people don't stick with it). I remember being quite hungry many nights (some worse than others) and just had to suck it up and go to bed that way. 

After training off and on (mostly on) for about a year, I recently took a break from the gym and didn't exercise at all aside from gentle walking for close to 3 weeks. When I returned, it seems I lost a fair bit of fitness and strength. I dropped down on bench press reps at the previous weight, pull up reps, and really dropped on running endurance and sustained speed (from 40 min at avg 8min/mi to 16 min at 8:30 and I had to stop!). It's pretty disheartening, as it feels I have taken nearly six months step backward after just three weeks. (But I admit, I have not tracked things carefully enough to really quantify it.) So, What (evidence based) "rules" can one rely on to reasonably predict fitness losses after a break of x amount of days? This should take into account things like age, sex, type and intensity of training, break duration, and whatever else is applicable. I want to know because I want to know if this recent loss is in the normal range, as well as how I need to plan ahead in terms of future vacations in which I am away from my gym. 

Aside from the obvious safety concerns of heat exhaustion, heat stroke, heat prostration, etc., what is known about the detriments or benefits of exercising at higher-than-comfortable temperature/humidity? To put it concretely, the gym I currently use has a room temperature these days of perhaps 75 F, with fairly muggy humidity. I find that much higher than I'd prefer to exercise in, particularly for running on a treadmill (at a 7:30--8:30/min pace). I would ideally enjoy 66 F with low humidity, At the current temperature/humidity I sweat profusely and have been backing off of my previous exertion on the treadmill out of basic caution, though it strongly feels I could continue at a higher exertion without any risk of serious harm. (I am well hydrated and have never felt close to dizzy or anything like that--just tired. And hot.) But I am concerned about less obvious harm... And so, what I want to know is: is there evidence to show that sustained hard exercise at higher temperatures/humidity has any subtler systemic harm (that is, subtler than the obvious ones listed above)? I mean, is it "bad for your brain" Or other organs? Does it put too much stress on your system? Or is training in conditions in which sweating is profuse and sustained actually good training in some sense? Such as training your system to be more efficient or other benefits? 

Let's say that (1) is more than 50% of my motivation--so I clearly want to the cardiovascular component. Given these priorities, is strength training (pull ups, bench press, preacher curls, tricep push-downs, mostly) really worth the extra time and effort, since they might mostly contribute a little to (3) and mostly to (4)? Or would people state that strength training is important for (1) and (2) as well, and therefore are worth the extra perhaps 30-40 min in each gym session? Or, would they say that they mainly target (3) and (4), but really, it's not that much time for the benefits to (3) and (4) and therefore it really is worth it?