I will describe my bike 'problem' so you can see whether it fits with your problem. I know what the reasons are and how to solve them, so it is not an 'I also have this problem' answer. I have the problem of a slipping chain and on my bike it is clearly a tension wheel that moves out of its place, so in fact the chain is not tensioned enough. The slippage starts when there is stress on the chain, like when riding away from the traffic lights and on the steep parts of hills. When the wheel moves a bit more/the chain becomes a bit longer compared to what is should be, the slipping becomes more general, if still worse when trying to increase speed. In the last stage, the chain jumps in every stroke of the pedals and cycling becomes impossible. (Then I take out the tools and fight the system so the tension wheel will be in the proper position for a while.) Unless your bike is in the 'last stage' you will not be able to copy it on the stand as you do not put the same amount of power on the chain, so do not get the same stresses on it. This is on my recumbent bike, which has a long chain and is designed for lots of adjustments for different riders. 

I would tie it to the back rack, with the top of the tripod under the seat, as much forward on the bike as you can not to interfere with your legs. The feet end of the tripod will stick out behind the end of the rack. If possible pack it in a bag, which will protect it and make sure you have a good visible color on the 'bottom' end of the bag. Either as part of the bag or as wrap around warning color. 'Warning' yellow or pink would be my choice. If you have more luggage to put on your rack, I would go for tying the tripod just under the rack, to the outside, before adding the other bags and tying them together with an extra bungee strap when all it on. When I say 'tying' I mean use bungees, straps or string as you are most happy with, but a mix for the final securing might be best. I have tied many things to many a bike rack, never found the limits yet. Just make sure it will be seen by other people and make sure there are no sharp points sticking out anywhere. Whenever possible I try to keep the load sticking out at the back, not to the sides, but at times you can not avoid it. 

I would go for a 'sit up and beg' kind of bike made by a company that makes kids as well as adult frames of the same design. Sitting up allows for more belly room. Those often have bikes all the way from the child sizes into the adult sizes. In the Netherlands a lot of older kids and young teens ride those range of sizes. The bikes are mostly very sturdy, allowing for heavier riders. As other people indicate, recumbent bikes are also a good option, but select a bike or trike that allows you to lean back, sitting upright on a 'bent bike still gives belly/legs conflicts. (Own experience.) 

This is a late answer to a travel problem which is most likely already solved, giving an alternative to people who look at the same problem.) If you are willing to take your bike apart and reassemble it on arrival you can often fit it in a standard big hard shell suitcase. There should be some space left for a moderate amount of clothing. My cousin used this method to transport a bike in France, back in the days when it was not allowed to take a bike on a TGV train. This is not a 'ride to airport and ride away on the other end' solution. If you need to take your transport case with you, look for the few bike trailers that are able to use a hard shell case as part of the set-up. -On a side note, I am told that a Flevo recumbent trike can be transported in the hard shell case which is usually on its back. It is a 100 liter case, to give an indication of size. (Picture in this question) 

It may depend on the bike and the kind of riding, but I am happy with my roller brakes. I have them on several bikes, but all these bikes are sturdy build (say quite heavy) and I do not go fast and mostly on level grounds as hills are rare where I cycle. I like roller breaks better than rim brakes, of which I have said not to want them again if I can avoid them. In my limited experience roller brakes act as good as drum brakes and better than (most) rim brakes in wet weather. They are not influenced by the weather and always react as expected. 

Added: I see from the downvotes that people do not like my solution, but there is proof, and plenty of it, that it is the best and only real working solution. Read the site I linked to for many more arguments and proof. 

I would put a note on the local message board, like the one in the school or the local supermarket, or the online version like Craiglist. Most likely you will not get anything if people have to pay for transport, selling really local might be the best option. But fixing the tires and cleaning it up might double the money you can get. An other option is to keep it for when you can get a discount on a new bike on handing in an old one. Not sure that one comes around when you have a bike to get off your hands, but when there is one it will bring more for your bike than any private sale of an old bike. 

bestcyclebikes M-Wave-Safety-Flagpole-Yellow Both pictures found on the net, not sure if there is the needed permission to use them on this site. 

Look at how often it rains during her intended commutes. In the Netherlands, which is known for 'always being rainy' you need your waterproofs about 6 days a year when commuting 5 days per week. A little drizzle should not stop a person from riding when a good coat is used and a hood/hat or helmet with rain cover if a helmet is the norm where you are. A good set of waterproofs which is easy to put on and take off is more useful than a cover that always catches wind and will likely not protect against rain in side winds. Plan the route (as far as possible) such that the quiet roads or bicycle paths are used and busy roads are crossed at traffic lights or other 'easy to use' points. Try out several bikes, rentals or loans for a few days if available. Have her try out bike seats in different heights. While she is still unsure about riding, easy access to the ground is good. But the ride will be easier/smoother when the seat is a bit higher up. So I would suggest a bike that allows both, the lower position and the 'proper' high up one. If she is really not able to ride a two wheeled bike, think about a recumbent trike. Those are available with e-bike tech as well. Not only is the bike stable, also the position of the rider on the bike is stable. I have used a recumbent trike for 5 years, just for the fun of it, and can certainly recommend it. You are lower down (gives more stability) but you are wider and when viewed really seen. I would not go for the extremely low ones, but for one about the same height as a dining chair. Yes, you get wet when it rains, but are you made of sugar? I survived getting rained on all my life and still commute by bike. 

I would put reflective tape round the frame and the handle bar, in such positions that it can be seen by oncoming traffic and traffic from the side, (like the middle part of the handle bar and/or the head tube, the down tube and if you have a lot also on the seat tube, and if you can find a spot, also on the back of our bike, if you have fenders that come down enough on them otherwise just under the seat might work. And on all bags you have on the bike, any location. Glow in the dark tape might have a fun effect, not going to add to your safety but you can use it in the same spots when you want the fun of it. My bike has reflectors all around and on the tires, and still I would add more if possible. 

I miss the solution I used most of my life, the enclosed bike chain. Specially fixed gear/single gear bikes as well as internal hub gear bikes are suitable for that solution. Best if done already by the manufacturer of the bikes but after sales covers do exist. My current bike is a recumbent with a half chain cover (for a normal bike) and tubes for those parts the clothing is most likely to touch. Not the perfect solution, just one tiny spot that is not covered and just there the trousers can caught around the end of the cover or can reach around that end to the chain itself. So now I use a mix of all the options mentioned here, just because I can not alter the bike (now at least) but I find it a poor second to what I am used to on my sit up bikes. 

I always find mittens way warmer than gloves. In some cases I even get my thumb out of its own area and tuck it in with the rest of the hand to keep it warm. I still go for skiing mittens, which are pretty good wind and waterproof. 

Try to use the end position of the rack, your wheel outside the rack and your bike on its own stand, idealy leaning over the rack. I have to do this with my own bike often, as my mudguard is getting damaged with a lot of the standard bike racks. In some cases I can also do it in the middle of a rack, but only if just every other space is used. (As so often happens these days when bikes are wider than the racks allow for.) If you can not angle the bike, you might consider a two legged stand, which will keep your bike upright. Again, an end position will be ideal and you will still need to keep your wheel outside the rack, but you will not bother your co-workers. 

I own several bikes, different prices for buying them and they have a different resale value, also compared to buying price. Most expensive, delta trike, about €1000, expected resale value about €200. Used it for 5 years and is now stored till I want it again. Cheapest second hand recumbent bike, €200, expected resale value about €150. Is still in use, most of the time. Both have about 5 years of everyday commuting duty with about €100 for bicycle repairs per year. (On average, not kept details.) So lets call it €500 per bike for the 5 year period. I guess on an average I ride about 4000 km/year on the bike/trike, for daily commute as well as recreational rides. That gives me €1500 for the trike for 20.000 km. Against €700 for the 'bent for the same 20.000 km. My maths is not good enough to come up with a reliable cost per km, but I call it almost free. Specially if I also calculate resale value and not just the cost of the bike/trike over the 5 years. And the bikes I had before that were in the same 'use price' range. All the extra cost is food, as I do not need to pay for storage nor for air. And it saves gym cost, so I write of the food cost against gym cost. 

Get your country to invest in proper infrastructure. When people driving and people cycling do not share the same roads, the chances on accidents are much smaller. But the infrastructure has to be made right. Learn from the experience the Dutch gained in the last 30 years and build what we get now, not what we now know does not work the best (like those advance bike boxes at crossings.) Maybe the best site in the world about cycling infrastructure is A view from the cycle path, and this link gives you the page on what to copy when building infrastructure.