An online store currently offers the Dahon Curve XL with a Shimano Nexus 8 IGH (The Dahon site shows the Nexus 7 model). I'd like to replace it with an Alfine 11. Does someone know if the OLD (Over Locknut Distance) is the same, and whether it could be an easy replacement? $URL$ Thank you. 

I need to find a way to easily remove the saddle on my folding bike. Solutions from Zefal (Lock & Roll) or Pitlock/PinheadComponents/AntiVandale aren't usable because they're meant for regular bikes, where adjusting the saddle is uncommon once set, while folders require adjustment every time the bike is folded/unfolded. I was wondering if some company made a quick-release saddle bolt, so that I could easily take the saddle with me and leave the seat post. That doesn't prevent some ass*e to take the seatpost just "for fun", but it reduces the risk and it's a lighter alternative (seat posts on folders are bigger and heavier than on standard bikes). Thank you. 

I need to replace the 18" cheap Schwalbe iMPAC Streetpac 47-355 tires that came with my Birdy folding bike with puncture resistante tires. I almost never ride on country roads, so thinner tires are fine. Does someone know of alternatives to the Schwalbe Marathon Plus 35-355? Thank you. 

One of my bikes has an eccentric bottom bracket with a Gates belt drive and a Shimano Alfine 11 IGH. For a few days now, I've experienced some creaking noise when pushing on the right pedal. Even removing the right pedal, cleaning it, greasing it, and putting it back on didn't solve the issue. So I figure I should do the same thing with the chainring, but I don't know how to do it: After using a 10mm Allen key followed by an 8mm Allen key, I could successively remove the two screws on the left side (shown as "1" on the picture), but then, I'm left with empty space where a standard bottom bracket axle lives. Should I use some specific spanner to undo the rings shown at "2"? 

A friend is about to buy a second-hand Dahon Vitesse D7HG with the usual 20" wheels. Since she knows nothing about bike mechanics, doesn't want to learn, and that bike has a Nexus 7 hub gear system, it's probably a good idea to go for puncture-resistant tires. Before I go ahead and get a couple of Schwalbe Marathon Plus, are there other brands I should know about? Thank you. 

To increase the development range on a folding bike, I'd like to replace its three-speed SRAM IGH with a Sturmey-Archer X-RF8(W) IGH. The page says that it accepts a "20 to 23 or 25 teeth sprocket". I read somewhere about IGHs that they impose a limit on the chainring/sprocket ratio because of the torque: Does someone know what the limit is for that IGH, so I know which chainring/sproket to get? I'm thinking of using either a 44T chainring + 20T sprocket combination, or if space allows, using a compact 50/34T chainring and a 20T sprocket. Thank you. 

Gore-Tex is a semi-permeable membrane: a fabric, like a net, but not woven: it's formed by stretching. It's made of expanded PTFE, like a spongy Teflon (and their patent was about how to do the expansion/manufacturing). A microscope shows it's something like bone, or a net, or holey Swiss cheese. The holes in the fabric layer are much bigger than air and water vapour molecules (which therefore pass through); but smaller than liquid water droplets (which are many water molecules bound together), which therefore don't pass through (water on the fabric should stay on it, until it's brushed off or evaporates). So Gore-Tex is: 

The useful energy you put in is proportional to a product of the force multiplied by the cadence: spinning faster at the same force results in more energy input. To keep my cadence and force constant, I change gears: if it's spinning too easily/quickly and I'm going too slowly, then I change up into a higher/harder gear; on a hill if it's too hard to spin (at 60 to 90 RPM) then I change down into a lower gear. I'm always seated (not standing on the pedals ... except when riding over bumps on the road). With many (21+) gears you can find a gear (or a range of gears) to match the slope. The pros on TV are sometimes sprinting etc. You don't necessarily want to ride like they do, when you're commuting (and a self-described newbie). FWIW now that I'm more practised (5 times/week since March) I sometimes find myself taking a hill in a bigger gear than I used to: but still sitting, and spinning quickly. 

I like wearing a clean long-sleeved shirt of e.g. thin cotton or cotton/poly. It is hot so I perspire. So I am cycling in the (endless) breeze, and wearing a wet shirt, which is cooling. Beware: $URL$ concludes, 

... which implies that cycling performance is affected by one's age. Now ageing might be, to quote the FAQ, "an actual problem that you face". Assuming that ageing is in fact some kind of 'problem', can you tell me what's useful to know about it? Especially as it relates to cycling (ability, performance, expectations, and/or training)? For example a little bit of googling found "Key found to muscle loss as we age" which suggests that one cause of muscle wasting in older people is decreased blood flow to the legs (which cycling presumably helps to counter-act somewhat). To be a bit more specific: 

Here's an anecdote: when I'm overtaken on a flat bike path, it's usually by a man who's wearing bike clothes and who's spinning faster than I am, and it happens when I'm going slowly because my legs are feeling tired. And if I downshift then to a faster cadence then I can suddenly go faster, and do a better job at keeping up with the person who just overtook me. 

When approaching a hill from the bottom, approach at a good speed: fast cadence, high power, and a big gear. When you're onto the up-hill, increase your push slightly (to try to maintain your cadence even though you're now going up-hill). Depending on various things (short hill, enough reserve power) you might thus get all the way up the hill without changing gear (but this might be exhausting) and finish before you're even tired (you complete it quickly because you're going quickly). If you can't power up-hill in the big gear then your speed (and therefore your cadence) begins to drop. It's not worth letting your cadence drop: if you allow your cadence to halve, for example, then to maintain your power output you would need to double your pedal force to compensate (which you're not strong enough to). So whenever the terrain drags your cadence down to some minimum (e.g. 70 RPM) then shift down to an easier gear to compensate. Don't change down too far: only one gear at a time and only as necessary. The end result is that you're always pedalling at a good cadence and with a strong force: and that is as fast as you can go! Not "wasting your energy". When you change gears (especially on a hill) it's convenient if you have nice gears which let you shift quickly while you're loading the pedals, or which require you to ease up on the pedals (to avoid grinding and jumping the drive chain) for only a small fraction of a second. 

Are fat blobby welds inferior, other than aesthetically? Here's three examples, one's a BSO, one's a decent/good Trek and one's an expensive Felt downhill full-suspension bike. 

Here's a picture taken when using Gorilla Clear Repair Tape (on seat tube above the FD) and packing tape (below the FD). For anyone horrified by the condition of the frame, keep in mind this is my beater bike, meant to look not worth stealing. If it hadn't come this way I'd have had to distress it on purpose. 

(The reason I'm asking is that I want to punch some holes in the end of two bands so I can connect them, probably with zip ties, into one longer band. The first time I rode with them their urge to curl was so strong that the ends were rolled up and and it was halfway off my ankle when I got back. I think a longer band will stay on better. I want to know if I can punch holes without damaging the bands.) 

What are the qualities of bicycle bearing grease that make it suitable for that use? (The reason I ask is that I need to get some and I'd rather get the non-bike equivalent grease at the auto parts store a mile down the road than at the bike store 15 miles away.) (I'm assuming the same grease can be used for bottom bracket and hub bearings -- true?) 

Like you, I've returned to riding after 20 years away. It's been a very rewarding journey. One thing I discovered was that I had an aversion to turning and leaning. Our neighborhood has relatively narrow streets, no markings, no shoulders, just country lanes really. I'd been practicing U-turns but they always felt wobbly and a little scary. One day, I didn't cut the turn soon enough and faced the choice of running into a mailbox or leaning hard and fast-pedaling out of it. It turned out I could safely lean pretty far, I just hadn't realized it, and it took this event to show me I could do more. Psychological barrier: eliminated. I practiced in the neighborhood for six months before I took it out on trafficked roads. This was a good thing, although I hadn't really planned to wait so long. It turned out I needed to work on myself just as much as my new-to-me used bike, mainly because I sidelined myself overdoing the hill-climbing and my knees told me to sit myself down for two months. After that, I only did what they would agree to, which was thirty minutes a day for three days a week and carrying the bike up any steep hills. This forced delay gave me time to work everything out in advance, from basic riding skills and equipment to aligning my head with the task and acquiring a high-rpm cadence habit. Only two weeks ago, at the end of November after starting in June, did I ride outside the neighborhood, on trafficked roads. Thanks to preparation, I can do longer rides now and feel comfortable. Having a great time, really. Regarding traffic, I've decided never to do left turns on busy roads. Instead, I do a right, then U-turn/turn around and cross. This feels much safer. I wonder if you haven't accepted the fact that road risks are manageable and can be reduced, but they can't be eliminated. You can get hurt, it's not up to you and once you've done all that can be done you have to not think about it. I wonder if your anxiety comes from your having not accepted it, and that part of you is trying hard to control something that can't be controlled. So perhaps part of the answer is to practice, practice, practice, then get out of your head and let your body do what it knows how to do, namely to balance. This answer has turned out just to be mostly an endorsement of what @andy256 said. 

The seat-back curves backwards towards its top. So if your child were a little higher in the seat (taller/older or, perhaps, sitting on a cushion), then their head would lean back more. Having a little padding behind the upper back and neck shoulders (so that there's more room for the head to fall backwards) might do too: a "travel neck pillow". The back of the helmet is pushing the head forward, away from the seat (but I can't suggest altering the helmet). 

Mineral oil consists of "alkanes" which have a simple chemical formula (CnH2n+2). Fats go rancid because their molecules include relatively complicated/weak bonds. (I'm less sure about waxes; but oil is more common, in chain lube, than wax). I've just Googled the oil which my LBS sold me and note that it says, "Finish Line’s WET Lubricant features an Inherently Biodegradable formulation which that between 20% and 60% of the product’s base oils will degrade within 28 days." Contrast that with another type of oil, which lasts a long time by being mineral oil. 

I wear a Gore-Tex jacket (which I bought from MEC a decade ago, not cycling-specific). It has a zip and keeps my core dry and warm, e.g. for an hour of cycling in a few mm / hour. If it's very heavy rain, then I'll be soaked, but still warmish (it remains wind-proof). A layer or two of cotton and/or poly and/or wool between my skin and the jacket. It matters how big/tight the jacket is: because of e.g. ventilation in the sleeves, and what else you're wearing. I'd like to buy a new one, but I'd want to try it on first for size and feel and fit. If it's raining really hard I might cycle more slowly (and so be making less body heat). 

The critical factor is the angle between your centre of mass and the point where your front tire meets the road. Being lower and further back reduces that angle, so push your bum off behind the back of the seat. You also need enough arm strength or alignment to stop you: beware being high with your arms downwards when you hit the brake. Positioning yourself as far back and as low as possible gets you behind (not above) the handle bars, against which you push to brace yourself as you come to a stop. The rear wheel skids before the front (as the deceleration pitches you forward, the weight goes onto the front wheel and off the rear wheel, and friction is proportional to weight). On the other hand, it's skidding the front wheel that would cause a loss of control. One possibility then is to brake with both wheels simultaneously, and to ease up on both sets of brakes when the back wheel starts to skid (treat it as a ABS system).. 

In summary, stop behind or pass to the left of the turning car. I generally expect drivers to see what's happening out the front of the cars, but never expect them to know what's happening to the side of their cars. In the illustration above, for example, I guess the driver is looking forward (at the intersection which they're turning into), not looking sideways (at the space between them and the sidewalk where it says "No"). Ditto at stop signs and stop lights, by the way. Especially if it's a truck, beware of pulling up close to the intersection squeezed between the truck and the sidewalk: because if the truck turns right without seeing you're there you'll be squeezed between the truck and the street furniture; so hang back in the bike lane away from the intersection (give them space to turn if they're going to), or even temporarily take the lane (occupy the car lane) behind them until traffic starts moving again. See also this page, Car Bike Collisions | Motorist Right Turn, which says,