Considering mass literacy is a recent development in human history, societies could be become quite advanced. The real bottleneck is the need for recorded information. Perhaps a class of "mentats" or living memory people whose task it was to remember things could be instituted. Currently we value literacy because we're literate and people in the past weren't, so it follows literacy make us superior. This is nonsense. Ship's captains in the Age of Sail often had a person assisted to them whose role was as the captain's scribe. His job was to write done everything the captain needed writing down. Captaining a ship was an important job and you didn't need to read or write to do it. Literacy was deemed a minor accomplishment. In many societies craft and trades skills were passed on by working with a skilled practitioner who showed what was done and how to do it. Traditionally Chinese musicians were trained by simply practicing until they got it right. Their mentors didn't issue instructions or train their apprentices they just punished them when they played wrongly. Not unsurprisingly musical apprenticeships took a long time in Traditional China. Effectively human history is a saga of societies becoming sophisticated and technically advanced with only minority literacy. Mass literacy only begins in the mid-nineteenth century and took until nearly the mid-twentieth century to become the norm. Every society has some residual illiteracy in its midst and we have yet to achieve a world with one hundred percent literacy. This may be a goal too far. Undoubtedly written languages are the most efficacious method of recording and transmitting information. However, if societies existed without written language there brains were be as subtle, complex and good at problem solving as ours. So given time, their societies will devise stratagems to circumvent the literacy bottleneck. We didn't have to, we weren't smart enough to find the alternatives, so we took the easy way out. 

There you go, the nuclear equivalent of chemistry and by assuming everything else common to chemistry leading to biochemistry and molecular biology, and by analogy, life. This works for science-fiction, but in the real cosmos who knows? 

Simplicity is best enough. Historically one of the deadliest weapons wielded by humans especially against animals is the stone. Humans are deadly accurate at throwing stones. After all, it's how David killed Goliath, but once you take into the deadliness of catapults and stone throwing then Goliath was outgunned. 

Kaiju are aggressively active critics of bad architecture. See it, don't like it, then knock it over. Note that creatures the size of the Empire State Building like Godzilla preferentially attack cities, power stations, and high-tension power lines. Either knocking them down or melting them with their radioactive, thermonuclear bad breath. Humans aren't their true target. They just get in the way of demolishing cities and get crushed when the building come down or burned up or plain old-fashioned stepped on. Humans shouldn't take it personally. 

Since the OP is asking about generation ships as the preferred method for exploring the cosmos, it is possible to apply a combination of logic and imagination to work out the maximum speed of a generation ship. The nearest planetary system is Proxima Centauri which is 4.243 light years distant. Assuming a generation ship will arrive at Proxima Centauri when the next generation is old enough to explore the system. If the average age of the primary generation is, say, thirty years. They will old enough and well trained enough to run the ship on its voyage. They will raise their children to also run the ship and be able to explore another planetary system. Therefore, it's not unreasonable to assume this second generation will have an average age of, say, thirty. The first generation will now be on average, sixty years plus. This establishes our generation ship has travelled to Proxima Centauri in thirty years at a minimum. It's possible to add a few years, but at 30 years flight time this gives the fastest possible passage of a journey to Proxima Centauri. This yields an average velocity of 14.143 percent of lightspeed (psol) or 42,430 km/s. Now this calculation neglects acceleration time. Therefore, the actual maximum velocity will be higher than the average. If this was pushed up to, say, fifteen (15) percent of lightspeed, then the time for acceleration can be subsumed into the average velocity. There are numerous discussion of interstellar travel that assume this will only take place at velocities of one percent of lightspeed (3,000 km/s). This is based on factors concerning the amount of energy required to accelerate a vehicle to close to lightspeed and the mass rations involved. All of which are prohibitive. At one psol, a generation ship take 424.3 years to reach Proxima Centauri. But allowing for an acceleration phase at one centimetre per second squared which it take ten years to attain one psol plus a further deceleration phase at its destination, this add an additional decade flight time. This means a total trip time of 434.3 years. In summary, the maximum speed for a generation ship to travel to Proxima Centauri, our nearest planetary system, wi1l be of the order of fifteen psol or 0.15 c. While more realistic generation ships can be expected to have velocities around one psol and to take more generations to reach their destination. NOTE: The unit of psol (percentage of the speed of light) was devised by James Strong in his book, Flight to the Stars: An Inquiry into the Feasibility of Interstellar Flight (1963). 

History shows that different human cultures first meet there is mutual incomprehension and misunderstanding. If hostility doesn't get in the way the different cultures start to learn about each other and make mutual adjustments in how they deal with each other. The incomprehension and misunderstanding gap between humans and aliens, in fact, any aliens would be so much bigger. Presumably the time required to develop mutual understanding and cooperation would take longer than between any two human cultures. However, the very alienness of the two cultures with respect to each other means they won't be competing for the same resources, so this reduces the likelihood of conflict. It may also provide greater incentive for them to want to understand one another and to cooperate. Part of this will be driven by the advantages of understanding and cooperating with the aliens. For example, if they arrived on Earth in gigantic twenty kilometre long starships you can be sure there is a lot about their technology we would want to learn and acquire. If for no other reason to reduce any risk and threat they represent. Ease of communication will be one of the major factors to be bridged before easy conversation can take place between members of the two species. Don't expect instant results -- unless the aliens had a lot of experience at dealing with other alien species, then they might be extremely good at bridging the gap between them and us. 

One problem about your concept is that the lightspeed appears in some other physical laws that they would all have to be rejigged to remain constant. So we assume that is so, then that means everything else in the universe is the same as in our universe. That means no increased energy outcome from nuclear reactions because E = m(c/2)^2. Of course, if you left all the other physical constants at the same values as in our universe things start becoming funny fast. (No pun intended.) Electromagnetism would be rewritten because its equations define lightspeed. Every equation with a value for lightspeed will be changed and its consequences thought through. For example, electric and magnetic fields will be stronger. Cosmic rays will be faster, roughly twice as fast. What about fast interstellar travel? Not really. The energetics of propelling a spacecraft to close to the new lightspeed are, at least, just as formidable as for our value of c. 

Firstly, there is such a thing as negative temperature, but it doesn't mean negative thermal energy. This can be used as guidance in considering the question of time travel and temperature. 

There are possible ways of bringing down the cost of antimatter, but unless a radical new technology can be devised to do this cheaply antimatter will put a brake on the energy and cost budgets for interstellar space travel. 

What is needed is first to do some research. This answer will suggest there already exists reference material that will assist your quest into finding reasons for who would benefit from a flat earth conspiracy. There is this compilation of books about the flat earth compiled by the Flat Earth Society itself. However, interestingly there is one book missing from their list. Namely, Christine Garwood's Flat Earth: The History of an Infamous Idea (Thomas Dunne Books, 2008) To quote from the Publishers Weekly 

All of this suggests that CMEs are a more than probable source of huge solar storms. Since low probability events are happening all the time, so say the statisticians, then low probability events like Super-Carrington-class CMEs can happen and will happen.