Why waste that much money on so many guards? The prisoners are on a planet that they can't get off. They aren't going anywhere. Since you insist on exporting things off the planet then that creates a vulnerable point at the space port. Guard that. Never allow the prisoners to come into direct contact with a guard. This prevents attempts to bribe, threaten or otherwise influence the guards. Put the guards in armored facilities and use sound filters to make all of the guards voices sound the same. You also have an absolute tech advantage. Any guard outside the facility should be in powered armor (if that is a thing in your story) or in a tank or armored aircraft. There should only be one reason for guards to exit the facility; which brings me to the next important point. Since you need the prisoners to mine or farm (I think that this is a bad plan, much better to have a dedicated prison planet) and bring the results to the space port, you have to enforce that behavior through quotas. This is a planet. People will likely find a way to support themselves by growing their own food and making items to use or trade among themselves. Instead of wasting time, manpower, and money trying to curtail this, make it irrelevant. In fact it will decrease the cost of your operation if they have to grow their own food and make their own tools. Don't give the quotas to individual people, that's too hard to manage. Give the quota to the planet. If the quotas aren't met, send out the suitably armored troops to cull the prisoners. Missiles or unmanned drones would be even better. It doesn't matter who you kill just so long as every prisoner knows that they could be next if they get unlucky. The prisoners will, eventually, organize to make sure the quotas are fulfilled. The quota should be based on the number of prisoners. That way the as the population grows and shrinks, they can meet the quotas. Otherwise, the prisoners would learn that it is useless to try to meet the quota. If it is important to release prisoners after a certain period of time, have some way of announcing across the planet that prisoner XXXX needs to be at an access point within x number of days. I pick 10. If the prisoner (or the prisoner's body) has not reached one of the pickup points within that time period, send armored troops out to each access point. They are to approach the first person they see and ask if that person is Prisoner XXXX. If the answer is no, shoot them and move on to the next nearest person. Eventually, the prisoner population will learn to make sure the prisoner is at a designated location promptly. This will also help with the prisoner census. It will be in the best interest of whoever is running the prisoners to show proof of death for every prisoner who has died. Not only will that prevent a slaughter if the prisoner is called out but it will decrease their total quota. 

There use to be many more countries. These two were the least developed and in a non-strategic location. So, they survived, barely, when everyone else committed suicide through stupidity. Such an event could have deep cultural effects. There is actually a third, much more advanced, party that likes things the way they are and actively suppresses any modern warfare weapons. As has already been mentioned, the politicians stay in power because they are "fighting the enemy" and the businessmen get rich building weapons. On both sides. Neither side wants this to end. They may or may not have formed an alliance to keep this going. The hostility is a sham that the powers that be promote to say in power. Just like the Democrats and Republicans in the US. 

Unless the enhancements only work on women, any perceived differences will remain after enhancement. The problem is more social/cultural than it is physical. Modern warfare doesn't rely on upper body strength as much as when people were swinging swords around. In fact, women might have an advantage in fighter aircraft. So, the current lack of women is largely culturally based. 

If it is demonstrable, file a patent and then make a video and upload it. If not, run it by a professor who's specialty covers what you discovered. See if you can have the professor sign an NDA or at least have him sign and date your copy of your idea. You then try to find someone who has experience bringing products to market. If you don't have a track record, no one will listen to you, let alone fund you. If you are worried about losing control of the business, why? If you don't know how to run that type of business, you'll fail and lose the business anyway. It's better to have 10% (or even 1%) of something than 100% of nothing. 

The effect of the solar wind would probably create a clear, expanding, bubble in the nebula. So, as thin as the nebula is, there shouldn't be any effect within the stellar system. Getting to that system might be interesting, depending on your FTL tech. 

Well, since Neutron Bombs and Gamma Ray bursts are already taken... Radioactive dust. If the dust is highly radioactive, it will have a short half life. In the air, it can be breathed in, in the water, it can be drunk, and on food crops, it can be eaten. This would take a lot of dust but if it is deployed in the gulf streams, it will spread over much of the world. The 5 year to safe requirement can be met with a highly radioactive substance. Though certain areas of dust concentration might be dangerous longer. 

What you get is are the effects of nuclear winter (without the slight increase in radiation). Here's the wiki. The highlights are: 

Ballistas are the main weapon you would want as their are easier to aim than something like a catapult. You would also want people who can cast magic and items that can cast magic. DnD (Faerun) had bolt casters. For passive defenses, you want steel cables and/or nets running between towers and spikes on the roofs and tops of walls. You also want your walls and buildings to be relatively tall and close together to make it hard for fliers to get to the ground. make it so there isn't enough room for their wings once they get between buildings. Towers and walls will have covered platforms instead of open to provide coverage from above. Also, to prevent the roofs from becoming staging areas for landed troops, give them steep peaks That, combined with the narrow streets and the chains and spikes between buildings will insure that only a few of them make it to the ground in fighting condition. 

Agoraphobia is generally a defensive mechanism to some trauma. Therefore, aside from a few people who may have had something happen while doing an EVA, there shouldn't be much incidence of agoraphobia. If someone was going to be agoraphobic, they would probably be shut-ins on the ship, not leaving their rooms. I would recommend that there be photos of the "exotic" home and destination so they can get use to the concept of a sky. Otherwise, there may be a few who can't perceive it through a lack of a frame of reference. Also, I picture a few people who keep staring up at the sky worried that it might spring a leak (big spaces with no bulkhead doors are a bigger risk on a ship). Though, from my standpoint, if you have a population that is use to living on a giant moving space station, why are you interested in a planet? Go for the asteroid belt and make more giant moving space stations. That's what everyone thinks of as home now. 

In this world, can the church not bless the grounds? Also, bless the corpse. Use magic that doesn't damage the soul. Then the necromancers have to overcome that magic first before they can animate it. The goal is to make it more expensive to animate. 

No. As has been pointed out in the comments above, there is a distinct lack of oxygen. There also happens to be a distinct lack of air itself. Assuming you created skin that could survive the low (from our standpoint, near vacuum) pressure, you would also have to create lungs that are thin enough for air transport but will keep all of the rest of the bodily fluids in the body. Then you have the issue that the low pressure outside would make it very difficult to transport oxygen or anything else into the body. I'm afraid that without a higher pressure, some oxygen, and a lot of insulation, no one is going to walk the surface of Mars without a space suit. I am using the term space suit on purpose because there's not much in a vacuum suit that you wouldn't need in a Mars suit. 

It is simple. Let them know that as soon as they can create a drive technology that can turn the ship around and reach the Earth (with the resources available on the ship), they will be happy to drop them off. The original crew can then use this new magical drive to head back out and get to their destination much faster, even with the side trip. Oh, and everyone who wants to turn around and isn't working on some kind of super tech drive can spend the next year retaking basic physics. They seem to need it. Actually, I doubt this situation will come up. For any new generation, the ship is home. It is what they know. Another reason this isn't likely to happen is: It would be stupid to test the life support systems when there is no way to send help to solve problems and to test the inhabitants of the generation ship to see if they are psychologically suitable for the trip. The solution: have a few generations live in the ship while it is still in solar orbit. Work out all the kinks. Build a generation for whom living on a giant mobile space station is normal. Then leave. 

Lightning between dust particles requires friction or some other way to build up a static charge. A nebula is probably too dispersed to generate enough friction to make lightning except right after the nova that creates it and at that point, there's enough bad stuff going on that I doubt that any stray static electricity is going to matter. The accretion disk of a black hole might have enough stuff moving at different speeds to create lightning. Again there will be other stuff to worry about but the lightning won't be as overshadowed as it would in a nova. 

Yes. We can do it if we want to. The big problem is getting out of Earth's gravity well. Once up, everything is much easier. With a base on the Moon, we can build vehicles and make rocket fuel. Fun fact: it is 200 times less expensive to lift something off of the Moon and send it to low earth orbit (LEO) than it is to lift it from the Earth to LEO. The big kicker for interplanetary travel is radiation. We can add radiation shielding but that takes mass. It would be much less expensive to lift that from the Moon. I believe that with current technology, we could lift enough people and equipment to the Moon to begin mining it for the material needed to get to the asteroid belt where we would have access to lots of resources without the annoying gravity wells. Right now, if they were to send the planned manned mission from Earth to Mars, the half that survived the trip would need bone marrow transplants. 6-9 months outside our magnetic field and thick (relatively) atmosphere does bad things to people. 

There are really two questions here. Why help and atheist and why help someone who worships a different god (or doesn't worship any gods but still believes they exist). Since an atheist doesn't believe in gods, a spectacular and obvious intervention would be a good way of advertising your existence. It should be accompanied by the message that "the first one is free." Helping the follower of another god could come from prior arrangements with other gods. God of plenty agrees to make sure that none of the god of fires worships starve if the god of fire agrees to prevent fires from burning crops or buildings of his people. Maybe the culture is polytheistic. People may worship many gods or worship one but honor the rest. Thus the gods have a vested interest in keeping all of them happy. If someone believes but doesn't worship, maybe offer the help as a sort of bargain. Even if that person doesn't believe, they can spread the word and cause others to believe. 

In figure 1.1, that throwing motion would probably not evolve. The creature would probably have a stronger throw if it started from the down position and rotated up, releasing when it is at the correct angle. If the arm uncurls as it is rising, it can get more force out of it since it will be easier to accelerate the arm in the curled position. Also, from 1.0, I would assume that the creature is either relatively small or is from a low G world since those leg joints don't support the weight very well. As the creature gets larger, its weight will go up faster than the strength of the joints will. 

I think that you have too many habitable planets in your system. In our system Venus is near the inner radius of the habitable zone and Mars is near the outer radius. Look how they turned out. I think that three habitable planets is probably the max before they get too close together to interfere with each other's orbits. You can have more habitables if one or more are moons of a gas giant. I suspect that in wanting the inhabitants to be taller on the smallest planet, you are thinking that it has to be lower gravity. That's not always the case. Just look at the range of heights of people on Earth where everyone experiences the same gravity (within reasonable measurements). As for size of the planets, I'd put the smallest one at about 80% Earth's mass to keep the rest in a reasonable range. However, mass does not have to be directly related to size. If you want the planet to be bigger, it just has less heavy elements in it (more rock, less metal and fissionables). 

I think that it is unlikely. Intelligence, in our case, came from competitive pressure. Our ancestors weren't the strongest or the fastest. In order to survive, we had to be the smartest. We used hands and tools to compensate for strength, speed and a lack of natural weapons. We also altered the world around us to increase our survival rate. So, what on that world would put that kind of pressure the ancestors of the sentient bed sheets? Also, how would those beings use that intelligence to manipulate the world around them to increase their survival. I don't know how they could get past the bang two rocks together to get a sharp rock phase when they can't bang two rocks together. I'd say tht tool using is pretty much out. Could they become as intelligent as octopi? Probably, if they need to search for food and hide from predators. Could they become as intelligent as cetaceans? Maybe but not likely. I don't see that they would have the mobility to form highly evolved packs for hunting and defense. 

Letting steam cool in a sealed container is a good way to make a weak vacuum. It won't do much except make it hard to open the container. You would do better to use a pump to just pressurize the air. That will be mostly immune to cool down. the air will heat up as it is being put under pressure and will cool down some later but not enough to make a noticeable difference if you have a good pump and a strong pressure vesicle. On the bright side, you could use a steam powered pump to fill the pressure vesicle. I think that pneumatic actuators ought to be acceptable steam punk tech.