Warning: "long-term wind-speed forecasting for generation" has (at least) two very different meanings. One refers to forecasting a distribution of wind speeds; the other refers to hour-by-hour (or half-hour by half-hour) forecasting of wind speeds. Generally, when we talk about long-term forecasting of wind speeds for wind generation, we're talking about estimating the distribution of wind speeds over the next few years. That is to say, we're not talking about what the wind speed will be exactly two years from today, at 15.00 UTC. We're talking about what the shape of the distribution of the wind speeds will be - maybe in terms of the two parameters of a Weibull distribution, together with some indication of how the distribution varies by time of day, and by season of the year. There is some skill in hour-by-hour wind speed forecasts up to about two weeks away. But for longer than that, there's very little skill in the models at all. In that regard, if we are talking about hour-by-hour wind speed forecasts, then short term is the next 0.5 - 4 hours, and long-term is 1-2 weeks. In both cases, I'd look at recent publications from Reading University - David Brayshaw and others - and specifically on the accuracy of wind forecasts for wind generation, I'd also recommend work by Henrik Madsen and Pierre Pinson. 

You can't. A windrose aggregates over time, so you lose all the information about patterns over time. You're trying to do a time-based simulation, but your data source discards all time-specific information. You need a different set of data, to base your simulation on. One that contains the dimension of time. The changes in direction and speed over time vary hugely depending on the local climate and topology. 

As far as we can tell, almost all crude oil (petroleum) is biogenic, and specifically comes from marine organisms. That's the only theory that is supported by the geological record, by the thermodynamics, and by what we know of the biology and the chemistry. That's not to exclude the possibility of abiogenic petroleum: indeed, we know that abiogenic liquid hydrocarbons are possible, because we can synthesise them ourselves. So finding hydrocarbons that cannot be biogenic does not show that most fossil fuels are abiogenic: it merely shows that some abiogenic hydrocarbons exist. However, the quack theory, popular in Soviet Russia and with other fringe pseudo-scientists, is that almost all oil discovered in the ground comes from abiogenic sources. Geoff Glasby looked at how the pseudo-science came about, in his article Abiogenic Origin of Hydrocarbons: An Historical Overview (Resource Geology, vol. 56, no. 1, 85–98, 2006) DOI:10.1111/j.1751-3928.2006.tb00271.x 

There's just not that much kinetic energy in the air within the urban canopy layer; much of what there is, is in the form of turbulence, rather than the laminar flow that turbines harness. Furthermore, air is very low density, which means that to get a decent amount of energy out of it, we need lots of effective rotor area, and even with the funnelling effect of buildings, it's not economically viable to get the rotor area required. A lot of small-to-medium sized devices within the urban canopy layer would still produce very little energy, and would cost a lot. Furthermore, although the opposition to rural turbines is very noisy, it's also (in almost all the world) a small minority. source 

What happens in one city in one month is only a very very small part of the picture. You can make very little inference on global warming based on the weather in one city in one month. You can make a little more inference on global warming based on the weather around the world in one month. And we can say a lot about global warming based on the world's weather over a 30-year period. A lot of heat got released from the ocean last year in the El Niño event: heat that had been accumulating in the oceans for a few years. That heat is now getting distributed around the world, which is why we're seeing rises in global surface temperatures - a similar thing happened back in 1997/8. The Earth has been accumulating a lot of heat for years, and it's now showing up as rises in surface temperatures. The accumulation of heat is happening because the Earth has been absorbing more energy than it has been radiating away into space. That has happened because of human emissions of greenhouse gases, in particular, but not exclusively, carbon dioxide and methane. Unnatural global warming started decades ago. Now, it's accelerating. 

None. It does not take any coal to generate oil. Oil is not made from coal. The formation process for oil is a different process to that of coal Oil is formed from marine organisms. Coal is formed from a peaty mix of dead plants. 

Runaway climate change is, given our current state of knowledge, only something that could be confirmed in historic context - in the rear-view mirror. Inconveniently, there's likely to be a much-diminished version of human civilisation around to observe it, if and when it does happen. In other words, it's too early to tell if we've passed a catastrophic tipping point. We don't know what the equilibrium state of the Earth's atmosphere is. It will take 30 years for our current stock of GHG emissions to fully show its effects: and we'll be continuing to release GHGs for a while, so the equilibrium will continue to change. But it's worth bearing in mind what we can do, when we really have to; World War II saw massive realignments both in industrial production and in expectations within a very short space of time: after decades of delay, it now seems likely that decarbonisation will require at least a similarly fast and large industrial realignment; and it is possible. 

The lighter curve, plotted against the vertical axis on the right, shows the proportion of the wind's kinetic energy that is converted to electricity. At around 9 m/s wind speeds, that proportion maxes out at about 50%. A further small (~2) percentage goes to internal conversion losses within the turbine. What are the energy changes, and where? The full picture is more complicated. Whether switching from fossil/nuclear to wind would change patterns of energy service demand, and energy efficiency, is an open question, so there are plenty of ripple effects. But, putting those aside to simplify things, just switching from fossil/nuclear to wind wouldn't create new sinks for the low-grade heat: lighting would carry on getting used at the same time and place as it does at the moment. What would happen is that energy would be extracted from the wind in new places: at turbines, rather than further downwind where the energy would be dissipated by friction. The other thing that would change is that there would no longer be additional sources of low-grade heat at all those fossil and nuclear power stations. Now, they're pretty intense sources of heat: nuclear or coal plants typically push out 150% - 200% as much energy as local heat, as they do electricity. So that's a signicant input of heat into a local weather system, which would no longer be there when they're turned off because the electricity is being supplied from wind instead. A quick romp through the literature Smith, Barthelmie & Prior used In situ observations of the influence of a large onshore wind farm on near-surface temperature, turbulence intensity and wind speed profiles. They found that in the daytime, there was no observable change in temperatures once they were more than 2km downwind from turbines. However, there was an increase in night-time temperatures at 2.5m above ground (hence the use by farmers of wind turbines for frost prevention) On top of what I've written above, we've also got a bunch of modelling in the literature. Now, this is largely a bunfight between different assumptions: pick the answer you want, and tune your assumptions accordingly. However, these papers are written by people with different axes to grind, so you'll find a range of possible outcomes, and you can decide for yourself which assumptions are more or less likely. Mark Z Jacobson wrote the book on the Fundamentals of Atmospheric Modelling, and tends to build up from the micro level. A recent paper of his shows potential benefits of reducing the energy in hurricanes that reach the shore, and we know that the first-order impacts of that would be positive. Roy & Traiteur looked at Impacts of wind farms on surface air temperatures and found significant very local effects, and options for mitigation. Wang & Prinn looked at potential long-term global impacts of multi-terawatt-scale installations and found that massive onshore wind turbines might cause some warming over land (though less than the coal & gas plants they would replace), and massive onshore wind turbines might cause some global cooling. The modelling was done by assuming the turbine interactions would behave like a generic increase in surface roughness; the other key assumption is that the loss of detail from meso-scale modelling did not significantly impact the results. Kirk-Davidoff and Keith, like Wang and Prinn, used coarse meso-scale modelling by adding anomalies to surface roughness coefficients. With continental-scale windfarms, they found very little change in global temperatures, but local changes could be up to 2 Kelvin. Rooijmans' Masters' thesis (Universiteit Utrecht, 2004) looked at the impact of a huge (9 000 km2) offshore wind farm on patterns of rainfall, using a mesoscale circulation model, and found that the distribution of precipitation could change, with more rain at sea, and less onshore. That modelled windfarm would be about four times the size of the largest envisaged offshore wind farm. Consequences and conclusions Distributions of heat affect weather and climate. So, deploying lots of wind turbines can change local patterns of evaporation and rainfall. They can also change patterns of frost: the turbines increase the turbulence in the flow, close to the ground, reducing frosts: there are farms that deploy turbines in order to harness that frost-prevention: you can even (HT scruss) buy wind machines dedicated to producing that turbulence in no-wind conditions (these wind machines, ironically, are typically powered by fossil fuels). So that's the ultimate change: energy would be extracted from the wind further upstream than it was previously; and there's less heat put into the system from the cooling systems at fossil and nuclear power stations. These are all local weather effects, and could be beneficial, harmful, or neutral. 

I think the DSF releases are both measures of releases. Neither is a measure of power. They are both a measure of the amount of water released, in day-second-feet, as you say. The total column is the measure of the total amount of water released (in DSF). The power column is the amount of water released in order to generate power (in DSF). The difference between those two numbers is the amount of water (in DSF) released down the spillways (rather than to generate power), as part of overflow prevention, maintenance, or other activity. On the realtime feed, the column labelled power looks like mean power to me in MW: the dam rating is 70MW, and the power column maxes out at 70.267, so that does indeed look like MW. So that's the average over the quarter-hour. Multiply by 0.25 to get MWh. footnote rant: Feet? Seriously? Feet? Who uses feet? What's wrong with these people?