Vuelta a España They're still sponsored by them this year, here's their EDICIÓN KATUSHA 2016 for sale, blurbing: 

The Internet Bike Database is built on user-submitted data and lets you list bikes by type (mountain, road, BMX and 21 other types) or by brand, and you can search for specific models, but it won't let you filter by year and gears and so on. BikePedia claims to be the "Bicycle Industry Encyclopedia" and lets you view by year and manufacturer, but again you cannot filter in the way you want. 

Note the y-axis scales do not begin at zero, to make the differences more apparent. The distance has increased slightly over the years somewhat (except 2013 where it was shortened due to heavy snowfall and bad weather). But the average speed increased in the first half of the 20th century but has levelled off in the 50 years since 1960. A similar trend can be seen in the 'Five Monuments of Cycling': 

Yes, for smaller ones. No, for full mudguards. Tour de France Here's Team Katusha using them on the ‘Paris Roubaix stage’ of the Tour de France in 2014, according to Stickybottle: 

UCI rules The UCI rules (PDF, 1.3.024, p.70) would likely forbid full mudguards as they would constitute a protective screen or fairing for the wheels: 

This happened to me with a Kryptonite Evolution lock. I locked it, went for lunch, but afterwards the key just wouldn't unlock. After hours of oil, poking bits of wire, screwdriver waggles, help from strangers, I gave up. I tried again the next day, and gave up again. In the end, I had to cut the lock with an angle grinder. Took 20 seconds tops. I took it back to the bike shop and they replaced it immediately. They said they replace about one a year on warranty. They also recommended putting a bit of oil in the lock each month to keep it working smoothly. 

As suggested by Anton, here's a look at the Milan-San Remo race that's been using the same (or almost the same) route over the years: 

I use a pair of Gore-Tex trainers when it's wet. They keep my feet dry, I walk around normally with them the rest of the day. I don't have clipless pedals, but I do have toeclips which can be easily adjusted for different types of shoe. They also keep the wind off quite well when it's cold, and have been fine recently when it's been a few degrees below freezing. Sealskinz waterproof socks are quite good too, but it means you still get wet shoes and it's just easier to just have waterproof footwear. Good mudguards are also highly recommended for commuting. 

I used my old Trek mountain bike last winter (Helsinki, down to -25C, lots of snow) for commuting to work (8km each way, roads) but it probably needs too many repairs to be worthwhile. I got a new sports hybrid thingy (Crescent Zetta) in the summer, and it might be ok for winter use with some studded tyres. It has disc brakes and 32-622 tyres. I don't know the size of the rims. I have 26" Nokian Hakkapeliitta W106 studded tyres for the mountain bike, which were very good last winter. These obviously won't fit on the Crescent's bigger 28" wheels, but the W106 also comes in 37-622 (700x35c). Would 37-622 tyres fit in place of 32-622 tyres or is it too big a difference? 

Attach a pipe or pole to the basket and hey presto! Another "handlebar"! Photos from Bike Hacks contributors: 

If it's cold, it's really not much fun having wet feet. In the summer, I use either some GoreTex trainers or SealSkinz waterproof socks for when it's raining. I really like the Sealskinz. One time the heavens opened just before leaving work and only had sandals, but then found the SealSkinz in my bag - that was almost perfect, warm, dry feet and no shoes to dry out once home. In the winter (lots of snow in Helsinki), I wear normal winter boots to just above the ankle, which are also waterproof. Merino socks are very good, I have some SmartWool ones. You can get SealSkinz with merino as well. 

I didn't find it in the general UCI track rules, but it's in the track rules (PDF) of the UCI's World Cycling Centre in Aigle, Switzerland: 

John Forester's view But, if I remember correctly, John Forester writes in Effective Cycling that four-lane main streets (with traffic lights) are better for commuting than little two-lane residential streets (with four-way stop signs at every block). The main streets are straighter and flatter. He adds that, if you take the lane, drivers will notice you and give you space. (Personally, I do generally take the lane.) My usual practice [Edit: I'm in Toronto, Canada.] I'm seriously annoyed by having to brake heavily at every single four-way stop sign (especially when descending). Also, the residential street grid doesn't always pass underneath expressways or major railway lines. So I tend to end up doing most of my commuting along busy 30 mph [50 km/h] main streets, rather than quiet residential streets. I don't usually commute during rush hour. The car drivers seem to calmly accept it when I take the lane; and I accept the drivers' right to use the road too. My question Is it wise for me to stick to main streets for the majority of my ride, even though there are quiet residential streets just a block away? 

My dad's garage contains a large workbench with a bench vise mounted on it. He takes a piece of flexible closed-cell foam, perhaps 1 cm (0.25") thick. He wraps the foam so that it protects the bottom and sides of his bike's top tube. Then he puts the wrapped top tube inside the bench vise. This works fine for him. 

If you want to buy locally, and you're looking for uncommon parts or an uncommon bicycle, try a Google web search. It can take you to a site that has what you want. Here's an example: Just today, I did a Google search for . And indeed, the first Google hit took me to a local classifieds site where someone currently has a used folding bike for sale. Google knows everything. 

In a discussion about very-loud bicycle horns, alex wrote that he uses his voice. He added that it works well and is always ready to use. And then he added: "And, yes, training is needed." If I need to alert a car to my presence, I generally might yell "C'mon" so loud that my throat hurts for a few minutes afterwards. This seems to work fine. I don't think I ever needed any special training to learn how to do this. What might Alex have meant when he wrote that training is needed? 

Soak your T-shirt in cold water Soak your T-shirt in cold water before beginning your commute. Or at least spray it with lots of cold water from a spray bottle. I've tried wearing a wet T-shirt. It was helpful until the T-shirt dried. You can re-wet the T-shirt from a water bottle if you wish. Try not to let your cellphone or wallet get wet. When the air is warmer than human body temperature (37 °C or 98 °F), sweating won't cool you off, but cold water on your T-shirt will. Ice vests Consider buying and wearing an ice vest during your commute. I've never tried one. You can probably read reviews of some ice vests on Amazon.com. You can also order your ice vest online. Or maybe you can make a homemade ice vest, or pay a tailor or seamstress to manufacture one. If you do buy an ice vest, you may need to freeze the ice packs in advance. Ice vests do cost money, but bus fare costs even more money in the end. :) 

Recently, a driver buzzed by me, leaving just a couple of inches between my handlebars and his car. It was very scary. In general, how can I prevent cars from passing me too closely? Please cite sources. 

I've been thinking of buying an internally-geared folding bike for commuting (5 km each way) and errands. I want to spend $100-$200, but I want a reasonable-quality frame; I don't want to ever have to replace the frame with a new one. I see a bunch of "Auto-Mini" folding bikes for sale on Craigslist in my city. How are the frames: are they well-made? How's the bikes' ride quality? [Edit: I've read that the frames are prone to cracking. Is the Auto-Mini still a reasonable choice, considering the criteria I mentioned above?]