“If you can’t say it clearly you don’t understand it yourself” –John Searle. The way I see it, we could have two construals of “understanding”- a weak and a strong one. The weaker one consists in activity which is essentially intellectual, cognitive, reflective and representational (Ryle’s knowledge-that). The stronger version would be grounded in ‘agency’; namely, you know you have it when there is something you can make happen in the world- predictably and routinely (Ryle’s knowledge- how). Ryle’s regress was supposed to show that “knowledge-that” is merely a species of “knowledge-how”; a ‘cognitive’ version of ‘doing something in the world’. Timothy Williamson begs to differ. He thinks one’s capacity how is always mediated by consulting ‘propositions’ beforehand. Josepha Toribiro has a good paper defending Ryle’s case (against Williamson, et al.) that ‘knowledge-how’ has primacy. I completely agree that having a capacity to predictably (and routinely) bring about certain outcomes doesn’t necessarily entail “understanding” in the cognitive/reflective sense, but I don’t think it has to matter all that much. If you take the ‘measure’ of agency as simply a capacity for task-completion, then the agent only has to be beholden that. Having an indefinitely deep cognitive account (omniscience?) as to all the pertinent wheres and whyfores of what’s going on is I think redundant (think of Searle’s (non-representationalist) notion of the deep and local background). The philosopher Stephen Grimm has gone after the issue of understanding in a big way (with a sizable grant of 3 mill!). I think he adopts a position that’s couched in epistemological terms, which comes off as a little circular- explaining a cognitive faculty in terms or more cognitive faculties. I recall in a paper where he cites certain others (?) that suggest understanding fails to bring with it any particular epistemic constraints: the child sees the situation a certain way; the religious fanatic has a certain weltanschauung; the radical skeptic denies climate change; the paranoid believes the government is watching him; the dog can fetch the stick, etc. I think this is correct. If you make (non-cognitive) agency dependent on the (representational) cognitive variety, then it would be hard to see how any organism not blessed with a ‘language capacity’ could ever function properly. Does the dog consider a bunch of propositions before chasing down the stick? (-pace Williamson). Agency in terms of ecologically coupled/productive goal directed activity has to come first. The reflective, representational stuff comes after. Richard Menary has a good evolutionary account of how and why a capacity for personal level, decoupled (top-down sensory motor emulation/neural reuse) is a ‘Johnny-come-lately’ adaptation in comparison to the sub-personal ‘coupled’ variety. Menary’s ‘cognitive integration’ thesis (and the bulk of Andy Clark’s work (et.al)), detail what I’m essentially trying to say here- cognition subserves/leverages, pragmatic (or ecological) agency. Ryle is right! Proofs of mathematical theorems are a tricky one, since they are almost exclusively cognitive/theoretical. 

The question seems to presuppose that the only thing science gives us are trivial theories susceptible to fallibilism. Just about every item of technology you take for granted on a quotidian basis is the product of scientific activity. Are you willing to abandon the privilege of taking a hot shower in winter; the use of refrigeration to preserve your food and cool your beverages; the farming and agriculture that gets you the food, the logistic systems that transports your food; electricity to power your fridge, heat your water, run your TV, your computer to access the internet, your oven and stove top to cook, lights to illuminate your house at night; your smart phone to check your facebook account or netbanking; the mathematics behind encryption that makes netbanking safe; the vast satellite and telecommunications infrastructure that enables it all; every product derived from petrochemical engineering, metallurgy, chemistry; the pharmaceuticals and medical practices that keep you alive when you’re sick; toothpaste to brush your teeth,…,???- be my guest. Science is not so much the pursuit of knowledge (for its own sake) but the development of man’s agency over his environment. 

What term is most appropriate for characterizing "knowledge how to such-and-such?"? I’d be inclined to use the phrases “agency”, or “absorbed coping” (H. Dreyfus); or if your fond of prolixity- “…cognition with concrete spatio-temporally extended patterns of dynamic interaction between organism and their environments” (Hutto, Myin 2013, p.8, Radicalising Enactivism)? Also, you might want to check out the work of Hubert Dreyfus and Daniel Hutto in general, but a paper (PDF download) entitled “The Primacy of Phenomenology over Logical Analysis” (H.Dreyfus) springs to mind. 

You should check out the literature of embodied theories of cognition- George Lakoff, Mark Johnson, Rafael Nunez, et al., (Where Mathematics Comes From, The Metaphors We Live By, Philosophy in the Flesh, etc.). In particular you should look at the work of Nunez. If these guys are right, then the basic underlying mechanics of how the mind works, is not dictated by “unconscious mathematical underpinnings”- it’s very much the other way around. Nunez (et al.) would have us believe that mathematical cognition has its basis in primitive sensory-motor routines and patterns; and is built up successively of layers of metaphor ultimately derived from this grounding in ‘primitive’ aspects ordinary experience/perception and motor activity. 

Imagine two fellows named George and John. Both are similar enough in intelligence and language competency. Both have a tertiary education, similar literary interests, choice diction and are equally well spoken. The focal difference between George and John is that John is a fully qualified light aircraft pilot (Cessna variety- four seat, single engine, fixed wing, etc.)- George is not. To wit, if we were to place George in the cockpit, he couldn’t so much as get the plane started let alone airborne. Now imagine if we requested a descriptive- cum- explanatory account what it is that a pilot ordinarily does when piloting a plane. What crucial differences would there be between their respective accounts? Should we expect John’s account to be deeper, more detailed/accurate, nuanced, finessed with novel (flying) anecdotes; one that is firmly grounded in a first person plane flying ‘capacity-how’? Should we expect Georges account to be superficial, patchy, speculative/inaccurate, poorly analogized to automobile driving; one clearly not based in a first person ‘capacity-how’, but a merely ‘knowledge-that’? We can imagine a variation of this where George is the educated one and we have John as poorly educated, not the reading type, not especially articulate, but still a fully qualified light aircraft pilot. Here we might expect George’s account to be much more impressive than John’s; yet there would still be something George can’t do that John can- namely pilot light aircraft. Question: Is a philosopher of consciousness more like George or more like John in their respective accounts of consciousness? (I appreciate there’s no obvious comparison between planes and the phenomenon of consciousness, so if it makes you feel any better, you can swap out “being a pilot” for “being a cardiologist”- mutatis mutandis).