"Pathos" or "pathic" magic The Greek word πάθος páthos means "suffering", but in English derivatives it tends to mean "emotion" in general. It's the root of sympathy, empathy, telepathy, and so on. In particular, Aristotle (in his Rhetotic) used it as the name of one of the three methods of persuasion: pathos included appeals to emotion and ad hominem attacks, ways of pulling at your audience's emotions to make them feel in their heart that you're right. Metaphors and anecdotes were important parts of pathos persuasion. The usual adjective form would be pathetic from παθητικός pathēticós, but that has different connotations in English. (Compare the meaning in other languages, though, e.g. Beethoven's famous Sonata Pathétique.) So I would recommend pathic (by analogy with empathic, telepathic) or simply pathos. 

Momentum is the real problem… AlexP's comment hit it right on the nose. If all Noether's conservations still apply, then energy, linear momentum, and angular momentum all have to be conserved. Kinetic energy is the first one you have to deal with. Fortunately, it's also the easiest. Only the total amount of energy is conserved, and it can be freely changed from one form to another (with a bit of loss to entropy). So you could deflect it in a slightly different direction without trouble. Linear momentum, though, is harder. You can't freely change its direction or its form; it's always momentum, and nothing can change that. Fortunately, though, momentum is proportional to $v$ rather than $v^2$, so the momentum of a bullet is much less dangerous than its kinetic energy. Angular momentum is the last concern: if you want to deflect a bullet, you need to change its direction slightly, which requires balancing out that angular momentum somewhere else. …but spreading it out helps a lot. Let's say a bullet is flying toward you. You need to deal with the kinetic energy, the linear momentum, and the angular momentum. The kinetic energy can be dealt with by changing its direction slightly, so let's not worry about that. But now the difference between its initial velocity and its new velocity, including direction, causes a change in momentum. This has to be balanced out by an equal and opposite change in momentum somewhere else. (A change in momentum, notably, is Newton's definition of a force.) So perhaps our mage applies this force evenly across their entire body. Even if they wanted to stop the bullet dead in the air instead of kicking it slightly to one side, they'd only be hit by exactly the same force that the would-be assassin felt when they fired: the recoil of the gun (minus some energy lost to heat and air resistance). If they sent it straight back where it came from, they'd feel a force equal to twice the recoil. Finally, the angular momentum: it's much harder to change something's direction when it's spinning. That's why gyroscopes stay up. A rifle will give the bullet a significant spin (angular velocity), which will make it harder to redirect. But fortunately, a bullet is small, and thus has a very small moment of inertia compared to a person. The mage could take the bullet's angular momentum into themself and feel only a very slight kick compared to the recoil of the deflection. 

One option would be integrating this into your story. Finding a way to communicate with the locals could lead to interesting conflicts and perhaps new plot elements. But as far as actually communicating…throughout the Middle Ages, educated people throughout the remains of the Roman Empire continued to read and write Latin in the Classical style, imitating Caesar and Cicero, even as the common language around them was evolving into what would eventually become modern French, Italian, Spanish, and so on. Even while the Roman Empire was still around, common people throughout Europe would speak very differently from Cicero's grand prose in their everyday speech, while still understanding the "proper Latin" of the orators perfectly well. It's likely that there would be significant diglossia in your world, with the most educated people continuing to study the English (or whichever language became dominant) that they found in written texts, while also speaking the common and rapidly diverging local dialects. Your protagonist would be able to communicate with these people through writing at first until they learned enough of the local language to understand it. Possible translators might include scholars and scientists working to preserve pre-apocalypse knowledge, or religious figures keeping their old practices alive. EDIT: As Futoque pointed out in the comments, trade languages and pidgins (and thus creoles) are also certain to develop wherever there's trade happening. So this will depend on how isolated your people really are. The process is especially fast among related languages: see the Bantu creoles like Lingála that arose in eastern and central Africa. EDIT AGAIN: Ethan Kaminski has brought up a few other excellent examples. The modern Arabic language has been evolving and diverging since the time of Muħammad. But the Qur'ān, by tradition, remains static and unchanging (since it's considered the direct word of God, and translating or updating it would end up changing its meaning). So written Qur'ānic Arabic remains exactly the same throughout the Muslim world. Similarly, as Dan Clarke points out, the "dialects" of modern Chinese would normally be considered entirely separate languages (they're only "dialects" for political reasons). But they all use the same writing system, which makes them mutually intelligible in writing, even if they're completely different in speech. As he puts it, "Today you'll often see Chinese people drawing characters on hands and in the air if something isn't understood just by speaking." 

Air composition. There are two main places where the square-cube law hurts large creatures. One is the problem of moving things around. How do you get nutrients and chemicals to different parts of the body? The problem shows up the fastest with oxygen, since that's needed for pretty much everything. If your leg isn't able to get oxygen, it won't be particularly useful. (This also applies to any other chemical replacing oxygen; I'm not aware of any hypothetical creatures which don't need to move reactive chemicals around their bodies.) Humans use a centralized system, where there's one incredibly-complex system in the middle of the body (the heart and lungs) which sends oxygen everywhere else. But this gets more and more difficult as the body size increases, since that single pump is pushing more material over a greater distance. One alternative is to use a distributed system: effectively, the different parts of your kaiju's body breathe separately. This is sort of what insects do, with gas exchange happening all throughout the body rather than in a central organ. However, this requires that the gas exchange mechanism be both simple (to allow for multiple instances in the body) and efficient (to actually work). In Earth's atmosphere, insect respiration is unable to support anything more than about 3cm across. But higher oxygen levels in prehistoric times made it significantly more efficient, allowing insects to grow significantly larger. So if you increase the levels of oxygen (or whatever equivalent chemical) in the atmosphere, that makes one of the barriers easier to overcome. The other problem is, plain and simple, support. Strength tends to grow as the square of length, while weight grows as the cube. So scaling something up directly would make it weaker and weaker. But weight can also be offset by buoyancy. Sea animals on Earth can grow much larger than land animals, because the buoyant force of the water around them can offset their greater weight. So if you could greatly increase the density of the atmosphere—by multiple orders of magnitude—that would provide somewhat more support for the kaiju's body. However, at this point, your planet would look very different from Earth. Completely changing the properties of air would affect human life tremendously as well: for one, in air dense enough to support kaiju, you could effectively "fly" or "swim" in any direction. So since you mention alien design, the best choice is probably to rely on a hypothetical future material being arbitrarily strong to support the skeleton, and hypothetical future power systems being arbitrarily effective to keep it all running.