Santa needs to travel around 226 million miles to deliver all of the presents to the world’s children. We do know that mules and oxen can go roughly 15-20 miles per day. We also know that a typical livestock animal might need to eat around 1.5 percent - 2 percent of its bodyweight in forage feed (depending on the nutritional content of that feed). We also know that a male reindeer weights 350-400 pounds. Santa’s reindeer are probably on the more muscular end of that scale, meaning that they’d need to eat about 2 percent of 400 pounds, or 8 pounds to be able to fly 15-20 miles. Update. My assumptions were wrong, so I've updated this answer below! 

Here's a really, really crazy idea: Underwater blockchain. Bitcoin works by keeping a long, immutable ledger, distributed around the world known as the blockchain. The mathematics involved allow you to prove the correctness of a ledger. New transactions are added to the blockchain in such a way that they become a permanent records. What if your critters used something similar to record transactions? ...and what if the blockchain was actually whalesong? Let's assume that whales on your planet are not sentient... or at least one species known for it's song isn't. A group of your critters learn how to interpret the whalesong, and how to encourage these whales to modify the song. Let's handwave that the whales have "photographic" accoustical memory, that they refuse to change songs they have learned, but learn new songs easily. You now have an underwater banking system whereby transactions are recorded by "tellers" who literally "tell" the transaction to a local whale, who then weaves that transaction into the songchain it sings. Other whales hear the new song and share it. Anyone who wants to retrieve a transaction "hums a few bars" to the nearest whale, who then gladly sings the rest of the song. Because songs can only be appended to, never modified (the handwave), by listening to the song you can verify that the bearer of a financial instrument actually bears the legitimate instrument, and can then provide them with the good (logging it into the songchain, of course). We can further stipluate that whalesong is generally at the lower range (or upper range) of the frequencies our critters can hear; in general, it's just the normal background noise of the ocean. But a specially trained critter can listen to the chainsong and interpret it, and encourage local whales to append to the chainsong. The whales just do what they have always done: share songs with each other. Their song carries for thousands of miles in the ocean, ensuring that every transaction is eventually recorded everywhere in the world, allowing you to "spend" your instruments anywhere where the song has been recorded. Now, I'm sure somebody with a background in information theory could prove that the type of whalesong which travels such long distances conveys too little information to be able to log EVERY transaction on an entire planet, but if we're willing to suspend disbelief a little bit, the songchain would only be used for large, interocean transactions. Local networks of trust would be good enough for day to day operations, with enough signatures on an instrument or a tally-shell business works fine. Long distance trade could be handled by songchain however. 

We actually have such a system these days: Distributed Denial of Service As more and more of our world becomes dependent on the Internet functioning at high speeds, the ability to disrupt this communication can be catastrophic. Imagine a world shortly in the future where cars are navigating and talking with each other over the Internet; where airplanes fly pilotless remote controlled by command and control systems over the Internet. Bitcoin is the main currency of the world. The reason DDOS can act as a MAD device is because there are MILLIONS of machines just waiting to fire their payloads, on every network, in every ISP. Most houses in America probably have at least one compromised device on their network. Antivirus and firewalls don't help, because any machine can become a cannon spewing forth network noise. You don't know which machines will cause trouble until the "fire" command is sent, at which point your entire Internet is being flooded with nonsense garbage. I had a rack of web servers on a 10GB link go down because it was receiving 10GB of packets containing nothing but the string "SO I HERD U LEIK MUDKIPZ". Seriously. We did what we could, but basically we just had to weather the storm. What are you going to do? Filter the packets out? You'll spend more CPU power trying to filter the packets than you possibly could have. Firewalls are useless, because they have to know who to block, and you're getting traffic from a million addresses. You can't blackhole blocks of addresses, because they're randomly distributed over the entire address space. You can't whack specific addresses because new addresses will just pop up to take their place (and now you're spending MORE CPU trying to filter out addresses). Literally the only thing you can do is SHUT DOWN THE NETWORK and wait for the DDOS to stop. The attacker, on the other hand, has no such problems. They have command and control over the botnet, so they can instruct the botnet to avoid their specific address space. Routers will handle intra-country traffic, and just ignore the rest of the world. It's a MAD situation, so I'm not talking firewalls, I'm talking literally unplugging the country's network from the rest of the world. Even if the rest of the world retaliates, there's no route back to your country. Won't the enemy just cut off their network? Sure, but it's too late: you've sent the command to DDOS and infect. They'll have to play whack-a-mole, tracking down individual machines and disconnecting them from the source. Every IP camera, every cell phone, every car WIFI access point can be an potential DDOS transmitter. The Internet is dead, everywhere, except the specific places you took offline beforehand. Self-replicating self-healing botnets reinforce themselves, scramble addresses, go dormant when anyone gets too close to finding them. This is mutually assured because either side can pull the trigger. The Capitalists and the Commies probably both have botnets in each other's country. The first strike involves activating the enemy network, then pulling your network cables before they can send a retalitory command to THEIR network. Or at least that's the theory. There's probably backup command servers, canary heartbeat servers which would discover that they're disconnected from NORAD and start firing... but that's the Mutually Assured part. It's each country's job to keep their botnets from unintentionally destroying the other country's Internet, while technically allowing a non-nuclear option. EDIT: What about 'Mutually'? There's a point to be made that script kiddies can do DDOSes. I've been DDOS'd by 4chan, and it's not cool. But modern infrastructure has terrabit pipes, you'd need to be a state-actor level in hacking and network building. 4chan machines generally come from a pool of machines used for criminal activities using command and control software based on DNS records or IRC chat rooms. This is fine if you want to swindle a few credit cards or knock a colo server off the grid. MAD level DDOSes will depend on almost-sterile computers with just the enemy state's code on it. It'd probably actively immunize the OS against other virus type activity. It must be undetectable except under the highest scrutiny. Ironically, a MAD DDOS system would likely increase the security and stability of the enemy state's computers up until the moment the button is pressed. EDIT: What about the "Assured"? Neither side actually expects a nuclear strike to be the end of the war. Maybe, at the very beginning, the idea of a 10 minute war was viable, but both sides have so much redundancy and readiness built in to the Nuclear MAD that we focus now on a First Strike; the hope being to hit so hard right away we can stop a retaliation and force a surrender before the other side gets reorganized. "We've got enough nukes to destroy the entire earth 12 times" (or whatever) isn't realistic, because we expect most of those missiles to miss, or burn out, or fail to launch, or refuse arming commands, or be jammed, or intercepted... that part of the "Assurance" for Nuclear MAD; so many missiles you can't stop them all. The reality is, a Nuclear War would involve a first strike followed by the remnants of each country fighting for survival and victory, with hopes that enough of the other side's infrastructure is destroyed that they can't fight longer than we ca. This is why a State Actor DDOS can be MAD. It's "Assured" that the first strike on the enemy WILL scramble their communications, crash their infrastructure, cause power outages and civilian panic, disrupt transportation channels. You hope you can scramble the enemy long enough to get conventional bombers or marines or whatever to destroy or capture the command and control of the enemy while they're disorganized and force them into defeat. EDIT: But what about the "Destruction"? My intention was that this shortly future future is way more reliant on Internet than we are. I'm not talking "you get to work and can't log in to email," I'm going for "nobody's cars will leave their driveways because they can't establish a link to the traffic router" and "an undetected flaw in the control systems for that nuclear power plant allowed an attack in, but nobody can log into the computer because it's too busy throwing away packets." I agree, this disaster isn't as obvious as nuclear weapons, but if you've ever worked in a datacenter, you've seen how the phones will light up and alarms will go off when 4chan's Orbital Laser Canon turns on them. And that's for people's cat websites. Servers don't just get their network card jammed; they shut down, overheat, cause rolling failures as the stress backs up into further systems. I'm not talking Netflix going down; I'm talking planes falling out of the sky because they ran out of fuel waiting for clearance to land because the control tower computers crashed. I'm talking hospitals backing up because none of their high-falutin' test equipment is responding to commands, MRI machines have exhausted their supplies due to crashing, and the entire medical records system is locked up nation-wide, so everyone's medical histories, allergies, everything is essentially gone. The central communication systems of the government probably still work, but they've just been thrown back to Early World War II as every computer around them is either spewing crap or being buried by crap. If nothing else, it'll cause panic, confusion, and fear in the enemy state, as everyone suddenly finds themselves trapped in the 50s. Many in this generation have never used a rotary telephone or been without an internet connection for more than a day or two. The initial panic, confusion, and fear could be enough to destabilize the other side. 

Cocaine, Nicotine, and Caffeine are very similar, they just differ in details and scale of effect. How does this affect society? Compare the prohibition of alcohol, and how the deregulation of alcohol partially broke up organized crime. However, note, that Organized Crime didn't disappear, they just found a new market. As for how it affects social interactions... I'd actually not expect much change. It'd just join Caffeine and Nicotine as casual mood altering chemicals. I'd also suggest you explore the concept of Cocaine being legalized... but Crack Cocaine being cracked down even harder. This would have the effect of even more persecution of minorities and an enhancement of the Drug War problems we have today. Right now, many, many non-minorities use cocaine even though it's illegal, firm in the knowledge they're going to get away with it. Legalizing cocaine, but continuing criminalization of crack would give non-minorities even more ammunition to fuel the criminalization divide in our country: why don't those poor people just buy the high quality high purity high-markup cocaine from the friendly neighborhood pharmacy right next to the police station like regular people...? I think I've convinced myself it would cause more problems, actually, based on the knowledge that most drug laws have never been about protecting health (that's a side effect) but have usually been about boxing minorities into corners. 

Your biggest problem is adaptation. As you mention in your question, predators are going to evolve some sort of protection against this prey, if this prey is actually worth hunting. Either extra eyelids or resilient retinas, or motion-sensing-light-patches... or even forgoing eyesight and utilizing another sense altogether. I would imagine that a world as bright as the one you are describing is likely as inhospitable to eyesight as a completely black cave, and I'd almost expect the most successful hunters to use senses other than sight. You also have the problem that the focusing materials (in this case, the wings) must be able to survive all the same energy as the target while focusing the light; yes, you have more surface area to spread out the heat, but you're still absorbing a heck of a lot of energy in the process. Finally, you've got the problem of focus. In order to seriously intensify the light, you've gotta be able to focus that light precisely onto the retinas (or at least faces) of predators. This is a life form which must be ever vigilant and incredibly precise, in order to zap the eyes of hunters stalking it; hunters with bright light adaptations and tons of stealth tricks to avoid being detected by the laser moths. I think instead of trying to use a focused light beam to disable hunters eyesight, these laser moths would utilize the bright sunlight and their particular situation to dazzle and confuse predators. Give their wings advanced chromatophores; light shines through their wings, gaining color, and then being either transmitted or blocked by the chromatophores. During flight, the chromatophores are pulsed in such a way that the moving patterns on the bottom of the laser moth go in opposite directions of real travel. During stress, the chromatophores can become chaotic and swirling patterns, randomly switching direction of "flow", making it incredibly difficult for predators utilizing eyesight to actually properly predict the direction of travel of the laser moths. Using these chromatophores, they can create optical illusions of direction of travel, speed, and even distance by "fudging" their transmitted image to look smaller than they actually are (imagine a pattern growing smaller on the wings, with the edges of the wings going transparent to show the sky's color through, giving the illusion that it's flying away). Not as cool as projecting holograms, but pretty darned cool. These laser moths might also have an intuitive sense of heat mirages; they may utilize their pattern projecting ability in addition to mirages, to create "virtual images" which make the laser moth appear to be in a different location altogether. It's not using lensing to manipulate eyesight (which would be difficult, and would require each predator receive a customized modulated image transmitted on their retina) but abusing the mechanics of mirages to enhance their natural cloaking abilities. 

So, I think this is a cool idea. To make it simpler, let's scale down the question a bit, because you're asking if it "can be an evolutionary stable dynamic." Let's have a plant and an ant. The ant colony hunts Red Mites, and as such, they gain a red pigment as well. This, unfortunately, has the effect of giving their position away. Through chance, the ants stash part of their Red Mite supplies in a pitcher-plant style plant. This plant, digesting the mites, also gains a red coloring. Ants learn that it's safe to congregate on the red plant, and the plants that are red are the plants that they store mites in, and if they can learn how to avoid being eaten themselves (or, at least, only lose acceptable casualties) they can become co-dependent. Now, this is way simpler than your question, but the solution comes out to be very similar: you could say the pitcher plant is "demanding a bribe" from the ants; because if the ants stop feeding it red mites, it's color is going to return to normal. The ants don't know what's going on; there's no intentional communication going on here. But, yes, this could end up being evolutionarliy stable. Perhaps the plant becomes more reddish by default, to allow the ants more leeway in it's bribes. Or maybe the best adaptation is to gain a blueish, or some other contrasting, color, which makes the ants even MORE visible to predators unless they keep the pitcher plant fed and, therefore, colored. So we know it's viable. How about higher level creatures, like your monkey, cat, and tree? So, let's actually make it a monkey, squirrel, and tree. The predator is the cat. Cats can access trees, and they prey on squirrels. These monkeys, being bigger and more adapted to trees, can easily evade the cats, while the squirrels, who must spend a lot of time on the ground and lower branches of the tree, are preyed upon. The squirrels are well known for collecting tons of food. They eat acorns which fall from this species of tree. They are well adapted to it, but the monkeys are not. They generally eat fruits from nearby trees. So how does the bribe work in? Well, say this acorn contains a small amount of THC, nicotine, or some other chemical that the monkeys enjoy. It has no effect on the squirrels (they process it just fine), but it makes monkeys happy. They, therefore, want to steal acorns from the squirrels. Not really being adapted to the land, they don't want to leave the trees. The acorns aren't really ripe and ready for the monkey until they've been on the ground for a few weeks. The squirrel, of course, doesn't want to give up it's acorns. So the monkeys, suffering from acorn withdrawl, start calling the cat. The cats learn that when the monkeys are behaving in a specific way, squirrels are nearby, and they start hunting the squirrels. Through natural selection or by accident, the squirrel ends up giving the monkeys some acorns, and amazingly enough, the monkeys chill out and stop making noise. The cats have optimized to hunt in areas where the monkeys are misbehaving, so keeping the monkeys happy is a good survival strategy for the squirrels. They collect acorns, select the best ones for the monkeys, and hand them off, turning off the monkeys, who leave them alone. This can become an even better deal for the squirrel, because the monkeys learn that protecting the squirrels also protects their source of acorns. So not only do they NOT misbehave and catch the cat's attentions, but they use their higher vantage point to scope out cats in the area, and either warn the squirrel, or scare off the cat (a few well placed pinecones should do it). Yes, I just turned squirrels into drug dealers, and the monkeys into the mob. But this ends up being the bribing situation you wanted. If the squirrels don't "pay up," the monkeys will assist the cat to hunt them; if the squirrels pay the protection money, the monkeys may actually assist the squirrel. The monkeys get the acorns they want and the squirrel gets to avoid being lunch. Sounds like a pretty good strategy for both.