This is a reference to the Catholic belief that sin can be atoned for through confession and the acceptance of a self-imposed punishment, called a penance. This atones for the sin, and wipes away some of the time the sinner will have to spend waiting to enter heaven. Even in the early days of Christianity, this concept proved problematic. Acts of penance tend to involve privations such as fasting, self-flagellation or undertaking pilgrimage. They thus have little to do with the actual sin committed, which means a person can absolve themselves of a sin without taking any personal responsibility for the results of that sin. For example, if you steal something and commit penance, why do you then have to accept an earthly punishment for your crime, seeing as God trumps any earthy authority who tries to hold you to account? It's an interesting choice for Pullman to highlight, because penance became one of the most-hated aspects of the Catholic church during the middle ages. It began to sell Indulgences, which were essentially automatic forgiveness of sins in exchange for money. The idea the rich could almost literally buy their way into heaven was widely seen as unjust. To make matters worse they Church employed Pardoners, individuals who went out and aggressively sold Indulgences, often with the aim of raising money for specific church projects. This was a direct contributor to the Protestant reformation, as Martin Luther decided to write his famous Ninety-Five Theses after hearing his parishioners say they no longer needed to change their sinful behavior after purchasing Indulgences. "Preemptive" penance has never been official dogma, and indeed it does not stand up to logical scrutiny. If one wishes to obtain forgiveness of a sin in advance, one clearly has the intention of sinning and, therefore, cannot truly be repentant. However, it's a clever way of both setting up a plot point and highlighting the inherent problems in the very concept of penance, especially the one of personal responsibility. And it's very close indeed to the idea of Indulgences which, in Britain at least, are widely learned about at school and understood as an unfair abuse of power on the part of the church. This is, then, a key plank in a central theme of the trilogy, which is the inherent oppression that results when organised religion rigidly applies doctrine and dogma. Preemptive absolution is not merely unfair: it is illogical and is deliberately used as a tool of subjugation. That it is secret - not widely known outside the church - speaks volumes about the inherent hypocrisy of a supposedly benevolent organisation trying to protect its wealth and power. Dogma, Pullman is saying, will always lead to corruption. So to answer your specific questions: 1. Yes, it is a reference to a real-life doctrine, although no specific parallel exists and it is not directly compatible with actual Christianity. 2. That it is a corrupt and hypocritical organisation as a result of its strict adherence to dogma. 

This is not definitive evidence, but given the strong circumstantial links in the dates and description of events, it seems likely this is the action which inspired the poem. Source: ST QUENTIN 1914-1918 - Hindenburg Line by Helen McPhail and Philip Guest 

For those that feel the pinch of rural poverty in spite of hard work often blame their plight on the metropolitan establishment, politicians who favour the cities where they live over the more sparsely populated countryside. Hence it's the "party in power" whose policies are stopping wealth from flowing out of the city into the country. Thus "trusting sorrow" is a phrase to briefly express that the farmer "trusts" the unspoken "moving-pictures’ promise" and is "sorrowful" that politicians have been "keeping from us" the wealth of the city. 

Here's another, added in since some readers might think the above example is just someone an author amusing themselves making a list. This one should hopefully make clear how apparently pointless most of the lists are: 

Which, you will note, is merely a historical reference rather than an enthusiastic endorsement. He is also lumping Wells in with "gothic horror", which is a different sub-genre to the weird fiction Lovecraft felt his work belonged to. When you turn to Lovecraft's named inspirations, the other problem with the conjecture in this question becomes clear: "cosmic horror" predates even H.G. Wells. Take Chamber's The King in Yellow (1895), a series of linked stories about a play which drives people insane. While not "cosmic" in Lovecraftian sense, it deals with similar themes: the inability of humanity to deal with its own narcissism. The "other world" in Chambers is not outer space, but artistic perfection. A clearer example is Algernon Blackwood whose stories The Willows (1907) and The Wendigo (1910) were regularly praised by Lovecraft. Both have a similar theme of people lost in a vast, uncaring wilderness and encountering there forces beyond their understanding. The nature of those forces is never clear but they are at best indifferent and at worst actively hostile to the protagonists. This is a clear template for much of Lovecraft's work, although again the "other world" is the wilderness in place of a different dimension. Arguably, however, "cosmic horror" starter earlier with an author not normally seen as a horror writer at all: Franz Kafka. The abiding themes of his work may not be horrific in the traditional sense but are nevertheless disturbing. His protagonists find themselves in dire straits for obscure or inexplicable reasons and, in seeking help, find themselves faced with a bizarre and indifferent bureaucracy. Here the uncaring "other world" is the byzantine machinery of the state. Lovecraft's lasting legacy is specifying the "other world" of cosmic horror as the cosmos itself. In doing so, he gave a new sense of scale and an aptitude of the fantastic to the concept of humanity facing an uncaring world. These aspects proved a fertile furrow for both Lovecraft and the writers that he, in turn, inspired. But the original concept of the indifferent world predates both Lovecraft and Wells. 

References: - Kelly, Richard Michael (2003). "Introduction". In Dickens, Charles. A Christmas Carol. - Callow, Simon (2009). Dickens' Christmas: A Victorian Celebration. 

I'm about halfway through Ulysses. What's sustained me through this famously difficult novel is the quality of the prose and characterisation. However, I was struck by the thought that what makes it "difficult" is the sheet volume of internal, stream of consciousness, monologue. These passages chop and change in subject with great rapidity, making them difficult to follow. The manner in which they chop and change with the actual narrative of the plot - often at great length - in turn makes that difficult to follow. Now, I'm quite aware that Joyce was deploying these novel techniques to bring a new degree of character and realism to his writing. And I would agree it was successful: these confused narratives ring true as an attempt to describe a thought process. I'm left wondering, though, why he felt the need to deploy them in such a huge novel. Arguably they would have been more successful in short stories such as the Dubliners collection where, indeed, he first trialed these ideas. There does seem to be a body of serious critical though on Ulysses which does regard it as bloated and self-indulgent. So, do we know why Joyce chose to experiment with stream of consciousness at quite such extreme lengths? 

Would seem to indicate the world moving toward a state of "trash". In Molloy, the titular character describes meeting his wife in a rubbish dump, in a passage which then goes on to include strong sexual connotations. All That Fall opens with a journey toward "Boghill" and feature a dung-carrier. So what's with all the rubbish? Beckett defies obvious interpretations. Given the themes of mortality which he returns to however, it's possible to see rubbish as a metaphor for life itself. In life, we accrue possessions and attach importance to them: we pass favoured ones on to our offspring. They are at once essential and absurd, useless and tender, bulwarks we gather to shield us against death. 

Crow is trying to fulfill his role as the explorer of the cosmos through detached observation, but is failing. He is "helpless" to explain both the emotional appeal of the stream and its intricate series of connections to the wider world via rationality. This is the purpose of the lines: 

There's a facetious answer to this, which is: because that's how he felt that day. However, it's less facetious than it first appears. Page himself has said in interview that he has little clear idea of what the lyrics mean - if they mean anything - and his interpretation of them changes frequently. 

Joyce's work was revolutionary in a number of ways. In most of them it was not that he innovated new techniques, but in the degree to which he pushed them. To start with, it is worth considering what the novel traditionally looked like at the end of the 19th century. Victorian literature was almost entirely written as a linear narrative with an omniscient narrator. All the great authors of the era - Dickens, Bronte, Hardy - wrote in this style. This is sometimes known as realism: the attempt to paint a literary picture of belivable characters in the real world. Joyce, by contrast, was more interested in literature as an artistic technique. He used metaphor, motifs and symbolism far more heavily, leading to works that - like a painting - invited multiple interpretations. These were not new tools to authors, of course: Joyce's innovation was the extent to which he deployed them. Indeed as his career went on, traditional structures like plot and character began to play second fiddle to artistic motifs. You can see this in the second half of Ulysses and, at its most extreme, in the nonlinear word soup of Finnegans Wake which defies any traditional approach to reading. In this, he aligned himself with modernist painters like Picasso. The novel was still a relatively new form compared with other kinds of art, and many critics saw it as "low" populist art, for mass public consumption. Joyce was pushing its boundaries into alignment with avant-garde art in other fields. Arguably we thus have him to thank for the damaging split between popular and highbrow literature that persists to this day. Stream of Conciousness was also not new - I vaguley remember reading something very much like it Jane Austen's Emma. But again, his approach to it was entirely new. Rather than writing it in the traditional "omniscient" point of view, he let it flow freely, often into near-nonsense, just as thoughts and ideas sometimes blindside us through the day. Arguably this was the death-knell of the first-person narration that had been dominant up to this point. Also, arguably, it was more "realistic" than the realism of preceeding novels. This lead to the portrayl of inner thoughts and feelings which broke taboos in subject matter. Yet again, Joyce was not the first here, but he pushed the envelope much further than other authors had done. His frank protrayals of sex and defecation are well known (his letters to his wife reveal he was a something of a scat fetishist himself). But it's also worth remembering that he was unusually blunt when it came to politics, particularly the troubled politics of his native Ireland, which were not considered a fit subject for fiction at the time. Other literary figures of his era, such as Hemingway, remained constrained by the traditional realistic approach to the novel. Joyce was - and to some extent remains - unique. I'm not aware of anything else like Finnegan's Wake. He recognised that an author's style of writing is a constraint on what they wrote about. Prior authors had seen this as a regrettable limitation but Joyce embraced it: by jettisoning style, he left himself free to portray the world as he saw fit.