Let's go back to the basic that every Buddhist knows. According to The Nine Special Qualities of the Buddha, there are 'The Six kinds of Speech'. Whether the speech is disagreeable to others or not, Buddha only speaks true AND beneficial. If you believe in it, Buddha mentioned 227 Patimokkha rules which are true and beneficial for monk. It is also beneficial for those who makes offerings to monks who live by those Patimokkha rules. Please look at Qualities of the Sangha also. 

The different in practices came shortly after Buddha's Parinibbana. That's is the reason First Buddhist council was convened. Ref Link: First Buddhist Council 

One person's karma can have effects to another person. It is like living in/near war zone where a lot of killing (people are doing bad karma) are happening. The chances are very high to get killed/injuries. On the other hand, if someone don't have enough bad karma to get killed, he/she will escape no matter what. It just needs the right condition to be affected by (present and past) karma . 

If you can read old book with very details, you want might to consider 'The Great Chronicle Of Buddha' by Mingun Sayadaw. The biography of Gautama Buddha starts at volume two, part one. 

I'm wondering if pali has a specifically designated word for the view that the outer world is a reflection of one's own life state, not the other way around. Additionally, I am wondering if there are any good recources that people know of online that acts as a pali dictionary for buddhist philosophical concepts. 

The 3000 Realms is an philosophical theory developed by T'ien-T'ai, a Chinese buddhist philosopher. It is to say that the, "entire phenomenal world exists within a single moment of life (2)". The realms themselves are used as a way to "categorize" the phenomenal world. Below is a chart explaining how he came up with 3000 realms: (2) The Ten Worlds (or Ten Spiritual Realms) are basically thought to be the full spectrum of one's life condition, which comes from ones life force (i.e. how one feels). I'm not entirely sure where the concept of the ten worlds comes from, although I believe it is a relatively universall concept, at least within Mahayana Buddhism. In short, however one feels can be represented as one of the "Ten Worlds", or "Spiritual Realms". The part of the chart which lists it as "The Ten Worlds and Their Mutual Possession" is referring to the fact that T'ien-T'ai considers the ten worlds to exist within each other. That is to mean that, even in the realm of hell, one can exist in a realm of buddhahood. An example from history of this concept would be of Martin Luther-King Jr.. He led the civil rights movement in America for some time and did so peacefully and, as far as I know, ethically too. One may say that he often times existed in one of the upper worlds like Buddhahood or Bodhisattva (I don't know the Ten Worlds well enough to be able to say with much confidence which particular world he was in while he was working for Civil Rights). Anyhow, while he was doing that though, he was angry because of the injustice of how he and other people were being treated and that motivated him. However, the important distinction to be made is that, although he was angry, he didn't act violently, he still thought and acted like one who was in one of the higher worlds would act. The inclusive world which he often dwelled in was Anger, even though he was in one of the higher worlds nonetheless. Another important aspect of the Ten Worlds is that the entirety of them exist intrinsically within us at all times and one can, moment-to-moment, move from one world to the next- either up or down. That is to say that, at all times, for all people without exception, the World of Hell exists within us, but so does Buddhahood. -- The next part of The 3000 Realms is The Ten Factors. This theory too comes from the Lotus Sutra in the second chapter (Expedient Means) and is expounded by Shakyamuni to Shariputra and goes as follows: 

I believe Singapore can be a good stop to visit many Buddhist Temples from different regions. There are 

For meditation, it might be quite difficult as you might need to join a group to mediate in a specific place or find a quiet place inside the temple to meditate. If you are visiting Yangon in Myanmar/Burma Country, you should definitely visit Shwedagon Pagoda. You can find a lot quite place to meditate and you might also see a large crowd celebrating Buddhist festival at Full-Moon day. 

Even though the image will never be same as The Buddha himself, I believe there is nothing wrong with having the image for veneration. Personally, I feel so much peaceful and secure. One of advantages for me is that I usually discourage myself to think any unnecessary thought others than related to Dhamma while I am at a temple where you can usually see big statues of The Buddha. Nevertheless, 

In Jātaka tale (whether you want to believe it or not), there are many example of Buddha past life as normal human living with family and still fulfilling Pāramitā to attain enlightenment, and which is also true for many Buddha's disciples. The only story I can find for Pāramitā related Jātaka tales is Vessantara Jataka 

I personally have a hard time explaining The Ten Factors and so I'll also add a link that describes The Ten Factors (3) more clearly. To the best of my understanding, The Ten Worlds are how we feel emotionally, and the Ten Factors are how we project ourselves upon the world and how these two concepts interact with each other. -- The final part of The Three Thousand Realms is called, "The Three Realms". I know the least about this part of the Realms, and so my explanation for it probably wouldn't be complete, but there are many websites which I think would be able to better explain them. Everything that I would be able to say about them is addressed in the image I added above, so I'll stop here. -- What is important to know about The 3000 Realms as a whole is that they describe all of the possible effects within a single moment of life. It also means that everything is subjective - in terms of point-of-view - and that all things are equal. The reason that I have included the concept of The 3000 realms is because it shows that not just Shakyamuni has a life force, and also that one's enlightenment (world of Buddhahood) intrinsically exists within one's self (as well as every other realm). 

Points to take note: It is TRUE that a number of Buddhist Councils were held after the mahaparinirvana (nirvana-after-death) of the Buddha. Not during Buddha's life time nor just after Buddha attained nirvana. It is NOT TRUE that any Buddhist Council concludes or makes official something that not part of Buddha's teaching for Buddhists. In other words, Buddhist Councils were held just to preserve the entire Buddha's sayings and rules. No changing or amending. Since day one from Buddha's teaching, there is NO Creator, God or Judgement Day. Therefore, Buddhist Councils never have to conclude or make official for such things. 

Additional info: From my Theravada understanding: For Sotāpanna and Sakadagami, they may or may not stay with family. Most Sotāpanna that I heard from the text lived with their family. For example; Anathapindika and King Bimbisara Another example is Visakha known to have a lot of great grandchildren. From page 981 of The Princeton Dictionary of Buddhism For Anāgāmi, they will never live as husband/wife For Arahant, they will never stay with family. Why? Anāgāmi - already overcome sensual desire (kāmacchando) fetter Arahant - who has eliminated all the unwholesome roots which underlie the fetters. 

There had been infinite number of Buddhas before and there will be many more. In this Kalpa, We already have four Buddhas and there will be one more Buddha. That's why this Kalpa is called Bhadda-kappa. Extracted it from here. 

I've been learning about time and the varyous perspectives that it is viewed through, and it seems like there are two main ways of thought. The first, generally associated as a western mindset, is that time is linear. The second, and this is generally considered more eastern, is that time is considered cyclical. I'm pretty sure that this is also a common way-of-thought in Hunduism, but I'm, in particular, wanting to learn more about the nature of time from a buddhist perspective. Of what I have read sutra-wise (pretty much just the Lotus Sutra), I have only seen time's cyclality being alluded to once, when Shakyamuni Buddha is saying that, at the end of a kalpa, when the world is consumed by fire, his pure land will, although appearing to burn with the rest of the world, stay safe and untouched. I assume from this that at the end of kalpas, it was considered that the world would burn (maybe signifying the start of a new cycle). Anyhow, I'm just wanting to know more about the nuances of Buddhist-cyclical time and how one can comprehend/view the world in such a way. 

Ichinen Sanzen isn't really wishful thinking, because it's not just hoping for a situation to get better— it's actually working for a situation to become better. Wishful thinking implies that the subject expects the situation to change, whereas Ichinen Sanzen (3000 realms) implies that your own outlook needs to change. This means not viewing oneself as victim of one's environment and basically that the concept of goodness and badness only exist in out head. Here is a quote that Nichiren (a buddhist monk who propagated the 3000 realms) wrote in one of his letters to a follower that I think gives the gist of the idea of Ichinen Sanzen: 

Yes, you can become a Buddhist without a formal teacher or formal training. I would recommend real, paper, dead-tree books as opposed to online research. Books on Buddhism tend to be of higher quality than some of the stuff you find online. Eventually, however, I would encourage you to visit a monk (bhikkhu or bhikshu) or a nun (bhikkhuni or bhikshuni) at a temple. I practiced Buddhism on my own for several years before I met any other Buddhists. 

According to the Theravada, the authentic sermons of the Buddha are known as suttas, not sutras. However, in the Mahayana branch, there is a body of sutras known as the Agamas. These are Chinese translations of Sanskrit translations (now lost) of the Buddha's suttas. I do not know if the Parable Sutra is from the Agamas (which are historically-based) or Mahayana (not historically-based) sutras. I looked it over briefly now, and I did not notice anything that marked it as being from the Mahayana Sutras, so it may have a Theravadin equivalent. Anything in the Taisho Tripitika is believed by the Mahayana to be the words of the Buddha. 

Sometimes there are translation issues. When people say that Buddhism is not nihilistic, they are not exactly talking about the definition you gave. One can say that the Buddha never said anything about nihilism (according to the definition you gave) one way or the other. The Buddha avoided the three wrong views, eternalism, hedonism and what is usually translated as nihilism, the view that "nothing is". 

I hope this answers your question. I know that some of my explanation may be a bit murky or unclear, so I would be happy to try and clear up anything. Works Cited: 1) The Lotus Sutra and Its Opening and Closing Sutras. Tokyo: Soka Gakkai, 2009. 57-267. Print. 2) "Three Thousand Realms in a Single Moment of Life." Soka Gakkai International Buddhism in Action for Peace. Soka Gakkai International, Apr. 2012. Web. 6 Aug. 2016. $URL$ 3)"Ten Factors." Soka Gakkai International Buddhism in Action for Peace. Soka Gakkai International, Oct. 2000. Web. 6 Aug. 2016. $URL$ 

Here, Shakyamuni is saying that the true aspect of all phenomena is that it has no existence. Another way to say this is that causes don't have intrinsic implications; only effects do. It also is to say that, whatever happens, that doesn't mean anything other than that that happened; how one reacts is all that matters. Here one can see how Shakyamuni's statments of the true aspect of all phenomena can be easily applied to our day-to-day lives, so the next logical step is to have a system of, in essence, figuring out which different effects one can create from any phenomena. This leads us into the next philosophical idea. 

All practicing Buddhists abstain from alcohol. It is disrespectful to the Buddha for a restaurant to display a statue of the Buddha in such a setting, but sadly that type of thing is all too common. 

There is a Thai temple near my home in Maryland. It is receptive to Westerners, though they're probably less than 1% of the people who go there. I'd encourage you to call back - you'd probably get a different person answering the phone and maybe a more positive response. 

Nothing can be added to the list of canonical works of the Buddha. They were recited three months after the Buddha's parinibbana and cannot be added to or subtracted from. 

First of all, the Buddha never said it is necessary to give up rituals, though it is a popular misconception. When you read his teachings, you will see that the vast majority do not contradict the practice of most other religions. In Buddhist countries, such as Sri Lanka and Thailand, you will often find people who practice both Buddhism and worship some Hindu gods as well. Most of Buddhism is about giving up harmful actions (killing, even of animals, stealing, adultery, lying, alcohol) and practicing beneficial actions (generosity, kindness, patience, etc.). There are many members of other religions who are better Buddhists than many non-practicing Buddhists! If you become a monk and get very close to enlightenment, you may find it helpful to abandon other paths at that point, but you can worry about that then. 

Technically the SGI (Soka Gakkai International) is a lay Buddhist group, but there aren't any priests or nuns, so it may also be considered a secular form of Buddhism also. It is an orginization, but in my experience, I have never fealt like they were just trying to get my money or anything like that. There are many meetings that one can attend and there is a strong community emphasis, so you get to know a lot of people. Once a month, there is a big city-wide meeting which people often attend, but there is also a monthly district meeting, which usually comprises a small number of people (~5-20). In addition to that, there are many other meetings which one can attend (many do) outside of these two meetings. Usually at a meeting, there is a part where everyone medetates, and then after that, we often times talk and discuss the certain literary works of Nichiren Daishonin, a buddhist monk from the 1200's. That is where the meeting is more philosophical. After that, there may be food or something like that and people usually just talk with eachother. There are some meetings where there is only medetation (toso), and meetings where there is only philosophical discussion (study meetings). I'm not sure if that's what you're looking for, but that is probably one of the more common sects of Buddhism, so depending on that country you live in and the size of your city, there probably is at least a group of people there who practice. Here's a link to the SGI website if you're interested.