From a male friend I heard that a wrongly designed or wrongly adjusted harness did hurt his private parts when it came under stress the first time. In this case not permanent because he was wise enough to test the harness while still on the ground, but as he is likely to abseil it could have happened when he was committed on the way down. He also told us about working in a harness for a whole shift, somewhere in the middle of an abseil inside a narrow part of a building, no way to get out for the breaks. In that case you will want the best fit and extra attention on comfort. So not all males can use all harnesses, they have to be adjusted right for the person and the job the harness has to do. 

My friend often goes out with her sister who is the geocasher. By looking in a different way, she often finds the ones her sister does not. Going down on her knees (even belly) to look from the bottom up. Standing on tip-toe or climbing on available higher points. Reaching in narrow openings (be careful if there are dangerous snakes in your area) and by using a light or a magnet at the end of a stick. Often it is not these tricks but just a fresh look at the place that cracks the problem. 

Picture from the Wikipedia page, public domain, full disclosure here. And the Thump knot based instructions (from our home supplier, Grog's animated knots.) 

Luggage is usually chosen on its size, not on the weight it can transport. Liters are a measure of size, kilos are a measure of weight. To me it is harder to convert a given weight in a certain substance into a real size than it is to convert a given number in liters to a real size. If you want to know how many kilos of water a given pack can move, you can just replace liters with kilos. Good pack makers will also tell you the weight limits of your pack if you are likely to reach them in normal use, but as very few people will be able to lift and carry backpacks filled to the limits with heavy items, a well made pack should be able to withstand more kilos than the average human can carry. The point where packs fail is mostly after use, so a weight limit or indication will not be very helpful. 

The foam inside the mat prevents heat loss through convection which would be the case with the air if there was nothing to prevent it moving. This forms part of the open cell vs closed cell argument for sleeping mats. 

There are two components to staying warm and it's all generally centred around thermodynamics. You want to stay at one temperature and physics wants you to become the temperature of the your environment. You body, if 100% efficiently insulated, would get hotter and hotter because it's generating heat from all the bodily processes and chemical reactions going on, especailly movement. The source of this heat energy is food which is processed and/or stored in your body and if no fuel is going in, then your body itself. Equally, if you were 0% insulated, you would cool down at a rate proportionate to the difference in temperature between you and the outside world. To this, you add the heat energy you're generating and ultimately you get a rate of decrease in temperature. Somewhere between the two is a level of insulation which essentially allows you to create an equilibrium between the rate of generation of heat and the rate of loss. This is how you stay the right temperature. So some tips are: 

In terms of solutions. An imbalance where the concentration is too high can be solved by drinking more water. Where too low, you should go for oral rehydration and eating something. Six teaspoons of sugar, half a teaspoon of salt and a litre of water should do it. Don't forget to drink that little and often over an hour. PS for generation interest, the sugar is there to help the salt be absorbed through the small intestine and was considered one of the most important medical advances of the 1960s Sources: experience, training, training materials, NHS, Healthline, Medicinet and May Clinic 

Something to be aware of is that many of the above symptoms are also associated with thing that can happen outdoors such as heat stroke, hypothermia, sleep deprivation, malnutrition and low blood sugar. So to answer the question about "needing salts", you'll be looking for: 

While bunching up (see the answer by @Charlie Brumbaugh) works most times, it might be useful to have a method at hand that is less bulky for storing purposes. You can make a Chain Sinnet, which is a slip knot into which you pull a loop and repeat. When you fold your tarp or tent and find several lines together (making the bunches inconvenient as it makes too much of a bump) you can chain them together, by pulling all lines together into the loops and going on till the complete lengths are used. The final move of a chain that is in danger of getting undone is to pull the last end through the loop. But when putting the tarp in storage I would leave it without that last move to help in undoing when you use the tarp again. For shortening while using the tarp, the Chain Shortening will work, but best when the line is used. In that case you will need to fix the end of the chain, by pulling the end through or by tying an extra bit of string around the loop and the rest of the line. 

If you have string or rope around which is handy, start with that. You can go out to buy lines when you are a bit more experienced and know what you want and need in them. The best string or rope I have ever found to try out knots is shoe and boot laces. They are easy to tie, relatively easy to untie from almost every knot, hard wearing and nice to handle. And they come with aglets, helping in feeding through the ends. For practical knots I usually go for the thickest size mountain boot lace. They are the size that fits my hands, they might be a bit thin for some people. If you make your own training piece of string, remember to finish off the ends well. Taking a page of the shoe lace book might help, by putting a narrower stiff end on. (Imitating aglets.) When you know the basic shape of the knots you will need to use in serious situations, like in climbing where your life is going to depend on it, you have to have trained in the rope you are going to use for the purpose. The actual rope is best in that case but shorter ends for just learning have their uses as well. And when you are going to use laid rope, you should be familiar with how that rope handles. Which is rather different from the way braided rope and string handles. Each knottyer I know has his/her own 'trained' piece(s) of string with which he/she is trying out new knots, teaching others and doing bits of showy knot work when people are watching. Each person will tell you why this is the best string. The only thing they have in common is that the user has used it many times, is very familiar with how it behaves and is happy to use it. 

Dehydration occurs when there is more water going out or being used than is going in. Additionally, if you're drinking too fast (more than a litre an hour for an average adult male), you're not absorbing the water and so it doesn't count as going in. Confusingly, dehydration can also be classified loss of water, loss of electrolytes or loss of both. To add further confusion, electrolyte imbalance can be too high or too low. In one sense the electrolytes can be lost through something like sweating, and in another, the concentration can be too high due to lack of water. It's generally the electrolyte imbalance that causes you the problem and to the symptoms of dehydration are really the symptoms of electrolyte imbalance. For completeness, the electrolytes we're talking about are: 

You might consider boiling it up with some berries, (suitable) plants or pine needles. In terms of treatment tablets, there are neutralisers to sort the taste out, but they are not perfect. For a double solution, you might want to try those effervescent vitamin c tablets. Orange is nice. 

When we get cold vasoconstriction occurs. This prevents the blood at the extremities being subject to heat conduction away from the body. This is not an adaption, this is a reaction. The body emits heat all the time because the body working and but wants to remain at constant temperature. If the ambient temperature is such that we can lose this heat, we won't get hotter. If it's such that we lose more because it's cold, we will get colder. Sleeping bags keep us warm by insulating us from the outside world. We would not want to be totally insulated or we'd just get hotter and hotter. Rather, we need the level of insulation to be such that the rate at which we are losing heat is the same as the rate at which it is being conducted and convected away. This is why we have higher insulation in the winter where rate of heat loss to the environment is higher. 

Foraging is NOT looking at a plant and deciding if it's edible, nor is it looking in a book at a plant and then going looking for that plant. It's not possible to learn all the plants and it's not possible that all the plants will be in the area you forage. Foraging is about confidently identifying some edible plants. The two main components of this process are slow and steady learning coupled with an understanding of habitat and how plants and fungi feature and interact there throughout the seasons. I recommend not buying field guides initially. Books are good for reference, but overwhelming in the early learning phase. Set realistic goals based on the amount of time you spend outdoors. Try something like this: $URL$ When you get a bit more confidence, take yourself on a Fungi Foray, they are always good fun. Watch out for Wild Food courses, especially those that lay claim to you "learning 30 plants". Nobody learns 30 anything in a couple of hours, let alone remember it a few months later. Get involved with your local Bushcraft community, they are always good for knowledge sharing. Try some of the groups on Face book like Wild Food ($URL$ Good luck, take it steady and have fun. Steve (pro survival and wild food instructor) Marvell