The statement is correct. We can rephrase it as: (F → G) → (¬G → ¬ F). That this holds is the idea of modus tollens. About your proposal of rewriting: If F is sufficient for G (so F → G), then it doesn't follow that lacking F is not sufficient for G (¬(¬F → G)). For example, if G is always true, anything is a sufficient condition for G: both F and ¬F. 

This last sentence is of course very much in line with Nietzsche, and Žižek also says, like Nietzsche, that this lack of a social framework is alarming. Maybe now it's the time for Nietzsche's madman, in the form of Slavoj Žižek. A way out from this lack of framework is not discussed as far as I know. One could argue that you asking this question in the end is an effect of the lack of a moral framework, and that therefore your question "Am I immoral for ever spending money on the movie ticket?" doesn't make sense - there is no such thing as immorality. Some loose thoughts 

I realise that as I start diving into the section where he discusses these connections, he will also mention those 'moral philosophies dominant today'. However, I feel it could be useful for me to know already now what philosophies he's talking about exactly, to just have that in the back of my mind while reading further. So: what philosophies does Taylor mean when he says that 'the moral philosophies dominant today tend to obscure [the connections between identity and the good]', and how is it exactly that those philosophies obscure those connections? I'm also intrigued by the harsh term 'obscure'. Does Taylor mean an active obscuring (i.e. actively trying to push them away) or does he mean a passive obscuring (as in, not taking into account)? 

You're kind of begging the question, assuming that the meaning of life depends on purposes and that all purposes already have been fulfilled. Indeed, in such a scenario there would be no meaning to life according to that definition. If you would still like to have a meaning of life, you could: 

And that seems pretty solid. Also consider that in the Christian tradition Jesus is considered an authority (e.g. Mark 1:22). So, if Jesus says the old commands don't have to be followed anymore for some (irrelevant) reason - and this is precisely one possible interpretation of John 14:26 -, then that's that, end of story, and it should be considered a fact (that is, if you follow that tradition). 

Modus ponens can be stated as: (A → B and A) &vdash; B. If you look in the truth table, every line that has for both A → B and A (only the last) has for B as well. Hence, there is no situation where A → B and A are true, but B is not. As for implication introduction: proving B under hypothesis A means that there is no situation where A is true, but B is not. Hence, the third line of the truth table is irrelevant. Then the only lines that remain are where A → B has value . Hence, it is always true given that B can be proven using A. 

Special pleading is when something is said to be an exception to a general rule, while it is not justified why that thing is an exception. So, in order to not commit special pleading, you should why that thing does not follow the general rule. If "God" is the exception, that's a little difficult, because it is often ill-defined or at least something we don't know a lot about - hence there is not much to go on to show why it can be an exception. Even if one could convincingly show that Y is wrong [in at least one case], that doesn't mean X has to be the exception - why not P or Q or 37? I.e., even if you could show that an infinite regress is impossible, that doesn't mean that some concept of God is the uncaused cause - why God and not something else? Aquinas sidesteps this problem (a) by saying his ways are just ways to get closer to God and (b) by assuming it is in God's nature that He is uncaused, thereby kind of begging the question. 

is begging the question. Whether it's true is clearly very debatable. The second 'variant' is actually a different argument because the second premise has a very different meaning. Yet, also this second premise is debatable. Unfortunately, the author doesn't support the premise at all in the rest of his 'essay'. In short: don't believe everything on the internet (in particular note from the author's biography that he has no relevant education or publications, except for his own website). 

Both b and c are known to be equal to a by application of 3 (4.2 and 4.3.2). By transitivity of equality, then also c = b (4.3.3). You could see 4.1 and 4.3.1 as eliminating the ∀ quantifiers in the conclusion. On both instantiations, 3 is applied to achieve equality with a. Then transitivity is applied in 4.3.3. To concretely answer your questions: 

A monad is a construction to encapsulate computation. You can think of a monad as a box with a function in it. Binding monad to monad is putting box B in box A. That way, you ensure function A is executed before function B: B cannot be executed before because it needs the result of A. This way it's possible to control evaluation order in a lazy programming language1. In the case of the IO Monad the purpose is indeed to interconnect the program itself (which is purely functional) with the outside world (which is impure). This is not the same as connecting software and hardware. The program still runs on hardware (the processor). However, with the IO Monad a pure function may have side effects (for example, writing to a file). Monads itself are just constructions and may be used for anything, even simple arithmetic. So, the comparison with a human can only be made with the IO Monad. What is important that with the IO Monad you somehow detach side effects from a pure function so that it remains pure. Does that look like a human? Well... It depends. If you think 

A better analogy If I were to simulate humans in a functional programming language (and indeed I did this, simulating a soccer team in Clean some months ago), I would consider a human to be a function which takes a world and yields a new world: a human has senses with which he observes the world, processes them, and somehow changes the world by acting. Thus, we could write the type of a human as . Now, it's important that we cannot write a function which applies the actions of two humans like 

In other words: Because some property (giving is wrong) holds for all elements of a subset (B), it must hold for all elements of the superset (C). This is a case of faulty generalisation: 

We have to eliminate two universal quantifiers, so we need two clean variables. a is not clean, because it is introduced by ∃-elimination. I'm not entirely sure what you mean here. The variable introduced from the ∃ quantifier is not universalised, because a clean variable is needed for that. a is used in the transitivity step (4.3.3.). This step basically says b = a = c. 

It is an interesting idea to turn the question "Can a god exist in a world of science" around into "Is science possible in a world with a god", and possibly a more correct way of looking at it. 

In Platon's system there are perhaps two objects that could classify as a god: the sun and the Idea of the good. Note that both are fixed in the sense that they don't do anything apart from what they always have done and always will do (which could be a key difference with common world religions nowadays). I don't think Platon would speak about the world of Ideas as of a divine world. He actually strongly emphasises that it is a definite and reachable entity. In the allegory of the cave in The Republic, book 7, 517B (English on the right), he writes: 

The fallacy of composition occurs in a context of "whole" and "parts of the whole". In this case, "young healthy beggars", i.e. B, is a part of "people to whom we can give charity", C. In this case, the argument would go like this: 

Hume is talking about concrete events. You are talking about possible events. For example, a bus being late may be caused by 1) a car crash or 2) the driver not showing up. Suppose for the moment that it is not possible for these events to happen simultaneously. Now let's look at bus nr. 609 which should have arrived at my station as of August 8, 2015, 11:50 CET, but failed. This is a concrete event. It is either caused by a car crash or by the driver not showing up. That is what Hume is talking about. If the cause of the bus arriving late hadn't been there, it would have been on time. Of course, that doesn't mean the other cause (which wasn't the cause for this bus arriving late) can never cause any other bus to arrive late. But for this concrete event, there is only one cause. 

A claims x (thesis) B claims y, and x and y conflict (antithesis) C brings consensus claiming z, which combines x and y (synthesis) 

You may want to watch your terminology here. If these beings call some things a miracle, that implies they have somehow a sense of science: they call those things miracles that they cannot explain otherwise. Also, you could consider probabilistic theories. In computing science for example, many kinds of greedy algorithms are used that do not guarantee an optimal result but attempt to approach it. Somewhat similarly, we could rephrase common scientific theories such as the gravity theory into things as "it is highly probable that an apple will fall from a tree", which does allow for miracles. However, as far as I know, most people who attempt to reconcile science and religion take on a form of deism, or claim that the god(s) act(s) within the natural laws.