So a magical mutation can be differentiated from a normal mutation if the parents of the child are magic users. 

Janna, a champion from League of Legends, was a human but eventually the magical pollution made her look like an elf 

They're practical and almost everybody can buy one, compared to curved swords, thrusting a monster would be way more destructive than slashing them. EDIT: or use pikes/spears if range is a problem. 

While biological mutations are almost random, the practice of centain magic increase the probability of specific mutations. Maybe the children of blood mages develope sharp fangs, or the healing mages would have children with sharped ears, etc. As a result of the magical mutations, this children have higher affinity with magic and the spiritual world compared to other children (like the indigo children thing). 

Actually robots will never replace humans in a lot of jobs: nurses, teachers, and other social based jobs will always require human contact or that 'touch'. maybe a mix of terminator-paranoia and humans being social animals so they can't just stay in their houses doing nothing, they need to make social groups. 

Some people born with higher prana pools and regeneration, and there are a few special persons in the world that have a potential unlimited prana growth, almost predestinated to overcome gods (that's why they're hunted as demons). But the main topic is not about their powers, but how can I create some common diseases caused by prana problems, like low flow in a limb, or even parasytes, how can I make this life energy affect the biological aspects of human physiology? One of my ideas is a prana rupture, when an attack hits in a way it cuts the flow and the body starts to lose energy towards the enviroment, but people with higher prana flow would suffer its effects in a higher way. 

How can a medieval civilization create an educational system that allows the monarchy to use these mages in the battlefield? Something I missed. Almost all are young (12-18 years old, when prana starts to activate) 

I am developing a fantasy universe. In it, then there are 6 Continents (Excluding Mapiya, which is in the sky): Agricet (Asia), Aztlan (Pre-colonial Meso/South America), the Biting Glaciers (The Arctic), Meristolem (Africa), Mystikicis (No real-world comparison, as it's essentially Atlantis if it didn't sink), and Skatallo (Europe). In-universe, there's a racial group known as Boga, or simply Goblins as humans call them. Within this racial group, there's the Chernoboga (Hobgoblins), the Sekirboga (Bugbears), and the Vulboga (normal Goblins, which are called Vulgar Goblins, or Common Goblins). Although the Chernoboga and Sekirboga are peculiar to the subcontinent of Silboga (Just in-between the Siberian-inspired area and the Chinese-inspired area), the Vulboga can be found on any continent in a variety of subspecies. For any additional context; Meristolem is largely dominated by a region known simply as the Blistering Sands, where the climate is inhospitable to most life forms, and the most monstrous and evil things reside, including an empire of very powerful slavers, known as the At'Azraqa. There are others like Ogres, Demons, Wyverns, and so on. The Biting Glaciers are a similar situation, only as a frozen wasteland. Aztlan's southern portion is a similar location, only in the form of the Savage Jungles. Mystikicis is densely urbanized and has many port towns. It is home to a highly advanced society in terms of Magic and Technology. My question here is as to likely subspecies of Vulboga that would develop for each continent, as every continent is supposed to have a subspecies of Vulboga present. What would be their physical traits in comparison to one another, and what would be the most prominent features to make them worthy of being of a different taxonomic classification from one another? 

As highly unlikely as a common language would be, it would be possible in theory for there to be a language that makes learning it and other languages much easier. In our real world, we have Esperanto, which was developed specifically so that it would be a common tongue of the world, and make learning other languages easier to do. Although it didn't succeed, with only an estimated two million speakers worldwide, you are the ultimate arbiter of what goes and doesn't go in your universe, and therefore can declare that there's a successful example in your world. You could say that there's an international auxiliary language that's easy to learn and makes the learning and comprehension of other languages easier. Then, you could declare that to be the closest it gets to a common language. 

So your animal would be almost a living balloon rather than a sentient lifeform, something like an air jellyfish. It can probably develope toxins or defensive traits to help it survive, but it would be too easy to catch. 

As @Dent7777 stated, materials like oil are organic based so it's almost impossible to find in other celestial bodies. If you're talking about an inorganic material then I feel like the 'planetoid from an unknown solar system composed of X material crashed with the planet in its early years' like the Theia hypothesis would work. 

As part of my magic system, the 'life force' is mostly a common 'supernatural' energy produced by most lifeforms (and some minerals can stock/deflect it). This energy allows humans and other human-like beings to control/create magic/summons and increase their stats to superhuman levels, however not all people can withstand the energy consumption of enhancement due of their low 'life energy' levels, causing a multi organ dysfunction syndrome and potential death since they can't regenerate the amount of energy faster enough to continue their normal metabolic processes. This life force mostly flows in the blood like oxygen. 

How can these beings start a religious revolution to take down their enemies and stop their supremacy? 

As part of the new deities plan, they must bring down the elder gods in their world to create enough chaos to 'starve' them. The religious focus is simple: 

All swords are good against unarmored enemies. Totally depends of the numbers and how durable are they, but against an unarmored opponent my best choice would be a rapier. They're light, fast, you can deal fatal wounds against unarmored enemies and have enough range to take down enemies due of thrusting. Almost one handed so the person can carry a shield or a small axe. 

Most fish have swim bladders that allow them to control their bouyancy so they can sink without losing energy swimming 

In League of Legends there's a champion called Rek'sai. She's a voidborn (an alien from a different realm) and can 'swin' in the ground. She makes the ground vibrate enough to move freely through solid terrain but she also creates portals to travel faster. She's more like a cricket mole but she moves like a shark in the ground. She's a feared monster in Shurima's desert who can eat expeditions like nothing: $URL$ 

This all together could work to maintain it, with a slow source feeding water into it to battle evaporation. 

A windmill may not produce enough "power" to work a pump depending on location, how much wind is blocked or scattered by building, and it might get scavenged for its materials by raiders so wind may not be the most reliable way to get stuff working(depending on the setting) I'm assuming the survivors will need to wander off into farming as well to be able to eat, and as humans are lazy, they will use mules/horses/cows to till the soil(even if the soil is inside a building with a glass roof or mirrors set up) Now if you'd occasionally hook those cows and mules up to a water pump the settlers built out of wood or metal if they have proper metal working tools available for the water crisis sets in. $URL$ and have those pumps pump the water up to a big water tank, which is relatively easy to build out of wood, you only need your work animals to work once in every x days until the water runs out. That way you can get the animals out of harms way and "hide" the pump for marouders. You could even dig it in the ground and then cover it up. These animals could also be used to automate washing for the people living there $URL$ and of course power grinding stone for grinding grains and other materials. They can also used to power machinery with leather belts. $URL$ or generate electricity with it. Small amounts, but perhaps enough to help with building up an electrical grid up with windmills/watermills etc... Basically, by first utilizing animals, they could short circuit the industrial revolution within a few years if they manage their resources correctly and focus on getting power from windmills/water mills as soon as possible on large scale. When there's power, water, electric light, they can grow crops galore, which they can trade with other settlements and get an economy back up and running. They can smelt metals with electricity and get iron working back up and running. 

In my fantasy setting, then there are two countries (Mapiya and Mystikicis) that are supposed to be the most magically and technologically advanced. I've already got the magical advancement more or less down, but not so much for the tech-level. This isn't without trying: I've thought of weapons, armour, transportation, medicine, and production of constructs, yet I always feel like they're too advanced for the setting. Just a bit of tech background for the Mystiks (people of Mystikicis), they used to have firearms and bombs, but after a massive wave of darkness and new demons in the Abyss (basically Hell), then they were able to detect that the wave was caused in some degree by firearms and bombs. They weren't entirely certain how involved the technology was, but they were able to tell that it had quite a bit of involvement. So to prevent anything similar from happening on Hraedmur (the planet they're on), they have forsaken the production of such weapons, and are purposely keeping other countries from learning such technologies exist in the first place. tl;dr They know what firearms and bombs are, they just don't use them. The Mapiyas live on landmasses in the sky, having been set up there through the use of a magical stony substance, by the ancient gods as a gimmicky resort for the wealthier, more pretentious gods (similar to underwater resorts in the real world). However, although they're supposed to be quite advanced, I haven't been coming up with much to show that. I've given them masks to protect their faces and breathe better during flight, but not much else. One example of one of the less advanced nations, though more advanced than most, are the Eulimites, who have developed a primitive flamthrower using flammable oils and a match. I've thought about using Wakanda (Marvel) as a base, but that didn't turn out well. Now I'm thinking something like the Protoss (StarCraft), wherein they infuse their tech with magic. Alternatively, I could go down a Dwemer (Elder Scrolls) route, though the Dwemer didn't use magic, seeing it as unnecessary, unlike the Mystiks who use lots of magic. Or I could try something similar to the tech of either the Makers or Angels (Darksiders). The main question is; How do I represent that the two countries have highly sophisticated technology while retaining a high-magic fantasy tone? 

natural airflow ill cause ripples and effect, and the rods will be hidden due to the refractive index. 

There are several alternative food sources, that could allow for rebuild afterwards. Mushrooms and fungi can serve as a nutrition source, and hell is there a lot of dead plant matter for them to feed on after the plantopalypse. Back in the days of yore there were huge fungi on the earth, I imagine the same will happen again with the rich nutrition soil available to them. Then there are insects. Gods are there insects. Not the nice pollinators, they'll die. Goodbye bees, goodbye butterflies. But the mulch eaters, roaches, woodlice, etc... Fancy a nice roach burger? Also, just as the virus has adapted, some plant life will also adapt. It's very very hard to get 100% eradication or success. Hence Monsanto, Bayer and the other poison manufacturers have to keep improving their poisons. There will be a few hardy plants that'll survive because they're different, get a defense for the virus, that could lead to a rebound in a few hundred/thousand years. Also, assuming this is seen worldwide as a "Real ****ing problem" that will push aside all differences, and causes worldwide collaboration on fixing the issue. They identified that it's a virus so they still have viral labs, they'll set quickly on establishing labs finding its weaknesses/attachment proteins and modifying plants that don't have those with worldwide cooperation. I will assume billions of moneys will be spent on making this happen "F.A.S.T."(Find Alternative to Starvation Threat). Because everyone is sick and tired of Roasted mushroom with a woodlice sauce on a bed of cockroaches after a few years. How would these plant labs operate? They completely isolate seed vaults with very very strict sanitizing procedures to enter or leave. All material will be blasted with gamma rays to kill any traces of the virus, the material will only be released when the grass placed with the material in quarantine survives for a week after good air circulation and exposure to the material. Then they set up their virus manipulation labs near there to modify the precious seeds to survive the virus by eliminating attachment points where the virus can attach. They'll release these plants in the wild, so they can evolve further in nature to became hardier against the virus. All iterations get tested in the wild and what sticks is allowed to spread further and further, making sure as much of the world gets their "patch of green" to allow it to spread and germinate and adapt as quickly as possible. So by using mushrooms as alternative food sources, a select few animals can be preserved that can digest them. Small animals will be bred to be able to eat and digest them, a lot of animals will automatically run to the bountiful mushrooms to start eating them instead of plants. Those that survive will be the basis for the new natural order. Nature will find animals to fill the abandoned spots in the life cycle. There will be mass extinction of many species, but a lot of herbivores in moderate climates will survive, especially if human aid is provided by teaching the animals to eat mushrooms. So with good coordination, and a few smart minds, there is a possibility to survive. Maybe the cows can survive off mushrooms too, with some insects for protein, then we can still have steak!