I suggest utilitarianism versus Kantianism. It's a standard opposition, so in tackling it you are getting well into established ethical discussions. Mill did say in ch. 1 of 'Utilitarianism' that the practical working out of Kant's theories involves an appeal to consequences which grants Mill's own, utilitarian position. However, if correct, this would only show that Kant and Mill are capable of reaching the same conclusions, not that their routes to those conclusions - the philosophical pathways - are the same. I doubt if Mill would have denied this. An after-thought : the appeal to authority and cultural relativism can connect, and any clash between them avoided, if the authority is one that is (de facto, only) culture-specific, recognised as an authority only within a culture or set of cultures. 

CUDWORTH Ralph Cudworth (1617-88), the Cambridge Platonist and definitely a pre-Enlightenment figure, is credited by Arthur Prior with a clear anticipation of the naturalistic fallacy : 'Prior relates how in the seventeenth century Ralph Cudworth used a Moore-like argument against the view that goodness is just obedience to the will of God or to the civil sovereign'. (Smart, ibid.) HUME Parenthesis : Hume's relation to the naturalistic fallacy is a complex matter, not at all straightforward. But the emphasis on 'pre-Enlightenment' in the Question as originally worded indicates an assumption that the Enlightenment could be jumped because Hume, an Age of Enlightenment figure, so plainly belongs to the naturalistic fallacy's history. But does he ? 

Exactly how does it follow for Rousseau that when I and the rest of the citizenry deliberate under the conditions he prescribes in the Social Contract, if I disagree with the majority , I am in error ? The relevant passage is CS IV.2 : 'When in the popular assembly a law is proposed, what the people is asked is not exactly whether it accepts or rejects the proposal, but whether it is in conformity with the general will, which is its will. . . . When, therefore, the opinion that is contrary to my own prevails, this proves neither more nor less than that I was mistaken, and that what I thought to be the general will was not so.' That 'therefore' defeats me. 

'... it is owing to their wonder that men both now and at first began to philosophize' : Aristotle, Metaphysics, 982b (The Complete Works of Aristotle, II, ed. J. Barnes, Princeton : Princeton University Press, 1984, 1554). If this is so, then presumably there is no datable starting point of wonder. It seems intrinsic to, or at least entirely typical of, the kind of beings we are to wonder at large. The likely course of events is that in ancient thought, long before the Greeks, religious beliefs or tribal myths and legends produced the beginnings of abstract thought about the world, its origins and destiny or fate, and about 'the reason of things' (Grayling). Such thought gradually crystallised into the philosophy we recognise in (say) the presocratics. There is no reason to believe that philosophy, first familiar in the West in the ideas and arguments of the ancient Greeks, was not flourishing at the same time or earlier in India and China. References Henri Frankfort, Before Philosophy: The Intellectual Adventure of Ancient Man, ISBN 10: 014020198X / ISBN 13: 9780140201987 Published by Penguin Books. A.C. Grayling, The Reason of Things, ISBN 10: 0753817136 / ISBN 13: 9780753817131 Published by Phoenix, 2003 

I think you are exactly right : the relevant portion of Spinoza's argument is circular or question-begging. Since the matter is tricky to lay out formally I am going to rely later on an extract from Martin Lin. Axiom 7 : 'The essence of whatever can be conceived as not existing does not involve existence. [Quicquid, ut non existens, potest concipi, eius essentia non involvit existentiam.] How does Spinoza demonstrate this ? 

Kierkegaard wrote 'The Diary of a Seducer' but nowhere are his views on sexuality, virginity, chastity fully stated or worked out in fine detail. ▻ SEX AND SIN Kierkegaard does not regard sex as sinful, so he would not regard virginity as a way of avoiding sin. His own formula is that sex and sin came into the world together. ('Concept of Anxiety', 1844, ch. 1.6 and ch. 2). There is no antagonism to sexuality. Rather, the idea is that sex and sin can easily become intertwined and that the task of spirit in each individual is to evolve sexuality 'from a raw, unintegrated instinct into a work of love which is shared with a commitment partner and dedicated to a transpersonal Power. It is this evolution which is a task for spirit in each existing individual' ( M. G. Holly, 'Sexuality and Spirit in Kierkegaard's Thought', Journal of Religion and Health, Vol. 23, No. 2 (Summer, 1984), p.115). ▻ SEX, ORIGINAL SIN AND EXISTENTIAL SIN 'Existential sin' is not Kierkegaard's phrase (I borrow it from Holly, p.115) but the distinction emerges clearly in 'Concept of Anxiety' and 'Sickness Unto Death'. In 'original sin' one is faced by the endlessly different roads of life, a fear of taking risks, a mass of conflicting desires, and one opts out of the plethora of possibilities by adopting a fixed social role. In this unusual sense of 'original sin', sex would be taken as just a given that one carries into one's social role. One becomes a mother, a partner, a serial seducer or whatever. 'That's just how or what I am', as it were. One's sexuality doesn't develop as part of a lifeplan of self-transformation. In existential sin one is actively self-dissatisfied. One dislikes the way one is. Why am I short ? Why don't people like me ? Why did I have to be born to poor parents or in a powerless country. In existential sin this self-dissatisfaction, even self-loathing, is simply surrendered to and becomes depressiveness and self-defeatedness. One's sexuality is stuck at whatever level one finds it. One escapes from or avoids both original and existential sin by seeing oneself, as it were, as work in progress - as a self-transforming person capable of evolution into someone who takes responsibility for their choices. One's sexual relations are treated as part of the task of self-transformation. ▻ VIRGINITY, CHOICE AND LOVE Virginity can be an authentic personal choice, as suitable (say) to a vocation or as a stage in one's integration of a crude, surging instinct into the love involved in shared commitment with a partner. But it is hard to see virginity as a part of that commitment once it is achieved - or at least hard to see Kierkegaard as recommending it. Sex would appear to be one plane on which such commitment would proceed. Virginity does not interlock with this in any obvious way though it is not excluded. ▻ THE PERSONAL AND THE PHILOSOPHICAL How far Kierkegaard's own sexuality served the task of spirit is a matter for speculation and plainly of no philosophical concern. 

No reason is given for according priority to (a) the elimination of pain over (b) causing of the least possible amount of suffering while still accommodating unpreventable suffering. ('Least possible' implies 'some'.) Where's the argument for this priority ? Very clearly, causing the least possible amount of suffering does not mandate the elimination of humankind since even the smallest amount of suffering requires the existence of humankind if any suffering is to be experienced. There remains a requirement, of lower priority, to maximise happiness or pleasure. This cannot be fulfilled, as far as concerns humankind, if humanity is eliminated. The co-existence of the least possible amount of suffering with the maximisation of happiness might produce a better state of affairs on balance than the total absence of both pain and pleasure. If there is an argument against this, I can't see what it is. There is a false dilemma in opposing the elimination of suffering to the maximisation of happiness or pleasure. Every utilitarian I know includes the elimination of pain in the requirement to maximise happiness or pleasure. It is obvious why this should be so : neutral states aside the less pain there is, the more pleasure. 

To concentrate on 6 and 7, then. 7 first : the only consensus, or anything approaching a consensus, centres on there being three basic approaches in ethical theory : (1) the deontological, which is concerned with duty and with what is intrinsically right or wrong regardless of consequences; consequentialism, usually in the form of utilitarianism, which takes rightness or wrongness to be wholly a matter of consequences (actual, probable, expected ...); and virtue ethics, which focuses on traits of character, virtues, the possession and exercise of which are seen as an essential part of human flourishing. It's possible to draw lines of connection between the three but they are not, at least on the surface, mutually reducible. These are three broadly distinct and incompatible approaches to ethical theory. This might appear, and is, an untidy state of affairs but there is no consensus that any one theory is the correct way of doing ethics; there is only a loose consensus that these three are the main approaches. (My own view is that no single ethical theory is adequate to the real complexity of the moral life and that different theories need to triangulate - divide - the ground between them. No-one agrees with this.) Some philosophers would want to include a fourth approach, that of rights-based ethical theory. There's a case to be made for this but I don't think - I could be wrong - that rights-based ethical theories have quite established equal influence to the other three. 6 is really interesting. I think it will always be the case that novel types of moral situation will arise which, in its then current state, no ethical theory can adequately handle. The unfamiliar and the extraordinary are always in the wings. Issues of ecology and gender define such issues in our own time. No ethical theory has, for example, a fully comprehensive and consistent response to the nature of a person's gender under conditions of gender dysphoria. What is my 'real' gender when my psychological and emotional gender do not match my biological gender ? Is there any such thing as 'real' gender - or 'gender' at all ? The answers to these questions all carry ethical implications, implications for how persons should be treated. Yet none is up to speed on bio-ethics. How do, can or should ethical theories self-revise in face of such situations and issues ? There is no answer peculiar or special to ethics here. Ethicists need to adopt whatever theory of rational belief revision best commends itself to them. It is impossible to expand on this topic here except to mention Rawls' notion of 'reflective equilibrium', as one approach to how to conduct belief revision in ethics. See J. Rawls, 'A Theory of Justice', Oxford: OUP, 1972, 10; and N. Daniels, 'Reflective Equilibrium and Archimedean Points', Canadian Journal of Philosophy, 10 (1980) 83-101 & 'Reflective Equilibrium and Theory Acceptance in Ethics', Journal of Philosophy 76 (1979) 264-73. Tom Sorrell deals with 'moral anomalies' - situations and issues that ethical theories cannot deal with adequately in their prevailing state - in 'Moral Theory and Anomaly', Oxford : Blackwell, 2000. 

The difference is expressed by the late David Lewis in terms of two examples ('Counterfactuals, 1973) : 

If a text is highly analytical, different parts of the argument can be cross-referenced more easily, forwards and back, with numbered paragraphs. More helpful to say 'we will return to this topic in § 46' than 'we will return to this topic later'. 'Where ?' the reader wants to know. Even in a text that is not tightly analytically organised, it is helpful to refer back or forwards to a precise place indicated by a numbered paragraph. Wittgenstein claimed not to offer arguments in the 'Philosophical Investigations' (though I think he does). He only offers thoughts, ideas, examples, round and about a topic. The para. numbers help to indicate separate thoughts. Paragraph numbers can be suppplemented by sub-numbers. For instance an author may discuss freedom in one paragraph § 10, then want to add a refinement indicated by (say) § 10.1. The reader is alerted that § 10.1 is still within the scope of § 10 and that the argument or exposition has not moved on to a new topic. Sometimes when an author has left disorganised and bitty notes - often the case with Wittgenstein - an editor may decide to put them in what seems the best or an acceptable logical order. Numbering the notes indicates what notes the editor has decided to group together. 

If instrumentalism is very roughly the view that scientific theories are (only) instruments for making predictions, it is not an appproach widely favoured explicitly in the philosophy of science. But it is sympathetically explored by a very respectable and mainstream philosopher of science, Elliott Sober, who also connects it loosely with the criterion of simplicity (on which he has written extensively) and verisimilitude. Sober brings some conceptual discrimination to the discussion of instrumentalism by distinguishing between methodological, semantic and what he calls 'personal' instrumentalism. See Elliott Sober, 'Instrumentalism Revisited', Crítica: Revista Hispanoamericana de Filosofía, Vol. 31, No. 91 (Apr., 1999), pp. 3-39. 

SCIENCE AND THE AESTHETIC ATTITUDE ARE DIFFERENT ... In aesthetic contemplation one considers an object - a natural object or an artefact - in detachment from all practical or explanatory motivations or attitudes. The object may be regarded purely as a presentation or an exercise in symbolism, or as embodying certain techniques. The response may be an experience of awe or wonder that anything can be so beautiful, so elegant, so intricately symmetrical, so skilful, so original. It is impossible to adopt an attitude of aesthetic contemplation of this kind towards an object at the same time as one immerses oneself in its natural or technical origins, composition, physical effects - in a word, in its scientific aspects. I cannot, the fact is plain, regard the rainbow purely in its presentational beauty (just to take this aspect) at the same time as I am considering it in terms of the reflection, refraction and dispersion of light. Equally I cannot relish the adjustment of the pitch to the strength of a sound, or the harmonious combination of violin, clarionet, flute, and oboe if I am thinking of the explanation of sound in terms of Ohm's Law, Fourier's Law or Helmholtz's physical explanations of my auditory experience. BUT CONSISTENT ... One can switch between the aesthetic and the scientific attitude although they are mutually exclusive at any given time. Dawkins' own celebration of science provides evidence of this. I can quite see his point that one can (as he might say) appreciate the beauty and elegance of a theory - scientists often do and mathematicians even more often. But they can do so, not while they are producing it or concentrating on understanding it, but only when they detach themselves from all such practical interests and contemplate it as an intellectual production. Then and only then can they adopt an aesthetic attitude to it. The passage from Dawkins is not itself a bit of science; it is an aesthetic reflection on science. Quite in parallel, take a passage from Darwin in which he talks of the human eye in The Origin of Species, ch. 6 : he stands amazed at 'such [a] wonderful structure, as the eye, of which we hardly as yet fully understand the inimitable perfection'. This is not science; it is an aesthetic reflection on the eye and he can offer this reflection only because, briefly at least, he has detached himself from his practical scientific concerns and taken up the aesthetic attitude. I agree with Dawkins that science does not undermine the aesthetic attitude. He simply shows, which I imagine is all he wants to do, that science no less than the arts provides material for the aesthetic attitude. ASSUMPTIONS ADMITTED The view of the aesthetic attitude as detached from practical concerns derives from Kant's 'The Analytic of the Beautiful' in the Critique of Judgement. It stands opposed to the standpoint of (say) socialist realism, which regards detachment from political concerns as decadent and pernicious. But there is no indication that Dawkins' celebration of the aesthetic is linked to socialist realism ! I can't see that his view of the aesthetic diverges from the aesthetic attitude as I have described it. It appears to fit it rather well. REFERENCE Thanks for valuable comment from Canyon.