* Sign languages can be written, of course, but they often aren’t. ** Examples drawn from An Introduction to Language (6th Edition), by Victoria Fromkin & Robert Rodman. 

Most conlangs are the work of one person. Whatever the legalities, it would be odd to borrow them for a new work. However, there are ongoing efforts in many conlanging communities (such as Reddit’s /r/conlangs), to construct conlangs within the community, with no one owner, open for use by anyone. There are a couple of active projects on Reddit, and no doubt also a few elsewhere. 

Flag design is an interesting topic, which has been popularized recently by Ted Kay’s Good Flag, Bad Flag and Roman Mars’s TED Talk “Why city flags may be the worst-designed thing you’ve never noticed”. However, there is more to say than that. They are good places to start, but follow them up with Perry Dane’s Flags in Context, which discusses the history and aesthetics of vexillology in far more detail. Possibly also pop into /r/vexillology. Flags can be sorted into various categories. 

Proteins are the smallest machines of the cell that can do anything interesting (for some definition of interesting, but I work with proteins and I am biased). They are long chains of hundreds of aminoacids (thousands of atoms) do things like pumping water, nutrients, and waste in and out of the cells, guide chemical reactions, send signals, etc. One of the tools to study them are molecular dynamics simulations. They pretty much use classical mechanics (replacing the atoms with a fancy version of soft balls) with minor numerical tweaks to reproduce quantum behaviour to a very accurate degree. The tweaks are mostly to avoid having to solve the full electrostatic problem of where are the electrons at each time step; but nothing of that would seem strange to a microscopical individual. So, to get generally quantum-weird behaviour you have to go smaller than the basic functional unit of the life as we know it. 

This person legal status, for all practical purposes, will be pretty much like an illegal immigrant in your country. He has no papers, no official recognition; and he shouldn't make the authorities aware he is there. His only advantage is that his accent is probably indistinguishable from the locals, so people will likely think a priori that he is a citizen. Enrolling at the University is out of the question, as it requires ID and money. But that doesn't mean he cannot pretend to be a student, attend lectures, study on his own, and take on mini jobs targeted for college students. These are commonly unofficial, so he won't need documents nor leave a paper trail. Again, people won¡t think he is an illegal alien, so they won't get suspicious when he doesn't provide official papers. He won't be able to take exams, but he can make up a backstory saying he comes from a very poor family that cannot afford tuition (if there is such a thing in your country), but he is there for the knowledge. 

Symbols matter. When the Irish Free State started minting their own coins, there was massive controversy. The Free State was no longer part of the United Kingdom, but at the time still recognized the British Monarch as Head of State. And yet they minted coins with just a heraldic harp, not a heraldic crowned harp. Some people saw this as disrespectful. Perhaps it presaged Ireland’s eventual exit from the British Commonwealth of Nations and declaration of itself as a full Republic with an elected president as Head of State. 

It’s worth noting that even fairly dark objects will reflect some light. Unless space elevator is completely absorbent (which is possible, as Vantablack is made of carbon nanotubes, but unlikely, as those are specially configured — vertically aligned, while surely a space elevator cable will be made of laterally aligned nanotubes), enough light will reflect to make it a streak of ribbon in the sky. It would probably stand out more on a cloudless night than it would during the day. Just as we cannot see Mercury as it traverses the sun, or a fly sitting on a car headlight, so a relatively thin object, no matter what colour or how reflective, will not be easily discerned in a bright sky. 

The soil is bad, it won't sustain the sorts of crops your settlers grow. The soil is too rocky/sandy/salty/clayey/marshy/whatever. The details will depend on what crops are popular. Alternately, grasslands don't have to be 100% flat. Maybe there's lots of broken terrain, sinkholes, gulleys, etc. Alternately, your settlers don't value farming. They make their living from the sea, aren't very good at growing crops, don't keep cattle. They would consider grasslands to be uninteresting. 

I don't know much about the White Cliffs of Dover, but I can offer some personal observations of the coastline around San Francisco. The cliffs themselves: When I see cliffs with nice, clean, well-defined edges, I immediately assume the cliffs are unstable. Oceans typically come with lots of strong winds and lots of sand/dust/grit in the air. These phenomonon act as natural sandblasters to the local geology, turning sharp edges into smooth, worn slopes. If a cliff edge is sharp, that says to me it has not been exposed to the ocean air long enough to get worn down. That says to me that the leading edges of the cliffs collapse so frequently, wind erosion don’t have time to have a significant effect on the edges before they fall and are replaced with new edges. The cliffs in your photo do not have a bunch of structures at their edges. This is probably because (according to weather.com) the cliffs are eroding at a rate of 8 to 12 inches per year. Ships docking at the port: Your ships will have a heck of a time docking at your port. Those unstable cliffs have been shedding boulders and who knows what else into the ocean for centuries. This means the ocean leading up to the cliffs have been changing a lot. There probably won’t be a lot of well-known, safe approaches to the land. Ship captains will have to stay far back from the cliffs. There won’t be many soft beaches for the rowboats to approach. Docks will have to be constantly moved around to accomidate the changing landscape. Remains of abandoned docks will litter the ocean around the beaches, causing more navigation hazards to ships. Your city is in for a LOT of upkeep work. The city atop the cliffs: People get upset when their houses fall into the ocean. For example, look at the Esplanade in Pacifica, California. In the 1960s, apartments were built a few hundred feet back from the cliff edge. There was a small strip of land, a community swimming pool, and a road in between the cliff edge and the apartments. In 2010, the apartments were condemned by the city. One of the back porches attached to the complex fell into the ocean. The pool and road were long gone. Many of the apartment’s residents refused to move out. They sued the city in an attempt to remain in their apartments. They claimed the city had a responsibility to protect the apartments by reinforcing the cliffs. The city had been attempting to reinforce the cliffs for years, moving giant boulders down to the narrow beach below and piling them up against the cliff edge. Boulders used in this manner are called riprap. Spoiler alert: Riprap doesn’t work. The water seeped through the gaps between boulders and continued eroding the cliff. The city tore down two of the apartment complexes. We’ll see what happens to the rest of them. In summary, your city can try anything they like, but the ocean will win this fight. The disaster will be slow-moving and a lot of people will refuse to believe it is happening. In the end, whoever owns the infrastructure immediately around the cliffs will likely experience total financial ruin. Bibliography: White Cliffs of Dover erosion rates: $URL$ California coastal town of Pacifica dealing with erosion: $URL$ Pacifica apartments almost falling into the ocean: $URL$ More on Pacifica, here are a series of photos from 1972 to 2016 showing the erosion progress: $URL$ The fate of the Ocean Shore Railroad, built on the cliffs in the same general area as the aforementioned Pacifica apartments: $URL$ And the fate of Devil’s Slide (a former section of California Highway 1), about 10 miles south of the apartments: $URL$ 

Another reason why it couldn't be is that one side could go total war beyond what it would be possible in the real world. For example, one could mobilize the full civilian population into the machine of war: all workshops and factories are reconverted to produce tanks, all food goes to the military, and every other able body is issued a gun and put in the front. This can easily overwhelm an enemy virtual army, but it cannot be done in real life because it would damage intensely the economy of the country; but since the war is virtual, every machine is kept, etc. Another problem is the scorched earth tactics taken to a superlative. You want my oil fields? I'll let your army get close, and then virtually nuke them. And every time you put boots on it, I'll nuke it again, until you give up, and I get them back, intact and productive. The same can be true for the attacker: nuke a enemy factory, wiping all defences, and take over the ruins. The intact factory and its production now belongs to you. The rules may prevent you from using it for this war, but nothing stops you from using it in the next one or during peace time. In real life, taking an industrial complex is much more risky if you want to also keep it functional. Finally, remember that winning a war is more about logistics than combat. You need to keep supply lines, produce equipment and ammunitions, provide food... and all this without taking so much damage that you'll collapse after the war. 

Shallow sandbars, rocks, winds and tides going straight towards the rocks. Take a look at the San Francisco Potato Patch for an example of where you don't want ships to be. Also, underwater methane hydrate vents are one plausible explanation for how the Bermuda Triangle got its reputation. Methane gas bubbles up, the density of the water changes, ships no longer have the buoyancy necessary to stay afloat. $URL$ Alternately, perhaps the entire coastline is on fire. The Centralia mine fire in Pennsylvania has been burning for over fifty years, and has enough fuel to burn for a few centuries. It's basically an emtire coal mine that is on fire. Gasses from the underground fire seep up to the surface in concentrations sufficient to be a hazard to life. Flames occasionally can be seen on the surface. The coal mine is about 8 miles long. So I envision a section of coastline with modest cliffs. An underground coal seam is on fire. There are a few small natural caverns in the cliff, so some seawater occasionally comes in contact with the fire. Not enough to put it out, though. The water hits the hot coals and immediately turns into scorching steam, which then vents to the surface. So you've got carbon monoxide gas, scorching steam, and occasional flames emitting from the ground. If that's not enough, throw in a lagoon being heated by the fire, causing a chronic red algae bloom. Give the lagoon a few outlets running down the cliffs, carrying the algae with it. Now you've got a permanently smoking, scorching landscape with flames and with cliffs that look like they're weeping blood. I think that would say Stay Away to anyone. $URL$ $URL$ 

¿How do you tell if a person is vegetarian? Test the microbiota. The population of microbies in the gut is a function of diet, drug treatments, etc.(See, for instance, this article.) The procedure would only require a stool sample, from where the DNA would be extracted and analysed. Given the volumes you have to process, the whole procedure can be fully automated. The lab machines can fit in a few large rooms scattered around the city, and the data would be sent to central supercomputers (probably the most expensive part). Bottlenecks are easily dealt with, the samples can be stored frozen for very long periods of time, and you actually need very little material to perform the actual experiment. Note that you cannot fool this method by just eating some meat before getting tested, you actually have to incorporate it in your diet to affect the bacteria population. You are actually testing the person's lifestyle, not their last meal. As a bonus, for the same cost, you can make a good sampling of the population's health and catch early most of the colon cancers and other gut diseases. (If you are interested in this approach, I can add more the details.)