N.B. I put the major disciplines for Linguistics. I might have forgotten some of them, though. If you notice some major discipline that is missing, I can edit the image. 

Norma dell'Area Isolata (Isolated Area) This one states an isolated area (and so less exposed to commerce and communicaton) usually keeps an early linguistic form. An example of this is Icelandic, very similar to the Old Norse. Another example is Sardinian, derived from Latin, that still keeps many features of this language unlike Italian that evolved quite a bit from it. A clear example is the use of the personal pronoun ego to say "I" in some towns1. 

Apart from animals and people, nouns that denote mythical characters and anthropomorphic creatures or mechanisms are usually animate (Group a), while nouns denoting plants, groups of people or animals (i.e. collective nouns) are inanimate (Group b) and lastly, other nouns can refer both to animate and inanimate nouns (Group c)1. A strange exception to this rule in Russian language are the words "мертвец" (dead person), "покойник" (the deceased) which are animate, while "труп" (dead body; corpse; cadaver) is inanimate. An exception to the group B (collective nouns and plants) is пролетарий (proletariat) which is animate. 

Yes, for example, it's the same in Italian "sì, sì" (= yes, yes), but it's ambiguous, it depends on intonation and not on the words themselves; this means that "double positive = negative" is wrong speaking about the words, but it works through other means. Changing intonation, that "sì, sì" can be absolutely positive as well. We also use a small variation in written language to substitute the intonation. We write "seh seh" or "se se"... More or less like the English slang variation "ye ye". By the way, the "double positive" also works for French "c'est ça oui" or Spanish "sí sí", still, it's the intonation that plays an important role. And going back to that... Intonation is a suprasegmental prosodic feature, along with pitch, stress, rhythm and they all belong to Prosody. (There might be other features but right now I don't remember them.) The prosodic features of a "unity" in spoken language are called suprasegmental because they occur simultaneously to the utterance (segments). When you say words, forming a sentence, you include rhythm, intonation, stress, pitch and these two "categories" occur at the same time. You don't utter words first and intonation later. So, usually that's what makes that utterance have a positive or a negative meaning to the hearer. 

I'm looking for material on this topic but always seem to fail to find something, and that's probably because the terms, although kind of accepted, seem to be too vague. By these terms I refer to when languages express possession of abstract concepts that cannot possibly be possessed in a literal way: feelings (it. Ho paura = I'm scared), pain (I have an headache), needs (it. Ho fame = I'm hungry), and so on. Are you aware of materials that list occurrences and or examples on this, specifically for English? I'm aware of an article written by Paolo Ramat, Gianguido Manzelli and Elisa Roma, "Remarks on marginal possession: are feelings owned?" from Mediterranean Languages, but that's about it. Please note that I'm referring to examples in English (or Italian, if you know any) where someone can express possession of something abstract/impossible to possess by using the verb to have. So expressing a possession that sounds literal but is not, such as I have an headache, since I do not really possess the headache. 

According to this Wikipedia page, it's similar to the English dark L (as "ll" in ball). To be precise, we are talking about a velarized alveolar lateral approximant (an audio file is available); its IPA symbol is . The Albanian word "halla" (aunt), for example, is transcribed as . 

About the Malagasy deixis, you could read "The Austronesian languages of Asia and Madagascar" by K. Alexander Adelaar and Nikolaus Himmelmann (see page 470). It seems that also the Dyirbal language (Australian family; North Queensland) has 15 suffixes that attach to demonstratives or to the noun classifiers, using a system that takes into consideration: 

Deictic expressions refer to a deictic field of language whose zero point is fixed by the person who is speaking, the place of utterance and the time of utterance (I, here, now, respectively, etc). Deictic constructions construct the speaker as the deictic center. Anaphora and Cataphora Anaphora, along with cataphora and other devices, belong to the so-called Patterns of reduction. In other words they allow you to say less, but still keep sense in your utterances. 

I think Graphetics is the closest thing you'll get in Linguistics that among its studies subjects has the handwritten language. As stated in the article: "Graphetics is to the study of writing as phonetics is to the study of spoken language. As such, it can be divided into two areas, visual graphetics and mechanical graphetics, which are analogous to auditory and articulatory phonetics, respectively. Both printed and handwritten language can be the subject of graphetic study." Emphasis and bold are mine. 

There are much more propedeutic languages. Latin is the first that comes to mind but if you already knew it. Learning it on purpose for Italian is not really convenient, you'd be better off using that time to learn Italian directly. If you had knowledge of Spanish and French, that'd be certainly a good help. Spanish is very similar to Italian (a stereotype says that you just need to add an S to Italian words to get Spanish, which is of course wrong but gives you an idea of their closeness). Many words are basically the same (the words for yes and no are the same except the graphic stress which is the opposite: sì/sí, no/no). French differs a bit in terms of some grammatical structures and vocabulary but it's close to Italian as well. If you had prior knowledge of these three languages, then you'd be at an advantage in learning Italian, but if you don't know them, just go ahead and learn Italian directly: if you choose to learn those later you'd have Italian as a prior knowledge. Concerning Esperanto: I agree with the others saying that I doubt it'd really help you. I haven't never studied it but I have seen some material written and I can say it didn't feel really "italian" to me and I'm a native italian speaker. If you don't have to learn it for personal interest or other needs, feel free to skip it and go straight to Italian. :) 

On this site I found the 413 most commonly used syllables in Chinese. They are 13 over your limit. With these you can create thousands of characters, so the level will be pretty high, I think. When visiting that site, you'll find 2 columns: 

Note: if you find mistakes, let me know. So far, I found only one language that fulfills the requirement, Quechua, with the verb "Kay": 

CL.AN = Classifier Animated. Read footnote 4 about the examples 7 and 8. Then, «Plural marking and classiers have been shown to co-occur within the same phrase in Persian as well (Gebhardt, 2009) (and Karimi, pc.). Examples are shown in (9) and (10).» 

For now, I haven't found other clear references but there are some hints that confirm the process described above. If you want, I can find some other references to further back up this process. I made a search about the possible causes of this "velarization", but little is there. Especially one source that could hold this information is not (fully) available online, which is "Historia de la lengua española" by Rafael Cano Aguilar. The chapter that interests us is the number 32, titles "De las sibilantes y palatales antiguas a las «ces», «eses» y «jotas» modernas", but the book stops around the chapter 29 in that preview, so it's not possible to see what is written there. (If someone can access those pages in that preview, please comment.) Other texts I've consulted are "Variation and change in Spanish" by Ralph John Penny, "A history of the Spanish language", always by R.J. Penny, "Historical romance linguistics: retrospective and perspectives" by Randall Scott Gessa and Deborah L. Arteaga, and "Historia de la lengua española" by Rafael Lapesa, but none of these talked about the causes, although they confirmed that passage from [ʃ] to [χ]. The only place that mentions the (possible) causes is the wikipedia article about the "Adjustment of the sibilants in Spanish" 4, but I haven't found anything that confirms or denies the information being found there, although I think they are a good starting point if you want to further investigate. For those who don't know Spanish, I'll summarize the main points of the section "Posibles causas" (possible causes): 

It seems you don't understand the difference between Morphology and Phonology and therefore, the difference between morphemes and phonemes. The basic definition for morpheme is basically this one: "the smallest element in a word or in a statement that carries meaning and that cannot be further split (into smaller parts)". Take for example this word in italian : 

1: Although my dialect is included in it, they are slightly different. For the purpose of the question I think we can ignore this difference, unless the answerers have reasons to think differently in order to answer the question. 

A lot has been said (and this is one of the "eternal" topics in Linguistics I think) but I wanted to give my contribution. In your question you say that "if we think about it, maybe human communication would be better off if we have fewer languages". I highly disagree with that, and I suppose most linguists or anyone involved in languages study would, too. And the reason is simple: that is not the solution. The perfect solution would be for people to become multilingual, and not let languages die. If that was a true solution for avoiding conflicts and wars, how would you explain that even people from the same country harm each other? It would be too simplistic to relegate the wars' cause to a matter of different languages. Languages are the key to understand its people. When you start learning a certain language, you also start understanding that country, its speakers, its culture. About that, it has been said many times but I'll repeat it: languages and culture are intrinsically related. Or better, languages are culture. Without language, you wouldn't have culture. So when we talk about preserving, or in the worst cases "saving the salvageable", we are not simply talking about words, letters and grammar rules, but anything that is correlated to that. I'm not sure one would call this a scientific reason, but I suppose it is, beyond being an absolutely good reason. Luckily in some cases, saying that a language dies, doesn't necessarily mean that we lose everything about it; Latin and Ancient Greek are a great example: they are dead languages (i.e. no native speakers), but the material about them is plenty. However, other languages are not so lucky. The "luckiest" endangered languages are the famous ones, but let's think about the unknown ones. They are in the worst situation. I'm not a linguist, technically speaking, but when a language becomes extinct, it's a great loss, and not just for the nation involved but for everyone. I don't want to sound too cheesy, but when a language faces extinction, it's not a language that becomes extinct, it's a part of mankind history. Extinct languages are irreplaceable. 

In many well-known Indo-European languages «number is inflectional and obligatory». If we have a sentence with a determiner (such as an article), a noun and a verb, they must agree by number. Taking the same examples2 from the paper: 

Japanese has classifiers for cylindrical things, flat, long thin objects, small animals, birds, mechanical, etc. You can see more in the table for Japanese counters. 

Note that polynymy (even if it seems like so) has no reason to be here as it means something different. Finally, you can't say "homonymous language": what does it mean? A language that only consists of homonyms doesn't exist and the same is true for the other features. As far as I know there isn't a name for languages using this type of characterization. All languages have homonyms, polysemous/monosemous words, etc, and the amount of these words is always changing and for this reason you can't use it as a distinguishing feature, since it's not distinguishing at all. 

the manuscript Junius; the manuscript Vercelli; the manuscript Exeter; the manuscript Cotton Vitellius A XV, better known as the Manuscript of Beowulf. 

In order to study documents written in some unknown language, or to study the language itself, there's the Combinatorial method: 

Yes, languages change at different rates. An Italian linguist, Matteo Giulio Bartoli, elaborated 5 norms that can help explain or at least understand how languages can change differently. Note: I've studied these norms in Italian so the English translation I'll be giving them might not be what you can see in books, researches, etc. Please note that I might not be choosing the best terminology, so feel free to comment for corrections. For example "form" is here intended as "linguistic phase of a language". The examples are not meant to be fully meaningful sentences but only represent how words (nouns and adjectives) change depending on their geographical location. Also, the words are presumably Latin forms that give origin to the modern words and do not represent the modern language itself. 

I'd like to go a bit more in depth about this. Deixis Traditionally, by deixis is meant the location and identification of person, objects, events, processes and activities being talked about, or referred to, in relation to the spatiotemporal context created and sustained by the act of utterance and the participation in it, typically, of a single speaker and at least one addressee; we can analyze them this way: 

1: Turkish Sign Language in Turkish: "Türk İşaret Dili". I'll refer to it using TID. 2: Page 58. 3: Chapter 1.2.5. Facial Expression Classification in the Scope of Sign Language Expressions, page 11. 

What you're looking for is a list of cognates, i.e. words with a shared etymology; this way, you could try doing a more successful research by using the term. I didn't find any papers specifically listing a lot of cognates for several different languages but you can find something here and there, such as this list on Wiktionary. On the Linguist List site, someone asked a similar question to yours and they gave a link to this document listing English-Spanish cognates: Cognates by Greg Kondrak, who also wrote this about identiying cognates: "Identiﬁcation of Cognates and Recurrent Sound Correspondences in Word Lists", or "Clustering Semantically Equivalent Words into Cognate Sets in Multilingual List". There's also this site listing French-English cognates.