Your mineral specimen is most likely cave aragonite stalactite, based on dendritic shape and physical appearance. A common locality for this type of aragonite is Mexico. Mineral definition for Aragonite. Aragonite is more dense than calcite 2.93 vs 2.71 g/cm3. Hemimorphite can have a similar appearance but has a significantly higher density. 3.475 g/cm3. 

Here is a map of seismic hazards for the United States from the United States Geological Survey. Link. 

Base rock is most likely quartz or feldspar. My best guess is that your specimen is a pseudomorph. I think it might be quartz or feldspar psuedomorph after amphibole or pyroxene. As for location, you would need to find a matching specimen online or in a museum. In mineralogy, a pseudomorph is a mineral or mineral compound that appears in an atypical form (crystal system), resulting from a substitution process in which the appearance and dimensions remain constant, but the original mineral is replaced by another. The name literally means "false form". Here is Talc after quartz from Germany. www.irocks.com 

There's actually more to consider: Yes, the pressure gradient force causes air to be pushed from high pressure to low pressure. However, other forces typically counteract a large part of this, such that at the surface, air flows quite tangentially (most in a circle, rather than moving inward or outward). This is because as moves from the high to the low, the rotation of the Earth causes the winds to appear to miss its original destination (the Coriolis Force). Higher up in the atmosphere, this actually causes air to generally not even flow from high pressure to low pressure at all! At surface levels, there's a fair bit of friction which slows wind down the wind some, and thereby causes the Coriolis impact to be less than it should. At those more significantly high levels in the atmosphere, since there's no appreciable frictional effects, the earth's rotation entirely resists the high-to-low movement over long periods of time, and you end up with a wind that instead cuts perpendicular to both, not getting nearer or further away: 

In short, it's a bit of a mixed bag and it will depend on which metrics you use to assess the variability. Something like the NINO3.4 index is simple to calculate, but getting a good (or bad) score doesn't necessarily indicate how well your model simulates the relevant processes (e.g., ocean mixed layer dynamics, air-sea interactions, convection). Section 9.5 also has information on other modes of variability, including the Pacific Decadal Oscillation, the Madden-Julian Oscillation, Atlantic Meridional Overturning Circulation, etc. It's worth a read. 

The example that you've linked to (Larsen, 2003, "An investigation of the Faroe Shelf Front", Univ. of Bergen) is a description of various processes that contribute to the existence and variability of an ocean front around the Faroe Isles. As an oceanography thesis, it's mainly concerned with the ocean state (e.g., temperature, salinity) and local, internal process that affect the front. But the introduction also mentions external process that affect the local ocean state, such as the wider-scale ocean state/fluxes, topography and atmospheric forcing. You could loosely think of these three respectively as the lateral, lower and upper boundary conditions for the local block of ocean of interest around the Faroes. In this context it could also be phrased as the forcing of the ocean by the atmosphere, so how the ocean is affected by the exchange with the atmosphere of quantities such as heat, water and momentum. Larsen summarizes these through descriptions of air temperature and heat flux, precipitation, evaporation and runoff, and wind speed and direction. Often when we're interested in a particular physical realm (e.g., atmosphere, ocean, land or ice-sheets) we prescribe (i.e., force) the interactions it has with the other realms to make it easier to investigate processes within the realm. 

Nappes and thrust sheets are very similar terms. I agree with definition found on wikipedia: (except for the 2 km requirement of movement, I would replace 2 km with significant distance. I am sure you still have a Nappe with only 1.5 km of movement is measured.) In geology, a nappe or thrust sheet is a large sheetlike body of rock that has been moved more than 2 km (1.2 mi) or 5 km (3.1 mi) above a thrust fault from its original position. Nappes form in compressional tectonic settings like continental collision zones or on the overriding plate in active subduction zones. Nappes form when a mass of rock is forced (or "thrust") over another rock mass, typically on a low angle fault plane. The resulting structure may include large-scale recumbent folds, shearing along the fault plane, imbricate thrust stacks, fensters and klippe. 

From purely physical examination from the photo, crystal morphology and luster appears most likely be calcite (85% chance). You would need an HCL acid test to confirm. Less likely, the mineral might be fluorite (10% chance). If you can provide a specific location, country, state\province, county, there is a significantly smaller probability that the mineral might be something more unusual than calcite or fluorite (5% chance). I have collected calcite specimens that have the exact shape and luster as shown in the photo. 

There's no discrepancy here. The first graph (total emissions from fossil fuels and industry; Fig. 4a of Le Quéré et al, 2016) is an input to the system, and the second graph is a proxy for the amount stored in one part of the system (the atmosphere). For the latter, it probably makes more sense to look at the total atmospheric growth rate (Fig. 4c of Le Quéré et al), which has remained positive for decades. Note that when you add in emissions from land-use it's likely that the total emissions have continued to increase. But that doesn't detract from the main point here: if you keep putting stuff in the bucket, the amount in the bucket will continue to increase. You don't need to invoke any feedbacks for that to happen. 

As alluded to in some of the comments, all of the CMIP5 models will have been run on supercomputers, and it takes a lot of effort to get one of them running on a new platform, even for a team who know both the model and platform well already. In addition to that, many of those models are closed-source and are not generally available to an individual researcher. However, there are several older models such as MITgcm and EdGCM that it might well be possible to get running on a cluster. It's something I've thought about but never quite got around to. One group have even been running CESM on Amazon's EC2 service. Depending on what aspect of leaf phenology you're interested in, you may need to run quite long simulations (e.g., several centuries), which is prohibitive with a full ESM. You can make a lot of progress in this area by running just the land surface components. This is several orders of magnitude simpler than running an ESM: the source codes are often freely available where their host ESM code is not, and they can be run globally on desktop machines or clusters. Some example land surface models you might want to look into: 

Yes, prior to 1983, central Idaho was classified low to moderate. On October 28, 1983, a powerful earthquake occurred in Lost River Range at Borah Peak in central Idaho. The shock measured 6.9 on the moment magnitude scale and had a maximum Mercalli intensity of IX (Violent). The earthquake was centered only 50 miles from a Idaho National Engineering Lab (nuclear research laboratory), but no damage was reported a the site. Unfortunately, I can't find an internet accessible report but I remember discussing this earthquake at length in a Engineering Geology class I was taking in 1986. The magnitude of the Borah Peak surprised the US government prompted the USGS to reclassify earthquake hazard zones in Idaho and Utah. Location of Borah Peak, Idaho. 

It is gypsum, variety selenite, specifically named desert rose. Desert rose is selenite where sand or silt become trapped within the gypsum as the crystals grow. 

It would completely depend on location. For instance, Sawtooth mountains in Idaho is a very large granite batholith so the rock in the tunnel would igneous granitic rock with varying textures and crystal sizes. You need to define a geological setting for the location first. - Pacific Northwest - volcanic rock, large volcanic peaks. - BlackHills of SD - Granitic core surrounded by metamorphic sedimentary rocks and unlatered sedimentary rocks. My recommendation is check out a couple of the Roadside Geology of .... books. These books are written in layman terms with explanations of the geology. See Roadside geology of Colorado ISBN:087842105X 

Indeed, this is exactly what forms and sustains a front. You can look at surface weather maps and almost always see this convergence, or gathering together of winds, at fronts, even if only slight, as indicated in this idealized diagram set: 

(Note the Earth rotates too of course, so Algeria will truly have moved around near the area where the yellow arrow ends by the time it gets up there.) And it may well help a lot to note: it actually does the exact same (turn right) when operating from a counter-clockwise rotating turntable too! 

as indeed, that'd become a bit more subjective of a concept. Sometimes you may hear about the average direction (which would be east-northeast in your example). So perhaps that's more what you're wishing for? Of course if you have an east wind for half the day and a west wind for half the day, the average wind direction would be either north or south. Or, if instead of treating direction and speed differently, you took the vector average... you'd have a mean windspeed of nothing! Looks like this MathSE question fairly discusses some of the benefits and troubles with different methods of summarizing wind direction... which line up closely with the more general disparities of each of mean, median, and mode. Alternatively, wind roses can be much more informative and enticing. They give both an indication of the directions (by the length of the bars in each direction) and the intensity (color coded). You can find things, such as: in Colorado Springs in May (as shown below), winds aren't from the southwest very often... but when they are, they tend to be fairly strong (whereas when winds are from about east, as is more common, they're typically quite light): 

It is agate. By its appearance, shape and color, the agate matches common agate found in Brazil. This is a common color for agate so the piece might be from another location. Cut and polished Brazilian agate is commonly sold around the globe. 

A quick Google search shows a common stone Mortar & Pestle sets from Indonesia are carved from volcanic rock. By its color, I would say it is not basaltic rock but it is mostly likely an intermediate volcanic rocks such as andesite, dacite, trachyte, or latite. A careful microscopic examination would be needed to determine the rock type. You would need to know what region from Indonesia to pin down the location to aid in the rock identification. 

Minerals are naturally occurring chemical compounds composed of elements. Much of these elements were originally deposited with the earth saw formed. However, meteorites and asteroids have carried new mass onto the earth. It is true some elements are too heavy to have been created by the Sun's fusion process. These heavier elements would have been created by other processes like various types of cosmic explosions. Mineral creation is an ongoing process on the earth. So mineral creation is happening today. One example would be volcanic vents at the sea floor creating metal sulfide minerals like ZnS - sphalerite and PbS Galena. Earth processes are constantly reworking existing rocks and minerals. Copper Porphyry deposits have a igneous intrusion and the fluids from the intrusion flow into surrounding rock dissolving and redepositing minerals, creating a super-gene enrichment zone. At the deposit in Tsuemb Africa, a secondary super-gene enrichment zone was created by faults carrying surface water downward into the deposit. 

However, I think that you've selected the wrong fields for your purpose. The total precipitation variable is an accumulation since the start of the re-forecast, and you've selected a monthly mean of accumulations over the first 3 hours of the 00Z re-forecasts and the same thing from the 12Z re-forecasts. This means that you're missing the accumulated precipitation from hours 3 to 12 of the re-forecasts, so your annual mean estimates might only be 1/4 of any ballpark values you're expecting. I suspect that you need to choose rather than , as described in the ERA FAQ. Also note, I think the comment in that FAQ about the monthly mean from daily mean data availability being "planned" but "not yet implemented" is out of date and that may be the better route to calculate the annual means (see also section 3 of Berrisford et al, 2011). 

First of all, these netCDF files follow the CF Metadata Conventions, which describe the use of and in section 8.1 Packed data of the conventions description. In short, you're applying them correctly: 

Upper Mississippi river near St Paul Minnesota is closed December - March. US Army Corp of Engineers is responsible river navigation in the United States. From winonapost.com, (from 2015) the article states that all vessels need to be south of Lock and Dam 9, near Lynxville, Wisconsin. Sounds like the upper river is closed so locks can be dewatered and maintanence performed. My guess is most of the Mississippi river remains open to navigation south of Wisconsin during the winter. US Army Corp of Engineers river navigation site. 

Although scheelite can be found in the granites of North Carolina, it is relatively rare. Scheelite is usually very fluorescent (glowing bright blue under short wave UV light). 

The rock you have is most likely not platinum ore. It appears to be sulfide ore most likely composed of galena, pyrite, and maybe copper sulfides such as bornite. It is more likely that your specimen is silver ore rather than platinum ore. Mexico has a long history of silver mining. There is a platinum deposit in southern mexico and it appears to similar to the Bushveld igneous complex deposit. Ref: Mindat. Layered chromtite ore looks significantly different. Reference.