29" and 700c rims are the same diameter (iso 622mm). Primarily, the difference in width and length is to accommodate wider MTB frame stays and tires...I'd stick with the TA2026-B. 

The trailer folds down to keep it convenient while still being able to carry a good deal of stuff. The benefit of a trailer mounted at an angle rather than parallel with the ground is that you wouldn't need to drag along the length of your skis - it'd only trail by a few feet. In mounting skis you would have to angle them upwards so as to avoid whacking yourself in the head, but with the right arrangement of luggage I don't see that as being a problem. This might be the ideal option if you were to carry more than one pair of skis in addition to your standard gear. Disclaimer: I am quite fond of my Burley Flatbed trailer and can attest to Burley's design, but have never used the Travoy (it generally gets pretty good reviews, though.) 

You're right on the money in terms of commuting upgrades. Buying used bikes is a great way to go about acquiring a ride, but sometimes bikes need a bit of refitting for commuting. I took a look at the 1981 Miyata Catalog. Models from year to year are generally similar, so this should be accurate for most late 70s early 80s 912s. This bike is described as a "fast sport rider for racing-oriented cyclists," meaning that it isn't going to fit fat tires, fenders, or racks too easily. What is important is the distance between the tire and the frame. You may be able to get away with a 700c x32 tire and narrow, metal fenders. Metal fenders are a bit more expensive than plastic, but can be bent to fit into tight places. Note that most fender manufacturers specify 10mm clearance between the tire and the fender, so as to prevent a pebble or twig from tearing your fenders off. There may or may not be braze-ons for fenders or racks, but that is easy to get around. Lots of bike shops sell metal clamps that secure everything to the stays quite well. If you're comfortable with the largest possible tire being ~32mm, go for it! Understand, however, that bikes designed for skinny tires and no fenders may be difficult to fit. If you decide not to, look for Touring or Sports-Touring models which always have clearance and braze-ons (In this catalog, the 1000 and 610 are both touring models). One alternative option that will require more work is to convert the wheel size from 700c to 650b. This will involve new wheels and long-reach brakes, but it will allow you to run fatter tires and fenders with no issues. 

Racers might call it "slipstreaming", but normal road users call it "tailgating". Other than in controlled conditions (like a race, or a cycling club ride), you shouldn't attempt it. It's dangerous, and no less rude than if you do it in a car. If I catch you doing this behind me, I'll slow down until you back off, just like with any other tailgating vehicle. And if you "invite" me to tailgate you by overtaking and cutting me up, I'll probably respond with a rude gesture. 

As a natty man-about-town, I don't like to go out without a hat. As I always go out by bike, this limits my hat selection considerably to those that will stay attached to my head in any wind, but not using a chin strap or similar which might risk strangling me if the hat gets caught in low overhanging branches. My everyday solution to this problem is the flat cap. It's smarter than a cycling cap or baseball cap, and its modest peak doesn't generate enough lift to carry it aloft except in the strongest head winds. It also helps that flat caps have been fashionable for the last few years. Flat caps really don't go with formalwear, though. If I'm cycling to a job interview or a formal dinner, and I'm wearing a suit or a dress suit, I can't wear a flat cap, a sports cap, or a beanie over that. My hair isn't long enough to support a hat pin of the kind you'd see in a ladies' hat. Is there a style of hat that would satisfy both the practical and sartorial constraints of that situation? 

I wouldn't say that a single broken strand on a new brake cable would render the bike "totally unsafe to ride," but if it is an option you should bring it back to the shop and have them replace it. This might be a sign that whoever put this bike together or inspected it for sale doesn't have a very thorough shop ethic. If they were careless enough to install a brake cable incorrectly, there may be other - more serious - oversights which can add up rather unpredictably. Not totally unsafe, but not ideal for a new bike. In any case, brake cables are cheap and should be replaced at regular intervals. 

If your chain has a powerlink, you can disconnect it pretty easily. Otherwise, it is pretty straightforward to open up the cage and slip the chain out. It shouldn't damage it (as front derailleurs are pretty simple mechanisms). 

These bikes are two very different creatures. You can find shops who can fit you to either with great aplomb, but in reality these bikes are not interchangeable (regardless of whether you think one is better than the other.) The issue is less of fitting a bike to a person's body parts, and more of fitting it to a person's needs and wants. You're just about my size, maybe an inch shorter, and I usually ride a 56 cm frame - a very common frame size. Being an average size (yes, you are an average size guy) you essentially have the bike world at your disposal. Some people may feel like a "lifetime" bike exists for them, but I'm of the opinion that there is no need to be wedded to a bicycle because they are so very diverse - bicycles fill more of a use than fitting your body properly (and the inescapable truth is that your body will change just as surely as your cycling needs will.) My short recommendation is to invest in a good-fitting touring or sport-touring bike with a steel frame. They're comfortable, versatile, affordable, long-living, and easy to service. It'll be way easier to get comfortable on this than an aggressive road bike and it will also be easier to sell down the road (because touring components use pretty much the same technology now as over the last 25-40 years.) 

It's normal for the lock itself to rattle if you shake it, especially when it's folded up. That said, I have an earlier model of the lock, and mine doesn't rattle audibly when it's in the rubber carrying case: the case is tight enough to stop it rattling. It's possible that Abus have made the case a little looser in newer versions, to make it easier to insert and remove the lock. Is it definitely the lock rattling, rather than the case itself? The case has a metal plate that the bottle-cage bolts sit against, and if one of them is slightly loose, the weight of the lock would cause the case to rattle. Try tightening the screws. Alternatively, it could be that when inside the case, the lock is in contact with a bike component (such as the mounting for the front derailleur) and that's causing the rattle. If you have a second mounting point, it might be worth trying that to avoid wear to the fouled component. 

You haven't said what country you're riding in or whether it's on or off-road, and this makes a big legal difference. In the UK at least, if you're riding on the road you must have a white front light on your bike. In addition, the light must be on the centre-line on your bike, or to the off-side of that (i.e. towards the centre of the road). It must not be on the near-side (the half nearer the kerb) because that might give other road users a false idea of your position. In this country, only lights attached to your bike count: any lights or reflectives on your person (clothes, helmet, or anything else) are irrelevant. If you're riding with only helmet light(s), you are not legally lit. At first glance, this might not seem to matter, as it's unlikely the police would stop you, even when they're specifically targeting unlit bikes, but in the event of an accident, being legally unlit would make it much harder for you to make a claim against the other party, even if the accident is their fault.