A) Oil is inferior good while natural gas is normal good. B) Both of them are normal good. C)They are substitute goods and the higher price for oil increased the demand for natural gas. D)They are substitute goods and the higher price for oil decreased the supply for natural gas. In my personal opinion, the answer should be C. We can eliminate A and B first as there's no indication of income change. For D think since substitute good refers to the customer side so I think we should also remove D. Is there a better explanation ? 

Suppose that a firm has a Fixed cost of 10,000 dollars and Total Cost of 10,500 dollars for one unit and 11,100 dollars for two units of output. Which of the following is true for the Marginal Cost (MC) and Marginal Product (MP) of the second unit of output? a) Marginal Cost is $500 and Marginal Product is decreasing b) Marginal Cost is $500 and Marginal Product is increasing c) Marginal Cost is $600 and Marginal Product is decreasing d) Marginal Cost is $600 and Marginal Product is increasing e) Marginal Cost is $1100 and Marginal Product is decreasing f) Marginal Cost is $1100 and Marginal Product is increasing g) none of the above The answer is c which I don't quite get. It's true that Marginal cost is $600, but since average cost is decreasing, we know the average product is increasing and thus marginal product may or may not decrease. Could someone help? 

So, I decided to first graph the behavior of the workers as the rate increases, which would then affect the amount of revenue the government took in (which, when graphed, is the Laffer curve), and then, just for fun, I included the disposable income. The x axis is the tax rate and the y axis is money amount-- in the United States, dollars. All y values are arbitrary. You could see the graph here: $URL$ Because the behavior of the workers is arbitrary, any depiction of their behavior would be sufficient for my purposes. Therefore, if you click on the link, you can see two different situations graphed, each situation for a different type of behavior. (For simplicity, I disabled the graphs for the second situation). Situation one: The orange curve is the total income of the economy before taxation, the purple curve is the tax revenue and the black curve is the disposable income. Situation two (not enabled): The green curve is the total income of the economy before taxation, the blue curve is the tax revenue and the red curve is the disposable income. The total income curves are shaped like they are because as the tax rate increases, society works less, (or is less motivated to make the same amount of money), and as a whole, has less total income. The tax revenue curves: Because, number one, as tax rates increase, workers are motivated to make less money, and, number two, the rate at which they make less money is increasing, the value of tax revenue does not increase at a constant rate. In fact, after a certain rate (changing depending on the behavior of the workers) tax revenues start to decrease. 80% of 60 dollars is more than 90% of 43 dollars. The tax revenue curves are, in essence, the Laffer curve. And lastly, the disposable income curves are simply, 

Concering the actual 'tax tariff', there is a huge difference between those two. Income taxation usually feature lots of deductions and a progressive tariff, while deductions for payroll taxes are very limited. Beyond, payroll taxes are often defined by a fixed proportion, possibly with some maximum amount, implying an overall regressive distributional impact. A good overview on income taxes are provided in the regular. OECD Taxing Wages publications. To add to nathanwww's Answer: If payroll taxes are associated with higher pension claims in the future, individuals might rather be willing to pay them. Whether everybody does so (i.e. whether everybody has this foresight) is in my view at least debatable. Beyond, if we talk about contributions to public health insurance, payroll taxes work more like an ordinary income tax. Unlike old-age pensions, the benefit I receive from the health insurance is not related to my payments. 

These are not two densities, but one density defined on the interval $[0,1.2]$, taking two different values. The average income is then the integral of the density function, i.e. $$ \int_0^{0.5} 1 x \, dx + \int_{0.5}^{1.25} \frac{2}{3} x \, dx = \frac{9}{16} = 0.5625 $$ In order to obtain the average income, you do the same with the Utility and $\bar{z} = \frac{9}{16}$. 

I guess you are referring to a situation in which abundand supply of high-skilled workers decrease productivity such that individual ? Considering Equation (5) in Acemoglu & Autor, and capture supply of both groups of workers. If becomes sufficiently high, I don't see why the relation between both wages should not become lower than 1. 

Are my graphs accurate? And, if they are, are there preexisting graphs that describe the relationship between workers' income, workers' behavior and tax revenue? or is the Laffer graph the only one of the sort? 

Now, if one would argue that the Laffer curve should not be bell shaped, and rather should have constant slopes, we could deploy my graphs to show the absurdity of that assumption. The only society that can support a Laffer curve with constant slopes would be in a society where those taxed don't lose motivation to make money. This was, I believe, shown to be an impossibility during Communism in the USSR. Because it is a given that society becomes less and less motivated to make money the more they are taxed, using may graphs we can show that the Laffer curve must have changing slopes. I graphed a society with indifference to the tax rates using my equations. It can be found this link: $URL$ I was playing around with my graphs, creating different situations each depicting different worker behaviors and I noticed I was unable to choose a behavioral situation, (the orange curve in first situation above and green one in the second), where the tax revenue curve (the purple curve in first situation above and blue one in the second) would be a perfect bell shape like Laffer depicted in his curves. So, I decided I would work backwards. I would first draw the tax revenue curve and derive the formula for the associated behavioral curve. This requires simple algebra. 

GDP is the sum of market value of all final goods in the current year, so why is is machine built this year but not sold this year included? In addition why is machine not built this year but sold this year not included in GDP? 

Which of the following is true for the Canadian labour force data for June, 2015, for unemployment, Full-time (FT) employment, and Part-time (PT) employment? A) Unemployment fell because FT employment rose more than PT employment fell B) Unemployment fell because PT employment rose more than FT employment fell C) Unemployment rose because FT employment rose less than PT employment fell D) Unemployment rose because PT employment rose less than FT employment fell E) Unemployment rose because FT employment and PT employment fell The answer is A). This question indicates that PT and FT has mutual relationship. But I think we don't normally count PT when calculating unemployment rate. So how does the choice A) work? 

I personally don't agree because change in GDP caused by decreased in fixed taxes should be $\triangle$ fixed taxes $ \times \frac{-b}{1-MPE}$(fix tax multiplier), which turns out to be a positive number while change caused by decrease of Government Spending is $\triangle$ Government Spending $ \times \frac{1}{1-MPE}$(autonomous multiplier) which is a negative number. Therefore I don't think we can make conclusion. Does anyone know what did I do wrong? 

depicted the workers' income and how it changes as rates increase, depicted the behavior of the workers as rates increase, and I have proven that a bell like shape used to depict the relationship between tax rates and tax revenues is called for. 

When graphed, j(x), the behavioral curve, has a constant slope. (You could see it here: $URL$ We said before, "Because, number one, as tax rates increase, workers are motivated to make less money, and, number two, the rate at which they make less money is increasing, the value of tax revenue does not increase at a constant rate." I assumed that the rate at which people are discouraged is not constant. Clearly, if the Laffer curve is a perfect bell shape, I was wrong. But was I wrong? Would it make sense to say that a worker is discouraged the same amount between rates of 5% and 35% as they are between 50% and 80%? Doesn't it make more sense to say the rate at which they are discouraged is changing? If we assume yes, can we disprove Laffer via using may three graphs-- namely, you can't use a perfect bell curve because it leads a constant rate of discouragement? My questions are: 

And most importantly, doesn't it make more sense to say that the rate at which people are discouraged is not constant? 

In itself, a price index for single period does not tell you much, as any index is, by definition, without dimension. Assuming that 3.41 is the annual change in the CPI (= Consumer Price Index), this would imply an inflation rate of 3.41%. To be specific, it implies that the total price of a representative commodity basket changed by 3.41%. The WPI (= Wholesale Price Index) covers different commodities and hence yields a different inflation rate. Which one to prefer depends on what you are interested in. Consumer Prices are more relevant to private households, but businesses care about wholesale prices. 

One of the main reasons for the general tendency to run deficits is political economy. Governments are elected for a limited period and try to stay in power by benefiting their electorate. An alternative explanation is that high debts reduce the scope for the subsequent government. So there are good reasons to impose some restrictions to the deficit into the constitution. I find the comparison to big companies misplaced. Governments fulfil different purposes than companies. Many of their 'products' are public goods (public infrastructure, education, defense, social security) which cannot be provided by private actors due to external effects. A strictly profit-oriented view of public services therefore falls short of what governments are supposed to do (which does not say there is probably lots scope for efficency-enhancing in most administrations). As a sidenote, running huge deficits is not uncommon to big companies, especially in digital services. As long as creditors are convinced these debts will be paid, companies can be run on losses for quite a while.