Water makes both these difficult, but we're talking a lot of resources here so lets try something a bit different. Create a passive sensor system (no ability to move) able to monitor the sea around it. Have it extend filaments into the water around it. The sensors sit on the bottom and water currents moving the filaments generate power that it uses to keep the sensors running. The sensor set up a peer-to-peer network with the others around it and they then send their measurements out across the network until they find a network connection point that then relays it to the surface. By mass producing millions of these packages at a low cost each you can just drop them randomly to saturate an entire area. So long as enough of them end up close enough to each other to form a network you then get complete monitoring of that area from simple and cheap sensors that are able to get by on the small amount of power the filaments can generate. 

It won't help you with speaking, but for written you can use steganography. For example agree that every 7th letter of a document is important, and then write an innocuous message - however by reading only every 7th letter you get a completely different message (the real one). Real systems tend to be more sophisticated, choosing letters in a certain sequence or even varying the sequence of letters based on various rules. The important thing is that both ends of the communication agree on the rules and are able to write a long enough message that the coded message can be embedded into it. For speech your options are limited, essentially you need to learn (or invent) an entirely new language that no-one else around you knows or have extremely smart conspirators able to embed messages into normal speech and perform the steganography in real time. 

No. Progress would stagnate. Any amount of progress requires "what if". Even if you find a fire lit by lightning strike and go "that's warm", you now need a "what if we bring it with us". The same applies to anything else. Without a way to generalize advancement it would go very very slowly and most likely stall somewhere around the hunter-gatherer level. 

Interstellar planets - plausible Oceans under ice - plausible Heating from the core - plausible Life around thermal vents in the ocean - plausible (we don't know if it evolved there but it can certainly live there). Chemosythesis life - plausible Insulated by a thick ice sheet - plausible A planet made purely of vanadium-50 - not plausible 

While the existing answers are correct in saying "nothing dramatic" you could make it dramatic. If you modified the aliens physiology and gave them air bladders that they use for some purpose - perhaps they are semi-aquatic and use small bladders all over their skin to alter their buoyancy. Those bladders would be filled by air at 50* our pressure. Any sudden shift in external pressure that happened faster than they could compensate for would cause those bladders to rupture and burst. This would most likely not be immediately deadly but it would be very painful, and very messy. Skin would rupture and even explode, popping and banging noises might happen. Bodily fluids would fly around, circulatory vessels would rupture and spurt out alien blood, etc. 

There are plenty of examples (shift workers for examples) of people living with time shifting days or days that aren't 24 hours long. There are some signs of stress and depression from that but nothing long term damaging. Within a few generations you can expect most people to have adapted. Most likely people would adjust to a 27 hour day, with three local days being compressed into one "day". That adjustment wouldn't take very long at all. Women's periods would be unlikely to change (although with the science level involved most likely women would no longer have periods except when wanting a child), and gestation times would almost certainly not change. They are both tied far more to biological facts like how long it takes an embryo to grow than to anything else. 

The only way you could make this work is if you went deep underground and had large cave structures with limited access to the outside world. This could allow a more realistic production of Oxygen to escape more slowly and thus have survivable pressure in the cave. Of course you now have the problem of no daylight.. A better way might be to have pressure domes and suits, but have the inhabitants not know how they work. Suit maintenance and pre-use checks would be akin to religious rituals, as would repairs on the domes etc. They don't even see them as technology, they are just part of how the world works that they have always lived with and failing to properly sacrifice oil to the suit god has a vivid and memorable punishment from the gods when the joint fails and the inhabitant is exposed to near vacuum. A final option would be to have mars partially terraformed, enough to have a (perhaps low pressure but livable) atmosphere. There are a number of proposals for doing that including $URL$ 

30% Oxygen levels are not a huge deal as far as respiration goes. You would perform better in endurance events as it is easier to get more oxygen into your system but your body would adapt. 100% Oxygen can be dangerous or even toxic but a relatively modest increase to 30% is unlikely to have many side effects on humans. There is going to be one large side effects though - fire. At 30% oxygen levels fires burn faster, hotter and more easily. Even wet vegetation will burn and wildfires could easily sweep through any areas with available fuel. 

To see it in action watch this video: $URL$ It's not "invisibility" but it can make itself look like a wide range of different other animals. 

There are a number of problems with zero-gravity basketball, so I will break down the problems and look at each one. The Court You would need a three dimensional court, there are a number of shapes it could take but some form of cylinder or spheroid with goals at each end seems most likely. Viewing would be a problem but that could be solved by making the court out of a transparent medium and having the audience surrounding the court in all three dimensions. Dribbling Dribbling would essentially be impossible. Any attempt to bounce the ball would send you flying away from it and "one step" could be a very long distance. A lot of alternative rules could be put in place though such as requiring players to pass after each time they touch a wall. Passing Passing would be made more complicated by three dimensions but essentially would work as it does now. The main thing to remember is conservation of momentum which means that both throwing and catching the ball would change your path - something that could be used tactically. Blocking Blocking would be tricky as team members have limited maneuvering ability once they push off the sides (unless you give them jetpacks!) and it would be very easy for them to collide. In fact padded armour might well be standard. Shooting/Scoring The baskets themselves would need to change, but something similar to their current function could be kept. For example requiring shots to go from a minimum distance away, you could also place a box and a hoop inside the box, requiring people to bounce the ball into it at the correct angle. 

Actually you can create high pressures without needing extraordinarily high gravity. Venus for example has 92 times our atmospheric pressure (9 times what you need!) but slightly less than earth's gravity. We know that life can exist in high pressure environments (they just keep the same internal as external pressures), so the simple answer is yes. You could have a 1G planet with high pressure and reasonable temperatures and life could in theory survive those conditions. This would have some interesting effects as well, for example flight would be much easier in high pressure but standard gravity environments. 

Unfortunately the answer here is "magic"...or alternatively "sufficiently advanced technology to be indistinguishable from magic". As you correctly point out any known star will weigh massively more than the planet. In order to provide the desired result the sun must be considerably smaller than that and there is no way to get a natural star sufficiently small and light to orbit a planet without the planet being so massive it would crush all inhabitants. An artificial sun would need to be constructed using mechanisms unknown to us. It would have similar size and mass to a moon and could then be placed in orbit around the planet and turned on. It could potentially be fusion powered using something other than gravity to keep the fusion contained. Alternatively something more mystical like a portal to the plane of fire or something more pseudo-scientific like a wormhole connected to the heart of a star. Your "fakes geocentric" option would also immediately fall down as soon as someone moved away from the planet into space (in a magical world that's easy to do) or started exploring and moved around on the surface until they were starting to see the real sun "rise". Even if you had a small continent on the far side of the planet from the sun surrounded by a huge ocean you can guarantee that someone would explore that far. Again magic would make that sort of exploration much easier than in our world. Additionally the tidally locked and super-heating process would generate some really extreme weather conditions that locals would be able to study. While they may not be able to determine what is going on they would certainly know that something is. 

This already happens all the time, it's what a virus does. It infects cells and subverts them by changing the cells genetics to produce new copies of the virus. Those same pathways can be used by us to modify the virus and then use it to produce controlled modifications in humans. There are a number of problems and limitations with the method at the moment though, the biggest being that we have very limited control. We can set up the payload in the virus but it is very hard to make sure it delivers it to the right place in the genome, so it could end up writing junk, making things worse, etc. It's also hard to just deliver it to the cells that need it if you have a localized problem. For example if you have a problem in your heart then in theory you could deliver a fix but isolating the fix to just the heart is hard. The changes you want to happen in the heart could also happen and produce unwanted side effects elsewhere in the body. One huge worry is cancer, no-one is quite sure what effects gene therapy is going to have on cells and what the risks of it triggering serious conditions like cancer is. The effects these changes can have are also limited by the fact that they are working with what has already grown. For example you could take someone 5' tall and put the genes to grow to 6' tall into that person. However they have already grown, so the genes will not achieve anything. You would need to somehow both put the genes for an extra foot of height in and also re-kickstart the growing process. Basically the genes are the blueprint for the body, changing ongoing process is one thing but changing something that has already happened is much harder. You should also consider immune rejection, if you change things too radically then the immune system might detect the modified cells as foreign and attack them. This could be fatal just by itself. 

This is all down to velocity, the only way to make anything of the ship survive is to slow down the descent a lot. My suggestion would be to have the ship come in under power, but only just. At the last minute the crew eject when they realize they are still coming in too fast. This both gives you a good explanation for why they end up close together and explains as much or as little of the crash as you would like surviving. 

Ideology. Factions within them would have widely different and incompatible beliefs. For example one faction might believe that every other species should be advanced to their level (whether they like it or not) while another faction might believe in leaving people to advance on their own. You would need to come up with an irreconcilable conflict that is sufficiently grey that you can see people coming to different conclusions in which side to support and in which compromise would be difficult or impossible to achieve. 

Assuming your tech is similar to the first world war (and it was that technology that directly led to trench warfare by providing massive firepower without mobility) then according to wikipedia: 

You could have a hyper-active immune system. It considers hostile DNA a threat, essentially you are allergic to other people. Occasional exposure is fine, or a few encounters with one individual. Repeated contact would thus be dangerous as you get a steadily stronger and stronger immune response. You could explain this by having some really nasty local parasites that are very dangerous. A vigorous and hyper-vigilant immune system to fight off the parasites is more important than being able to repeatedly contact one person. This would lead to big differences in society, reproductive urges, coupling urges, etc. People would be wired in a way that's compatible with this, so you could for example see them come "on heat", get intense coupling urges, then once that is done lose interest in each other. Babies would need something to help them survive, for example perhaps they share their mother's immune system for the first few years - delivered and updated while nursing. 

The simple answer is yes, however the more complicated answer is no. The yes: If a species is adapted to one extreme environment then that often renders them unable to function effectively at another. Sky Islands for example have isolated species that only survive on them. If this hypothetical species were adapted to an altitude where humans cannot survive then that species would also find lower altitudes hard for them to live in. There would be little or no contact between the two species. But the No: Many animals, and humans in particular, are very adaptable. We can adjust our clothing, use tools, fire, buildings, etc to survive in a vast range of conditions. Conditions so extreme that they are absolutely impossible for the non-adapted to survive in would be unlikely to support much life in the first place. What would be far more likely is that the high altitude dwellers have a strong advantage there, but visitors from below can survive for at least a while.