Self-answering the question. After years, I think I formulated a nice answer. The unicorn situation is not really symmetrical. I think this is an intuitive interpretation of Bayesian Inference. Let's think of the world as an infinite series of rooms. The real world is not like that, but this approximation is sufficient. In order to prove unicorns exist, we only need to find one room which has a unicorn in it. In order to prove unicorns do not exist, we need to scan an infinite number of rooms. This is infeasible. The best we can do is scan some of the rooms. The more rooms we scan and discover to be unicorn-free, our confidence in "unicorns do not exist" increases. If we scan a huge amount of rooms, the confidence is extremely high, but we're never 100% sure. This is why scientists say "you cannot prove a theory". A theory is typically a claim that something is true in every "room". When the confidence is sufficiently high, some theories can be regarded as facts for all practical uses. As a human, you've been here on Earth for quite some time, and you've scanned many rooms. You probably didn't find a unicorn yet. This is why "unicorns do not exist" can be regarded as fact. (This is also combined with other pieces of knowledge about mammals and how the world works, as other answers have explained). If a 1-second old baby is fully rational, and that baby has not scanned any rooms yet, then its most rational bet is: There is a 50% unicorns exist, and a 50% they do not. This is why formally, given no further info, both arguments are equal. So why is the method proving a claim so different from proving its negation? That's because "unicorns exist" in fact means "there is at least one room with a unicorn", whilst "unicorns do not exist" means "all rooms have no unicorns". Are these negations? Logically, yes. But to fully de-mystify symantics and language, note there are actually 4 possible claims here: 

The concept of a WFF (well formed formula) is a formal one and deals with syntactic validity. Any logic you pick will have a concept of WFF (just how any written language you pick has a concept of spelling). If, in that logic, you provide a deduction that contains lines that are not WFFs, then it's easy to see that it would be weaker than using WFFs. Not only would it be weaker, but it would be nonsense. (I'm not sure how Godel's Incompleteness Theorem fits here.) 

To answer (A), I will point you to Planck time, which is a theoretical lower bound on the smallest possible time duration if one should exist. (B) is obviously much more difficult to answer. As a primer, I would direct you to Nick Bostrom's seminal Oxford paper in which he discusses the Simulation Argument. You'll notice that his discussion is underpinned by various stochastic arguments, and not so much on the hypothetical simulation having particular kinds of features (e.g. discreteness). In fact, having these kinds of constraints on the simulation is probably counterproductive. 

Drunkenness has both subjective and objective aspects. The subjective aspect is the altered state of consciousness. On the other hand, the presence of certain amount of alcohol in blood plasma, or being unable to walk on a straight line are the objective aspects. Now is the statement "I'm drunk" subjective or objective? Drunkenness is a simple example. However, if we accept physicalism, or more specifically the idea that every conscious experience is related to a unique pattern in the brain, can we conclude that all statements are somehow objective? 

What are the criteria for existence, i.e. the answer to "what exists and what doesn't exist?" in modern schools of philosophy? My trial: Something exists if and only if it can affect our senses, either directly or indirectly. For example, magnetic fields or electrons exist, because they affect our measuring devices, which we can see. Update 1: There are at least two challenges for this criterion: 

Does a nation exist? What about a city, a corporation or a family? Do dragons exist? Their existence is not logically impossible. Additionally, if they exist, they can affect our senses. 

Are all not non-coercive according to Aquinas. and are threats and Aquinas doesn't believe threats can possibly be coercive. is not a threat (your company is losing money as we speak!) but it's non-violent so, again, it's not coercive. If you run a government and subscribe to this kind of philosophy, you're in luck. You can do just about anything. Violent torture, punching someone in the face, or otherwise being violent while attempting to undermine someone's 'inclination of the will' is the only way of being coercive. Raising gas prices is the least of your worries. Primary source reading: Summa Theologica. Hobbes, Locke, Kant, Mill - Justice and the role of the state Hobbes, Locke, and Kant mainly thought of coercion as a tool of the state that ought to be conducive to justice. Even Aquinas thought that a governor needed certain coercive powers to ensure order. Hobbes, in particular, thought it to be an essential part of government: 

The first column being the 'inclination of the will.' It's also of note to say that, according to Aquinas, in case , the agent is responsible for his actions, whereas in case , he is not. Lets go back to your original question; if you agree with Aquinas, you don't really 'influence' anything, anyway. It's as if you make the coercee your puppet (you control them but 100% of the responsibility falls on you). "But how far can we go without coercing?" you may ask. Aquinas makes a very interesting distinction. He argues that anything non-violent cannot be construed as coercive. So you could technically threaten, terrorize, or otherwise non-violently 'influence' someone to do your bidding and Aquinas would say two things: a) it's not coercion (yay!), and b) the agent is, in fact, 100% responsible for the actions they may take. 

I believe the following three examples are equally self-contradictory: A: Nothingness is blue B: Objects don't exist when we are not looking at them C: There exists a parallel universe that never has any interaction with our universe You may have a different criteria for existence from mine, which you can discuss here, but even if we assume B and C are not self-contradictory, do they convey any meaning? Can we somehow deduce that unverifiable statements don't provide any knowledge? Two additional examples: D: The universe froze for a trillion years between now and then. E: We are living in a simulation without any intervention from above 

There are many obvious examples for 1 and 2. It seems to me that 3 is impossible. My question: Is 4 possible? If so, please provide an example. Update: I have edited the question. In the previous version, I asked about two examples: A. Bob is prettier than Charlie B. Alice believes that Bob is prettier than Charlie 

There is a predictor [who is never wrong], a player, and two boxes designated A and B. The player is given a choice between taking only box B, or taking both boxes A and B. The player knows the following: Box A is clear, and always contains a visible $1,000. Box B is opaque, and its content has already been set by the predictor: If the predictor has predicted the player will take both boxes A and B, then box B contains nothing. If the predictor has predicted that the player will take only box B, then box B contains $1,000,000. I'm a fan of "only B decision". But just before acting my decision, I will face the following problem: ...I know my decision Is B. So I know B is filled. I know if I know B is filled, then my decision is A+B. So I know my decision is A+B. In order to have B as my final decision, I must choose to know the "I know my decision Is B" statement and reject to know the "I know if I know B is filled, then my decision is A+B" statement. Now the problem is, can we choose to know or not know something? I found this interesting problem here, which is quite relevant: Imagine you're stranded on a desert island, dying of hunger and thirst. A man in a rowboat happens to paddle by, and offers to transport you back to shore, if you promise to give him $1000 once you get there. But take heed: this man is extremely psychologically astute, and if you lie to him, he'll almost certainly be able to read it in your face. In order to survive, I must choose to know my future decision. 

Would this question perplex you as much as your original one? Probably not. The correct color simply isn't a choice. This question is just as unanswerable as yours - no more no less. Why your question seems more interesting is because it makes a key assumption (just like the first incarnation of the Liar Paradox question did - namely, that a statement is either true or false). Specifically, it makes the assumption that the probability of getting a correct answer is 50%. This is incorrect. The probability is, I would argue, mathematically indeterminate. Consider E2: 

The two mean the same thing. At 16 minutes (of the first video), he even says "instantiate or exemplify" -- so he clearly means the same thing. He's talking about the operator (exemplification or existential instantiation, take your pick). 

Let's look at the last line marked with an asterisk. will yield per Table 1. Similarly, as well as will also yield per Table 1. So, no matter how we decide to commute, we will have to deal with an and the remaining . And will always yield a per Table 1. This is why we observe the odd-even alternation of truth values when all operands are true. It turns out that you don't want to use a in examples like the one in your OP. What you actually want to do is something like or (via DeMorgans) . There is no logical connective that does this since this would require an n-ary connector, e.g. something like which would only work as a function in FOL. Here is an interesting paper discussing the ternary exclusive or. 

Unicorns exist in at least 1 room. Easy to prove. Impossible to disprove. Unicorns do not exist in any room. Easy to disprove. Impossible to prove. Unicorns do not exist in at least 1 room. Easy to prove. Impossible to disprove. Already proven. Unicorns exist in every room. Easy to disprove. Impossible to prove. Already disproven. 

Joe claims: "There is no proof that unicorn exist, therefore unicorns do not exist". Alice claims: "There is no proof that unicorns do not exist, therefore unicorns exist". Bob claims: "There is no proof either way, therefore I'm agnostic about the existence of unicorns". From a formal point of view, Joe and Alice's claims are both arguments from ignorance, hence they are unsound. Bob's argument is sound. But we all intuitively know that Joe is right (Or at least probably right) despite the apparent formal symmetry between Joe's claim and Alice's claim. So, there must be something asymmetric that makes Joe's claim stronger. But what is it? Where does the assymetry stem from? Related term: Russel's teapot 

is not a number because happens to be the (a?) unit. And a number, by definition, is a multitude of units. So clearly then, the two are distinct. See Metaphysics 1052b35, Posterior Analytics 72a22, and Topics 108b30. To see why, for example, is a number whereas is a unit, see Metaphysics 1039a15. 

Primary source reading: Socratic Puzzles. Conclusion - How far is too far? Looking at the example above, we see various milestones of coercion: 

Not to mention that the question reminds me of Bertrand's paradox in which our good friend Bertie tried to make a clever probability paradox out of the ambiguity of the question. Read E.T. Jaynes' reply in The Well-Posed Problem in which he argued for a principle he defined as "maximum ignorance" (incidentally, I've been using a similar form of the argument). Read more about how it defeats Russel's paradox on Wikipedia and elsewhere. 

Therefore, the TbA does not necessarily contain more rows than the number of open branches in TtA. Proof: (1) is trivial but we can prove that the number of open branches are unbounded, i.e. (2), by induction on the disjunction operator like so: 

A: All bachelors are unmarried B: Water is liquid We all agree that A is analytic. To prove its truth, we only need to replace "bachelor" with its definition. The proposition B can be controversial, depending on whether we include liquidity of water in its definition or not. Now here we encounter a problem: How much knowledge should we include in definitions? Some extremist may attach any new knowledge about water to its definition. They will come up with a very long definition of water, but any statement about water will be analytic to them. 

If I'm an idealist and I'm right, it means that the reality I know is entirely in my mind, right? Now how is there any room for other minds? 

S is subjective and C is vague. S is objective and C is definite. S is subjective and C is definitie. S is objective and C is vague. 

Consider this statement: There exist black swans. It is (practically) not falsifiable, since we can't search the whole world to conclude there are no black swans. However, it is provable, and I guess we can all agree that it's a scientific fact. Can we conclude that falsifiablity is not necessary for being scientific? 

There's no easy way to fix this. It's a fairly well-known problem and it tends to happen when dealing with "flat" context-free representations -- like event semantics. Jerry Hobbs (of discourse analysis fame) provides one possible solution here. I'm not sure how I feel about it, though. He seems to reference his work on abduction (where there's a knowledge base, KB -- formally, we can represent this as a set of sentences -- that utterances can back-chain to). In the above case, KB would contain things like but not that enapsulate the quirkiness of of monotone-increasing quantifiers (that retain truth value) and monotone-decreasing quantifiers (that do not necessarily retain truth value). There are also other considerations (such as conservativity; read more here) which need to be taken into account if trying to escape context-free semantics. There may be better approaches to solving your "paradox", but I am mostly familiar with Hobbs' work. 

In other cases, magnetism was regarded as "divine attraction" -- in other words, magic. It's also noteworthy to say that even though materialists believed that all things are made up of material stuff -- be it water, earth, fire, etc -- this did not mean that souls could not exist (see Epicurus, for example). Empedocles, another materialist, actually believed in the transmigration of souls. Here's a great paper that discusses magnetism and electricity in ancient Greece. Awesome question, +1.