It seems his source is, Truth in the Machine, Three Berkeley men converged to create the lie detector. 

However, on examination that pages links to "FCC Fines of $25,000 and $16,000 for Airing Phone Calls Without Prior Consent". The source seems to root its claim in this statute, 

The claim is likely true to what the DNC argued but the plaintiff used the term "enforceable obligation" in a summary. The defendant, the DNC, having never said that used only terms "contractual and fiduciary obligation" and "enforceable promise." You can see the quote in full from the transcript here 

Central to the claim seems to be the jaw muscles clenching up. Is there any actual work debunking this claim. I've always wanted to put a light bulb in my mouth and I'm wondering if it is a bad idea. 

There is a show in Houston radio show on KRBE called Roula & Ryan's Roses -- you can subscribe here. It's rather amusing and trashy. I've heard it a few times before. "Retired Engineer" on Kingwood.com, a local forum, made the claim that on-air prank calls were illegal, that they were all scripted. You can see the claim here, 

Is there any truth to the claim the a dry towel can actually speed up the drying process? There are numerous different sources that I've heard claim this, here is one on voices.yahoo 

Numerous different reports from June 2016 state that a new building was found in Petra with Google Earth. I can't find any external verification of these reports. Has this building been excavated? Is there any evidence that it exists other than satellite images? Has anyone proved that it wasn't a false-positive? Massive discovery ‘was hidden in plain sight in lost city’ 

Is that true? What do we know about the lethality of Fentanyl? I couldn't find the LD50 for it in humans. Is there medical speculation not quite so propagandistic? 

This seems to indicate Columbus was not hostile from the first encounter. However, the quote from above can be found in the Santangel letter as reproduced and translated here. 

Clearly, that's untrue. In the 2012 Venezuela elections, Chávez won with an 11% margin. That's an electoral landslide. Aside from being disconnected from facts, Brewer's bias is abundantly apparent in the document, 

There is a viral video going around that repeats a claim I've heard before about getting a light bulb stuck in your mouth 

This guy even seems to hold boiling oil: Unbelievable Pathan Put His Hand in Hot Boil Oil Here it is an article in the Pakistan Times that makes the claim that it is possible to put your hand in boiling oil. DailyMail has reported on it in Pakistan. They seem to claim it needs to be practiced, 

I struggeled to find an official copy of the captain's log online, but there are two that have a lot of commonalities, 

You can see the translations here is pretty similar. "Weapons"" vs "arms", "cane" vs "sticks", "fine" vs "good". It's pretty close. 

I've heard all different versions of this. In fact, this article is the first time I've read them all from the source going on to say, 

I believe the picture is most recently use in The Great Game of Genocide Imperialism, Nationalism, and the Destruction of the Ottoman Armenians, by Donald Bloxham. This forgery claim is stated here, and here. However, I'm seeing this said about the picture... 

From an article entitled, "U.S. Aid to Israel: What U.S. Taxpayer Should Know", by the Washington Report on Middle Eastern Affairs, 

So according to those two sources, 365 days in a year at a million dollars a day is more than double 148 million. Other sources Some sources, such as NBC, estimate the cost to be 2 million a day for the "920 Secret Service" agents protecting the president (total). 

Alas though the 2011 PDF isn't the only one authored by CJIA on Venezeula, Brewer published the four page "The Death of Hugo Chavez Surrounded in Veil of Concealment" on March 6, 2013. In it, the only mention of any estate of Chávez is assumed from this, 

I've seen numerous videos claiming to show this without blistering effects, cringing pain, or skin burns as if it was a unique skill and not just trickery -- something anyone can do with practice, 

I just find that very hard to believe. There is another show that is significantly less malicious that also airs in Houston called Dean & Rog's Birthday Scam. They don't interfere with marriages and relationships with information of adultery, but they sure do prank call people. Is it illegal to air a prank call in the United States because of FCC regulation? And, if so, how is everyone doing it? 

It seems it was faked. He's missing a leg and an arm and everyone else has stretched arms. Further, while not on either of those blog posts this very infamous picture is exhaustively talked about and analyzed in The Saga Surrounding a Forged Photograph from the Era of the Armenian Genocide Demonizing and Vilifying a 'Cruel Turkish Official': A part of `the rest of the story. There they actually identify the backdrop having been hijacked from La Famine au Liban. 

His sources check out The only piece that makes this questionably true is because it's not just for Melania, but the entirety of the Trump family.. See below for the NBC citation. @Chapmanchapman claims his sources in this tweet CNN says 

There is no further mention in even this most recent document of Chávez's wealth. It is worth explicitly mentioning that it's pretty naive and shortsighted to say that an oil subsidy to Cuba resulted in a severe crippling of the Venezuela's economy. Brewer seems to be eccentric character that doesn't like citing his facts. It seems consistent with his character and anti-Chávez positions to make such a statement, and also consistent not to cite that statement. I wouldn't put any weight in Brewer's authority and the statement is otherwise unsubstantiated. If you'd like to read some other not-so-interesting articles written by Brewer you can check out Brewer's Scribd page. 

"we could have [...] voluntarily decided that, Look, we're gonna go into back rooms like they used to and smoke cigars and pick the candidate that way. That's not the way it was done. But they could have. And that would have also been their right, and it would drag the Court well into party politics, internal party politics to answer those questions." "the party has the freedom of association to decide how it's gonna select its representatives to the convention and to the state party." "there's no right to not have your candidate disadvantaged or have another candidate advantaged. There's no contractual obligation here. Nor is there a fiduciary obligation, although I know we're gonna get to that later. But there's -- it's not a situation where a promise has been made that is an enforceable promise." 

I keep hearing this claim that a lab "rat has 99% of the DNA of a human?" Is that so? What exactly does this mean? One source for this claim seems to CNN which only says, 

I'd highly suggest you check out both of the sources I've given, Operation Clambake, and the Wikipedia article. They're chock full of information and the mythology is too detailed and the status of the story too intricate to include all of it in this answer. 

True: the Clintons received $153 million in speaker fees. It seems to be be true. CNN states, since 2001, 

tldr;? All of this was said or written by Christopher Columbus with very little deviations in the translations however it comes from at least three separate sources: two entry in the ships log and one in a the "Santangel letter". 

To me, it seems counter-intuitive on both the science, and the likelyhood of oversight. I imagine if a dry-towel was an energy efficient drying mechanism (lowered dry time) then dryer manufacturers would be building fabric into the agitators and compartments. Further, while I can understand the wet towel absorbing moisture, it seems unlikely that getting that moisture out of more mass would be quicker. Unless we're just just re-defining a completed dry load as simply "nominally wet with less concentration." 

In Season 1 Episode 4 of Adam Ruins Everything Adam Conover says this about John Augustus Larson commenting on the polygraph machine, 

Yes, it's true. Most of this information is available on Operation Clambake which isn't fully indexed because the Cult of Scientology sued Google. You can download the Xenu leaflet put out by Operation Clambake. Wikipedia also covers the Xenu mythology which is also called the Space Opera (mythological event covered in South Park) and other "Incidents" which is the term used to denote the Cult's doctrinal teaching. The Space Opera is also called "Incident 2". It's pretty well established at this point to be true. The volcano symbolism is even found in Dianetics, the precursor to Scientology and L Ron commented on it saying saying the cover would "key in" the submerged memories of Incident II: 

Many people are claiming a semi-automatic rifle was not used in the Sandy Hook Massacre? Is this true, was a semi-automatic rifle used in the Sandy Hook massacre? NBC citing "federal officials, and state officials" the day after the shooting (Dec 15): 

New York times repeats a shorter version also without providing the original source but in the context of a book review of the The Lie Detectors (cited above), 

Just saw this and I was wondering if it was a legit quote. I've seen similar claims about Biden too, here the PolicyMic headline states "Joe Biden Wanted Bush Impeached For the Very Thing Obama is About to Do". The above graphic reads, 

In this video about Michio Kaku you can see the claim repeated too by Judith Campisi, PhD, Professor at the Buck Institute for Age Research 

Doing a Google patent search showed CA 2569779 C: Improved resistored anode construction. But, I have no idea if it works or if it's nonsense, and how effective it is. 

The key here is that Jared H. Beck is the attorney for the plaintiff. Not the defendant (the Democratic National Committee). Now what Beck is responding to is a series of claims argued by the defendant, Spiva, acting for the defendant, did say 

For reference, JFK was elected in 1961. It's not all that different from Trump himself. From the same source above, Motley Fool, Trump is worth four times as much as Kennedy but has also promised and thus far donated his presidential salary. Outside of the presidency, and the small charitable contribution, it's not all that much different from Steve Jobs who made the choice to work for $1/year. Presidents and CEOs receive other benefits than merely a payroll salary (like stock options, fame, and power). At some point, giving away the peanuts is simply worth the positive publicity, and if we keep it about material wealth and not about it being symbolically his "salary" the claim is pretty meek. With a Net Worth of 200-400 million, we're essentially saying, presidential candidate promises to give 0.125% - 0.25% of his Net Worth if elected over four years. 

I'm just wondering if Nazi France was using slippers made from human hair? And why you would even make slippers from human hair to begin with? 

And the conclusion is pretty accurate: conquer vs subjugate. The only notable exception, using the Fordham archive is this, 

Also proposed in the above is the Lebanese woman pictured in the hijab, from a different angle in the same source book. 

The one commonality is always someone had something edible in their pocket and it melted and microwaves were discovered and found to be applicable for foods? Is this true, or urban legend? 

In this TEDxVilnius talk entitled, Jew's Harp, Listen and You Will Hear It: Valentinas & Viaceslavas at TEDxVilnius the following claim is made, 

DailyMail reported on it in India. Metro.co.uk reported on a chef in Thailand doing this (video above). 

So is the owner of The Washington Post benefiting from CIA funds to the tune of 600 million dollars? 

He works as an expert witness on "complex law enforcement operational issues including death/homicide," needless to say at this point it seemed like making a claim about the wealth of the president of a foreign nation is out of his paygrade. Also on his Google Site was a link to his WordPress blog. On that blog, you can find Brewer's paper authored in November 27, 2011 about Chávez entitled "Hugo Chavez's Abuse of Power and Corruption". Writing about the 2012 Venezuela elections, he said, 

While not 99% as the original claim, here is a source along the same lines at 97.5% of their (working) DNA of humans. 

But I don't see any notice of the redaction on the Oxford University store nor in the copies available. Every version of the story comes with a similar claim about the pixels, and a similar admission -- is the photo fake? 

Being in the first 10 sentence in the seminal work on Agorism such a claim is kind of concerning. I don't see how it could be true. Especially interesting is that he wrote this in 1983, the 20th century wasn't even over yet. 

Ok, so that's how a sacrificial anode works. What the hell is a "special resistor" and how does that provide longer tank life? I have written Rheem now on this a couple of times, with no response. They market this all kinds of ways calling it a special resistor, Here on their site for Professional Ultra Low NOx Powered Damper, 

In this video by CNN's Sanjay Gupta entitled "How dangerous is Fentanyl?", he can be heard saying at the end 

It seems to be that this claim originated from Criminal Justice International Associates (CJIA). They seem to have one person affiliated with their organization, the same person cited in the source, "Jerry Brewer". In the comments to the question, someone found their website. On it was a phone number which helped me find this site which they had made with Google. CJIA refers to itself as a A Global Threat Mitigation Firm, which seems vague and Stratfor-ish. Linked on CJIA's Google Site, I was able to find Brewer's bio. Jerry Brewer however does claim a lot of experience, 

Given the context about it being the freedom of association for a political party to pick a candidate in a cigar filled back room after a primary that had one candidate disadvantaged and having said explicitly both "contractual obligation" and "fiduciary obligation" it may not be much of a stretch for Beck to have summarized that the DNC was arguing that there was no "enforceable obligation"; and, the DNC did say explicitly there was no "enforceable promise." Update As to whether or not the DNC claimed the primary was fair, they did claim such but they expressly stated that such a claim was not their argument, in fact they argued that to even entertain that question would invalidate the First Amendment interests of the party. 

Which would make the quote correct. They conclude that context as a prophecy is incorrect because Fidel was referring to the embargo ending not merely Cuba talking to the USA. And, further, that even if the embargo ended it wouldn't be because of the "anti-bourgeois position of the president and the Pope".