These four "city" states were the closest things that northern Italy had to "national" states during the Middle Ages. For instance, Genoa at one time controlled Sardinia and Corsica, as well as a small part of the Italian peninsula. Venice "girdled" the Adriatic Sea (and more), occupying parts of modern Yugoslavia, as well as much of the east coast of Italy. Milan was strong enough to have a "separate" (Ambrosian) Republic for a time. And Florence, despite its small size, was the center of the Renaissance under Lorenzo the Magnificent, who attracted Michaelangelo, Leonardo da Vinci, and Botticelli, among others. These "cities," and not others, were treated as "equals" (or nearly so), by foreign powers. For example, Florence's Catherine de Medici became Queen of France. Sources such as this one identify Florence, Venice, and Milan as the hotbeds of the Italian Renaissance. Each of these cities attracted or produced major artists; Milan, Leonardo da Vinci; Florence, Michelangelo, and Venice, Titian. They were also leaders in at least one other major area of thought; Milan, banking, accounting and commerce, particularly the silk trade; Venice, science (e.g. it was the first Italian city to adopt the printing press) and shipbuilding; and Florence, political philosophy, e.g. that of Machiavelli. Neither the above, nor other sources I've consulted include Genoa, which is why the question initially confused me. FWIW, I put Genoa in the "second" category with Turin and Bologna. 

The "Union" (antislavery) cause was considered "virtuous" by keepers of virtue. For instance, the movement for abolition of slavery in England began with the Quakers. In 1807, "Abolitionists" in Britain won a ban against slave trade in the British Empire; in 1833, slavery was banned outright. In the 1840s, a British ""Anti-Slavery Society" was formed to fight slavery elsewhere (mostly in the Americas). In the U.S., the anti-slavery movement won the support of the northern clergy. One particularly famous clergyman was Henry Ward Beecher, who sent "Beecher's bibles" (rifles) to northerners fighting slavery in Kansas in the 1850s. (He is even more famous for his sister, Harriet Beecher Stowe, author of Uncle Tom's Cabin.) It is also worth noting that slavery was abolished for the second, and final time in France, in 1848, just shy of 1850. (It had been abolished during the French Revolution, and reinstated with the return of the monarchy.) Not everyone was in the "virtuous" camp. European countries like Britain and France debated long and hard before deciding not to support the Confederacy. Those that wanted to do so used "pragmatic" arguments such as trade, cultural affinity, or balance of power considerations. To take one example, Britain's Lord Palmerston was both anti- slavery and anti-U.S., and his policies were driven by the latter. According to Wikipedia, 

The Japanese navy had a fundamental misunderstanding of the American navy, in large part because of its experience with other, European navies such as those of Russia and Britain. And perhaps they were confused by America's War Plan Orange," which preached similar doctrine, but was more "honored in the breach than the observance." In the 1905 war with Russia, that country had a (Far East) naval base at Port Arthur, Manchuria. The Japanese won the naval war by defeating the Russian fleet there, and then winning a second battle at Tsushima Straits against a reinforcing fleet headed to Port Arthur, and took the most obvious route there. Likewise, the Japanese destroyed a British task force that was detailed to defend Singapore and Malaysia. The Japanese thinking had some merit for the Japanese Empire up to about 1920, which included the Home Islands, Iwo Jima, Okinawa, Korea, Formosa, and a bit more. But the 1920s and 1930s militarization of the islands (Marianas, Caroline, and Marshals) acquired in the South Pacific Mandate after World War II (which specified de militarization) made it very dangerous to for the Americans to leave these islands in the rear during a "main force" strike. Also, during the 1930s, "dissidents" in both the American and Japanese navies opined that advances in air and submarine warfare had made such "main force" naval tactics obsolete. The difference was that America eventually allowed its dissidents to prevail, and Japan didn't. And when World War II began, Japan began expanding far beyond what original plans envisioned, including to Papua New Guinea in the south, Midway Island to the East, and the Aleutian Islands in the Northeast. With a huge bubble of that sort, the Americans found through trial and error that a more expeditious strategy than its original Plan Orange was to "pick off" Japanese forces along the perimeter (as they did at Coral Sea, Midway, and the Aleutians), instead of trying to fight the main Japanese navy near the Home islands. Eventually, the Americans did "get there," but only after the Japanese navy had been greatly weakened by attrition. In sports terms, the Americans used a "full court press" over the whole Pacific, fighting a series of "duels" that would deplete Japanese naval power at a faster rate than American naval power. In this regard, they were using an "attrition" strategy like that of U.S. Grant against Robert E. Lee. (During the course of the war, the Americans outbuilt the Japanese 3 to 1, and that's not counting the material they used against Hitler.) The Japanese were hoping that the Americans would send their fleets against the Japanese fleet for one all out battle after another, and that the Japanese would destroy three or four American fleets in the process without losing her own. The Americans preferred to bleed the Japanese to death by "trading shots." Coral Sea, one Japanese carrier sunk, two put out of action, versus one American carrier sunk, one damaged (the Yorktown, repaired for the Midway battle in one weekend). At Midway, the Americans sank four carriers while losing one, but that hardly mattered; a four to three "kill" ratio would have been sufficient. Basically, the Japanese would have had to sink all three American carriers with the loss of no more than one to maintain the 1 to 3 parity dictated by the countries' relative productions. Anything "worse" (e.g. two Japanese carriers lost for three Americans), and the Americans would win. Put another way, the Japanese (reasonably) believed that the Americans would follow a "script" laid down by the Russians, British, and the Americans themselves. The Russian navy at Tsushima in 1905 followed essentially the same tactics after the surprise attack at Port Arthur as before (even to the point of using the route the Japanese expected them to). This British didn't seem to care that they could "lose the war in one afternoon" at Jutland in 1916. But the Americans departed from a script of one "all or nothing" battle when their numerical superiority could make the "law of averages" work for them in numerous "knife fights." Give credit to Admirals Halsey, Nimitz, and others for that. 

A historian named Deborah Lipstadt published some books "outing" David Irving as a Holocaust denier in his work. She then successfully defended herself in court when Irving sued her in London for "defamation." 

World War II was in many respects a "continuation" war of World War I, from which there were a lot of "unfinished" business. World War II brought "closure" to many of these things. Consider the following: 1, Yes, tanks planes, submarines, and other weapons were developed during World War I,but it wasn't until World War II that people realized how destructive they were. One scientific idea, atomic theory already existed by World War I, but no one knew until World War II where it would lead. 

During World War II, the British field several armies that included Indians, but the most "Indian" of these, was the 14th Army, in which 8 of 13 divisions were predominantly "Indian." Of the battalions in this army, a disproportionate number of them were either "Gurka" (Nepal) or "Punjab" units. These were soldiers from the borderlands of modern India (or just across the border from it). Notably absent, or at least underrepresented were units, from south and central India, that is, the country's "mainstream. Why was that? Did Gandhi's philosophy of non-violence carry greater sway with "most" Indians other than those discussed in the paragraph above? 

Prisoners were put to work at prisons such as the Bagne in Toulon. Nearly all jobs required "training," and some jobs required teaching prisoners to read and write. Prison guards found that "working" prisoners were more docile, and they also helped earn their keep. The period from 1820-1840 was a time of prison reform(shorter sentences, less use of the death penalty, etc. and one of the reforms was education of prisoners so they could earn their livings after being released. 

For our purposes, there are two kinds of Vikings; western, or Norwegian Vikings that settled Greenland, Iceland, and Normandy, and eastern, or Swedish Vikings who settled Russia and the Baltic region. There is a fair amount of literature on the first group of Vikings, who were called "Norsemen" (later Normans). One example is from Encyclopedia Britannica: $URL$ The reason is that their destiny later "merged" with that of (relatively literate) Western Europe, which kept track of them. The eastern or Swedish Vikings, on the other hand, were less literate than their Norwegian counterparts, as is true of the lands they settled, vis-a-vis Western Europe. As a result, most literature on the Swedish Vikings is in the form of (their) "runic" inscriptions, which are the subject of study to this day. 

Switzerland did not have a revolution after the French Revolution. It had had its revolution CENTURIES earlier, under William Tell. 

Under the so-called "Percentages Agreement" proposed by Churchill and accepted by Stalin, Greece was the only country in the Balkans with less than 50% Soviet influence (10% to be exact). The other main Balkan countries, Romania, Bulgaria, Yugoslavia and Hungary all had 50% or more Soviet influence. Although Greek Communists started a civil war, it might have been without Stalin's aid, at least overtly. In any event, the original agreement gave the Western world a "head start" in stopping Communist maneuvers in Greece.