Regardless of the quote's authenticity, It sounds authentic to me. It just means there is no punishment for anything. Karma is just cause and effect. No one is to blame by anyone but our own actions punish us as we do them. I know I can kind of feel the punishment when I get all angry and especially after I calm down. 

When I was about 17 years old, my grandmother told me she would sometimes suddenly come out of her body. I was thinking that in all the time I had lived with my grandmother as a child, I never seen her fall unconscious or anything. She told me that was because her body would never loose consciousness when she went out of it. She would feel "herself" or her "mind" hovering above her body but the body was still walking and talking. Apparently, a lot of the time when my grandmother was lucid and holding intellegent conversations with me and everyone else, she wasn't even in her body! I don't claim to know if this means there actually was no mind in her body but I thought it might be worth mentioning nonetheless. 

Ignorance is a bad word, a bad translation. Avija means "state of not knowing". Just like you said. We are all identifying unless we are enlightened or something. Do you mean that you are aware of what you don't know? Like seeing things as they are + the '"not knowing"? .. with practice, the "not knowing" will slowly leave. I hope I understood you correctly- Metta 

Where on Earth or online are future retreats or classes for an insight practitioner to get Dhamma guidance and/or guidance through some version of the stages of insight meditation? Are there teachers who might guide an insight practitioner on a one on one basis, given the right situation? 

Is this behaviour justified for a person who is on the verge of enlightenment? Meditators can seem antisocial but this person described here seems to have the wrong view on how we do certain things in Buddhism but meditators can often have the wrong view. Does non attachment mean giving up things you love? It means giving up things one likes alot and giving up attatchent that unfortunately can often be mixed in with love. Is attachment for idiots? Nobody calls people "idiots" with ill-will in they're hearts and are still in harmony with Buddhism. Attatchment is like when one spouse can't let the other spouse leave because they fear they might find someone else or cheat. Love is when one spouse wants they're love to be happy and therefore lets them go anywhere they want to go. I like this song that is called "If you love someone, set them free". Is the fear of losing things you love the right reason for being non attached? Not at all. The fear of losing the things you love or the fear of losing anything is itself attatchment. Detatchment is about neither liking nor disliking things or having no partiality(if that was what was meant by "non attachment") Does non attachment mean having a strong sense of detest for modern life like malls, the cinema etc? A meditator will try to avoid(avoid not necessarily with attatchment) worldly places like malls and cinema but to have any partiality for or against anything is attatchment. To "detest" shopping malls and cinema sounds like having partiality or attatchment against shopping malls and cinema, although I could be wrong as some advanced meditators or those rumoured to be enlightened sometimes seem to speak kind of rough about worldly things. Does non attachment mean you have to stop talking with your friends who are different from you? No, but this often happens with beginning mediators.This doesn't necessarily mean that the meditator no longer likes or loves these friends at all. Generally, this is the meditator learning the value of conseptual truth and silence(some have called silence, "the language of God"). Then again, if the friends arent really friends then it is totally in harmony with Buddhism to end such a relationship. Romantic love is different from love in a Buddhist context. Buddhist love is to love all beings unconditionally and to be partial to one's spouse and Mother Theresa but not partial to someone like Adolf Hitler is not unconditional love. If we can't love or have compassion for someone like Hitler then, I think its safe to say that we want to be seperate from a certain part of humanity just as Hitler wanted to be seperate from a certain part of humanity. -May you be happy 

Wrong view is words. What is in your experience, what you are focusing on within your experience moment by moment is right view. Really no opinion or laws are right view. They are agreements, assumptions and premade arguments. They can point to what is right view but they aren't right view. 

When Sufis, Jains and Christian mystics point to God, I almost know for sure that they are pointing to the same thing as Nibbana anyway...or at least they are both pointing in the same direction. A God that created the universe is irrelevant in Buddhism anyway. If God exists or God doesn't exist then either way it has no effect on the Buddha's path to end our suffering. If the creator doesn't need a creator then the universe doesn't need a creator also. One can't say "the universe needs to have a creator because something had to create it" because they would also have to say "The creator needs to have a creator because something had to create the creator". If the creator needs no creator then why can't the universe need no creator as well? 

If we don't have ambition to practice whatever approach to Buddhism we are practicing then we aren't going to get that far. Ambition for things other than Dharma will tend to lessen the effectiveness of our practice although certain things are more useful than others. Having an ambition for teaching or psychology is going to probably help our practice more than having an ambition for selling weapons or being a movie star(for example). 

Insight meditation doesn't cause defilements. Insight meditation causes one to be able to see the defilements that have always been there. 

I don't know about "Buddhism" as a name. There are those who honor the Buddha by practicing the eightfold path. There are those that honor the Buddha by giving garlands and incense but both are wholesome and real "Buddhist" practices alright. Even someone who has little idea what they are doing can technically be a "real" Buddhist. It's just a word. What is more real than any other Buddhism? What do I know? Maybe it's the Buddha's actual core teaching and those enlightened enough to recognize the Buddha's actual core teaching in the Suttas that is "Real Buddhism". I think that, "really" The Buddha's teaching is always Buddhism but Buddhism isn't always The Buddha's actual core teaching , or in many instances, Buddhism isn't even anywhere near the Buddha's actual core teaching. We should be able to talk about things like this... ...and how we feel about things with out fear of being misunderstood, persecuted, oppressed, corrected and censored by whoever has enough nerve to think they understand themselves enough to judge other forum members as "wrong". How can this be good karma? Can a "real" Buddhist just decide that we can be judge , jury and executioner and that is congruent with the Dhamma? Who in this forum really understands enough to transgress punitive measures against other fellow human beings and still at the same time be a "real" Buddhist? Anyone who justifies they're transgressions against another person because the person violated the "group's rules" can never be sure they are being fair or appropriate when they punish unless they are enlightened. Maybe I am missing something...I certainly know that I am no saint, this is just my little opinion. -Metta 

It can work out that Satipatthana can help one let go of desire. Usually, as you may know, Satipatthana isn't to suppress but to see the truth. Our sex drives are strong though and if they are too strong for standard Satipatthana then they can be surpressed by other techniques like the naming of the parts of the body, that can have a repulsive affect on sensual desire. An other good technique to turn one off quick is to look at autopsy photos. That is also good for reflecting on death. These little practices really are very supportive of the main Satipatthana practice. 

The Bodhisatta wasn't really depressed, he had a sense of shock, anxiety and spiritual urgency to escape the suffering of samsara AKA samvega. Part of the question is, "today when people get the same frustration they call it as depression, and motivate further to enjoy the normal life with lots of bonds and relationships" This is the "normal" worldly path to happiness that is most likely what is causing the depression. This normal path causes us much suffering and we get habituated into it so it will then take years to undo it with Dhamma practice. One usually ordains to transcend suffering in some way. One can also ordain due to great intrest in Buddhism or truth. If one is seriously depressed then one would probably not be accepted as a monk, not that it would necessarily be bad for one's depression to ordain. The claim is that some mild depression and phobias can be cured by using a good method of mindfulness practice. Moment by moment, one puts more focus towards the depression or rather, the precise feeling of the depression that manifests as bodily or mental sensations. If one is practicing properly, one will eventually gain understanding, wisdom or insight(these three words mean pretty much the same thing) about the depression. 

The Meditation on Falling to Sleep: We can be on mindful guard for the arising of the moment we start to fall asleep. This mindfulness should stop the falling asleep and can give an initial boost in the meditation faculties like effort and concentration so we won't fall asleep as much and we can then better practice whatever we want with those improved faculties and wakefulness. We can know when we are starting to fall asleep by finding and tuning into were the bodily or mental experiences are that we know always happen right before we start to fall asleep. We then can easily catch when we will start to fall asleep. 

I had a situation like that. I tried to turn it into a practice to strengthen my patience and compassion(for both of us). 

Did the Buddha teach some measure of "Engaged Buddhism", to maybe more of a lay person audience? Did the Buddha ever teach "Engaged Buddhism" to the Bhikkhus? What Buddhist scriptures support Engaged Buddhist teachings? Is it proper for a Bhikkhu to be political in anyway in the world or in the monastery? NOTE: Engaged Buddhism generally refers to people who actively engage in the world in order to transform it with positive Buddhist ideas & practices. 

There is no real difference between: this current moment in life with future moments afterwards with Nirvana as the climax and this current life with a string of lives afterwards with Nirvana as the climax. The practitioner of the Buddha's teaching, done without ego, needs no future incentive. Therefore, We "should" practice to become enlightened and help others achieve enlightenment in this very life. 

"Learn no-self and there will be no problem":)(a quote I heard somewhere) Sorry, I probably should have explained. OP is practicing anapana right? What I meant was, how about Practicing vipassana to let go of problems, anything and everyone? It gives practitioners wisdom for more appropriate decisions when dealing with problems...although, I'm not so sure about "logical problems" although. 

Is there some website or book somewhere that lists suttas on different criteria like what suttas are more core or more likely to be authentic do to scholarly analysis like comparing Chinese translations or other ways of analysis...that brings me to another question. What are the different ways scholars can find clues or evidence of a sutta's authenticity? 

Google video search or Youtube search: "Ask a monk" OR "Monk Radio" OR Yuttadhammo...life changing and very in harmony with the Buddha's teaching 

What dies or is born? What looks like death or birth is just the mind and body changing just like the mind and body are changing right now. No-self dies , is born or changes. There is no-self if one is having a near death experience or an out of body experience. 

If you step back from this one life and look at the totality of Samsara then no being is better or worse than any other being. Samsara is so vast that any being that kills you in this life, is sure to have died for you in another life. A soldier kills his enemy but he most likely killed a enemy that was at one time his brother. If a being steps on another being without the intention in mind to kill, then it is not a violation of the first precept. On the other hand if one intends to kill but doesn't go through with it for some reason then that is a violation of the first precept. Hope this helps. 

One can't get married while a monastic but one doesn't have to get a divorce to ordain although it might make it more difficult to get ordained if one was already married. It really comes down to one's intentions. If one is trying to become married and become a monk at the same time then one should deeply ponder one's intention. The Dhamma is truly about letting go and while in the beginning it is difficult to let go, mediators who are planning to ordain should plan to transcend sensual desire as well as planning on letting go of absolutely everything. 

Maybe you want to balance your faculties? Like, I do walking meditation before I sit and that usually balances concentration and effort. I am not sure if effort is increased or concentration is increased but I generally have a better sit right after walking meditation. There isn't as many distractions during walking meditation for me at least, I can stay more one pointed on my feet. It gets my momentum up. Some people do some breath meditation or some other form of samatha concentration meditation before mindfulness of mind and body. I went through a period where I couldn't sit down to meditate and I also had no idea why. I probably need to go to a retreat.