I'm going through a 1st bike build (road bike) and looking for some advice on choosing chainring (crankset) and cassette size. I'm pretty much decided on the Shimano Ultegra Groupset (6800), which I plan on purchasing from Chain Reaction: $URL$ I've already decided on crank length, so now it's down to chainring and cassette size. My current cross bike is a Giant AnyRoad CoMax which has a 50/34 crank and 11x32 cassette. This is pretty much perfect for this bike, on occasion downhill I'll be in 2-11, and on occasion on a super steep climb into the wind I'll be in 1-1. This bike weighs about 22.75 lbs, and the road bike I'm building will weigh in at about 16 lbs, so I should be going at least a little bit faster. The spread between the rear gears seems about right, I don't think I would like more fine spacing between gears. Based on this, my inclination for my road bike build would be 52/36 & 11x32. The odd thing is that I can't seem to find a single major manufacturer that uses this combination on a high-end road bike. For example: Trek Madone (50/34 & 11x28): $URL$ Trek Emonda (50/34 & 11x28): $URL$ Trek Domane SL 8 (50/34 & 11x28): $URL$ Trek Domane SL 6 (50/34 & 11x32): $URL$ Specialized S-Works (52/36 & 11x28): $URL$ $URL$ Giant TCR (52/36 & 11x28): $URL$ Felt FR1 (52/36 & 11x28): $URL$ Is there some reason 52/36 & 11x32 seems to be a taboo choice by manufacturers? The 11x32 I'm running on my cross bike currently seems to provide a fine choice between rear gears, if anything I wish the difference between gears was not quite so fine, so sticking with 11x32 at the rear and upping the front from 50/34 to 52/36 to adjust for anticipated slightly faster speed all round seems to be the natural choice. Anybody have some thoughts or advice on this? 

I'm looking for some guidance on how to determine if a certain disc brake is compatible with a certain cyclocross frame. Specifically, here is my particular situation. I have an extra set of Spyre TRP brakes (and wheel set with matching rotors). I'm looking to get a carbon frame direct from a Chinese manufacturer and build a bike, preferably from Dengfu since they seem to have a very good reputation and have been around for quite a while now. Originally I was interested in the FM286: $URL$ But that frame is not available in the size I would need until another production run can be produced, which will be about a 3 month wait. Dengfu does have their older cyclocross frame available in the size I'm looking for, the FM059: $URL$ I'm really not concerned with the 50 gram weight difference, but I would prefer the FM286 due to the newer style front derailleur mount. Anyhow, my question is how universal is the compatibility of disc brakes to frames? Would the Spyre TRP Cs fit both frames in the front and the rear? I notice with the older style frame (the FM059) the rear caliper mount is on the bottom of the seat stay, but on the newer frame (the FM286) the rear caliper mounts are towards the rear of the chain stay. Does this matter as far as rear caliper compatibility? Please advise, thanks! 

I'm experiencing some confusion pertaining to axle choice as I'm attempting to purchase some wheels, if somebody in this forum could provide some clarification it would be greatly appreciated. I just recently completed a bike build with a cyclocross frame, the Dengfu FM286 specifically: $URL$ So far, I've been using wheels/tires from a 2017 Giant AnyRoad CoMax that I'm now going to leave as a backup/2nd bike. The wheels are Giant PX-2 which are very heavy so I'm planning on replacing them with this: $URL$ The Yoeleo 38 mm deep carbon clincher road 700C disc brake wheels, 25 mm wide. I should mention that the Giant PX-2 quick-release wheels fit the FM286 frame perfectly. I measured the distance between the inside of the drop-outs on both the 2017 CoMax and the FM286 at about 100 mm front, 135 mm rear, which I'm under the impression is the industry standard for traditional quick-release skewer type axles. Now on to the source of confusion, which is the axle choice drop-down box on the above linked Yoeleo page, which offers the following options: 

With the recent release of the new Ultegra 8000 groupset, is there an official word on how long Ultegra 6800 parts will be available? Is Shimano still manufacturing Ultegra 6800 parts? Or have they stopped producing 6800 and it's only a matter of how long resellers inventories will last? Is there a way to somewhat reliably estimate the likelihood that, for example, an Ultegra 6800 50/34 170mm chainrings will be available 6 months from now? A year from now? 2 Years from now? For those with substantial past experience, with the release of a new Shimano groupset, how long do resellers still usually offer the previous group for? 

It would appear that the first column (which is oddly untitled) would correspond to the available size, but dimension "A" is different than the frame size on each line! At first I figured this was a mistake or an oddity for this particular frame, however the Dengfu R02 (choosing the "Geometry" tab again): $URL$ and the Hongfu FM098: $URL$ Have the same frame size number vs actual frame size difference. Can somebody clarify this? Is this standard in the industry for aero frames or frames with a curved or non-flat top tube? Is the idea that I should know what size I should be in a flat top tube frame, for example 52cm, then purchase the frame with the name "52cm" even though it is not actually 52cm? Please advise, thanks! 

I've been riding a 2017 Giant AnyRoad CoMax for about 2.5 months now and today I checked the chain wear with a Park Tool Chain Wear Indicator: $URL$ The wear is between 0.5 and .075. I plan on replacing the chain when it gets to .75, which is probably about a month away, perhaps slightly less. So, its time to look at ordering a replacement chain. Upon going to the web page for the bike: $URL$ The specification for the chain is "KMC X11", seems simple enough, but upon searching Amazon for "KMC X11": $URL$ or the KMC page for 11 speed chains: $URL$ I find I'm overwhelmed with the options. They include: -"DLC" (Diamond Like Coating) -TI Nitride -Silver -"ECO PROTEQ" -Nickel Weights seem to include L (light), SL (super light), and XL (extra light). The most popular choice on Amazon seems to be the "KMC X11.93 Nickel": $URL$ which is also the least expensive by far at $24. All the others listed above are at least 2x as much, some 3x - 4x as much. I ride my bike 90+% for commuting, so saving large amounts of weight (ex. carbon vs aluminum frame) is significant, but when getting down to counting grams it doesn't much matter for my riding purposes. Of course the manufacturer's description of the more expensive chains (i.e. all the options other than Nickel) imply that they are worth the extra cost and provide all-worldly benefits, but I'm skeptical I would notice a difference. So here are my questions: -What are the advantages of Silver or TI Nitride over Nickel? -Is there such a thing as "Diamond Like Coating" or is this just manufacturer hype? -Would I notice the slight weight difference with the L vs SL vs XL, or is this something that would only matter to a competitive cyclist trying to shave a few seconds off a run? -Other than the coating, are the more expensive chains actually built more robustly? Of course the KMC website claims the more expensive chains are more resistant to stretching, but is the difference enough to be significant? -My inclination is to go with the $24 Nickel chain, is there a compelling reason that the 2x-4x more expense chains would be better for a non-competitive cyclist? Edit: somebody linked a semi-related post that mentioned Nickel plating, thanks for the suggestion, but that post did not address by other inquiries