In Ireland, as elsewhere, the major monasteries became extremely wealthy in both land and gold. They also gained political importance. What was almost unique to Ireland, however, was that, because of the feudal roots of the Monastic system, many monasteries became increasingly secularised from the 8th century, as the close ties between ruling families and monasteries manifested themselves. The history of early medieval Ireland appears to have been one of endemic internecine conflict, as illustrated by the annals and legend of Conn of the Hundred Battles. The Irish monasteries were also a part of that culture. They were often allied (frequently by ties of blood) with other local kings. To the best of my knowledge, the chronicles do not make it clear whether it was monks, or lay brothers, or the local population who owed service to the monastery who actually did the fighting. You mentioned the example of the war between the monasteries of Taghmon and Ferns in 817. In that case, Cathal mac Dúnlainge, a king of the Uí Cheinnselaig of South Leinster, allied with the monastery of Taghmon in an attempt to strengthen his position against other kings of Leinster. You could just have easily have quoted the case of Feidhlimidh mac Crimthainn, King of Muster in the ninth century. He he had previously been a monk (supposedly a Céilí Dé, or "Companion of God", no less!), who rose to the post of Abbot and then to be King. In the course of his reign, he plundered and burned the abbeys of Fore, Clonmacnoise, Kildare, Durrow and Tallaght. He also set himself as Abbot at Cork and at Clonfert. Despite this, after his death, he was later considered a saint by some in Ireland. 

Further, the Bill of rights confirmed that Parliament had the right to limit the use of remaining prerogatives (which they did in the Triennial Act of 1694). In practice, this meant that the monarch could no longer dissolve Parliament without the consent of Parliament. (There was a specific exception to this however. Parliament was dissolved on the death of the monarch, as happened in 1820 for example, although - to be fair - this is very much an extreme case!) The second important point is that, in the nineteenth century, the monarch appointed the Prime Minister and had the absolute right to appoint whomsoever they wished. Obviously, this could - and did- cause problems. In fact, this had been the cause of what is now known as "the Decade of Ministerial Instability" under George II in the previous century. HM government have an interesting article of the development of the institution of Prime Minister on their website. Finally, we should remember that political parties in the UK only began to coalesce into the kind of parties that we would recognise today in the late eighteenth / early nineteenth centuries, over the period from about 1760 to 1834. Previously, the "Whig" and "Tory" groups in Parliament are best thought of a loose coalitions of MPs with broadly similar views and goals. However, there was no "party line" on particular bills that came before Parliament. By 1834, the groups had become sufficiently well established that Robert Peel could issue the Tamworth Manifesto defining the goals of a "Conservative Party". The split was effectively complete by the watershed election of 1852, where the two-party system of Conservative and Liberal parties emerged. 

It appears that the author, Margrit Kennedy, has either misunderstood or is deliberately misrepresenting the situation with Medieval bracteates. 

The situation in early medieval Ireland was rather unique, as I explained in an answer to another question. The situation there was largely a legacy of the fact that the early monasteries had been founded under Irish Brehon Law. The point made by M & H. Whittock about the attacks in Ireland seems reasonable, although the comment about Aldhelm, abbot of Malmesbury, seems slightly misleading in that context. In fact, as Barbara Yorke explains in Wessex in the Early Middle Ages: 

If he felt that way in September of the previous year, that would go a long way to explain the reasons for his refusal. What we do know is that Lincoln wrote to Secretary of State John M Clayton on 21 August 1849, advising that he had received a letter notifying him of his appointment as "Secretary of the Teritory of Oregon" [sic] and accompanied by a Commission. He said: 

Bottles with long, narrow necks that are often called "sprinkler bottles" have been around since the Roman period. Their use can certainly be attested from the 13th century. This page from Behind the Scenes at the Getty includes an example of a late 14th / early 15th century sprinkler flask from Byzantium which: 

Alan Bennett was interviewed about the play The History Boys by the Telegraph. In the interview he was asked explicitly about that phrase. He replied: 

The obvious (to me) example that springs to mind comes from the First World War. Although the First World War is rightly regarded as a highly mechanised war, there was one aspect which was almost medieval in nature. Trench raids were small-scale surprise attacks on enemy positions which were usually carried out at night. Raiding parties would normally carry ranged weapons, like pistols and hand-grenades, but these were very much weapons of last resort (hand grenades in the First World War were often unreliable, and also risked causing casualties to your own side in the close confines of a trench). The usual weapons carried were close-quarter weapons like knives, brass knuckles, bayonets, entrenching tools, hatchets, pickaxe-handles, and a variety of homemade trench raiding clubs and maces. 

The objects between Seti and Thoth appear to be Nemset libation vessels placed on stands and topped with lotus flowers. The Nemset was a kind of vase with a spout that was used to sprinkle water or other liquids during purification rites. These appear not infrequently in temple and tomb reliefs, and are often inscribed with hieroglyphic texts. There is certainly a border on the vessels here, but I can't make out any inscription inside it. There are some particularly nice examples in the temple complex at Abydos that allow us to observe more detail. For example, one in the Inner Osiris Hall of the temple of Seti I: 

A cannonball from a British 9lb cannon can do a lot of damage! Further down the scale, a simple musket-ball could also kill an armoured cavalryman at that time. This is the cuirass of Lieutenant Colonel Achambault: 

Yes, current archaeological evidence does suggest that humans were hunting with dogs in the Palaeolithic period, well before they developed agriculture. There is now good evidence from both archaeology and DNA analysis that dogs were domesticated well before the end of the last Ice Age (at least 11,500 BCE). Excavations at the Mesolithic site of Star Carr here in the UK has provided solid evidence for what are believed to be domesticated dogs dating from about 9000 BCE. Agriculture eventually arrived here in the Neolithic period (~4000 BCE). The evidence that dogs were domesticated long before man began to plant crops now appears overwhelming. Now, to be clear, on the question of whether humans were using dogs for hunting, the evidence is not nearly as solid. However, by far the most likely probability, based on the evidence that we do have, is that they were. As an example (the one discussed under 'diet' in the Wikipedia article on Palaeolithic dogs referenced above), analysis of the palaeo-diets of palaeolithic humans, wolves and dogs from a site in Moravia, has shown that the three groups had quite different diets. If the dogs had been living on the periphery of human societies, living off human food waste, there should be a significant overlap in their diets. The fact that no such overlap was seen suggests this was not the case. In fact, the most likely explanation we have at present, based on ethnographic comparisons with how some modern Arctic populations manage their hunting dogs, is that the dogs were being used for hunting. The site mentioned in the paper linked above was carbon-dated to 27,500 – 29,500 BCE. There is pretty good evidence that the the eight Neolithic so-called "founder crops" (emmer wheat, einkorn wheat, hulled barley, peas, lentils, bitter vetch, chick peas, and flax) were cultivated in the Levant from about 11,500 BCE. These would have arrived in what is now Greece some time later. This is some 16,000 years after the earliest evidence we currently have for humans hunting with dogs.