The example you gave is correct. What you are missing is that you took the derivative of the demand function and not of the revenue function. What you should have done is: $Revenue = R = Price*Quantity = (-Q + 120) * Q = -Q^2 + 120Q$ $Marginal \; Revenue = MR=\frac{dR}{dQ} = \frac{d(P*Q)}{dQ} = 120 - 2Q$ What you did was: $MR = \frac{dP}{dQ}=-1$. Hence, you took the derivative of the Price and not of Revenue to get marginal revenue, which is wrong. 

The question (implicitly) assumes that there are relevant skill differences in the population. As you say, it is true that in a perfect labor market there are no wage differences if workers can move freely across sectors. If your course defined perfect labor markets as having homogeneity of labor and perfect mobility, then the given answer is wrong. However, typically these two factors are not necessarily a feature of perfect labor markets. That usually just means there is no market power on either side. As the question asks about the case of different labor supplies, there can be no homogeneity of labor nor perfect mobility. Different labor supply is only possible if not everyone can do each type of work, meaning there are more available workers for certain jobs, thereby implying not all workers have the skills to do all jobs. Hence, to the extent that the question assumes supply differences are possible, it also assumes that workers cannot move freely across sectors. That is the reason wages do not equalize according to the answer. 

The deadweight loss from the monopoly decreases. This is because the deadweight loss comes from the price being too high (higher than the marginal cost), which leads to not enough goods being consumed in equilibrium. Since the subsidy redices the price, the deadweight loss decreases. The subsidy itself does not increase the deadweight loss, because the only thing it does is reduce the price and there are no other effects. One issue may be that additional deadweight loss is caused by the taxes required to finance the subsidy. If these are lump-sum taxes then they do not affect the deadweight loss as they are non-distortionary and do not affect prices. In fact it is possible to completely remove the deadweight loss with a subsidy. This requires lump sum taxes to be an available tax instrument, so that raising the money for the subsidy doesn't cause deadweight loss itself. This is an old result that goes back to Robinson (1934). However, although she first noticed the result, she did not advocate that this would be a good policy, unless the subsidy was financed by taxing the monopolist's rents. This is because of concerns such a policy would have on income distribution. 

The idea is that the world economy is closed and value only comes from production. It is maybe best to forget about money for a moment here. Since money derives its value directly from production, anything we say about production applies to money as well. Since the world economy is closed a country that is producing less than it consumes must "borrow goods" from other countries to consume (otherwise it cannot consume more than it produces by definition). We can't have the whole world consuming more than it produces, so someone else must be consuming less, i.e. "lends". This is the case of a trade deficit, i.e. positive net imports. If a country "borrow goods" it effective also borrows money. A currency's value (purchasing power) is proportionate to the number of goods in that economy, since all money must be able to buy all goods by definition and legally. (If only 1 loaf of bread and only 1 dollar exist, the dollar has a purchasing power of 1. If (only) 2 dollars exist then each dollar has a purchasing power of 0.5). How this may work is that the exporting country lends money to the importing country in order to be able to buy more than it sells. In a barter economy this happens directly without money, the extra goods given are loans (as goods in equal value have not been receieved). Since money is not "real" in an economic sense, the same must happen with money. This happens, since each currency's value is related to production and the importing country is producing less (as it doesn't have enough to spare), while the exporting country is producing more (it has more than enough), therefore the respective currency values reflect this. Very often an importing company will take out a credit from the exporting company and this reflects itself at the country level. Even if money isn't actually lent, it happens through adjustment in exchange rates and interest rates. Since money's value depends on production value, this is also the reason the current acount + the capital account must be equal to 0. For any goods bought or sold, money must be paid. Its like saying the value of goods you receive at the store must equal the value of money you give to the cashier. If you get more goods than you have money for you'll simply owe the cashier. Internationally (but alson domestically) you only have money in value of what you produce. Therefore if you produce less than you consume, you don't have enough money (production=money) to pay the cashier for the goods you consume. Further, the current account is constructed similarly as an account from accounting. It sums up to 0 by (that) construction. Goods leave, money enters, they must have the same value. For more on this you can also consult any introductory accounting book. 

The response to the Lucas Critique was the emergence of RBC and DSGE models. Using microeconomic foundations of macro models we can simulate how behavior changes when policy changes and only estimate "deep" structural paramateres that are not policy variant. Before microfoundations we were estimating models where the estimation included the actions of people. With microfounded models today we try to seperate the actions. This was not possible in older models as we actually did not consider how people act or react, whereas microfoundations tell you how people would react. However this is a difficult task as once you introduce agents that actively think about their actions you must take into acount their future expectations, which are unknown. One way to deal with this are rational expectations. A further issue is that such models predict reactions that are quicker than in the data. If agents are perfectly rational, have perfect foresight and all information, they react quickly and perfectly. The solution to this today is to add frictions that slow these reactions down. However old models that we used to estimate (think about IS-LM and especially AS-AD models) also have the huge issue that people are too stupid (only adaptive (backward looking) expectations, do not take information into account when forming expectations, don't think about what may come in the future) and this is partially a piece of the Lucas Critique. Now we have the problem that people are too smart or super-rational. Some models (see models where some fraction of agents are "Rule of Thumb Consumers") now also assume that some agents are fully rational (many indeed are) while some just are backward looking (as in the normal IS-LM or AS-AD model), as a balance of the two things to generate a more realistic picture. As for the critique of rationality: In many experimental micro studies rationality fails. However this does not tell us how many small deviations from rationality aggregate, which is what macro is interested in. It may occur that from many different deviations in different directions that in aggregate rationality is still a good approximation. Furthermore approaches have been developed now to deviate from rational expectations. These are very difficult to solve though. One interesting way is to assume people are rational, but do not have all the information, which is a reason most people make mistakes. These are models of information frictions. Key words: Rational Inattention (e.g. Sims) and Inattentiveness (e.g. Reis). Another related approach includes Learning Models. To summarize: we try to have models that are immune to the Lucas Critique. These often require rational expectations to be solved, but other approaches are also being developed.