On Ubuntu 10.04, I have a long Python program that prints a bunch of output; I run this under "nohup". However, it waits until the end to put all the text in nohup.out. When I run similar programs under FreeBSD, each line gets sent to nohup.out. Is there a Ubuntu setting I can set to get the output faster? 

I would like to automate the installation of FreeBSD 8.2 for a project I'm working on. I know the answer to every question in the standard installation, so even a script that just pushes keystrokes would be acceptable. All clues appreciated. FWIW, I tried this question on the FreeBSD fora ($URL$ but only got one response that didn't solve the problem. Maybe ServerFaulters will have more ideas. 

First-hand recommendation: Rootbsd.net. They are part of a larger Linux hosting house, but their FreeBSD expertise is quite high. I have had a few in-depth conversations with tech support, and always come away impressed. 

It has nothing to do with Plesk. The problem is with the way SSL and HTTP work. Basically, SSL doesn't know the name of your server before it starts, and so Apache can't pick which set of certs to use. See $URL$ for more detail on this chicken-and-egg problem. 

I need to make a quick-and-dirty NAT out of a Ubuntu 10.10 box. Just "this side is NATted with DHCP handing out 192.168.x.0/24" and "this side gateways to the Internet", and nothing else interesting. There seems to be many choices with varying degrees of documentation. What's the easiest way to do this? 

The "default" category is supposed to get all of the logging that doesn't happen in other categories. However, when I start named, I get a bunch of messages in /var/log/daemon.log, and then more in the named file. I would like them all to go into the named file so I don't have to look two places to figure out what might have gone wrong when starting. 

One of our Active Directory servers rebooted after a windows update this morning multiple hours out of the expected time period for updates. I found the automatic maintenance task "Regular Maintenance" in Scheduled Tasks under Microsoft/Windows/TaskScheduled. It is set to run at 3 AM which lines up with what the GUI shows and our intentions. However the "Next Run" value is 4:15 AM tomorrow and looking back in history the task is never triggered at the scheduled time, always running 1-4 hours late. What could be causing this and is there any way to remedy? I could find no useful info in event logs. Edit: our primary Active Directory server just restarted at 9:30 AM, more than 7 hours after the scheduled maintenance is set to run 

I needed to setup 2 vms and naively simply setup one from scratch, made sure it worked correctly, then copied it to another host. Now getting message "the trust relationship between this workstation and the primary domain failed" which apparently is due to the SID being the same on both machines. I've looked around and see a lot of conflicting info about sysprep and how to resolve at this point. Can I just update SID the machine having domain issues and then all will be well? If so, how can I accomplish that? Thank you 

Am I correct in understanding that generally IaaS (looking primarily at rackspace cloud servers) will provide a virtual server where OS updates, software updates, anti-virus, managed backups and other common non-hardware server admin tasks will be required by the client. With PaaS (looking at heroku) on the other hand almost all of that is handled by the host with only maybe occasional external backups necessary. Flexibility and customization as the main trade offs? 

Trying to use plink for a project and running into problems on Windows 7 x64. It simply goes to a blank line and hangs there. On a 32-bit XP development machine it runs as expected. We have tried XP compatiblity mode but it did not help. 

I am creating a test system that will be run by others. It will have some kernel mods, and some of the default software in /usr/bin will be replaced. Because of this, I want to prevent the users from doing "sudo apt-get update" or "sudo apt-get install". These systems will not have any valuable data, and will mostly be behind corporate firewalls, and thus it is safe to completely punt on security-based releases. FWIW, moving apt-* and dpkg* to /usr/dontusethese does not work because some other processes like (gag) MOTD updating relies on them being in /usr/bin and whine if they are not there. 

If you want to expand beyond the Linux distro world yet still stay small-footprint, check out installing FreeBSD. It comes with Sendmail (general ugh, but good enough out of the box) as part of the base install. You didn't say how little your old computer has, but FreeBSD should run just fine on something as little as 64M. 

I have a couple of VMs that cannot have guest additions installed, and I pause and resume them with days between. I normally forget to nudge NTP when I start up the VM. Is there a good way to tell ntp to be very aggressive in how often it should check for changes? 

Is there a way to get all of BIND's startup messages to go into the log named in the config file? For example, in named.conf, I have: 

I have a specific use case where I would really like to be able to change a user's password with a single command with no interactivity. This is being done in a safe fashion (over SSH, and on a system with only one user able to be logged in), so it's fine to expose the new password (and even the old one, if necessary) on the command line. FWIW, it's a Ubuntu system. I just want to avoid having to add something Expect-like to this system for just this one task. 

We are pulling an Active Directory server out and modifying DNS settings on all systems. Attempting to update DNS list on a vm host results in a validation error that the domain value is not filled. How could this have been setup originally without, what does it do and is there any harm in adding our domain? 

Overnight one of our servers (Win 2K8 R2) began having problems connecting to a network share (Win 2K3 R2 x64) by IP. The server has for months accessed the network share by IP for certain purposes, and the previous server it replaced did so as well. The server can access the network share by name. The server can ping the network share server by both name and IP. Every other computer on the network can access the network share by name and IP. 

I'm trying to create a process for comparing two folders that should contain exactly the same files. Would like to be able to modify a file's content without changing the attributes as if the file was accidentally corrupted. Any way to accomplish this? 

This has been a recurring issue for us both on our office network and production. It rarely matters since normal traffic rarely comes close to utilizing 100mbps but when doing vmware conversions it is particularly annoying for it to take 8 hours instead of maybe 2 due to this limitation. My laptop and one of our office servers are showing as gigabit on our switch and we are seeing such speeds, however another server and NAS we are testing goes down to 100mbps mode when going through our primary office gigabit switch by way of wall drops (same wall plate as laptop). When we hook up the NAS to a local "desktop" gigabit switch it switches to 1000mbps mode and tests as such speeds to the laptop. In production only half of the nics report as 1000mbps though they all should. Any insight into why this might happen or what should be taken into account when troubleshooting would be appreciated. 

I have started a local Docker registry with and it works fine for pushing and pulling. In a script that is going to pull from this local registry, I want to first test whether the registry is up. Is there any good way to do this short of trying a pull and catching the "Error while pulling image..." error? 

When booting into Linux, there are sometimes one or two lines that get quickly cleared. I think that some of them don't even appear in dmesg. If nothing else, I want to suppress the clear before the "login:" prompt. Is there a kernel command or sysctl that I can set to prevent this so I can read them on the console screen after booting? 

This is a feature/bug of putty, not FreeBSD. putty always tells the other OS what its width and height are. You can show this easily by doing one of your truncating commands, then widen the putty screen. You can see that the lines were truncated. Now give the comand again: you will see more columns. In essence, what you are asking putty to do is to lie about the width of your window (giving a number larger than what it really is showing) and to wrap the longer lines intelligently. That will work fine for and and so on, and fail miserably for or any other full-screen editor. Such lying can also cause display of information that can be misinterpreted because of the wrapping. There may be a mode of putty that does this, but I could not find it. 

I have a small Python-based server program that runs fine, but I want launched each time the server is rebooted. What is the least that I need to put into an /etc/init.d script to work? I only care about "stop" and "start" (and thus probably the trivial "restart"). 

I need to set up an ESXi 5.1 box to run some pre-made VMs that will not run well under VMware Workstation. I have started testing this, but cannot figure out where the @#$% the control comes from other than vSphere Client, which runs only on Windows. I get strong hints that, at least under earlier versions of ESXi, you could do most of the necessary things (start and stop VMs, add files to the datastore, configure new VMs, and so on) from a command line. However, VMware's site is now so littered with related products, it is impossible to find whether this low-end scenario is supported. I would imagine that a lot of serverfaulters would rather not have some of their critical infrastucture running on Windows. Let us set up a hypervisor box, and we'll control it from SSH. If there is a guide for how to do this for ESXi 5.1, I'm not finding it. Clues appreciated. 

There have been 2 instances now where the Script checkbox under "IIS > Sites > Site > Handler Mappings > Edit Feature Permissions" has become unchecked. What could possibly be causing this to occur? Haven't been able to find any information online about others experiencing this problem. This could just be a coincidence but I just realized that this has happened twice now within a day or so of posting a full update to the folder which the site points to. Usually we upload a new folder of code, rename folders and the new folder takes the place of the old folder. The permission does not immediately uncheck, it is hours later. Is there any reasonable explanation why this might cause the script permission to disable automatically? 

Was in the process of some big copies from usb drive directly connected to nas and suddenly one of the servers could not connect to nas device by name but others can. Forcing in host file didn't help. What could cause this and anything that can be reset to resolve? UPDATE - triggered failover to backup NAS and connection by (same) name was resolved, but still want to figure out what happened and why only this server was affected 

The solution ended up being to run commands through a simple PHP page. The connection was internal to our network and we weren't worried about encryption, just remotely triggering a command and getting the output. There must have been another command line scripting tool we could have used but the approach we took ended up being very simple and met our needs. 

We are settings up a site on GoDaddy's managed wordpress product. For mail to go through the contact form we must use the relay server . Mail sent through the contact form is only ever directed internally to our own Office365 hosted mail boxes. In order to prevent Office365 from marking the messages as spam we must update our spf record properly. The details of the message when sent to junk mail indicate the IP address needs to be included in our spf. When we add it to our record it correctly allows spf to pass and mail flows to our inboxes. However it is possible the mail could come from various IPs used by GoDaddy. GoDaddy provides this helpful page that describes the spf change to make. $URL$ When I make this change, adding in our record, the mail gets put into junk by Office365. The info again shows 198.71.225.38 as failing.