This, according to the above article, takes place between the formation of the alliance in 557, and another invasion of the Hephthalites In 562 by Khosrow II. However, the entry for Khushnavaz seems to tell a different story, placing his reign much earlier: 

This same article also goes into detail concerning the actual loading drill followed, which had been recently changed. 

As explained elsewhere, the scabbard is made to match the sword, and the form of attachment to the belt varies. Looking at images of 17th century gentlemen, most swords appear to have been carried in a nearly diagonal fashion,and likely would have used a Rapier Hanger to hold the weapon. 

There were actually two mosques built within the Parthenon, the first was mostly destroyed when the explosion took place in 1687. The second mosque, which you are referring to is discussed in The Parthenon: From Antiquity to the Present, by Jenifer Neils. On page 324 it is stated that the small mosque had been damaged in sieges in 1821, 1826, and was finally 

A good definition of history that historians use is 'History is the study of change over time.' Historical studies, to a large extent, rely on theory and methodology. A series of facts is a narrative, it is not a historical study. Analyzing those facts, placing them into context, understanding the underlying factors that contributed to those facts occurring, all of that and then some is encompassed by the study of 'history.' Furthermore, history is very much interdisciplinary. Various graduate programs in history will encourage students to take classes in other disciplines (anthropology is a perfect example) and incorporate what they learn outside the field into their dissertation, articles, reviews, books, etc. Historians usually have to become immersed in the subjects they study. Thus economic historians have to have a general and at times detailed understanding of economics that's relative to the time period and location they specialize in. The same applies to politics, labor, medicine, technology, philosophy, warfare, etc. I can't comment on what those outside the discipline of history do, but I can say that 'outsiders' who try to write about history usually fail in that they do not understand how to incorporate either theory or methodology. What readers are left with are either popular histories that add nothing new to the canon or failed attempts to discuss historical subjects/ideas. 

It wasn't an issue of disarming as much as disbanding. Unless the legion was under the control of the local (Rome) ruler, it wasn't allowed to enter the city as a unit: 

I am going to say Yes, to the title question, and No to the question in the body. Is there a link... There is a genetic link, but not in the direction you were expecting. An article published on the National Geographic website makes some claims concerning Native American DNA signatures located among Icelandic populations: 

The book Private and Official Correspondence of Gen. Benjamin F. Butler contains a copy of documents concerning the return, on sept 23 1862, of the material confiscated from the consul Amadie Conturie. 

One last note, an article I found of interest concerning Mosby, and his attitude towards slavery. From a letter Mosby wrote a letter to Samuel "Sam" Chapman In June 1907: 

Whether or not they were dictators is a separate question and one that does not necessarily relate to what they should or would wear. 

This is a very hard question to answer for numerous reasons and one that will never be answered to everyone's satisfaction. Here are some things to consider and some problems that frequently come up when you're dealing with Lend Lease. First off, significant Lend Lease aid was not felt until 1943. The Lend Lease that arrived before was nowhere near enough to make a decisive difference on how 1941 and 1942 turned out. There are some articles/arguments that have recently come out which attempt to argue that the Lend Lease tanks that did make it in 1941 played a decisive role in the defense of Moscow, but I don't believe they are conclusive enough (see the following article: British “Lend-Lease” Tanks and the Battle for Moscow, November–December 1941—A Research Note). Secondly, the immediate problems that come up when attempting to qualify Lend Lease are the following. Just quoting numbers of what was sent is not enough. One needs to account for what was sent, when it arrived (and how much arrived), and when it was actually incorporated into the Red Army and used in the field. Additionally, one has to keep in mind that the Soviets began to scale back production of certain things because they knew they would receive them through Lend Lease. One example is trucks. The Soviets were producing practically none because they knew to expect them through Lend Lease, but that doesn't mean they couldn't produce more if they needed to. Many former truck producing factories were switched over to light tank production. Since the Red Army moved to relying on medium and heavy tanks, light tanks were something the Red Army could in theory do without or with less of. This type of analysis needs to be applied to everything the Soviet Union received. Specifically, what they received, if it was not coming through Lend Lease what were the alternatives? Meaning could they produce it internally or import it from another state/country (England, Canada, etc.). The Soviet Union did not just receive Lend Lease from the US. Finally, the Soviet Union participated in reverse Lend Lease, sending back materials to the US. All of the above is just the tip of the huge iceberg that studying Lend Lease means, it's simply impossible to account for all the variables. 

Back on topic (sorry), the casualties on the sinking of the HMHS Paris appear to be amazingly low (from Naval History.Net): 

I think you are probably correct with your assessment of the purpose and age of the item. It does appear to be a Victorian era watch fob, worn on a chain to aid in retrieving the pocket watch. A similar item in Etsy shows the similarity in overall design and especially the tassel style. 

These charts provide an overview of the changes in birth rate and marriage rate before, during and after the war. 

So some sources indicate that the Holy Roman Empire under Conrad III, (who took power in 1138) did try to follow the ruling (which was in in April 1139), it was for only a limited time at best, while others (apparently everyone else) 'skirted the rules'. Most information I find seems to be treating this as a crossbow ban, regardless of our interpretation of the actual text of the Canon. (I have seen several sources listing it as slingers and archers). I have not found any mention of an actual ban of the use of bows (beside the later Flemish cities reference). 

First, the Soviet Union and Germany never agreed to attack Poland or share it. They agreed on spheres of influence, which would come into play with 'border changes'. Said 'border changes' did not mean an invasion. Hitler had accomplished much without war and there was little reason for him to think he would not get away with victimizing Poland with no real consequences from the western allies, especially if he could get a pact going with the Soviet Union. Secondly, the Soviet Union, or more specifically Stalin, had no idea that Hitler would be invading Poland. They waited to see what would happen knowing that if territory did start getting detached and passed around, they would get theirs (similar to how Poland received a piece of Czechoslovakia). Now, in the case of no non-aggression pact with the Soviet Union, German plans for an invasion of Poland were already 'set in stone'. The invasion would have commenced with or without Soviet 'cooperation'. Hitler was a gambler, he would have gone ahead with the invasion betting that the western allies would do nothing of worth against Germany. 

The above quote appears to be an excerpt from Memorial and Biographical History of the Coast Counties of Central California. Mulligan is also discussed in more length in The California Padres and Their Missions 

The book Ancient Building Technology, Volume 3: Construction (2 vols) By Wright, pg 235 seems to sum this up with a line: 

For little more direct information about the ethnographic maps, and specifically those about the Balkans, an article(pdf) on Ethnic Mapping on the Balkans (1840–1925) addresses some of the sources used by Kiepert (pdf pg 15): 

Horn. The drinking horn, known for centuries , was documented in use in several Viking era sagas such as the Prose Edda and Beowulf. 

These are essentially the ranks your father held. You can find some info here showing what insignia and the progression of the enlisted ranks. The ranks you list represent are shown as: 

All three had specific reasons for appearing in military uniforms if and when they did (keep in mind that they did not regularly or always wear them). Stalin utilized the victory in the Great Patriotic War to establish his demi-God status throughout the Soviet Union and portray his actions in the 1930s as necessary for the war's outcome. He used the war as a tool and himself, or rather the idea of 'Stalin', as the ultimate genius behind the victory over Nazi Germany. Khrushchev allied himself with the likes of Zhukov when he was attempting to take over after Stalin. It was under Khrushchev that the first military memoirs about the war were published (Stalin refused to allow much to be written about the war for fear of anyone asking the wrong questions). Khrushchev was a commissar but never really held any position of importance. Finally, Brezhnev jumped on the 'War Cult' bandwagon because he tried to use the war to excuse previous failures and attempted to utilize the deeds of that generation to inspire the current and future generation(s) by having veterans visit schools to talk with students, by making May 9 a national holiday (it took 20 years for that to happen), etc. He was also a commissar during the war, lower ranking than Khrushchev, and his claim to fame was 'Malaia Zemlia'. This was an operation in the latter part of the war where a diversionary operation was so successful that the main operation was called off and all the forces earmarked for the main offensive were instead switched over to Malaia Zemlia (it was an attempt to liberate Novorossiisk in 1943). Brezhnev never played an important role, but if you look at the literature from the time period, he was apparently pretty damn important. And in that picture, you can see that he was only one of 4 people in the entire Soviet Union to receive the coveted 'Hero of the Soviet Union' Gold Star three times (the other three were Zhukov and two of the highest scoring aces in the Soviet Air Force).