The trick is to remember how pedals are designed to grip. Decent pedals should grip your foot from going forwards or backwards, as well as obviously holding your weight. The only direction they don't grip is upwards away from the pedal. The trick is to rotate the pedal so that it's allows you to grip in the direction you want. You rotate your feet towards 45 degrees and you will be able to actually grip your pedals to pull up the back end of the bike. Keep in mind how the pedals grip and you shouldn't go far wrong. Assuming you've dipped the front of your foot the action you need is effectively pushing backwards and upwards at the same time to lift your rear wheel. Don't dip it so much that you end up going off the front of the pedal though. The backwards push should keep you gripped on the pedal while the upwards action lifts the wheel. As you said, there are plenty of videos out there. This one explains it in a way that roughly matches how I figured out how to do it. The relevant part is about 2:10 in. $URL$ 

Another source of rattling can be the positioning of the fixings. If it's a road type then the stays can sometimes be moved along the mudguard to make the contact points wider and reduce rattling. 

Your description sounds more like a buckle in the rim. Loose cones can be felt by holding the rim and trying to waggle the wheel side to side. If it does, you have loose cones. The once a rotation comment sounds more like a ding though. Once you've checked your cones aren't loose, try spinning the wheel and see if the rim appears to wobble in relation to the brakes. If it does it's most likely out of true (not running true). The simplest way to get good results in that case is to ask a bike shop to true it. 

That sounds like the rear cogs are worn, the likely fix is a new chain and set of cogs for the rear (you have to replace them both at the same time otherwise the problem will persist, perversely even worse). I suspect the bike shop fixed/replaced the stuff that was obviously visibly knackered and hoped for the best. In truth I suspect they needed to do what they did plus replace the cogs and chain, but they were hoping that wasn't the case because the bill would have been even higher. In my experience bike shops don't tend to actually ride the bikes so they can miss stuff I wish they wouldn't. That's one of the reasons I learnt to do my own maintenance. In general the trick with bike shops is to check your bike before you sign off on the work, i.e. I ask to ride my bike around to test it before I leave the bike shop (and pay). If I do find I still have a problem after leaving the bike shop and paying I go straight back and explain the problem and say it's not quite sorted yet. They are normally very reasonable and will sort the problem without additional charge, assuming it doesn't require new parts. Your best bet is to go back to the bike shop and explain the problem isn't quite sorted and if possible demonstrate it to them. It will cost more money though, it sucks but unfortunately bikes aren't generally that cheap when it comes to maintenance (compared to the initial cost of the bike). 

It really depends on how you're lagging. If it's because of feeling tired keeping up with them then reducing friction might be an option. I'd suggest that the most likely reason for lagging behind is that there is a fundamental speed difference though. See whether you're having to pedal faster than them to keep up. Your top speed is governed by your cogs. Take a look the number of teeth on the front and back. If you have a 13 tooth smallest cog on the back you could get that cassette replaced with one that starts at 11 teeth. Up front you're probably running a 46 tooth chainset whereas your road bike friends are probably running 50 teeth. Again, you can replace that if you fancy it. Just be careful if you do make it faster that you don't lose the low end you want for getting up hills. You should be able to get quite a decent range with the right set of cogs. Reduced drag from narrower tires may reduce the friction allowing you to accelerate more easily and maintain speed better but won't affect your top speed appreciably. Clipless pedals may allow you to improve your efficiency with pedalling. I would only look at these when I was happy with a bike though, rather than as a solution to a problem like that. Update: Based on zenbike's comment I'd say the switching to a road bike warrants more consideration. Assuming it is the gears he's right that a hybrid may well be difficult to alter to run the gear ratio you want to keep up with your friends. When thinking of getting a new bike take a look at how similar it is to the ones your friends ride. Simply getting a cheap heavy one if they have light racers may well leave you with a similar problem. If 2 bikes have the same gear ratio but one is heavier it will be able to go as fast, but it'll be more effort to get it up to speed, and a little more effort to cruise at the same speed. It's less of a problem than not having the right ratio, but you'll probably find your self lagging a little at first. 

On the manufacturers page for your pump there is a video showing how you switch the pump over from presta to schrader. At the top right of the Topeak PocketRocket page there is a link to this YouTube video "How to change internal pump head parts" As far as PSI goes, you can either go for what feels right, or buy a separate pressure gauge. It is probably possible to buy something very cheap that should do a good enough job. Some people swear by their specific tire pressure, others don't really notice the difference. Just avoid letting them get too low because that will cause damage to the tires. 

Another potential cause of your problem might be your axle being wider than your frame. I had that with an old steel framed road bike and a new wheel and it was subtle enough that I didn't notice, but my LBS pointed it out when I complained of a similar phenomenon. If that's the case you may be able to cut the axle down to fit. I actually avoided that and simply found a different skewer since this was a QR axle that seemed to be able to cope better with the frame/axle. 

I've just got a new set of crank brothers egg beater pedals and I can't tell which pedal is for the left side, and which is for the right just from looking at them. Is there an obvious way to tell without simply trying to screw them in? Update: There isn't an obvious L and R that I (or another pair of eyes) could see. The only text I could see was really fine print that mentioned the torque to put the pedals in. I couldn't see anything in the instructions that appeared to say which one was which either. 

Do all shock pumps use a schrader valve? I've just taken a look at a couple of product listings and found no mention of the valve type. I guess that might be to avoid people buying those pumps for regular tires after reading that they connect to schrader valves, but right now I'm trying to figure out what is correct for my new fork. The fork description states that it has a schrader valve, and I was able to confirm that with my roady style hand pump, but obviously only top it up a tiny amount. 

After doing some more reading after my initial question I suspect it's precisely because a lot of those bikes have a presta type valve. Shocks have a much lower volume of air so they require a lot more precise amounts of air, and therefore leakage generally needs to be avoided. They also normally appear to want a higher pressure than you would normally put into a tire. This means that you generally can not use the same pump you would on your fork. The modern shock pumps tend to have dials for pressure readings, special fittings to prevent any leakage, and can go up to a higher pressure. 

As Jason S said it could be your headset. Engage the front brake while standing by your bike and try to move your bike forwards and backwards. Do you feel play in the front end then? If so it's likely to be the headset. 

Actually I think you will find they are Ultegra, circa something like 2009. Since the technology trickles down you will find that they look like modern 105's. Take a look at the CRC product listings for examples of both the modern Ultegra and the old BR-650. $URL$ Note: the 2009 is a guess based on comments/reviews found online about that model. 

Newcastle, UK Scratch Bikes is a bike sharing scheme in Newcastle upon Tyne that grew out of a Newcastle University venture. 

Assuming it's not been used it probably needs a touch of lube and some adjustment. If your friend only rode it for a month he probably didn't even get the bedding in service done on it. New cables on a bike normally bed in after a little while (time depends on use) and so things go out of line fairly quickly initially which is why bike shops normally do a free first service, to tighten things back up. The lube on the chain may well be fairly stiff by now so I'd also give the chain a clean and a lube to hopefully loosen it up. There are quite a few questions on this site about chain care which should hopefully help with that. 

I think you'll find that they are actually a different size. I'm struggling to find any information about it online but I can show you a picture of a tool that should deal with it. It's hard to say what the difference in size is but there is an obvious difference in thickness of the ends. You probably just need to find the other size tool and take out the metal end first. 

Could you be confusing diameter with width? Hybrids often have 700c wheels which are a larger diameter than 26" wheels more common on Mountain Bikes. The tire widths fitted to 700c tires are narrower than the mountain bike tires. As user973810 says the width comparison normally goes as you observed from road bike to mountain bike. The dimensions aren't made any less confusing by the switch between metric and imperial, i.e 26" vs 700mm. Ditto for the widths. 

I managed to break a steel frame about 2 years after buying it. That did involve a crash a year after owning it and then riding it to destruction though. I noticed after the crash (into a ditch) that the geometry felt shorter and tighter. I just carried on riding it though. In hind sight that might not have been the most intelligent thing to do. 

One of the main problems with converting an old bike is the width of the headset. Old rigid mountain bikes[1] commonly have a 1" headset while modern suspension bikes have a 1 1/8" diameter headset. Suspension forks are mostly for 1 1/8" headsets so fitting suspension to an old rigid mountain bike is normally a non starter for that simple reason. The geometry is another good reason and may in fact be part of the reason that bike manufacturers decided to use the different diameter, to prevent the conversion of bikes that weren't designed to bounce. It may also be that with the wider tubes they can take more load allowing the bikes to take more of a beating. Of course it all could be a conspiracy to take our money, but honestly, I think the technology has just changed. In general I'd recommend keeping the old bike for getting about and getting a newer bike for doing the more hardcore stuff. Brake technology has improved dramatically, the bike frames are built stronger and lighter, and the gears generally shift smoother and more reliably. And that's trickled down quite nicely to the cheaper bikes too. There is a limit to how cheap you want to go for doing proper off road, but you don't have to spend too much. [1] Note that there are still new bikes manufactured with 1" diameter headsets, but they are normally cheap rigid bikes. 

That sort of bike is generally called a hybrid/commuter in the UK (and I think it may be similar in the US). There are plenty of other manufacturers. Not all hybrids will meet your requirements but there will be quite a few that do. You can almost certainly find one with 26" wheels if you prefer too. I personally find the larger wheels good though, so I would recommend you simply go for a test ride. The problem with finding them is really a lack of consistency with the terminology across shops, countries and manufacturers. There is also simply the problem that with so many different bike types and configurations bike shops will only stock a selection and your required bike may not be in that selection. There is however a reasonably good chance if you can find one close in the shop that they will be able to order in the right configuration for you. Update: tried to reflect confusing terminology a bit better.