First obstacle: mind should not wonder. First, you need to establish enough concentration, so that your mind is EASILY and WITHOUT ANY EFFORT anchored to the breath. Once your mind is easily and without ANY effort whatsoever anchored to the breath, your mind will not wonder. You must master this "easy and effortless no wondering of the mind" first, before moving forward into removing sankharas. So, I tell you. The path to removing sankharas is to first achieve this extraordinary level of concentration that I explained. Can you do that? If yes, you're ready for the next steps. 

Anything else is mere speculation and does not lead to liberation, but to clinging and craving on views. If you feel that the answer to the question will lead you closer to liberation, meditate on the question and you will eventually experience it. Once you experience it, you will answer it. Once you answer it, liberation will be closer. 

Consciousness permeates everything. Consciousness is eternal bliss. If consciousness does not know that it is eternal bliss, that consciousness (unknowingly) arises a desire. When consciousness arises a desire, eternal bliss becomes tainted with desire. When eternal bliss becomes tainted with desire, consciousness comes into existence. When consciousness comes into existence, birth of a being arises. When birth of a being arises, senses of that being arise. When senses of that being arise, feeling and contact arise. When feeling and contact arise, memory arise. When memory arise, knowledge arise. When knowledge arise, new desires arise. When new desires arise, eternal bliss becomes more and more tainted with desires. The more eternal bliss becomes tainted with desires, the more that consciousness craves for existence. The more a consciousness craves for existence, the more that consciousness is afraid of death. The more a consciousness is afraid of death, the more it clings on life. The more that consciousness clings on life, the more that consciousness arises new desires. The more that consciousness arises new desires, the more that consciousness suffers. Once the wheel starts spinning, it spins faster and faster after every spin. When consciousness is born for the 1st time, the wheel is almost motionless. Suffering is almost non existent. Knowledge is almost non existent. When consciousness is born for the 1000000th time, the wheel spins a little faster. Suffering is very low. Knowledge is very low. A cell is born. When consciousness is born for the 100000000000th time, the wheel spins a little faster. Suffering is low. Knowledge is low. A plant is born. ... suffering is high. Knowledge is higher. A bee is born. ... suffering is very high. Knowledge is a little higher. A lion is born. ... suffering is high but is becoming lower. Knowledge is even higher. A chimpanzee is born. ... suffering is high but is lowering even more. Knowledge is even higher. A dolphin is born. ... suffering is neither high and neither low. Knowledge is high. A human is born. ... suffering is low. Knowledge is very high. A deva is born. ... suffering is 0. Knowledge is perfect. Nothing is born. 

The "real self" is the eternal selfless "self". The "watching", experiences, existence, senses, knowledge and everything else arise because of ignorance - not knowing this "real self". 

Yes, but only if both partners are liberated from suffering while being together in a romantic relationship. If a person liberates from suffering while not being in a romantic relationship, that person will not seek romantic relationships anymore. If one partner liberates while being in a romantic relationship, he will not seek romantic relationships anymore, but his current romantic relationship will change to "unconditioned love". If both partners liberate while being together in a romantic relationship, they will not seek romantic relationships anymore, but their current romantic relationship will change to "eternal love". How is a relationship based on "eternal love" experienced? Beyond words. 

When I first started meditating and after a while, I had a period where I experienced extremely wonderful sensations in my body. It culminated one day when I was meditating, laying on my bed: I felt like my body has vanished, time stopped and extreme pleasure arose in my body. It was like I was floating in a substance full of pleasure to my mind. I didn't feel my body, it was like my body vanished, I had no thoughts, but was fully aware. I was in this state for 4 hours, and if it wasn't for somebody calling me, I would be even longer. When I emerged from this state it felt like 10 minutes passed. This experience was the most wonderful, joyful, pleasant experience I had ever experienced in my life. The next time I went into meditation, I had "a kind off" similar experience as described above, but it was different: It was less "mentally powerful". I didn't search for it, nor wanted to have it - I just went into meditation as in my last meditation session when the pleasurable experience arose, but this time the experience had a lesser impact on my mind and body: it didn't give that much pleasure to my body and mind as the first time. It was like I got accustomed to it, and my body and mind were more calm, thus I never noticed that much pleasure and joy as the previous time. At one moment in the meditation I made an attempt to search for the pleasure I experienced the first time, but I quickly noticed that it just makes my mind wander away from meditation and fills it with "want". So, I stopped "wanting" and just let it go. The third time I went into meditation, the described experience subsided completely and only calmness, emptiness, no thoughts, neither pleasure nor non pleasure, remained. I was not bothered forcing the described experience, because I knew that the experience came by not "wanting" it to came. I noticed that if I wanted it, the calmness, no thoughts, neither pleasure nor non pleasure, would subside and my mind would be permeated with "want". Thus, I abandoned "wanting" completely and just let it go and never ever tried to search for it. I read about the 8 jhanas and during my meditation sessions I experienced "infinite space", "infinite consciousness", "emptiness", "neither perception nor non perception". I noticed this pattern: when the experience arose for the first time, it was the most powerful experience ever. It was like eating the most delicious cake for the first time in my life! The second time, it was less powerful. And so on, until it subsided and the experience "just was". Nonetheless, these experiences were never that much powerful as the first experience I described at the beginning of this question. Is this normal? Now when I meditate, my mind is calm, one pointed, with no thoughts arising, and neither pleasure nor non pleasure. I can clearly see how and why everything is arising and ceasing in my mind. But I choose not to observe that anymore, I just let go of everything and the arising and ceasing in my mind stops. Everything stops, but I'm fully aware, and the experience is not that powerful as the experiences I described, when they arose for the first time. The experience that I have now during meditation "neither is nor it isn't". I could turn my meditation in an experience that "is", but i choose not to, because then "I'm not". It's hard to explain. From a Buddhist perspective, is this ceasing and letting go of extremely blissful experiences during meditation normal? Or does meditation lead to more and more powerful experiences? Since that first time, when the described pleasurable experiences arose, they were never again as powerful as the first time they arose. It's like they subsided and only the core remained. From a Buddhist perspective, is this normal? Or should the described experiences always arise and be as powerful as the first time they arise? 

If you're having difficulties with anger and pride, stop the arising of anger and pride. How? Observe as precisely as you can how anger and pride arise. If you'll observe precisely enough, you'll see the cause of both. Remove the cause, and both will be removed. In order to be able to see the cause, you must train your mind until you reach a point where you can be focused on your meditation object (in your case the breath) without interruptions. 

To the ignorant eye, space is space. Looking at space with wisdom, one sees Nibanna. Space is not space. It is neither infinite, nor finite, nor both, nor any combination of these. There is no length nor height nor width nor distance nor closeness nor solidity nor empty space. Space is not space as we know it. All points in space are one single point and this one single point is all points in space. To the ignorant eye, object is object. Looking at object with wisdom, one sees Nibanna. Object is not object. It is neither infinite, nor finite, nor both, nor any combination of these. There is no length nor height nor width nor distance nor closeness nor solidity nor empty space. Object is not object as we know it. All objects are one single object and this one single object is all objects. Everything is Nibanna. Clouded with ignorance, space is the closest we can get to Nibanna with our senses. Once ignorance is removed, Nibanna can be reached. 

Original translation of Anatta: not self. 2nd translation of Anatta: the futile nature of the five aggregates. Both translations refer to the same. When the futile nature of the five aggregates is present, one is subjected to clinging onto this wrong view: "this is self". The futile nature of the five aggregates is like a magician playing a magic trick and you being ignorant can't recognize it's a magic trick. Once you start investigating and scrutinizing the magician's magic trick you slowly start to see how it works and once you realize how it works, you finally realize it was just a magic trick! In the same way, when you investigate and scrutinize the futile nature of the five aggregates, you slowly start to see how it works and once you realize how it works, you finally realize it was just "not self"! When one realizes the futile nature of the five aggregates, one is free from the wrong view: "this is self" and comes to the right view: "this is not self" Thus, looking at both translations with such wisdom, they are both correct. And what is the futile nature of the five aggregates? It arises and it ceases. It does that for a very very long time. In doing so it does not lead to happiness, to the cessation of suffering, but always to suffering, to impermanence. It always ends in suffering. It leads to suffering. That's why it is futile. When one sees this futility, he comes to the realization "If this were self, it wouldn't be subjected to such futility" and concludes "thus, this is not self". Why he comes to such conclusion? Read my answer here: Impermanent self 

But since you answered a) "no", that's a sign you're clinging onto a view. Whenever there's clinging onto a view, view becomes a neurosis. Clinging is a disease. Get rid of it. Don't wait. Do it as soon as possible. You see, in reality, it's not that the view is a disease, but the clinging (onto the view) is a disease. That's why you should not see views as something of importance to you. They are just clinging. Nothing else. Views fueled by clinging are really just disease. They look like views, but in reality, they are just clinging. A disease that should be eradicated. Get rid of this clinging. After reading all this, you could argue that your view "life ends after physical death for an ignorant" will cease to exist after the physical death of your body, thus you will no longer be able to cling onto it, because there would be nothing to cling onto. That is not correct. You forgot, that even if the view ceases, craving will remain. Remember, firstly there is craving, and after craving, there arises the view. Craving is a disease. Just like I see ugly weeds slowly growing in a beautiful garden, in the same way I see this ugly craving growing. It's the craving that gives raise to a view and then you cling onto it. Craving is the fuel to clinging. So even if your view ceases, this craving would remain. How do I know that it would remain? Because craving comes before clinging. So even if clinging ceases, craving remains. It cannot be any other way. After reading all this, you could argue that craving will cease to exist after the physical death of your body, thus you will no longer be able to crave for anything. To this I answer: surely the view will cease to exist after the physical death of your body, but how can you say that after your physical death you will no longer be able to crave for it, if even in the here & now you're not able to overcome this craving?? How can you be 100 % sure that after physical death this craving will cease?? You can't be 100 % sure! You can't know what happens after physical death! That's why you should approach your situation with urgency in the here & now! Don't loose this opportunity. You know that craving is a disease. So get rid of it! Don't rely on faith that craving will stop after physical death! You can't know! Besides, you have nothing to loose if you get rid of this craving ... you can only gain. If you get rid of it, you'll live a happier life, in heaven, in the here & now, free from craving and clinging. So you get +1 point. Then, if after physical death there is really the afterlife, you'll attain a happy existence or even Nibanna because you'll be already free from craving! Thus +1 point. See? Get rid of this craving in the here & now. You can only profit from it, not loose. DO NOT loose this chance. Meditate and see this craving in action. Then eradicate it. Then come back here and answer these two questions: 1a. "Do you accept there is the possibility of ending of life after physical death?" 2a. "Do you accept that there is the possibility of continuation of life after physical death?" If you would answer sincerely with a "yes" to both questions, you will know that you're 100 % free from craving for views regarding the afterlife. +1 point for sure for you. So do it!