As suggested in a comment on the question, the load generator for the Tacx Basic in the early 2000's was the same load generator used across the entire Tacx ergometer line. The Basic, the Grand Excel, the Flow, and the I-Magic all used the same load generator, so the head units are interchangeable. The capabilities of the Basic can thus be "upgraded" by switching to a Grand Excel or I-Magic head unit (the Flow replaced the Basic in the Tacx line in 2004 or 2005 and, except for a larger screen and slightly easier calibration procedure the models are equivalent). 

They are very similar but have to follow different certification rules. For example, under UCI regulations the saddle of a TT bike must be at least 5 cm behind a vertical line drawn through the bottom bracket (cf. Rules 1.3.011 to 1.3.025), there are constraints on the size, shape, and orientation of frame members, and so on. Triathlon bikes are certified under a different set of rules depending on the race being run and allow a greater degree of integration of components (such as water bottles that are designed to fit within the frame in a way that enhances aerodynamics). Currently, any UCI-certified TT bike can be used in a triathlon but not all triathlon bikes are allowable in UCI-sanctioned races. 

I will presume you are asking about the types of trainers that one mounts one's own bike onto, and not a dedicated "bike" trainer such as a Monark ergometer or a CycleOps Indoor Cycle (ergometers such as these are used in exercise physiology laboratories and can be calibrated to be very accurate). Consistency and Accuracy of Speed Measurement Accurate power measurement in most indoor trainers depends on accuracy in speed measurement. A full description of the relevant factors is long and complex. The short answer is that some indoor trainers are more consistent and accurate than others, and we can group them into rough categories. In general, accurate power measurement from an indoor trainer depends on a consistent load response with respect to speed. Thus, your question is equivalent to asking, "how consistent is recorded speed for a given power input?" If that relationship is consistent then you can simply put a speedometer on a trainer and convert the observed speed to power. A handful of modern software applications (e.g., Trainerroad or Golden Cheetah) do essentially this: one mounts an ANT+ speed sensor on the bike and, if the trainer is consistent in its response, the application converts that speed into power. The speed-power relationship will depend on tire pressure, the tire-to-roller contact pressure, the ambient temperature, and the type of resistance unit used by the trainer to generate the load. For example, common types of load generators include wind fans, magnetic resistance units, fluid resistance units, and electric load generators; rollers use frictional resistance generated by tire deformation, belt losses, and (a very small amount of) aerodynamic drag generated by the spinning rear and front wheels. Wind-turbine fans tend to be quite consistent as long as the tire-to-roller contact patch is consistent and air density is constant. The relatively new Lemond Revolution Trainer uses a large fan directly driven via its own cassette so does not rely on a tire-to-roller interface and independent tests have shown that its speed-power response can be both precise and accurate. Some discussion of how the tests were performed and the drag parameters were estimated are here. As an aside, wind turbine trainers tend to be quite noisy. Because the load generation on a set of rollers is mostly determined by rolling resistance it, too, can be quite consistent. Measurements with a calibrated Power Tap show that if tires, tubes, air pressure, number of wheel spokes, and total mass are known, rollers are extremely consistent: consistent enough that high precision estimates of rolling resistance can be made using this setup. For example, the differences in the rolling resistance of tires and tubes described at biketechreview.com were measured using rollers and a calibrated power meter. The consistency of magnetic and fluid load generators tends to degrade with temperature. Some fluid generators use more temperature-stable fluids, and thus tend to be more consistent than magnetic load generators -- however, one fairly well-known brand of fluid generator trainers has a distinct "temperature threshold" through which it passes so the resistance is quite step-like. The consistency of both magnetic and fluid trainers can be improved if one can maintain their load units at a steady equilibrium temperature. Among the trainers with electrically-based load generators, the Computrainer, the Velodyne, and the Velotron are reportedly consistent and can be calibrated to be accurate against a known accurate power meter. The Tacx Flow In my experience, the Flow is not particularly accurate although in certain modes it can be consistently inaccurate. In other modes it is inconsistently inaccurate. However, in all test modes I've used, the Flow overestimates rather than underestimates power compared to a Power Tap. To demonstrate consistency of the Tacx Flow, I collected the data below with the same tires, same tubes, same bike, and same rolldown calibration number (of zero). The black and red dots were collected four months apart in time, for four different "slope factors" and demonstrate that over that period the speed-reported power of the Flow was consistent. 

If the bike is used mostly for training, you'll probably want to give high priority to reliability. In general, more spokes is better than fewer both because they're stronger and also because they're easier to true; 2-cross (or 3-cross) spoke patterns will be stronger than radial or "mixed" spoke patterns (for example, radial on one side and 1x on the other); rims with eyelets will be stronger than rims without; clincher rims will give you more choice about heavy-duty or puncture-resistant tires and tubes than tubular rims; aluminium rims will be more cost-effective than carbon; standard round spokes will be easier to find replacements for (should you need them) than bladed spokes. 

Bilateral asymmetry in pedaling is well-known and long-studied. You can see the abstract of a review of what is known about bilateral asymmetry in running and cycling here. During cycling, bilateral pedaling asymmetry is common, and not fixed at a particular split: it varies with cadence, power, duration, and your ride goals. Another article that is highly cited is Smak et al. (1999), which found that bilateral asymmetry varies with cadence. The asymmetry appeared to decrease within increasing cadence, though the power was held constant so it could as easily have been a story about crank torque. In summary bilateral asymmetry appears to vary for each individual depending on his or her cadence, power, crank torque, and level of fatigue. This appears to be normal. It is unclear that one can easily alter one's pedaling symmetry or asymmetry, nor is it clear in cycling that small amounts of pedaling asymmetry lead to injury (since the asymmetry is so common). As an aside, non-constant asymmetry has the potential to affect measurements from "single-sided" power meters. 

The distance of the Tour has been decreasing due to the rules and regulations of the UCI (the Union Cycliste Internationale), which negotiated a limitation to the length of races and mandated certain numbers of rest days during the Tour with the Professional Riders' Association. From an historical perspective, these limitation were a response to charges that the difficulty of the Tour resulted in riders needing to dope simply to survive, and that by "easing" the stages and inserting rest days there would be less need to dope. An effect of shorter stages (and higher speeds), perhaps paradoxically, is that race organizers have been increasing the difficulty of the stages; this is particularly noticeable in the other two "Grand Tours", the Giro d'Italia and the Vuelta a Espana but also applies to the Tour: the number and "spacing" of categorized climbs in the Tour has resulted in more difficulty overall. Each year, at the announcements of the routes for each of the Grand Tours, riders and analysts pronounce whether a particular parcours will be relatively difficult or relatively easy, and favoring either sprinters, time trialists, or climbers. That there is a still a strong relationship between length of the Tour and overall speed simply means that the organizers haven't completely compensated for the distance effect with increased difficulty. And, although your question was not expressly about doping behavior in the pro peloton, a bit more must be said about that. The plot above shows a clear relationship between distance and speed but there is still a question about deviations (or the "residuals") from that relationship. That is, after removing the effect for the length of each Tour, what is the remaining trend in the winner's average speed? The plot below shows that trend with a dotted red line. 

If your question is, "can wind resistance be reduced for everyone on a small circuit," then the answer is "yes, this is a well-known effect, and if the circuit is small enough even one rider is enough." It is well-known that riders on indoor velodromes create their own "draft" by circling the track. This effect is large when the number of riders is large (for example, in a points race) but is even measurable when there is only one rider on the track (for example, for the hour record). Even a straw can stir up a bath tub, and even a single rider can set up a circulating current in a velodrome. In a typical velodrome the "draft" varies between the straights and the curves, and from the infield up to the top of the banked curve. The amount of "draft" or aerodynamic benefit varies, as noted, with the number of riders but also their speed. For a single rider on a 250m indoor velodrome at individual pursuit-like speeds the reduction in "effective" drag area due to this effect can be close to .005 m^2. Field measurements of aerodynamic drag based on velodrome tests must be corrected for this effect. That is, real-time measurements of drag will decrease for the first few minutes while the rider "stirs the bath tub" until it reaches an equilibrium value. You can also see this in the power-to-speed relationship for hour record attempts (which are always done on a track -- power-to-speed decreases over the first several minutes) and in team pursuit events. 

I am unaware of any controlled study that directly addresses your question. However, a recently published study by Bini et al. addressed the converse of your question: can the provision of information on bilateral symmetry or asymmetry be used by riders to alter their pedaling dynamics? The Bini et al. study did not address whether riders would benefit from decreased bilateral asymmetry -- it only addressed the limited question of whether it was changeable. The answer appears to be that it can, sometimes. So although your exact question was not addressed, if these results are replicated and verified then a reasonable implication is that if one were to supply the riders with incorrect or misleading information on symmetry the riders might also be able to adjust their pedaling. 

The 6.8 kg limit is due to UCI regulation 1.3.019, which you can find here, and thus applies to all races sanctioned by the UCI. It was originally instituted in 2000 in order to ensure that manufacturers didn't produce racing bikes that risked structural integrity, to promote rider safety. At the time, with the then-current technology, that was considered a low weight and was in response to riders and teams drilling out metal components and using custom CNC'd components. Even then, it was recognized as a stop-gap regulation to ensure safe standards rather than imposing a complicated strength test (as you can see elsewhere in that document for the strength tests that apply to wheels. Those regulations were in response to wheels that failed resulting in rider injuries). For at least the last 10 years, unsuccessful attempts have been made to update the 6.8kg rule with a structural integrity rule. Current bicycle frames made from composites can easily drop below the 6.8kg limit, and some teams add weights to the frame to get above the minimum 6.8kg threshold. A side effect of this is that the use of power meters and other instruments have expanded in the pro peloton since they can sometimes be added without much penalty. 

Your question is simple but a full answer is complex. The simplest answer is to point to Part 2 (especially chapter 4) of Wilson and Papadopoulos (2004), or the recent review by Debraux et al. (2011), or the paper by Martin et al. (1998). However, even these papers do not cover approaches that take better advantage of the data available from modern bicycle computers and GPS units. Some background on the power-drag equation will help you understand why there are so many different ways (with accordingly different levels of accuracy, precision, difficulty, and cost) of estimating drag. The equation to convert speed to power is well-understood. Total power demanded has four parts: 

The short answer to your question is, no, you don't have to separate your "VO2Max power" between flat rides and climbs. However, specificity matters and the pedal force/pedal speed plots show that the demands of flat rides and steep climbs differ, so you may want to keep that, plus your recovery capacity in mind when you train. The longer answer requires some explanation of VO2max, your power "at VO2Max", the differences between 5-minute efforts and longer efforts, and power application within the context of a race. VO2Max is the maximal amount of oxygen you can consume. It is usually normalized by body mass so is measured in ml/min/kg. It is not independent of the sport you are doing so VO2Max can differ between cycling, running, rowing, or xc skiing, but the dependence among trained athletes is relatively small, perhaps 5% or so, usually less than 10%. The difference can be greater among athletes who are novices to a particularly sport, but here we are talking only about cycling, and about riding on the flat vs. climbing up steep slopes. A larger issue is that although we typically say that the oxygen you consume during maximal effort over 5 to 8 minutes is a good predictor of your VO2Max, it is often hard to spot a truly maximal effort from data collected during a race, especially a mass start race. The reason is that during a mass start race, tactics will depend on context, so picking out the "peak 5-minute" effort may often be an interval where you still have a long way to go to the finish line instead of collapsed in the gutter on the side of the road. For hill climbs, especially but not limited to TT hill climbs, once the climb is over you often (though not always) have a respite and can recover a bit on the descent. Therefore, just looking at 5-minute peak power during races typically won't be a good estimator of your true VO2Max. That is, your "VO2Max power" may not differ much between types of races but your 5-minute peak power can be quite a bit different, depending on the race. That said, a look at the pedal force/pedal speed plots shows that hill climbs can require a different pattern of cadence and force than rides on the flat; and some riders may have an easier (or harder) time generating those patterns on particular types of terrain. Here is a plot for one rider showing his overall cadence/crank torque (very similar to a pedal force/pedal speed plot) during hill intervals. The upper left panel shows his overall pattern, the upper right panel shows that the elevation profile for the ride; as can be seen, he rode out to a nearby hill, did four climbs and descents, and returned home. The climbing portion of the ride is shown in red while the flatter parts are shown in black. The lower two panels show the cadence-torque patterns used for the climb and for the flat. It is evident that they are different.