You know the saying "Less is more"? And Yngwie Malmsteen's response "How can that be? More is more!". With 1x11 you can have both at the same time. More seriously, if using a single chainring works for you, there's no real need to change things. If you have money burning in your pockets or think that a gear upgrade would be nice, 1x11 saves some weight and looks new and shiny for some time. It might even save some maintenance. Even though the smallest cog in the front is mostly useless, switching to a double doesn't benefit you much. You'll still have the complexity and weight of front derailleur. 

The inner width of derailleur chain is supposed to be the same regardless of number of speeds, so you may get away with using narrower chain. I have been using 9-speed Campagnolo chain with 8-speed Shimano without any problems, but all combinations may not work as well. At worst, the chain could be stuck between chainwheels where it is difficult to remove from. Single speed chain is wider and stiffer than derailleur chain and will not work with derailleurs. 

Performance wise the largest difference is that mid- and higher level derailleurs have ball bearings while low end has nylon sleeve bearings. That and better quality materials together make more durable product. Paying for high end gets you carbon fiber parts which mainly save weight and ceramic ball bearings which are mostly useless in bikes. 

It is a narrow range road cassette. The chainrings are very small, with a more common 11-30 cassette most of the gear combinations would be too low to be useful unless you ride in the mountains. The narrow range produces more gear combinations in the useful range, and 22/23 lowest gear is still extremely low by road standards. 

It's probably a Phillips brand English roadster. The lugs on this example do not match the picture, but the strange looking rear fork and BSA bottom bracket are typical on English 3 speeds. 

3x is the standard lacing pattern, because it is strongest. Radially spoked wheel will be slightly lighter and stiffer but can not handle torque at all. There are two reasons why 3x is strongest for 32 and 36h: First, the spokes are connected to the hub tangentially, so braking and pedaling forces go directly to spoke tension without any sideways forces. Second, for every spoke there is a spoke pulling against it in the next hole, so they are less likely to tear apart the hub flange. 

With Campagnolo, yes. From 9 to 11 speeds, cable pull is the same. Of course, this is assuming that you have a Campagnolo shifter. If you don't know the brand, you are out of luck. 

Looks like an older generation Sigma Sport bike computer with that has its silk screened logos worn away. The two 7-segment displays and small alphanumeric display in the center are their trade mark and as you noticed, the mount is Sigma. The second set of connections in the mount is for cadence sensor that is sold separately. Over the years, Sigma has made lots of computers that have nearly same functionality and mount but different casings. This is not one of the latest models, I would guess early 2000s. And since this has second bike and cadence sensor support, I would guess a model closer to high end. 

The derailleur you linked is compatible. In general, Shimano shifters for 9 speeds or less for off-road series and 10 speed or less for road series are interchangeable if the mounting scheme fits. 7-speed cassette is narrower than 8-speed, but the derailleur probably has enough room for adjustment to fit the wider cassette (edit: actually, it was 7-8 so it definitely should work). The derailleurs for more speeds require a corresponding shifter to work correctly. Derailleurs from other brands are also not compatible without tricks with adapters, with the exception of some old SRAM units specifically marketed as Shimano compatible. 

European prices always include VAT, and US prices are typically announced without sales tax (or customs, if you really intend to order from US). Once you add the sales tax, the prices are closer. Generally, you will pay extra for a brand that is commonly not available in Europe. In addition to Surly, Thorn is easily available in Europe from UK and cheaper than Salsa. 

The part is called simply brake adjuster or brake adjusting barrel or "bremszugeinsteller" in the promised land of affordable mail order. It is indeed held in place only by pressure from cable and is easily lost when the cable is removed. In the picture the nut is put on wrong side to hold the adjuster in place without cable, I have never seen a second nut like on the right before. 

It's because you have a combination of brake levers designed for V-brakes and side pull brakes. V-brakes need more cable pull for the same effect, so your levers pull the cable too fast. The solution is to get levers designed for caliper brakes, something like for example this (note "Caliper or Canti Brake Lever System"): $URL$ There are also adapters for cable pull issues, but they are made to solve the problem other way round and cost as much as simple brake levers. 

Not necessarily blind, but annoy and distract. For oncoming traffic, the best lights are ones mounted below eye level and that limit the upper beam. The easiest way to check for this online is to see if a light is sold by a German mail order store and whether it passes StVZO regulations. 

Shimano publishes a compatibility document. Go to URL $URL$ , select "compatibility" to download a document "2015-2016_Compatibility_v010_en.pdf" According to that document, you would also need to change you crankset, your front and rear derailleurs, and possibly your bottom bracket. 

Would v-brakes with the normal v-brake long pads (as opposed to shorter brake pads) on road rims exhibit any problematic behavior going downhill at speeds of 50 mph? I am concerned that the longer brake pad may be more susceptible to shudder and/or grabbiness than shorter pads. Background: The bike in question is a Surly Cross Check which is set up with brake posts for cantilever or v-brake. Caliper is not an option. The brakes I have ready to put on are Deore XT br-t780 (with long brake pads) , front and back. Other v-brakes with shorter pads are available, e.g., Shimano BR-M422. (But these M422 are much lower quality than the T780 - and the question is about long vs short pads, not quality of the brakes they come with). The cable travel in the lever is not an issue as I have the problem solver travel device ready. 

Shimano 9 speed road and mountain parts are all compatible. Therefore you can add a 9-speed mountain long cage derailleur to use an 11-30 cogset on the rear along with your triple front. I do so on my tandem, and know many others who do the same. It falls within Shimano's guidelines for compatability. Not necessary or desirable to turn the B-screw all the way out. Shimano 9 speed mountain derailleur is compatible the shimano 10 speed shifters - but not officially. Reference: $URL$ I use this setup on a touring-cross bike: triple crankset 50-30, 11-32 10 speed cogset, 9-speed MTB derailleur. It works well but margin of error is smaller than "normal", resulting in more frequent tuning and replacement of parts as they wear out (chain wear, derailleur play). No problem with slack. Not necessary or desirable to turn the B-screw all the way out. It should be noted that long MTB derailleurs will be slightly heavier, and also the pulley wheels have enclosed bearings, while road pulley wheels don't. Enclosed bearings means a fraction of a watt of power is lost to resistance. Not a big deal for touring, randonneuring. 

I'm looking at the Hayes manual $URL$ for "how to mount caliper to fork". Oddly, it doesn't seem to specify how the pad offsets should be set, so that may explain why you have ended up with the outer pad all the way out. I suggest this: Wind inner and out all the way out. Mount with adjustment bolts loose. Turn inner pad 2/16 in, outer pad 1/16 in repeatedly until wheel doesn't move (it is just braked - not too tight). Tighten the bolts. Turn inner pad 2/16 out, outer pad 1/16 out repeatedly until contact noise stops. If it still is not well aligned (can't get rid of contact noise), compress the brake level with a strap to brake lock the wheel, then loosen the adjustment bolts and then tighten them again. I had a lot of trouble getting used to adjusting my mechanical Avid brakes, but now it goes very smoothly. Now I just adjust the pad offset slightly once every ten hours of riding, to take out the slack. 

Actually, I use a 9-speed mount derailleur (deore xt) on a 10 speed cassette (11-32) with a 10 speed road shifter (105) and a triple (50/36/30). The cable pull is fine. The capacity is just OK. It took some b-screw adjustment to get it working well. It turns out there are many people doing the same thing, especially on tandems. This fits what you said - but it is notable that one can still run a 10 speed mountain >cassette< with a 10 speed road shifter. 

Maybe it is just evolution's way of asking you to increase the chances of passing your genes onto future generations? Of course, it must be balanced against the greater number of potential mating partners who will be attracted to you as they watch you taking corners faster and lower, and seeing you in the top spot on the podium. 

Since the RAW is long term goal, you are talking about a long term training plan. You must enjoy it, and you must not burn out - in other words you need to incorporate training as part of a sustainable lifestyle. During the weekdays you will need to some training but probably don't have much time, it is an opportunity to do high intensity training, core training, etc., which offer great benefits without draining all your stored resources. Such training is very satisfying and enjoyable, you will be amazed to feel your strength increase so easily. On weekends is where you can concentrate on the long distance aspect, which is absolutely required, but only to the extent it does not burn you out. If you feel bonked, in pain, or sick, then call it quits for the day. To make it more fun, I recommend participating in brevets (Randonneurs USA: $URL$ which have events of various distances 200K, 300K, 400K, 600K, 1000K, and 1200K. These events are basically self supported, with some volunteer assistance, so they are very economical (low entry fees). The cutoff times are always lenient, so you have plenty of room to develop your ability at your own pace. Always a very friendly atmosphere. There are also centuries and double centuries, which are supported events with higher entry fees. Good luck!