It is conceivable that one of the functions of a Central Bank, of being a regulator of money supply, could ultimately be automated, if artificial intelligence were to advance enough. However, that role is much more complicated than merely feedbacks on flow of money, inflation and fractional reserve. So for the foreseeable future, that's a role filled by a panel of human experts. And no, it will not be a distributed ledger, because that's a hopelessly inefficient way to record Central Bank transactions. The Central Bank maintains its own ledgers, and will continue to do so. It is not the case that each transaction creates a new ledger. Instead, each transaction creates corresponding entries in two ledgers - that is the essence of double-entry book-keeping. 

It's not my field at all but with a quick search I found an ECB working paper from 2010 "INTEREST RATE EFFECTS OF DEMOGRAPHIC CHANGES IN A NEW-KEYNESIAN LIFE-CYCLE FRAMEWORK", by Engin Kara and Leopold von Thadden. The dynare forum is more specialized on DSGE models, you will probably get better advice there. With a quick search there you find several posts that already included something with demography. 

The Behavioral Economics Replication Project could be interesting for you. They presented their research at the 2016 American Economic Association Annual Meeting. 

In the ReplicationWiki (that I work on) we have a list of software packages that were used in more than 2000 empirical studies, mainly in the American Economic Review, American Economic Journals and Journal of Political Economy in the years 2000-2013. Stata was used by far most often (>900 times), followed by MATLAB (280), SAS (60), GAUSS (60), Excel (50), R (30), FORTRAN (30), Mathematica (19), EViews (18), z-Tree (16), dynare (15), RATS (12), C (8), C++ (6), python (5, more recent studies), SPSS (5). There are also examples with ArcGIS, ArcMap, LIMDEP, Maple, Microfit, Ox, ORSEE, PcGive, and TSP. Often times more than one package is used. We do not have cases but I know that some economists also use julia. 

In many ways, it's no different to how any other price is set - by supply and demand. The only thing is, that because it's a transaction of money for money, there's some symmetry at play. When you buy USD with BDT, the price you pay for your USD will go up if the general market demand for USD goes up, or if the supply of USD goes down. Similarly, it will go down if USD demand goes down or USD supply goes up. And if the supply of BDT goes up, or the demand for BDT goes down, the price of USD will go up. If the supply of BDT goes down, or the demand for BDT goes up, then the price of USD will go down. Bear in mind that because there is an active international market for these currencies, then the relative values of each reflects a minute-by-minute shifting balance between buyers and sellers of each; and the exchange rates reflect all available information, as well as the market participants' future expectations. 

For the US there is a firm that calculates something from monthly data that the quarterly Bureau of Economic Analysis (BEA) GDP data is also based on: $URL$ 

With the link you posted you get quarterly data, so to get the yearly growth rate you need to change the frequency to annual. There are different aggregation methods but if it's not specified in the question you were asked I don't see how one should be more right than another. 

The American Economic Association has a list of resources for Economists, including a page for data, there you find links to many institutions that offer all kinds of data, as well as further journals with data archives for the studies they publish. In the ReplicationWiki (that I work on) we have information on more than 2000 empirical studies and you can search for which one what kind of data, software, and methods were used, if the material is available, and if replications are known. Many studies can be browsed by JEL codes or keywords. The categorization of data sources and geographical origin of data remains very incomplete but it is a wiki, so everyone can contribute and make suggestions. 

Why doesn't the government create money, spend it for free without interest, and recollect it with taxes, you ask. Well, it does. That's exactly what public investment & spending, and the taxation system, do. The government creates money, puts it out into the economy, and collects it back through taxation and other payments. If it does that while putting more money into the economy than it takes back, then that causes growth of the money supply. If the money supply grows faster than the supply of goods and services, then inflation starts to accumulate, and will continue to rise and rise until something changes. In order to prevent that, governments typically sell bonds, to stabilise the money supply. And as long as the market for those bonds is liquid enough, the yield on the bonds gives the government and central bank a useful additional macroeconomic indicator to inform policy-making. There's even a paradigm describing the current monetary system that starts with the perspective that money is created when government spends, and is destroyed when government taxes: Modern Monetary Theory. It hasn't got much traction, largely because it doesn't seem to offer any additional insights or analytic power beyond the neo-classical view. 

In the ReplicationWiki (that I founded) you can find replication material for many methods. An overview of empirical studies that used instrumental variables (IV) can be found here. It shows more than a hundred open access datasets for teaching IV regression. You can also see if replications are already known. If you only want cases with data and want to see what software was used you can use the search form like here. There is also information on replications of two studies mentioned above: A 2012 comment on "The Colonial Origins of Comparative Development: An Empirical Investigation" and a reply to it, and a replication of a part of the above mentioned study "Does Compulsory School Attendance Affect Schooling and Earnings? (Angrist and Krueger (1991). It uses a different methodology. 

If I've understood correctly (it's not entirely clear from the question), you're asking about a policy of fiscal expansion in a depressionary environment, accompanied by a monetary expansion. It is conceivable that an increase in money supply, coupled with an increase in money demand, would lead to unchanged interest rates, if those two opposing forces balanced out. 

As far as we can tell, no, there is no way to do it using only a free market. Coase postulated that within a free market, agents would negotiate private contracts to internalise the externalities. In reality, this didn't happen. It turned out that humans aren't perfectly informed hyper-rational beings. And as Coase himself had inferred, the transaction costs are typically too high. There are well-documented ways in which markets have been adjusted for externalities: sometimes taxes or subsidies are sufficient; other times, prescription or proscription has been necessary. There are even well-documented ways in which the commons have been protected, meaning that the destruction of them is no inevitable tragedy: Elinor Ostrom won the Nobel Economics Prize for her work showing how empowered stewardship by a group of custodians had repeatedly protected the custodians' commons. So the relative efficiency of market mechanism versus planned mechanism is nowhere near clear enough to claim that "It would be far more efficient and sustainable if the tendency to externalize costs were managed by market mechanisms ... ". Each of the alternatives has inherent inefficiences: planned mechanisms have dead-weight costs. market-mechanisms have transaction costs and failures due to imperfect information and bounded rationality. There's a lot of evidence, particularly when it comes to the wicked problems you describe, that the market inefficiencies are far worse than the planning inefficiencies.