Something like this: Romaticism in the 19th century had a strong streak of romticizing pre-christian culture. This ties in with later antisemitism, where progress and liberalism where seen as a bad, corrosive influence on the pure German people and associated with the jews. This is the type of thiinking found in the antisemite work 'The protocols of the Elders of Zion'. So far, we are not talking about a solely German phenomenon. Starting in the late 19th century, you had several occultist far right organizations like the Germanenorden and it's follow up, the Thule Gesellschaft (the latter used some symbols later to be used by the nazis, like the swastika). What is important is that these groups and other occultists did not have any direct coontinuity with pagan customs. Instead, we have (mostly) well to do folks with a christian education. They are somehow unconfortable the way western societies are developüing, and look to an idealized past. While this kind of anti-modern thinking, clad in pagan or pseudo pagan prose was (and is) part of nazism (and other fascisms, look at Julio Evola for a prominent thinker along similar lines), it would be wrong to attribute Hitler's rise to power to it. This kind of pseudo-paganism was always a fringe phenomenon. 

It fit his existing beliefs. Direct trade with the other end of the Silk Road was a vastly more profitable proposition than an unknown landmass. 

Christopher Columbus thought the world was spherical (like most educated people of his era) but he also thought the size of the Earth was small enough that a westward boat trip from Europe to Asia was achievable with existing ship building technology. In this regard he differed from the more accurate size estimates of scholars in Isabella and Ferdinand's court. Sustained lobbying won out through - and so off he went. Since he still believed the size of the Earth was small - when he bumped into land in the Americas obviously he would assert that the landfall was in Asia (India, Japan, China or somewhere) as: 

My translation: Around 40.000 members let the red army pass in the Caraptes and started a bloody guerilla war after 1945. Around 35.000 people died, according to CIA estimates. The terror acts not only targeted police and communist party cadres, but also civilians, especially surviving Jews. After 1949, the guerilla war was supported by the CIA, until 1953 around 75 exiled Ukrainians had been dropped with parachutes into Ukraine. The british SIS also supported these operations, starting in 1951. The soviet union raised a complaint before the UNO in 1957. No online sources are given, the offline sources are: Christopher Simpson: „Blowback“ (Collier Books, New York 1989, S. 163) John Loftus: „The Belarus Secret“ (Knopf, New York 1982, S. 102/103) „Nature and Extent of Disaffection and Anti-Soviet Activity in the Ukraine“ (Bericht des US-Militärattachés der US-Botschaft in Moskau, 17. März 1948) zitiert in: Christopher Simpson: „Blowback“ (Collier Books, New York 1989, S. 171) United Nations: „Official Records of the General Assembly“ (11th Session [November 12, 1956 – March 8, 1957], Annexes Volume II – Agenda Item 70, S. 1–14) I did not check if the sources say what the wikipedia article claims they do and what the quality of the sources is. I still would answer your question with yes, the CIA and SIS where involved in attacks within the soviet union and there's some evidence. There's also the allegation (By the soviet union) that Stepan Bandera and other heads of the OUN in exile ordered the assassination of Dr. Gabriel Kostelnik, who was in favor of a unification between the russion orthodox and the ukrainian catholic church. 

Pax Mongolia pretty much re-established the entire Silk Road that previously languished due to wars and inconsistent tariffs. The cultural impact of Marco Polo is strongly linked with Kublai Khan as this was who Marco Polo was said to have visited as a high point of his Asian journey. What the Mongols may have taken in lives and bubonic plague is perhaps offset by a long step forward in international trade and globalisation; or at least accelerated thereby. 

One theory goes that cultural interest in technologic UFOs* derived from the same paranormal sensibilities as fairies and elves of previous centuries; and as such when one waxed in interest (presumably due to WWII and the nascent space-race) the other waned. So did popular cultural interest in fairies overlap the UFO phase or immediately precede it? * I'm narrowing the definition from all conceivable Unidentified Flying or Hovering Objects to the classical variety of technological UFOs commonly associated with aliens or men-in-black, as manifested especially after the rise of rocketry and space travel in the popular consciousness; eventually dissipating with the rise of smartphones, hobbyist drones and played out memes. 

I read somewhere that Amadeo Bordiga, Italian Communist, told said something along these lines to Stalins face: 

From German wikipedia on Luther's relationship to the Jews and antisemitism, translated/paraphrased by me: 

I've only skimmed a few paragraphs of the article, however it seems that while pottery was widely known in early human history, it was seldom used in hunter-gatherer societies. While pottery is better for cooking than leather bags clay pots are also heavy and fragile and so better suited for sedentary lifestyles. Burning clay pots is also challenging in a wet, cold climate. So your intuition that pottery was not used is shared by archeologists and anthropolologists. This tidbit on Inuit cuisine will become relevant in the conclusion: 

The Pakistani General Election of 1970 (delayed in East Pakistan/Bangladesh until Jan 1971 due to flooding) resulted in no seats for the Bangladesh Awami League in West Pakistan. The polarised geographic concentration of party influence (BAL in the East, PPP in the West) lead to the Bangladesh Liberation War. 

This is counter-factual ("alt") history but we can extrapolate from normal history. Specifically, being the dominant power of a geographic region does not in and of itself change the language of other countries in that region. The process, if it occurs at all, takes a long time - like centuries. Consider how long it took for English to overtake French as the lingua franca of Europe; or the fact that Eastern Germans (Deutsche Demokratische Republik) didn't start speaking Russian overnight; or that the Basque language is still used in certain provinces despite losing sovereignty to Castilian speakers in the 16th century. Still, that said - Germany's original formation from the Prussian states relied heavily on a common language, and it is not unreasonable to believe that a Greater Germanic Reich would have been ruthless enough to change the native language of all speakers within that territory. 

So Luther was cited in antisemite propagande by the regime and was cited in debates within the protestant chruches to justify closer alignment to the Nazi regime. 

German wikipedia, Bordiga also only mentions that he called Stalin a traitor to the revolution (in 1925). It is of course possible that the Quote I remember was in an earlier version of the text and was removed because wrong/inaccurate. The quote is kinda awsome though and I want to know if he really said it and in what context. 

I can't find link now, but prior to the first graduation towers some salines would have workers toss the brine against rough walls, to provide evaporation surface. The first graduation towers would use straw, but this would rot and foul the brine. The technology matured over a few decades. Graduation towers needed (wind powered) pumps & a large investment up front. 

This explains why sugar became much more available. As for why it became more "necessary" from a contemporary standpoint - at the risk of moving away from History and into Endocrinology - the reasons are also simple**: 

Citizenship, then as now, entailed a specific group of privileges and responsibilities. One of which was some degree of say in how Rome was governed (optimo iure). As the Roman Republic originally expanded from the city-state of Rome, full citizenship (Cives Romani) was initially limited geographically to Rome itself instead of outlying Latin holdings. Who got what level of Roman citizenship was used as an incentive model to recruit the best and brightest from outlying provinces, especially during Rome's early growth. Holding Roman citizenship also invested a personal stake in the welfare of Rome, since either you or your ancestor may have gone to considerable lengths to acquire it in the first place. Nobles in Rome would have always been full citizens of Rome. The status of aristocrats in the provinces would changed as Rome changed; but typically anyone you consider a "Roman noble" had, as a historical family unit, acquired full citizenship by marriage or adoption or relocation and naturalisation of the senior branch to Rome. When the Edict of Caracalla (Constitutio Antoniniana) expanded Roman citizenship to all free males in the Empire; no one lost their existing citizenship. Technically the expansion of citizenship was primarily an expansion of responsibilities (taxes, military service) than an expansion of rather diluted privileges. It was part of the barbarization of the Roman Empire. If feudalism marked a shift of citizens into subjects, this was due a shift in how the relationship between rulers and ruled was interpreted. Being rich and powerful was useful in and of itself, regardless of the concept of citizenship. Modern citizenship (from a Eurocentric perspective) arose from concepts of social contracts and popular sovereignty that preceded the American and French revolutions. If you were an aristocrat that successfully integrated into the new political paradigm, you would have had the highest level of citizenship due to your level of property ownership. In so far as citizenship was "reintroduced", French nobles quickly became full citizens once the head chopping phase had passed - that is, after the Thermidorian Reaction of 1794. The aristocracy and their descendants (private equity) have kept a lower profile ever since. (Roman section of this answer applicable to Revision 1 of the question.)