It's no Breaking away, but check out American Flyers too. You've got your Kevin Costner, cycling, iconic scenes, and Russian bogeymen. 

I just picked up an old bike with white brake hoods. They are pretty gnarsty, covered in a greyish brown layer of filth. I've tried a soapy rag and scrubber brush with elbow grease. It takes care of most of the issue, but they're not pure clean. Is there any trick to this? 

If you want to maximize your max. speed, go for an 11 tooth cog. If you want to maximize your average speed, unless you're a pro you probably are better off without it. Even cruising at 40km/h does not require and 11 tooth cog. For example, take a look at this table, showing cruising speeds for a 11- 21 tooth cassette: 

I find it's important to wear a wind-breaking layer everywhere, covering as much exposed skin as possible. It's especially important to have some wind protection on your legs to protect the more sensitive areas. Make sure that your extremities have thermal protection as well. Insulted gloves are a must, especially considering the alternative is to be touching the bare metal of your brake levers. Other than that I find it helps to dress down like @ChrisW mentioned. If you over-insulate your torso, that's when you'll get sweaty. 

The image is wrong when it says you don't need special tools. There are special tools for both the installation and removal of integrated and internal headsets. My point is that they are removable and replaceable. Having one wear out doesn't ruin the usefulness of a frame. 

they will sink into loose materials far more easily will be more likely to get flats, but from pinching and from punctures are more fragile 

I wouldn't bother adding in the commute miles. You should be focusing on getting your ride distances up, rather than nickle-and-diming a mile here or there. I went through one of these training routines for a charity ride 7 years ago; just follow their schedule and you'll get there. These things are tried and true. Hundreds of riders use them every year. 

Well configured cantilever brakes should give you good stopping power. Start by making sure that the braking surface and the surface of the pads are clean. You can clean the braking surface with steel wool, and the pads should just need to be roughed up with a coarse sand paper. Make sure that your pads aren't below the minimum wear line. Cantilever pads are harder to adjust than most other kinds of bicycle brake pad, but the principle is the same. The pads should rest one or two millimeters from the rim when not engaged. See here for a better run-down on how to adjust them than I could supply: $URL$ 

Riding no-handed is actually pretty dangerous. If you accidentally hit a walnut-sized rock it can turn your handlebars enough to toss you. Riding no-handed is illegal in some areas, and you can get a hefty ticket (e.g. Ontario). 

Road bike tires aren't suitable for riding off road. Anything rougher that stonedust screenings or light gravel will give you problems, as they aren't designed to be able to control a bike on those types of surfaces. Generally speaking: 

Is there a resource comparing different safety statistics for transporting babies on bicycles, specifically using different methods? I'd like to see some information about how safe it is to compare a baby in a bike seat vs. in a trailer vs. in a box bike. Intuitively trailers seem to have the least risk of a fall, but might be more likely to be hit by an inattentive motorist. I've looked and I can't find any data about this. 

Of course there are exceptions and variations on these bikes that fit in that continuum, but as a general rule for tire width it's pretty accurate. 

Hello, While riding home last night, my brake lever fell off. It's an older item on an older bike. What's the process to re-attached one of these? 

I went for my longest ride of the year this past Sunday. I guess my body wasn't expecting it or my bike is slightly misconfigured. I'm interested in finding a resource where I can look up what I might have done wrong based on where I am experiencing pain. Does such a resource exist? FWIW, I had serious stiffness and pain between my right calf muscle and right ankle. 

There are bicycles with a crankshaft that runs through the rear axle. The "Tur Meccanica Bi Bici" is such a bicycle: 

All in all it's probably going to be a lot cheaper to get a used road bike and refurbish it than to convert an entire mountain bike. 

A mountain bike will never really be a road bike. The geometry and construction of the frame is different. Mountain bike frames are designed for a different posture and are often designed for a suspension fork, as well as generally being beefier. You can set up a mountain bike with slick tires and drop bars if you want. I've tried this before and the ride quality is a bit off compared to a road bike. If you want to take it all the way, you'll need to swap out the following: 

As shown in the image above, the pressure gauge is protected by a plastic cover. It's pretty easy to slide this cover up the shaft of the pump and out of the way. Once this is out of the way, the pressure gauge can be removed by unscrewing it counter-clockwise. The problem is that the pin indicating the current pressure can slide up its axis to a point where it is going to be turned by the axis when the pressure changes, but it won't start at 0. The way I fixed it was by jiggling the guage until the indicator fell back into place where it should be. I suspect it came loose when I biked the pump across town. Once it has been re-zeroed, you can screw the gauge back on and slide the protective cover back. Then you're done. 

A few years ago in Toronto, what was probably one of the biggest bike theft busts ever happened. Igor Kenk was trading drugs for stolen bikes, and stockpiling them by the thousands. (Supposedly he was planning to corner the market post-econopocalypse or post-ecopocalypse and be a king). Anyways, you can see pictures or the thousands of bikes that he stole: 

I've been slowly changing a Devinci Milano I bought to be more like a touring bike than a hybrid. I've installed drop bars and sti shifters. Everything is working pretty well, except that I'd like to have a more road-oriented set of chainrings. So I plan to swap in a standard road 52 - 39 crankset. Is there any way I can tell if it will fit? I realize it will take me five minutes to check, just wondering if there's a better way. 

Many trailers attach via a hitch on the rear axle of the bicycle. Since bike share bikes use proprietary fittings to reduce theft, it would not be possible to install one of these on a bike-share bike. The trailers you are asking about appear to attach to a seat post. Bike share bikes always have adjustable (but not removable) seat posts. You should have no problem adjusting the post and installing one of these seats. You may find it's not worth your effort attaching and detaching a trailer when you're likely to be only using the bike for a half hour at a time. 

I've heard of people doing it with a hammer and a screwdriver. It's not the best idea though. It won't be easy, and you'll foul the lockring and your cog's teeth. Just plonk down the $20 on getting the proper tools for the job. 

I tried this a few years back. There isn't much point if you're not riding on ice. Just get a standard road tire. If you're riding that much on normal roads, the nubs will be mostly worn off for the odd time that you are one ice. 

I was told once that kickstands warp the frame when used, especially when the bike is laden down, and that some materials are more susceptible to this than others. Is there any truth to it? 

Most reasonably new rims come with a wear line. There should be a groove machined into the breaking surface. Once you can no longer see this, the brakes have worn down the rim too much and the rim needs replacing. 

Organized rides are great. You get a lot of support in terms of rest stops, mechanical help, and medical assistance. A subset of this is charity rides. These are particularly nice because there are often people along the route cheering for you at various points along the way. On the other hand, riding solo is more challenging and you get the choose your route. It has a lot more challenges involved. The nice thing about a group ride is you can generally do them on a road bike, and don't need to burden yourself with tools, food, liquids, the bags that carry them, or anything else really. You may not even need a water bottle. If you enjoy the logistical challenge you may want to do more solo rides. Another great experience is staffing a group ride. 

Often in a review of brakes, or an article talking about braking the author will use the term "modulate." E.g. "The brake modulates well" or "Modulate your front brake." What exactly does this term refer to? 

I found this image on "the web." It doesn't give a comprehensive answer to your contact patch comparison request, but it gives a pretty clear idea of the difference. 

You should find it pretty easy to pedal with no hands for a second. Once you're able to do this, progressively leave your hands off the bars for longer. It's easy to work up to riding no handed comfortably. Two things you should note: 

How exactly is a dual pivot brake better than single pivot? Is it the travel, mechanical advantage, or what? 

I recently installed a new fork on a bike I'm building up. I find that before I get the preload tension correct on the top cap to remove knocking, a squeaking sound starts emanating from the steer tube area when I turn the handlebars. I am going to disassemble the whole stack tomorrow and make sure that everything is on in the right order and that nothing that shouldn't be there is present. FYI I put the crown race on and installed all the bits of the headset and everything looks fine. Does anyone have any experience in what might be causing such a noise? If it makes any difference, I'm using a carbon steer tube and a "problem solvers" expansion plug. 

I volunteer at a community bike shop. We take old donated bikes and fix them up for sale, so I have a lot of experience with this exact dilemma. Here are a few reasons why I will stop working on a bike I am refurbishing: 

Edited because some dumbass downvoted this most brilliant answer: None other than Eddy Mercx, (who won the Tour de France 5 times and once cycled 49.431 km in an hour), once said: Don't buy upgrades, ride up grades. QED 

Your bike doesn't fit right. Back pain probably indicates that the distance to your handlebars is too long. You didn't stretch well enough before hand or have aggravated an existing injury. You should probably get off the bike and relax a bit. Maybe talk to a doctor. 

Make sure that the frame is not compromised. Looks for cracks or big dents, or any asymmetry in the forks. Make sure that there is no rust through the paint anywhere. If there is any chrome, make sure that any rust is only on the surface. Make sure that the seatpost isn't seized. This is pretty easy as you can just loosen the seatpost bolt and give the saddle a squiggle. If it moves, you're golden. If the bike has a quill stem, make sure it isn't seized up. This requires loosening the stem bolt, and whacking it with a hammer or preferably a soft-ended mallet. Check that the bottom bracket and hubs turn smoothly. If the motion is stiff or jerky it probably means the bearings or races are shot, and that they'll need work. Ensure that the cables work. Try the brakes and try the gears. Check the braking surfaces. Most wheels will have an indicator groove along the center of the braking surface. If this looks quite worn it means that the wheel is on its last legs. Don't worry about dust. Dust is a good sign, in my opinion. It means that the bike was probably stored indoors and by an owner who didn't use it much. These are good things. Don't worry too much about brakes pads or tires. You can replace those fairly cheaply. Some old road bikes have really gummy brake hoods that can be a pain to deal with. This isn't really a deal breaker though.