The runes' spell could work only during a particular timeframe. In my current office (in the real world), I was sent a link to an important file. The link would only work for 24 hours after I received the email. Your rune could do the same thing; create it so the magic only works for 24 hours after it's emailed to the recipient. 

Once airborne the magical fireball could rocket itself straight into the stone wall, picking up speed and momentum. It could even grow in size and mass during flight, adding to the force it will apply to the wall. The self-propelled fireball could also course correct to aim for imperceptible weak spots in the construction of the wall, adding to the damage. (And it could still explode as @AndyD273 suggested.) 

According to the 1970 hippie-fantasy movie Gas-S-S, a human's neurons start dying off at age 25. A chemist came up with a gas that made that accelerated the depletion; so that a person ages normally, but when he reaches 25, he dies from the depletion in a short time. Would something like that work? The "hereditary disease" causes rapid neuron depletion, but only in people who would have that depletion normally? Also, see the episode "Miri" from the original Star Trek. 

This person could have the ability to change anyone he/she sees so that other person can no longer hurt another person, and no longer wants to. The hero's ability could affect people he sees in photos or on video - so a live stream video of a whole area of unrest would allow the hero to change all those people. Some people would want to avoid this person, or avoid being seen by this person, so they could continue to be evil. But their "foot soldiers" would all be disabled if seen, so the bad leaders' ability to sow discontent would get more and more limited. 

I like the "radioactive moon" idea, but you could do it the other way around: the planet is a moon of a highly radioactive gas giant. As long as the colony is facing away from the gas giant, it's protected from the radiation, but it will rotate towards it too. Note that: 1) The times that the gas giant "rises" or "sets" is separate from day and night (when the sun rises and sets). 2) Most moons of gas giants have one face always facing the planet, so it doesn't rise or set, but you're permitting bad science. 

Weapons Also, just to make this answer complete, I agree with the other answers about using aluminum as a weapon material. That would not work well because being soft makes it not hold an edge, and bending on impact is bad for a weapon for the same reason it is good for a set of armor, it spreads out the force of the impact. Additionally, if you are trying to cut someone else wearing iron or steel armor, your aluminum weapon won't be able to penetrate it at all. 

He became the first man to single-handedly create an alphabet, in his case for the Cherokee language. A) Were there any real-life Native American inventors, scientists, or other figures who could have done the same for mechanical inventions? (Even if he was born in the 20th Century? I'll just set his birthday backwards a hundred years or so.) B) My first thought was that this individual would be exposed to such invention by contact with the Europeans and American settlers; possibly by being educated at Harvard College or Oxford or something. But I'd like to avoid the "insensitive and offensive tropes" mentioned below. How might a culture of invention have arisen independently among the Native Americans? 

I'd say it would be a dangerous trait for the safety of the organism. Many traits of an organism have to go together. If you alter/replace one of the bits of genetic information, it will mess up the others. I'm thinking of mammals' eyeballs: they need to be round, include a lens, include a retina, an optic nerve, the visual cortex of the brain, the eyelid, tear glands, tear ducts, the muscles that control the eye, etc. Altering a piece of that is like altering the position of a card in a card house. It might be okay, but the chances much greater that there would be unpleasant consequences. Regardless of the level of tech, which I can't quite wrap my mind around, it seems as though extensive "beta testing" of the new trait would be required to work out all the bugs. 

How about a silencer that uses active noise cancellation? It wouldn't have to be on the barrel - actually, it wouldn't have to be on the gun at all, but probably nearby. You may have to program it for a specific weapon, but in theory, it could cover the blast of several nearby weapons at once. 

The 1978 novel "Aquarius Mission" by Martin Caidin asked this question. In that case, IIRC, the undersea race marked the months by their female's menstrual cycles. Do your people have regular sleep cycles or anything else that follows a circadian rhythm? Are there fish or undersea creatures that strictly follow a daily, weekly, or monthly pattern? (EDIT: Sorry, someone already mentioned the repeated behavior of deep-sea fish.) 

One point that hasn't yet been covered by the other answers is that it is quite possible to show someone that you have complex speech capabilities without actually sharing a language. I don't speak Chinese, but when I hear Chinese spoken, I can tell that there is meaning and structure there compared to when a dog barks or an ape using various grunting noises to communicate. Similarly, we can tell that there is some meaning and syntax among the "languages" of other intelligent animals like dolphins, and we have put quite a lot of work into establishing communication with these species even though we don't expect them to ever learn English. The advanced ape species may not realize that your speech is as advanced as theirs, but I suspect that just by speaking to them in your native language you could convince them that you are intelligent. If you coupled that with writing things in the dirt or on the wall, you may really pique their interest. That would get you past the issue of them thinking you are just imitating their speech like a parrot. If you could catch the interest of one of their zoologists, then you could work more closely with them to teach each other your languages, which would greatly increase the speed at which you learned.