I don't think that "why" is a useful question here- it is akin to asking why we exist in time and space. In our universe, living organisms reproduce. That's simply a naked fact. 

It can be viewed from a rhetorical perspective, of course, but it also can be viewed as a fragment of a logical argument, with several of the propositions left implicit. The reconstructed argument would go something like this: 

This is one of the Fourteen Unanswered Questions. There is a Buddhist Creation Myth told in the Aggañña Sutta, but it is clearly a satire and is not taken seriously. 

There's no evidence that Nietzsche read Kierkegaard; the latter had not been translated into German. However, there is strong evidence that Nietzsche knew of Kierkegaard through the secondary literature; furthermore, Georges Brandes was a clear link between the two of them. As you have noticed, there are certainly a lot of parallels between their thought, but also in terms of their influences. Both responded critically to Hegel, and particularly to Hegel's reading of Socrates; in this regard, Sarah Kofman has a fascinating book which compares the readings of Socrates found in Hegel, Kierkegaard and Nietzsche as they each weigh the source material on Socrates found in Plato, Xenophon and Aristophanes. Furthermore, although you rightly point out their differing standpoints with regard to Christian doctrine, both were highly critical of the Christendom of their day. 

No. In a theologically grounded ethical system, God serves as the foundation of the ethical imperative-- things are good to do because God commanded them. One cannot simply replace "God" with "Mankind" and end up with a coherent ethical system; whose commands would one be morally obligated to follow? Naturally, there are a number of alternative ethical systems which do not require a recourse to a God (such as utilitarianism, or virtue ethics) but these are founded upon different principles. 

Now, with this in mind, let us take a case where you have a number of scientific studies with conflicting results, and you wish to form an opinion as to which is most reliable. Which of the aforementioned warrants could be used to lend credence to one or another study? Clearly "direct perception" is unlikely, and from a scientific perspective would be likely to be viewed as anecdotal unless the observation was controlled, etc.,-- in other words, unless you were functioning as a scientist, which you stipulated was not the case. Inference and Analogy could be useful for following individual claims, but at the same time, inferences and analogies are going to necessarily be based upon a process of reasoning from things you already believe to be true, which puts you in danger (as you point out) of confirmation bias. Thus, oddly enough, we're left with basing our judgments upon the authority of others, and going with the study that comes from the source we judge to be most trustworthy. Which leads, of course, to the question of how we evaluate the qualifications of the authorities themselves-- which leads us back to the same list of epistemological warrants. To cut to the chase: if you follow a foundationalist epistemology, you have some kind of axioms or first principles that you need to build up from (but it is likely that doing so would require you to actually become a scientist in order to make a decision in this case); if, on the other hand, you follow a coherentist epistemology, you adjudicate each new claim against the things you already believe to be true, which puts you in danger of confirmation bias. Rock, meet hard place. 

Yes, this happens all the time-- so often, in fact, that we usually fail to even notice it. Let's take, for a preliminary example, Russell's barber paradox. We imagine a town, in which all of the men who are not shaved by the barber shave themselves. This means, of course, that the adult male residents of the town can be cleanly divided into two groups, those that are shaved by the barber, and those that shave themselves. And, of course, it means that each man can be placed into one group or the other. In which group do we place the barber? More to the point, think of Zeno's paradoxes which irrefutably prove, using impeccable and unassailable classical logic, that motion is impossible. And yet in reality, things move. As a final example, let us take a simple mathematical example (since arithmetic is generally considered to be well-founded in logic): one gallon of gasoline plus one gallon of water does not yield two gallons of anything. It's worth noting that the question here makes no reference to the type of logic to use; I've presumed classical logic for these examples, but similar examples could be found for any of the many forms of non-classical or deviant logic that have been proposed. In short: there are limits to how well any logic can represent the actual world. Furthermore, no logic can be proposed that does not rely on unprovable axioms, circular reasoning, or infinite regress. So it goes. 

There is an enormous philosophical literature on the question of identity, and the canonical thought experiment is the Ship of Theseus. Suffice it to say that you'll find a wide range of opinions on this matter over the past couple millenia of philosophical thought, but you'll find very few people willing to argue that you are exactly the same as you were a few moments ago, and very few people who would claim that there is no continuity whatsoever between the you of a few moments ago and the current you. Can you narrow down a bit what you are looking for? 

I'd say it is pretty unsatisfactory, because it doesn't really tell us anything. In order for it to be useful, you'd have to come up with a definition of "software" that is: a) adequate to the phenomena, and b) offers new explanatory insights. Note that you're also going to need to come up with a clear definition of "sentience"-- this is a term that has widely differing meanings depending on the context. (For example, in Buddhist philosophy, "sentience" means "having sense organs", which thus implies "capable of suffering." Thus, all animals and insects are sentient, and some plants might conceivably be.) Finally, you probably want to look into the growing literature on epigenetics; it appears that you are relying upon a reductionist view of DNA/genetics that is generally being left behind. 

I would assume that the Bibliothèque nationale de France would hold a copy of such an edition, if it were to exist-- but a search of their catalogues shows nothing of the sort. It's pretty difficult to prove a negative, but I'd doubt that there is such a translation. 

Well, one could argue that your proposed statement follows from Nietzsche's "That which does not kill me makes me stronger", but there are several problems with your formulation. First, there is no particular reason to think that "winning the argument usually returns no reward (a hollow victory at best)". In many situations, winning an argument has actual (non-hollow) consequences, not the least of which is a closer approximation of the truth (if both sides are arguing in good faith). Second, there is no particular reason to think that I would be disappointed if my "enemy" changed for the better. If my opponent comes to follow my point of view, I imagine I would have reason to be pleased, not disappointed. Which leads us to the most serious objection, the framing in terms of an "enemy" in the first place. Philosophical opponents are rarely viewed as "enemies", even in polemical debates. So: no, to the best of my knowledge, this notion has not be seriously entertained by any philosophers of renown, but I stand prepared to be corrected on this (and would not take such correction to be a "defeat" by an "enemy"). An aside regarding the Nietzsche quote: like most of Nietzsche's aphorisms, we shouldn't be too hasty in interpreting those words without a closer examination of the context in which they appear... 

The canonical reference in these matters is Thomas McEvilley's brilliant The Shape of Ancient Thought (he has a teaser video summarizing some of the findings here.) The short version is: there is considerable evidence of the communication of philosophical ideas between the classical Greek and Indian worlds, in both directions; in terms of Buddhism, this can be most easily seen with Epicureanism, and the connections between Pyrrhonism and Madhyamaka Buddhism. However, there's no direct evidence that applies to Aristotle. He may have known of Buddhist teachings, or he may not have. 

For Lucretius, the universe is infinite, and contains an infinite number of atoms. I don't recall Lucretius making any comments which would indicate that energy is necessarily atomic or quantized. In short: it's a mistake to view Lucretius as an Einsteinian physicist avant la lettre. As an aside, Stephen Greenblatt, the historian and Shakespearean scholar, has a new book out on Lucretius, which is getting excellent reviews. I've not (yet) read it myself. 

Obviously, the way one approaches this question will vary depending on the epistemological tradition one is working within. From the standpoint of the Nyāya school of classical Indian epistemology, there are exactly four epistemological warrants (Pramāņa -s): 

Again, you seem to think you are arguing with Nietzsche when you are merely recapitulating a small part of his argument (although I think he'd say that you are being capricious if you think that Christian morality is no longer culturally espoused...) 

There is a recent philosophical novel entitled 36 Arguments for the Existence of God by philosopher Rebecca Goldstein (who happens to be married to Steven Pinker) which contains a catalog of 36 arguments (and the corresponding refutations). Other than this, I can't think of any recent literature on the subject, which as you note, is rather well worn. 

Off the top of my head, I don't know of any philosophers who write with more clarity than Wittgenstein. The Philosophical Investigations are a serious of thought experiments which, unlike most philosophical texts, do not rely on extensive knowledge of previous philosophers. Is there something particular you are having trouble understanding? I have yet to find a section of the PI that did not yield to a slow, patient reading. And I think that Wittgenstein's style in the PI is directly tied to the content; he is attempting to say obliquely that which cannot be said any other way. Perhaps you could post a specific question about some passage that is confusing you? As for the Tractatus, it is much more compressed; however, there is a large secondary literature explicating the arguments and filling in the gaps. 

Jacques Derrida, in an interview entitled "Afterword: Toward an Ethic of Discussion" suggest that in order to discuss a work, one has a responsibility to actually read it. This might appear to be de minimis, but it is shocking (to Derrida, and also to myself) to see how many statements have been made concerning his work (in journalistic articles, for example) by people who have plainly not read the texts in question-- or read them so poorly as to amount to the same thing. If we broaden this a bit, I think we can say that while a reader is not morally bound by an author's intentions (to the extent that they are recoverable), at the same time, it is the responsibility of the reader to at least be aware of them (to the extent that they are recoverable). 

Here we've left philosophy behind, and moved to neuroscience. Neuroscientists have indeed found that the amgydala lights up on an fMRI when people think about disgusting things, and that the prospect of killing someone (as in the trolley scenario) is disgusting. Not a terribly surprising result, but there you go. Now, we come to your question: 

Well, there is a scholarly consensus that the use of pseudonyms was highly significant; I don't know of any Kierkegaard scholars who argue that it isn't meaningful. Here's Kierkegaard himself on the subject: 

A lot of the implications one draws from this are going to depend on one's underlying metaphysical assumptions, and how one defines the key terms "entropy" and "information". The Second Law, as you state it, is trivially false; if I take my living room to be a closed system, I can decrease the entropy there by organizing things and imposing order. In fact, viewed this way, humanity represents (in a metaphysical or theological manner) the pinnacle of the negentropic principle. For this reason, most scientific views of thermodynamics tend to focus on the microscopic dispersion of energy, and not effects at the macroscopic level. 

Physicalism is a hypothesis; it doesn't prove anything. When people say that Physicalism proves that there is no God, they are saying that "If Physicalism holds, there is no God." So, yes, your analysis is correct. 

Not borderline cases of existence, but borderline cases of definition. Something exists; the question, in this context, is whether or not it should be classified as a "heap." 

Ah, but what do "knowingly" and "choose" mean in a purely physical world? If you wish to defend a strong materialist view of the world, you have to explain the fact that we have something that looks like mind, which seems to be able to make willful choices; if this is an illusion, it is a pervasive and persistent one. 

Because the assumption of the world as non-existent is a dialectical device. Put another way, it's a thought experiment-- Descartes is beginning with "Imagine that the world does not exist. If that is the case, then the following things would apply...." and leading, via a reductio, to the conclusion "...which are plainly impossible; therefore the world must indubitably exist." So, to summarize: there may be persuasive arguments against Descartes's methodological doubt, but this doesn't appear to be among them. 

Any given event is a token; it may (or may not) be an event of a given type. Seriously: it's that simple. For more, see the SEP article- 

There's no evidence to support the claim that Descartes got it backwards; there is no particular reason to believe that Descartes did not already know (with certainty) the things he later went on to (attempt to) prove. 

The term is mentioned and described in a large number of suttas. Generally, dukkha it is divided into three types: dukkha-dukkha, which is what we commonly think of as suffering: pain, aging, stress, unpleasant things, etc.; viparanama-dukkha, which is the suffering of change: this includes not getting what you want, and the fact that satisfaction is always temporary; and sankhara-dukkha, the fact that everything is conditioned (i.e., impermanent and essenceless.) The etymology of the term dukkha may be helpful here; the image is of a faulty axle alignment. In other words, life is like the supermarket cart with the wonky wheel. The scope is all-pervasive; it refers to the fact that nothing (outside of nirvana, which is unconditioned) is completely satisfactory. 

What you are asking about is the nature of causality, which is one of the stickiest problems in philosophy. The literature here is immense; I can only point to a few touchstones. First, we need to make a distinction between Necessary and Sufficient conditions. From there, we can go to Aristotle's four causes (material, formal, efficient and formal), and the Medieval extensions thereof. The most radical theory of causality to follow was that of Hume, which led to an attempted rebuttal by Kant. Naturally, there are more recent theories, such as those of Russell. Finally: all of the above is within the framework of Western philosophy; there is an equally large (if not larger) literature in the East, largely in engagement with Buddhist thought (as the Buddhist notion of causality is sometimes known as its "central doctrine".) 

That could be an Appeal to Consequences, or a more general Appeal to Emotion, depending on the situation. 

Obviously, the usage (like all usage) is going to depend on context. In cases of logic, a distinction is drawn between what is explicitly asserted and that which is logically implied. The technique of reduction ad absurdum (or Prasaṅga in Indian Logic) is often achieved by showing that there is a contradiction between what is implied by a set of assertions, and what is formally asserted. From a moral standpoint, however, most people would argue that the implications (and foreseeable consequences) of an assertion are morally equivalent to the assertion itself. 

OK, now I'm confused. A minute ago we said that the phrase "Samsung Galaxy S II" was just a representation of an actual Samsung Galaxy S II. does she own a Samsung Galaxy S II, or a "Samsung Galaxy S II"? 

Classical logic is explosive; once you accept a contradiction, any other proposition follows as a consequence: ex falso quodlibet. So, if you are axiomatically accepting a contradiction, all statements would become valid. Not terribly useful. If you want to be able accept contradictions without explosion, you're outside of most classical logics, and into the domain of Paraconsistent Logic. 

That's not strictly speaking true. There is nothing to prevent a physicalist from making use of the notion of qualia; it is just that for the physicalist, qualia are reducible to physical entities. Everyone accepts that there is a phenomenal experience of seeing the color blue; the question is: is this experience reducible to neurons firing? As you point out, there is no rigorous way to distinguish between the two-- we currently have no way to experience the color blue without neurons firing, nor do we have a way to have those neurons firing without seeing the color blue. But, the fact that the two seem to always occur together (with a Humean regularity) does not permit us to attribute causality; we don't know if the phenomenal experience is epiphenomenal to the neurons firing, or if the neurons firing are epiphenomenal to the phenomenal experience. So, the problem that you raise is not a problem with qualia (or purely a problem for those who hold that qualia are irreducible to physical states); the same problem faces the physicalist. The reducibility of qualia to physical states likewise depends upon an ability to separate the two and declare one primary and the other epiphenomenal.