When camping in summer rain overnight or dew in the morning is fine as it'll likely all evaporate off in the day. When camping in winter dew, rain, or sleet could lead to frost and ice on the tent overnight. Ice tends to make things brittle. My line of thought is along the lines of having to pack up the tent on a frosty / icy morning. How would you prevent frost or ice from damaging camping equipment, like guy ropes for example? Hot on cold generally causes things to shatter as well (I've done this with a hot meal on a cold plate before) so what is the best way to help the melting process along? Is this necessary, or will ice not cause gear to become brittle? To clarify: I'm not talking necessarily talking about going up mountains and being in the snow here, snow in that sense can be warm, and easy to brush off. I'm talking about camping out in the open, it's wet from rain or sleet or dew and that water has then turned to frost or ice overnight. 

I'm looking to challenge myself more than just running and wanted to know if there were any specifics in how to begin trail / fell running (In this case running up hills / mountains). Is there anything specific about becoming a fell runner which I should know about, or is it simply "Find an elevated trail and run it" ? 

Acetone is often used in nail polish removers, if it's at this strength no you would not need a mask, just make sure you're in a well ventilated room. For high percentage acetone cleaners used to remove resins and such, you should think about wearing a ventilation mask, gloves, and also possibly goggles to protect your eyes - in addition to being in a well ventilated area. Acetone Safety 

Oh just as a note... Cooked sausages and old chicken legs will bring down Red Kites if your area is big enough :) Edit just from your photo, might be worth bringing the feeder closer to the shrubs if your worried about cover. Also... If you put bread out on the lawn, it'll bring up worms and insects if not eaten (wet bread after a rain does this), which Blackbirds in our garden loved :) This is our garden looking bare in early spring. As you can see despite gravel instead of grass we don't have much plant life either :) 

The best time of year in the UK to go foraging for sloes is from mid-October to early-November, with the best time being after the first frost in this time frame. Allowing a frost will help the berries be less tough - their skins should burst slightly. Some people say don't worry about the frost and just stick them in the fridge or freezer - but from experience they're always tastiest the natural way. Some people say they're less bitter after a frost as well. It's year on year specific and some years the birds will get to them before the frost, sometimes you'll be hunting for them through leaves, sometimes the leaves will all be gone and it's easy picking. Sometimes the summers weather will mean a good / bad year for sloes as well. For jellies it's often best to use the gin soaked berries from the year before. 

Overall I think you should be okay with just making sure that the contact points on the oars are a bit padded, or at least, the contact point is not sharp. That way it shouldn't rub on the oar and degrade or scratch the finish. Rubber is a common way to keep oars in place without scratching the finish. You could consider using guitar hooks to keep them in place, as these are designed to hold delicate wood guitar necks, and are usually padded with a soft foam. However it would also be good to make sure that your oars, as they are wooden, are not stored in direct sunlight as UV light will weaken the surface and shorten the lifespan of the oar. Obviously in this case you won't be storing them anywhere damp but additionally never leave oars on wet grass, mud etc. when out and about if you can help it. Good luck with your project - our plastic / metal collapsible oars store neatly in a cupboard but wouldn't look good on the wall anyway! Good info / Source: Concept 2 Storing and Transporting Oars 

Over the years, when out walking and on my commute through the countryside I've noticed that, when it's intensely pouring with rain, Roe deer seems to come out of the forests into open fields to eat. I would have thought being out in the rain would reduce their ability to hear predators sneak up on them. However that said, in the UK there are no natural predators for Roe deer and they are only culled by the forestry commission and other governing bodies. Why do they come out to eat like this in the rain? And can you use it to your advantage when hunting? 

This wire knot comes under other names and I found it under a Cobb & Co hitch knot (another Australian name). It requires wire, what you intend to tie together, a bolt or screw driver, and pliers to cut the wire. 

These look like common garden spiders, which range from tiny to about the size of a 50 pence piece, and come in colours from yellow through to green. They're common to see between May and November but you can see them later in the year, potentially. However this maybe another species, but these ones are really common. Now usually these spiders will find somewhere nice and cosy for winter and stay there, it's not easy to find out too much which species do this but there is something called Diapause which can affect most spiders. 

It's possible that what you saw was normal for a jaguar. The Panthera species (leopards [Panthera pardus] in Asia and Africa, and jaguars [Panthera onca] in the Americas) can have melanistic colours like many species. They're commonly known as Black Panthers. Sometimes you can still see a leopard / jaguars spots through the black fur, but it's still melanistic as it's had a development of the coloured pigment melanin, other times it's a complete covering. 

Now supposing as you say that the weather here was sudden, that could easily explain why the spiders were dead, or appearing dead, in the middle of nowhere. What may have occurred was the natural triggering of Diapause in a location which left the spiders vulnerable to the cold itself, instead of cosying up somewhere warmer, like a garden shed or nice hole in a tree. 

Further reading: Saga website on Christianity and Robins I think as well one good idea about why they are on postcards is when we used to get a huge blanket of snow Mr Robin Redbreast would stand out against the bland colours of winter with his bright red feathers, the contrast looked good and someone painted it and... here we are! 

Management (this is a sort of side effect that's useful). All horses, even 'wild' ones need a way to care for their hooves. Shoes have a sort of bonus in so far as you really can tell when the farrier needs to come give them a trim! The 'wild' Dartmoor ponies even get rounded up once a year to have a trim because overgrown hooves can leave horses unable to walk. Reason NOT to shod a horse - safety for other horses or humans. Imagine being kicked by a steel toe capped boot... but harder. 

Horse boarding is a sport similar to kite boarding / kite surfing where one uses wind power via a kite to pull oneself along on a long-board type skateboard or surfboard. With Horse Boarding you are pulled along by a horse and rider. This gives added complexity - one because you're doubling (tripling if you include the horse) the number of participants. It is considered an extreme sport in a similar way to 3 day eventing (people die doing cross country where jumps go wrong). The idea being to run a course at the fastest time with least faults - same as all horse events, lowest score wins. 

For diving in the UK in colder weather the water temperature can easily be below 10C. Warm water regulators seem to be 10C +, and then cold water regulators for below that as they need to be able to limit or prevent free flow. Is it possible (and / or acceptable) to use a set of cold water regs in warm water, or is it better to just get two sets of regs? UPDATE: We got mares abyss 52 regs (second + octo) with a DIN first stage. Worked fine in 8C water. 

My boots are leather, as you've not stated what yours are made of at time of writing, here goes with what I do to clean my boots on walks and to store at home. Firstly for at home I will always leave my boots to dry off usually overnight - just on some newspaper away from any radiators or the fire, slow drying as they are leather. It's easier to remove dry dirt than wet. Once dry I'll bang my boots together to remove the worst of the mud, if I'm off out again there is no point doing more than this. If not, I'll then use a soft bristled brush to get as much mud off the leather and soles as possible. Next I'll wipe them over with a slightly damp cloth or kitchen roll, this leaves the leather clean enough so that I can reapply a protective coating - something like NikWax for leather. They then live in a hiking boot bag. On route and out camping, well this depends. I have two tents, one is larger with living area separate to sleeping so I don't really mind leaving my boots in there, the other is much smaller with only a little area outside for bags and boots. I aim to never step inside the actual tent with my muddy boots (this helps keep as much mud from getting in the tent as possible) but to clean them I will do little more than find some damp long grass (dry works but damp is better) and drag my boots through them. We do this a lot when out walking in the British countryside as you will get a lot of farmland and it's better than leaving mud on a fence post. Also I will stomp a little in standing water - a puddle on the roadside for example, again this only helps if you have one, but helps get rid of the mud on the sole of your boot. If you're lucky with the weather on hikes and camping you should be able to dry your boots over night and bang them together in the morning to remove as much mud as possible. If you have the space for a microfibre cloth you could probably give them a good wipe over if you want to - but if you're going to get muddy again the next day then I'd say don't bother, just clear as much mud off the sole of the boot (a knife works as well, not a sharp one, or a stick to clear your sole out) so that you can stand evenly without discomfort. The best and easiest way I've ever cleaned my boots is to go for a walk in the snow, they come back sparkling. I'll leave them to dry, apply NikWax and they're good as new. It's just a shame the south of England only gets snow once every few years.