Speech often (always?) deteriorates for people with post-lingual deafness. This presumably occurs because of insufficient auditory feedback. Given that people with Wernicke's aphasia cannot comprehend language, do they also experience speech deterioration (that is, speech becoming disjointed and/or ungrammatical) over time as a result of hearing themselves speak, but not understanding the sounds they produce? 

I added this: which will match 0 or more words before . is a word character and is equivalent to is a word boundary 

The classic statement of the meanings of the perfect construction is McCawley, “Tense and time reference in English”, in Langendoen & Fillmore, Studies in linguistic semantics, 1971. (McCawley subsequently retracted one of the four meanings he described there, the "Hot News" perfect.) After that linguists struggled with the perfect—is it monosemous? is it an aspect and/or a tense?, and particularly the "Present Perfect Puzzle", the constraint on temporals with present perfect— for a generation without getting much farther. But a couple of recent papers have to my mind pretty well settled what the perfect is about: Michaelis, “Stative by Construction”, Linguistics 49-6 (2011), available online here. Nishiyama and Koenig, “What is a perfect state?”, Language 86, 3 (2010), available through JSTOR. 

Where are clitics initially Merged in Italian? [1] Cardinaletti, A., & Shlonsky, U. (2004). Clitic positions and restructuring in Italian. Linguistic Inquiry, 35(4), 519-557. [2] Adger, D. (2003). Core syntax: a minimalist approach. Oxford: Oxford University Press. 

I'm trying to port Cardinaletti & Shlonsky's analysis of Italian clitic placement1 to the Minimalist framework for a term paper. The course is based on Adger's textbook2 which mostly focuses on syntax trees of English sentences. I'm trying to represent simple sentences like and using syntax trees. In the first sentence, the locative clitic ci is in a clausal position, and in the second sentence it is attached to the lexical verb. My intuition is that ci is initially merged as andare's complement in VP, but I'm not sure if it's possible to move the clitic to an entirely new projection (LocCL)—between T and vP—later in the derivation to account for the word order in the first sentence. I'm not entirely sure how I'd motivate that movement either since clitic climbing is optional. 

That’s a joke (what Servius actually says is that every part of speech can be converted into an adverb); but Horne Tooke was one of the first to recognize explicitly that the term adverb doesn’t really tell you much about how a word so designated actually functions syntactically. Contemporary grammar has of course progressed beyond the classical notion; we no longer call unclassifiable terms adverbs but employ the far more meaningful term particle. 

There's nothing syntactically unusual about such uses of these expressions, though how exactly they're deployed and understood is debatable: you may consider them either as orthographically abbreviated finite clauses (I'm laughing my ass off) or as abbreviations recategorized as words—specifically, as adverbs. In either case they act syntactically as what CGEL calls 'supplements'—constituents which lie outside the clause and typically qualify either an internal constituent or the entire clause. lmao and lol usually qualify an entire clause, providing a personal comment on its substance. The same function is served by familiar phrases like in my opinion or unfortunately. The lack of formal pointing makes your particular example ambiguous. It may be that lmao actually follows a deleted stop and introduces the second clause, like this: 

I'm working on a paper on the history of computational phonology. As I understand it, Chomsky & Halle's SPE acted as a catalyst for research in the field, namely by laying the foundations for two-level models and POS taggers. Fraser and Bobrow designed the first phonological rule-testing system the same year (1968). The introduction of automata in phonological rule systems by Kaplan and Kay, years later, seems to be a turning point. Prince and Smolensky's Optimality Theory in the mid 90's as well. What are other important papers / innovations in computational phonology? I am still doing research, but your input is most welcome. This is my list so far: 

Some grammarians distinguish these two uses of the wh- clause as 'embedded questions' and 'free' or 'fused relatives'. I don't, because the internal structure of the wh- clause is identical; but the difference in the external syntactic roles justifies a distinction at that level. 

Or it may be that as you say lmao actually lies in the middle of the utterance. In more formal registers you might expand it to a clause or replace it with a more conventional clause or adverbial (to my great amusement), and bracket it with dashes or parentheses, and it would look perfectly ordinary. 

I recommend that you look into Lexical Functions1. They are used in specialized dictionaries called Explanatory Combinatorial Dictionaries2 and describe semantic relationships between lexical units. Specifically, what you want is the Si function: 

The first one is called Поцелуев мост (Potseluev Bridge or literally ) and the second one Утро (Morning). The artist is Покидышев (Pokidyshev). This transliteration table is useful when you need to translate Russian but aren't familiar with the Cyrillic alphabet. I use it with Google Translate. 

Its is a typo for it, or Its is considered under the aspect "inflected form of it", or Its is an awkward way of mentioning a morphological component while preserving reference to a constituent actually present in the utterance. 

But the tense—temporal reference—of the assertion is independent of the tense of pretend, for you may assert a past, present or future fact; and the form/construction of the verb employed in the assertion reflects the interaction of the tense of the assertion with the Reference Time of the pretense. What you want here is almost certainly: 

Where S1 returns the agent noun and S2 the patient noun. I don't think an exhaustive ECD has been constructed for English. However it's not clear whether you are looking for an existing tool that returns actantial nouns or trying to build your own. [1] Mel’čuk, I. (1998). Collocations and lexical functions. In A. P. Cowie (Ed.), Phraseology: Theory, analysis, and applications (pp. 23-53). Oxford: Clarendon Press. [2] Mel’čuk, I. (2006). Explanatory combinatorial dictionary. In G. Sica (Ed.), Open problems in linguistics and lexicography (pp. 225-355). Monza: Polimetrica. 

In the first place, what are called homonyms often aren't. For (your) example, to is only homonymous with too and two when it's unnaturally stressed— ordinarily it's /tə/, not /tu/. Others are homonymous only in certain dialects: merry, marry and Mary are often cited as homonyms, but they have distinct pronunciations in my native speech. More importantly, there are few homonyms which cannot be distinguished in context. Many belong to different word classes. Again, your example lists a preposition, a quantifier and an adverb; they're going to play entirely distinct syntactic roles. And even homonyms which belong to the same word class will usually be used in contrasting semantic or pragmatic domains—how likely are you to encounter an utterance in which balled and bawled could possibly be confused? Such contextual distinctiveness is far more important than mere phonic similarity; in Real Life, as opposed to dictionaries and taxonomies, phonic phenomena only phenomenate in discourse contexts. In evolutionary terms, these synonyms inhabit different ecological niches, so they do not compete for lexical resources.