Today (March 20, 2015) is seeing a rare combination of the spring equinox, a total solar eclipse, and a supermoon. I am wondering if there is anything special astronomically about all three of these happening at the same time, like is the equinox a particularly more or less likely time for solar eclipses to happen (my guess is that it has no impact eclipses). The supermoon/total solar eclipse combination doesn't seem surprising to me, since if the opposite were to happen (moon far away and solar eclipse) we would end up with an annular eclipse instead of a total eclipse. 

I am wondering what is the largest known core hydrogen-burning star? A look at the list of largest known stars on Wikipedia seems to indicate VV Cephei B (at the bottom of the list), but I would like to know for sure if it is the largest known. In addition to knowing which star it is, I would also like to know its temperature, size, and expected lifetime. I am also curious to know if the largest known core hydrogen-burning star is similar to what astrophysicists theorize is the largest possible core hydrogen-burning star (given current metallicity conditions in the universe; I know star-formation timescales have a metallicity dependence) and the expected temperature, size, and lifetime of such an object. 

Since there are a lot of stellar black holes estimate to be around 100 millions alone in our milky way galaxy, maybe this facts might help explain the missing dark matter and I'll go even further... the energy produced by the collapsing stars and colliding black holes might be whats driving the expansion of space to speed up! otherwise why wouldn't it be? 

Say hypothetically an UMBH with 50 billion solar masses (supposedly upper limit) is beginning to merge with another (Super)MBH similar to Sagittarius A* that sits at the center of the Milky Way Galaxy, what would happen next in this clash of the titans? 

What does the current theory tell us about what is going on at the core of a neutron star, I'm expecting a black hole hopefully I won't be disappointed! 

Andromeda Galaxy is the largest galaxy in the galaxy cluster[1] called Local Group[2] and our Milky Way Galaxy as well as some satellite/dwarf galaxies are orbiting around each other within Local Group. My question isn't Milky Way Galaxy supposed to orbit around Andromeda Galaxy[3] so how come the predicted merger[4]? Whose slowing down or do the gravity work differently as things are being scaled further up? 

I'm coming across the concept of "period doubling" in RR Lyrae stars. When I look up what period doubling is on the Internet, I find general-level explanations of bifurcations of dynamical systems and transitioning to chaos. However, I am unable to apply these things to stars in a way I understand. What is period doubling, and what is physically happening in a star to lead to period doubling? 

Let me answer what I think you're asking (parts of your question aren't that clear to me). Background: I am currently an astrophysics graduate student. First, from you question it seems to me that you are proceeding under an assumption that you are accepted into a research group when you are accepted into a PhD program. Everywhere I looked as I applied for graduate school, though, this certainly was not the case. Not only was I not accepted into a specific research group at the schools I was accepted to but I was also encouraged to try out different research projects before settling on a specific topic to pursue for my dissertation. That being said, I do think there are some programs which may choose to accept or not accept you based on what you are thinking you would like to do for research (if you know). This may be because of resources (for instances, if all the professors who are experts in what you want to do research in already have as many graduate students as they want/have money for, that may impact your acceptance and will impact your chances of doing the research you want should you be accepted). 

Almost all gas giants in our solar system are observed to have a planetary ring comprises of ice, dust and rocks. My question is do these rings obediently sticks around their foster parent until our starving Sun becomes red giant? Also why don't the ring forms into moon? 

An annular eclipse is similar to total eclipse except our Moon "apparently" appears smaller than the Sun, my question is since in both cases there will be a glowing ring forming... so how to tell them apart? 

I know that virtual particles are constantly be created and annihilated even in a complete vacuum, I like to know if there exist such a mechanism to spawn an anti-particle black hole can be any size not necessary stellar? I think black hole lose mass by gradually throwing out one of the pair of virtual particles before they could cancel out each other, so would this also apply to an anti-particle black hole as well if it does exists? 

Hypothetical question: when a pair of identical stellar black holes are very close to one another wouldn't the side facing each other experience lower gravitational force? How is this logic un/sound? 

Auroras require an atmosphere, which the moon does not have. Auroras occur as solar wind and other particles that interact or are associated with Earth's magnetic field are funneled by the magnetic field and accelerated until they collide with atoms/molecules in Earth's atmosphere. These collisions cause the atoms/molecules to ionize or excite the the subsequent recombination/de-excitation of the electrons is what causes the light seen in the auroras. Without at atmosphere, though, there are no particles to ionize and excite to create an aurora. 

"Took shelter behind Mars"? These spacecraft are in orbit around Mars, constantly in motion, so they can't very well just pack up and move to the other side of Mars to avoid getting hit with the dust. So my questions are: What exactly qualifies as taking shelter behind Mars? Does it simply mean being on the other side of the planet from the tail of the comet as dust from the tail passed Mars? How did NASA get the (constantly in motion) spacecraft to hide behind Mars? I assume that the orbits had to be modified in advance of the comet's arrival. I picture some orbital modifications that changed the phase of the orbits of the satellites so that they would be on the other side of Mars as the dust flew by, perhaps also making the orbits more elliptical with the apsis behind Mars, allowing the satellites to spend additional time in Mars' protection. Will these orbital modifications affect the ability of the spacecraft to fulfil their primary missions as they relate to Mars? I am not asking whether dust from the comet will affect the quality of the instruments on the spacecraft (indeed, this whole question focuses on steps NASA is taking to prevent that from happening) but whether the altered orbits the spacecraft have after their orbital modifications will affect their ability to pursue their primary missions (such as flying over different parts of Mars than was originally intended, which may or may not be beneficial to answering the questions the spacecraft were originally launched to answer. Although scientists are nothing if not resourceful and I'm sure any data that come from the spacecraft, whether intended or not, will lead to important discoveries). 

Suppose in a binary stars system there is a dying star and a companion black hole as they orbit around each other. My question is what will possibly happen to the black hole if the partner goes supernova? I understand that the kinetic energy from the supernova cannot destroy the black hole. 

Not all galaxies are spiral in shape[1][2], some nebulae are huge[3] and nebula are the nursery of stars[4]. How to tell them apart? Note I have already compare the contents for galaxy and a nebula, they are very similar as both have stars, planets and dusts. 

If primordial black hole do exists today could it be responsible for galaxies maybe even quasars, I mean these ancient monsters gobble up all materials in its wake and grow bigger and eventually evolves into say milky way galaxy etc. What are the odds of such events actually happened? 

I read that after LIGO and Virgo interferometers detected gravitational waves signal from a kilonova, many ground based telescopes quickly turns their mirrors towards the spot and "sees" gold and platinum ,etc other heavy elements over the next few days. Is it really possible to directly observe heavy elements being formed consider that the event occurs at a distance of around 130 millions light year away? 

The Minor Planet Center shows that we know of about 1350 Trans-Neptunian Objects (TNO's). I think it is safe to assume that we have not found all the TNO's there are to find, even the ones that we are capable of detecting with current telescope technology (simply because we haven't looked at them yet). Are there any estimates for how many TNO's exist (not just how many we've discovered)? I know such estimates probably are for numbers of objects with a radius greater than a certain amount and for objects belonging to a certain group (Plutinos, Kuiper Belt Objects, scattered disk objects, etc.). I am fine with estimates that make such size cuts and group specifications. 

This Wikipedia article states that Segue 1 is either a dwarf spheroidal galaxy or globular cluster associated with our own Milky Way. I am wondering what the difference is between dwarf spheroidal galaxies and globular clusters, since at first glance is seems that the morphological properties and stellar ages are similar between the two classes of objects. 

Again, this is very school-specific. Some schools have immense computing resources and getting computer time to run simulations/heavy calculations is easy. Other schools may have no computing resources available (other than your desktop workstation) and it will be more difficult to get the computing time you'll need for simulations since you will have to look outside your university for resources. Some schools have access to a lot of time on some very big telescopes; some have access to telescopes that are specialized for specific topics in astrophysics; and other schools may have no access to telescopes at all, meaning you will have to find telescopes with allocation time you can apply for without having to belong to an institution affiliated with that telescope. It varies from school to school. So, your ability to pursue specific research topics in astrophysics can be enhanced or hampered by the computing and telescope resources available at your department. Take that into consideration as you apply to schools. SUMMARY The answers to your questions vary greatly from department to department and are largely dependent on the resources available to a specific department. I have found generally that there is great flexibility in astrophysics programs to choose a PhD dissertation topic but that certain research topics have more support and resources at some institutions than at others. Also, at many institutions professors are limited in how many students they can advise by the amount of funding they have for PhD students, which can significantly affect the research options available to you. There are, however, some institutions that have the resources to cover for an under-funded professor if a student does want to work for them, but again it just boils down to it varies from school to school. 

I read that Dragonfly44 is a galaxy mostly consists of dark matter, and it should contain a super massive black hole too. If there really is a dark SMBH, how does it lose mass? I think there is no way for dark matter to be converted into energy and vice versa, no? 

Is there any naturally occurring event powerful enough that can cause a galaxy regardless of shape and size to divide itself into two or more smaller galaxies? 

I was reading about gigantic storms on giant gas planets, the great red spot on Jupiter and hexagon on Saturn to name a few, how about our Sun which is consist of plasma(hot gas which have some of their electrons stripped) why don't we see any big hurricane? 

Gas is abundance in the universe, can a massive asteroid draws in these gas forming a thin atmosphere? 

I am wondering since neutron star is smaller than the average main-sequence stars and it doesn't produce energy via fusion so why do we still call it a star? 

I am looking for a official term that describes all stars that are not neutron stars or white dwarfs. "Still burning stuff stars" or "ordinary stars" are all I have been able to come up with. Is there an official term for stars that are still evolving and haven't "died" yet? 

I know Seyfert galaxies are types of active galaxies, but I do not understand what separates them from other types of active galaxies. Are they brighter/not as bright as other types of active galaxies? Do they emit in different wavelengths relative to other active galaxies? I've read that 10% of all galaxies are Seyfert galaxies, so it seems to me that understanding what these galaxies are is very important to understanding galaxies overall. 

In my research on exoplanets, I have heard many people talk "forward modeling of exoplanet atmospheres". I don't know what the "forward" means in "forward modeling" and how it compares with "reverse modeling", if that's even a thing. What is forward modeling, and why is it so special that it needs to be distinguished from just plain ol' regular modeling? 

Just curious I like to know if one fine day our Sun turns into a white dwarf at the later stage of its life, would the magnetic bubble, heliosphere gets thinner and eventually disappear? also at this moment is it changing in size? 

The materials inside a neutron star are densely packed (extremely close to each other) and as time goes by say about an eon later, most of the neutrons would eventually tunnel into each other and voila! the neutron star becomes black hole? sound suspicious to me but can it happen? 

Just because we observed that our milky way galaxy is spinning in a certain direction therefore we assume it is applicable to all other galaxies, I am curious to find out if hypothetically most of the celestial objects such as natural satellites, planets, stars even galaxies within our observable universe are spinning/rotating in the same direction as the milky way what kind of implications can we say about the condition in the early universe? or is it just an coincident? 

Is Corona Mass Ejection able to reach the outer planets such as Jupiter and Saturn? If so can it blows away the icy rings or the distance is simply beyond the reach of maybe like Earth it is protected by a magnetic field? 

I am working on an orbital dynamics code and, for fun, I would like to model the Sun-Earth-Moon system with my code. I can look up the masses of each object just fine, as well as average distances and relative velocities (which I can also calculate). However, I would like to model the Sun-Earth-Moon system in great detail. I would like to know the positions and velocities of each object on any given day (today works just fine) so that I can represent the orbits of these objects with great accuracy, hopefully even reproducing their actual ellipticity. Where can I find values for: 

I just noticed this announcement from the K2 mission that the field observed for Campaign 16 of the K2 mission would be changed so that the telescope would be "forward facing", saying that "observing in this mode allows for simultaneous observations from K2 and from Earth." (an aside: Campaign 17 was originally planned to be a forward facing to facilitate supernova science, but it was discovered that the telescope may not have enough fuel to last through Campaign 17, hence the modification to Campaign 16 to still facilitate supernova science) What exactly does it mean to be forward facing?