They were cheifly worried about the resentment it was creating among the resident Arab population, and thus instability in an area they were nominally responsible for. The flip side is that the Jewish state was pretty much their idea in the first place. It seems like it didn't occur to them that it was a problem to promise the Arabs and the Jews two mutually-exclusive things: A pan-Arab state covering all the existing Arab areas, and a Jewish homeland in Palestine. There's a good bit of exposition on this period in the Wikipedia entry for Mandatory Palestine. The British "reluctance" appears to have taken official form in the 1939 White Paper. The background section of that entry seems to be particularly informative about this period. 

I don't believe the answer to this is known objectively. However, it may be worth looking at the different settlement histories of the two areas you are comparing. Most of the American possessions, up until quite recently (19th century or so) were treated as resources to be tapped (or "looted" if you prefer) by the owning Europeans. This includes not just South and Central America, but most of the British Caribbean possessions, which were run largely as sugar plantations, and today aren't noticeably better off than their neighbors who used to be French or Spanish possessions. Their initial governments were formed and operated for hundreds of years much like giant corporations, with the intent to ensure that power was concentrated into the hands of the few people at the top (typically Europeans), and to ensure that nothing changed that might jeopardize their steady extraction of wealth. Canada and the USA, on the other hand, were the sites of entire communities of Europeans transplanted across the ocean wholesale. These citizens demanded the rights and privileges they would have enjoyed back home, as much as was practical. So it really isn't fair to compare the two. Not only did the former plantation subject economies get a later start on their freedom, but even after their masters were kicked out, they were still saddled with unfree societies. It was pointed out in the comments (h/t to @Jeff), that this is essentially the argument made in Colonial Origins of Comparitive Development, an article by Daron Acemoglu, Simon Johnson, and James A. Robinson, that appeared in American Economic Review in 2001 (and available online through JSTOR, or here as a PDF). 

I'd guess she's probably referring to his Literary Commonplace Book, which it looks like he compiled while he was 15-29. Commonplace books were much like modern school journals and notebooks, which students of the era were expected to keep as part of their studies. Jefferson also had a Legal Commonplace Book, for his legal studies, but that likely didn't contain poetry clippings. Thumbing through it, roughly half of it is in Latin (which I am really bad at) and Greek (which I know not at all). I did see bits credited to Euripides, Virgil, Homer (Iliad and Odyssey both), Ovid, Alexander Pope, Milton, Shakespeare, and a smattering of lesser-known English poets and playwrights that were popular at the time. Some bits of Milton's Paradise Lost could be viewed as reaffirming that era's gender roles. For instance, he reproduced this passage (and not the text around it): 

Our closest genetic relative, the chimpanzees, have been observed to fashion themselves tools. That link even has a video showing one doing it, if you are interested in the process. So most likely this is a behavior that was shared by our common ape ancestor over 7 million years ago. The only real tool innovation early man initially brought to the table (or at least the only surviving one in the fossil record) is that he seemed to be really into creating rock tools with chipping. Currently the oldest known examples are from about 3.3 million years ago. Chimps and bonobos will use stone tools, but they haven't been observed systematically setting out to make themselves better stone tools by chipping off bit of stone. They will improve sticks to make tools, but not rocks (that we've seen). Considering our species' lofty self-image, it doesn't seem like such a huge step to me. 

It is a fact that Gelb reported Ogarkov as saying this. Gelb was working for the New York Times as their National Security correspondent at the time of the metting, so it would have been his job to report this accurately. It is of course still possible that Gelb was either lying, or misremembering. Ogarkov was still living to refute this in 1992 (although perhaps not reading the New York Times). Here's another version, taken from an interview with Gelb archived here at George Washington University. I'm not sure of the interviewer or the date of the interview, but it was apparently added to the archive on February 28, 1999. 

It looks fairly likely this story was invented around the turn of the 21'st Century. The hits against it are: 

The only contemporaneous statements I can find about Franco's deathbed statements are that he asked forgiveness from his enemies. Given that, I'm inclined to believe it is probably made up. I have heard the joke before. My best guess is that it (in addition to the obvious) was a joke playing on how long he lingered before death. He'd had health problems bad enough that his heir had to take over leadership a year earlier, and then a year later it happened again. Eventually he fell into a coma, and was in that state for over a month before the machines were disconnected. The relevant bit here is that this lingering condition caused him to be a prominent item in the news (at least in the US) for what seemed to many an inordinate length of time. A similar running joke on Saturday Night Live after this point was Chevy Chase as a news anchor saying, "This just in... General Francisco Franco is still dead." 

Probably the most famous and historically significant US Congressional leader was Henry Clay, who was a dominant, if not the dominant leader of the early 19th Century Congress. He was the founder and leader of the Whig party (one of the two main parties of the era), and was the driving force behind The Missouri Compromise and (as a Senator) The Compromise of 1850, both of which for a time defused major pre-Civil war Slavery crises. The role of Speaker regained a lot of power in the mid 20'th Century under Sam Rayburn, but never really the same stature. During part of his tenure, his protege Lyndon Johnson asumed similar control of the Senate, producing a fairly imposing legislative partnership. 

Given that he was born to a Cossack family, and one of his first jobs out of school was helping a library organize its Kuban Cossack material, my money would be on Balachka. Technically that may just be a dialect of Ukrainian, but that distinction gets kind of muddy (specifically political) in Europe. Given some of his known writings, he certainly did know Ukrainian. This could have just been an incident of someone being snobby about his Balachka accent. As near as I can tell, the concept of Little Russia (essentially Ukrainians being nothing more than an off flavor of Russians, rather than their own people) was a bit of a political marker at the time. In Czarist times, it was a popular viewpoint, but after the revolution that view became discouraged. So it could well be that this particular dismissive attitude toward the local languages/dialects was meant to tell you where on the political spectrum the character Turbin lay. 

It sounds like this is a game others are participating in, so I'd say a lot depends on how the other alliances are shaking out. What you have to look at is what each country wants and what it is (or would be if things work out) in the power of your country to give. In the case of Japan, what they wanted in 1914 was a bigger role (empire) in east Asia. That means they'd like one or more of the following (in rough order of Japan's 1914 priorities): 

The pardon of Nixon was in fact the single biggest issue of the 1976 Campaign.* Its quite likely Ford lost the election over this issue. If there had been a flat out referendum on the pardon, I think its fair to say McGovern would have voted for it. For many people the Presidential election of 1976 was in fact a referendum on just that, as Ford hadn't done much else of note, and it was the biggest issue. So being a supporter of the pardon himself, it isn't hard to see that McGovern would feel he had to vote for Ford just as a matter of political coherence. However, as a prominent Democrat, he couldn't say that publicly during the election, because then he'd become an issue. So here's what he said publicly at the time of the pardon (Bangor Daily news 1974): 

I'll start with about the only place actual history comes into this: why it started. In English there are two ways to say dates: 

The History of the period from the end of Medieval period to 1950 or so is often referred to as Modern History. The period from 1950 to present under this scheme is termed post-modern, or contemporary history. Supposedly the contemporary period is supposed to designate a period still largely within living memory, and thus the boundary will move forward over time. However, personally I think the dividing line at 1950 is actually a very good place to keep it, so I hope it stays there. A typical person living in 1940 was not living a life too much different than one in 1500. There were more machines around in 1940, but people still related to each other in the same ways. If you needed to know something, you asked around to find the local expert, or you went to the library. If you needed to communicate with someone, most likely you wrote a letter. Today we have information at our fingertips that puts the most magnificent 20th Century library to shame, and we expect to be able to communicate with anyone we want instantly. So personally I think split at 1950 is a good one. I don't like the names so much ("contemporary" is more recent than "modern"? What brand of English is this?), so I'd prefer if we used something more like Renaissance and Computer Age, but the current time split is good. 

As far as modern international law is concerned, things get interestingly complicated. There is in fact a Geneva Convention protocol that was specifically written in 1977 to outlaw "scorched earth" strategies like (the popular view of) Sherman's March. However, the United States has not ratified that protocol. So current US policy seems to be that such actions are within bounds. Thus any southerner who wants to argue about modern international law being violated in Sherman's march probably needs to have a talk with their congressman first. The effect of the march, if not decisive, was still a huge blow. Farms and industry in a wide swath of the state were destroyed, and railroads were ripped up to prevent nearly all movement of goods and men to support Lee's army. Since the Union already had the Confederate ports blockaded, the above two actions not only knocked Georgia completely out of the war, but also cut off any states west of Georgia. Effectively, thanks to Sherman's march, the Confederacy was now down to just the Carolinas and Virginia. (In the spring, he proceeded up through the Carolinas). 

At about 80 million people, Egypt has about as many people as the rest of the Arab nations combined, and by far the strongest military in the region. Leaving it out of an "Arab League" is just plain unsustainable. According to Syria and the Middle East Peace Process, the sticking point on getting Egypt back was Syria. Particularly Asad. In the wake of the Camp David accords, all the other Arab nations both voted Egypt out, and suspended diplomatic relations with the country. Slowly over the next decade all except Syria restored diplomatic relations. But getting Egypt back in the League required a majority vote, so it was a bit trickier. Assad's Syria was still unreconciled to Camp David, and fought hard against anything that might be seen as acceptance of it. Iraq and Jordan on the other side pushed very hard, finally setting up a rival organization, and pledging to boycott AL meetings while Egypt was not invited. Syria gave in, and Egypt was allowed back 3 months later. 

One thing that may have been a big factor is the climate. Argentina is the one place in South America that has large areas of temperate climate. This allowed Europeans to go there and find not just temperatures and weather they were already acclimated to, but that allowed the kinds of agriculture they knew. 

It looks like the later models of Flakpanzer IV (post Möbelwagen), including the Ostwind, were indeed designed to be able to shoot at ground targets, if need be. 

As it happens, my sister is an Anthropology professor who specializes in Native Americans, particularly the Osage (and of course is part Osage herself). I'd say that counts as "academia". Here's how she put it in the forward to her last book, Colonial Entanglement: 

This is a matter of very hot debate. It depends on what assumptions you make about what would have happened in the future. But there are two basic scenarios: 

This article had no small effect on history, as the public ridicule caused others in the USA to avoid Goddard and his rocketry research. For what its worth (almost nothing), the Times did eventually publish a retraction ... in 1969. 

The question sort of implies that voting is a concept so complex that it was invented once, and everyone else borrowed the concept from a predecessor. In fact, tribal societies the world over have long been observed to select leadership and/or decide issues via voting. So this appears to be a fairly natural method of joint decision-making, that certainly goes back far before any written record. 

...and others. Believe it or not, that area was even a bigger mess of oppression and radicalism then than it is today. Nazareth in particular. Jesus of Nazareth also pretty clearly acted as a traveling miracle worker. This was an actual job back then, and he wasn't the only person plying this trade in the area. But typically a miracle worker of the era would have demanded payment up-front, and it doesn't look like Jesus did. Free healing would definitely have drawn crowds (as was depicted in the Gospels). Other miracle workers of the time and area we know of include Honi the Circle-Drawer and his grandsons Abba Hilqia and Hanan the Hidden, and Rabbi Hanina ben Dosa. Your typical Galilean would definitely have had an opportunity to see and listen to any number of these traveling Messiahs, Rabbis, and miracle-workers. Even if they didn't bother to avail themselves of that opportunity (and it's not like they had TV to watch instead), they would certainly have known of them from others who had. As for the content of the message...here's where things can get a bit controversial. What exactly Jesus was preaching was actually a subject of great debate even in the early church, when some of The 12 were still alive. I'll weasel out a bit here. Aslan distinguishes the historical Jesus of Nazareth from the modern Christian Jesus Christ. Jesus Christ, as depicted in the Gospel of John and Paul's early letters, his message would definitely have been a huge departure from anything being peddled by those others. The historical Jewish Jesus of Nazareth? Probably not so much. Paul's letters can be thought of as one half of the world's first flamewar. We don't have a lot of written material from the other side, but we know they included multiple people who (unlike Paul) actually were followers of Jesus during his lifetime, including Peter and Jesus' own brother. As historians, we are forced to admit they likely had a better handle on what Jesus of Nazareth was historicaly preaching than Paul did. It's pretty clear from Paul that his antagonists thought Jesus had a much more traditional Jewish Messiah's message. 

One thing I should clear up up-front: While sometimes classified together, Sharks (and the related Rays) are not really fish. They in fact are less related to fish than we humans are. For instance, they don't have bones like we and fish do. There are numerous other physical differences too, but more importantly for your question, their skin is also very different. It is a material similar to their teeth in fact (having skin teeth doesn't seem so weird, once you realize that sharks shed their teeth). This is why the rough skin of a Chondrichth might be useful as an abrasive, where the scales of fish typically are not. I found a lot of references to Polynesians using it as sandpaper. However, they were not a literate people prior to the colonial era, so I can't find anything prior to colonial times documenting this. It seems possible it was an old practice though. Their seafaring culture dates back roughly 2 millennium, and they certainly had plentiful access to sharks. Another interesting case is the Chumash of California. A huge amount of their diet was sharks and rays, and they report a cultural practice of using the skins to smooth their seacraft and other woodwork. They certainly would have had plenty of it lying around, as archeologists found it to be their #2 source of protean (sardines were #1). This dietary practice appears to have gone back at least 1000 years.