There is a rule about average surface brightness: it is conserved as you change distance or magnification. For the gory details see. Telescopes make unresolved objects brighter, but for resolved objects, a telescope shows you the actual surface brightness (assuming that the exit pupil diameter is well matched to your eye's pupil (~7mm) and is not throwing away light, dimming the view). The surface brightness of any resolved object through a telescope is the same as it would be if you were there. Also, the 0.01 of earth sunlight received at Saturn is way more than the lighting provided by a full moon which is 400,000 times fainter than the Sun. What you also need to take into account, is that when you look at Saturn through a telescope, it is generally (not always) done at night when your eyes are dark adapted. 

1) It is the mass internal to the orbit that determines the orbital speeds. These stars are so close to the center that the amount of bulge star mass contained within the orbit would be insignificant compared to the BH. 2) If the BH disappeared these stars would go into highly radial orbits out to much greater distances. That distance would be about where the mass of the bulge/nucleus stars and gas equals the mass of the BH. 

It is very difficult to measure Galactic orbital speeds of stars in our galaxy for several reasons. We are moving with them and do not have a reliable measurement yet of even our own orbital motion. We only get one component of motion, the radial component (although Gaia is about to change that). Dust in the galactic plane prevents us from seeing very far in our own galaxy. So, when we measure Dark Matter in galaxies, it usually done in other galaxies where we can see both sides of the galaxy and, except for inclination angle, directly measure the orbital motion. 

After WISE ran out of cryogens to cool its detectors it was re-purposed to look for asteroids. This was possible because the detectors for 3.4 microns and 4.6 microns could work at higher temperatures than the other detectors and passive cooling gets the spacecraft to 74 K. It had already finished an all sky survey so there were no new deep space targets for it to study and, with only two detectors, the science would not be as significant, but it has been great as a detector of moving objects like asteroids since, for this, just one band-pass is enough. 

Although carbon is highly abundant in the universe, it is not homogeneously distributed. Some regions of the interstellar medium could be rich in carbon and others rich in silicon or oxygen, depending on the source of the heavier elements ("metals"). The region could be enriched from mass loss of evolved stars, or from a SN of a massive star, or from a SN from a white dwarf. Each of these bring different elemental abundances. Also, if the region of the protoplanetary disk where the Earth formed was warm, then the carbon would be in the gaseous phase or in gaseous phase molecules like CO, CO$_2$ and CH$_4$. Perhaps, where the terrestial planets formed much of the carbon was in gaseous form rather than in dust particles, and therefore only a small fraction of the carbon was incorporated into the rocky planets. Furthermore, much of the Earth's carbon is not in the crust. It is in trees, the atmosphere and mostly in the oceans, dissolved as carbonates and in shells etc. 

They saw the stars, planets, Moon and the sun (the Celestial Sphere) rotate around the Earth each day. The Sun however, moved about 1 degree each day across the Celestial Sphere, so by the end of a year it moved 360 degrees. They called one full cycle of the Sun moving across the Celestial Sphere, a year. The planets (the word meant wanderers) moved each at slightly different and variable rates. The Sun, planets and the Moon moved along on roughly the same great circle on the Celestial Sphere. Since they traveled along the same path but at different rates, they would eclipse each other every so often. I guess that is why they called that great circle the ecliptic. 

Noctilucent clouds are not a problem for space telescopes because their orbits are always more than 85 km. The Hubble Telescope orbits at about 570 km. Noctilucent clouds are a problem for ground-based telescopes (although only at high latitude sites,> 50$^{\circ}$), especially if you are trying to get accurate photometric brightnesses. However, typically you can see them reflecting city lights or moonlight, or you can tell from the large variance in your photometry counts that they are there and you should try again another night. 

The dipole in the microwave background indicates motion of the Milky Way and thus of the whole Local Group, at least, at about 600 km/s in a certain direction. The straightforward explanation is that the density irregularities nearby from superclusters and voids result in a net gravitational acceleration that, over the age of the universe, resulted in this velocity. A number of superclusters (Hydra-Centaurus, Shapley, and Norma) happen to line up along this direction and reasonably fit the picture. Also there are some big voids in the opposite direction. There are two basic ways to quantitatively understand what is the cause. One can make measurement of local flows around these superclusters and voids to determine their masses and thus their net effect on the MW velocity. Or one can try to measure the "dipole motion" on larger scales, that is at what size scale does this motion drop to 300 km/s and what scale does it drop to near 0? A number of groups have tried to do this and the results are in disagreement. In particular, one group found no drop off in motion out to fairly large distances. Therefore, an alternate explanation was proposed that the dipole motion is primordial and due to objects beyond the horizon that interacted with us before inflation. Will we ever settle this? I am sure that we will eventually. There is much work to do measuring the distances of galaxies out to 100 Mpc or so with greater and greater accuracy using new methods (SN Type 1a, surface brightness fluctuations, Tip of the Red Giant Branch) and larger telescopes with better instrumentation and then modeling the peculiar flow on all scales. If the local distribution of matter cannot explain fully the dipole moment in the MWB, then perhaps Dark Flow from before inflation will be necessary to explain it. 

Are you asking how to measure a day for an exoplanet? Because that is pretty hard given that they are far away and hard to image their surfaces. But, if you are asking how to define the day, say for simulations, then that is pretty easy, actually. From Wikipedi's entry on Day. 

The sun's motion around the Galaxy is meant to be relative to the distant galaxies and quasars. However some methods use measurements of stars motions internal to the galaxy but then use some physical models to convert this to the more distant frame. Some methods try to observe the reflection of the suns motion in the apparent motion of nearby galaxies. 

Probably this is due to the fact that orbits of the Earth and Mars are inclined to the ecliptic differently so our viewing angle of the orbit of Mars changes slightly over the year. The program is probably showing the orbit of Mars projected onto the Celestial Plane as seen by us on the one specific date. Note, this is different from the ephemeris orbital data which gives the apparent position as seen by us at each date/time. Just a guess though. 

The prediction was that dwarf galaxies have SMBHs, but with smaller masses than regular galaxies. This was based on the idea that regular galaxies were built from dwarf galaxies and the BHs need to have started growing early on. Also the correlation between bulge mass and BH mass requires the BHs to come from the building blocks. A recent paper at arxiv detects 28 AGN in dwarf galaxies with BHs in the $10^3 - 10^4 M_{\odot}$ mass range. 

And he gives his reasons for preferring to say energy is not conserved. In particular, he mentions that this is an issue of translation, not of physics. 

It is not unusual to have pairs of pairs or even more complex stellar systems. Two stars make a stable pair. A pair of these make a stable system and a pair of these would also make a stable system. It is, however, necessary for stability for each pair to be separated by roughly 10 or more times the separation of the previous level. This could continue ad infinitum were it not for the tidal field of neighboring systems or the Galactic potential limiting the overall size. 

The snow line is the inner radius from the star where the water condenses onto dust and larger particles as ice (ie snowballs). The hydrogen and helium never freezes out. Planets start forming by accreting these particles (with or without ice but definitely not with H or He), but when a growing planet reaches a sufficiently high mass, it starts to pull in H and He (and more importantly, can hold onto them as they have low atomic mass and thus tend to escape quickly unless there is enough gravity). Exactly what mass that occurs at depends on a lot of factors (temperature, pressure, etc), but it happens below Neptune's mass and in part of the super-earth mass class. The upper range in mass of the super-earth are also called mini-Neptunes or gas dwarf planets and from their typically low densities it is clear that they are mostly composed of H and He. However, beyond the snow line it is more likely for a planet to grow to a large mass since more of the surroundings has condensed out of the gas into small particles, therefore accretion is more efficient. So, it may be that mini-Neptunes are usually forming beyond the snow line and then some of them migrate closer to its star. But, I don't see any reason to doubt that some of the many mini-Neptunes with H and He found by Kepler/K2 inside the snow-line were formed in situ. I am not an expert in this field, and perhaps the experts would disagree. 

The velocity of the Earth going around the Sun changes such that the sign changes every six months. Therefore, the part of the aberration due solely to the Earth's motion about the Sun also changes sign. In fact, the aberration from the Earth's orbit makes the positions of stars go into ellipses that take 1 year to complete. The motion of the Sun about the Galaxy also makes galaxy positions move around in an ellipse, but one that takes 250 million years to complete. 

Most of the light energy in the universe is still in the cosmic microwave background (CMB). If you take the CMB map as measured by COBE, WMAP, or Planck and remove the emission from the MW, then you have a map that represents the IR/MW light distribution at a random point in space. This map is strongly dominated by the relic photons. The maps do show lots of point sources, which are the galaxies, but their contribution to the total photon number or energy is small. I do not have exact numbers on this though. 

Let me put it this way. If the Moon's orbital plane where exactly aligned with the Earth's orbital plane (which, by the way, includes the sun, not surprisingly) then there would be a solar eclipse on Earth during each New Moon. But, in fact, the Moon's orbital plane moves about by many degrees in a very complicated fashion. Figuring out why this was and how the plane moves kept Isaac Newton busy for a few years. Both the Moon and the Sun subtend about 1/2 of a degree on the sky. The distance to the Moon also changes considerably, so its angular extent varies around this 1/2 degree. So, to get a total solar eclipse, they need to be aligned to a very high degree and the Moon needs to not be near the far edge of its distance range. 

I see two problems. 1) Any particular source in the sky is above the horizon for a limited region of the Earth at a given time, so one would need to relay the signal around the globe. 2) It is hard to think of an astronomical source that is truly random all of the time. Astronomical sources are physical systems reacting to internal and environmental changes that are causal, so they all tend to be partially quasiperiodic to some degree or become temporarily nearly periodic. So it depends on just how random you need them to be, but I doubt any astronomical source is dependable for this purpose. 

h=Altitude=30$^\circ$, LHA = Local Hour Angle, lat= Your latitude on Earth, Decl = Object's declination, Ra = Object's right ascension, and LST = Local Standard Time. Just need to solve for LST. 

Because the density of the matter at the center of a black hole is infinite (or nearly so) the Roche Radius is 0 (or nearly so). Two black holes in orbit spiral in towards each other because they radiate gravity waves and form a mutual event horizon without any disturbance to the matter at their centers. 

v$_r$ and μ are radial velocities and proper motion as seen from the Sun (ie heliocentric) and the equations in the appendix convert to v in the $S_o$ frame which is the center of the Galaxy. So, the motion of the MW is (0,0,0). If you want to, you can solve for v$_r$ and μ for the MW by plugging v=(0,0,0) into the equation, and find the heliocentric proper motion and radial velocity of the Galactic center. But it is not needed. 

Several things can be changing in a laboratory during a year. Obviously, temperature and humidity changes and these were tested in the experiment. But, also radon levels change as the amount of outside air exchanged with inside air is changed. The solar cosmic ray flux (high energy electrons, protons, and He nuclei generated in the chromosphere of the sun) changes as the Sun angle changes, and neutrinos (produced in the core) also as Sun angle changes. These could be affecting nuclei decay rates directly or the instrument used to measure these (subtle changes in threshold energies, false counts from ions produced in the instrument, potential shifts, etc.).