It is impossible to give a concrete description of a map between two abstract varieties without first giving some concrete way of representing those varieties. That is why Hartshorne’s definition of morphism is in terms of abstract properties. If you tell how the varieties are represented, then it is possible to describe a morphism in those same terms. To check Hartshorne's definition, you must have a way of representing both the morphism and the regular rational functions. Thus concrete descriptions of maps of projective varieties must use projective models. This answer is hence in the spirit of those of David and Charles. Examples: 

These somewhat naive remarks are motivated by the desire to think about the question myself. Sections of bundles are natural examples of (locally) free modules and the standard examples are the tangent and cotangent bundles of smooth varieties. The need for more general modules is the fact that kernels and cokernels of maps of (locally) free modules need not be so. In addition to ideal sheaves of subvarieties, as noted above the kahler differentials are a standard example of not necessarily locally free sheaves. These two remarks are connected by the standard exact sequence of a closed subscheme, which exhibits the sheaf of kahler differentials of a local complete intersection, as the cokernel of a map of locally free sheaves. I,.e, the kahler differentials on a closed subvariety of a smooth variety, are the quotient of the kahler differentials on the ambient variety by the conormal sheaf of the subvariety. Thus, the standard examples of modules are ideals of subvarieties and kahler differentials, and at least for lci subvarieties these arise as either kernels or cokernels of maps of bundles. So geometrically one could say one wants to consider differentials and subschemes, and algebraically one wants to be able to take kernels and cokernels. 

I am probably confused. Matt's h seems always to be surjective. What if C = Y, f = id, and C = X, and phi = constant map to point p of C? Then we seem to need h to be constant. E.g. taking h = phi, and g = id, seems to work (and the minimum degree which occurs here is zero). Is it possible your construction (essentially) works as long as the images of f and phi meet? I.e. that it works more widely, but that it is only when the image of f is actually contained in the image of phi that h is surjective? No I guess you need the inverse image of f(C) in X, i.e. the fiber product, to contain a curve, in order for a non constant g to exist. Something like that? Indeed it seems more complicated than that. What if we take f the inclusion of a plane curve C into P^2 = Y, and X the blow up of P^2 at a point p of C. Then the we seem to be able to find both constant and non constant models for h. I.e. C' = C, and either h = id, and g is the "proper transform" of f, or h is a constant map from C to the point p, and g is any non constant map to the exceptional P^1 in X. So there seem to be various answers of various degrees corresponding to different positive dimensional components of the fiber product, and whether or not they surject onto f(C). Indeed if there is a single point f(p) on f(C), whose inverse image in X contains a curve D, then we seem to be able to take C' = D, and g= id, and h = the constant map to p. Thus in general the minimum degree of h seems to be zero, e.g. whenever dimX > dimY and phi surjects. Does this seem right? 

I tried to answer an earlier question as to uses of GRR, just from my reading, although i do not understand GRR. Today i tried to understand the possible idea behind GRR. After editing my answer accordingly, it occurred to me i was asking a question instead of giving an answer. My question is roughly whether the following speculation is in the ball park as to the purpose of GRR. I've been thinking about Riemann Roch today, and reading Riemann. After dealing with a fixed divisor D, Riemann observes that his result proves every divisor of degree g+1 dominates the pole divisor of a non constant meromorphic function. Then he says that it may be possible to find a special divisor of even lower degree that dominates the poles of a non constant function. I.e. he begins to vary the divisor. By a rank calculation he shows one cannot expect a non constant function unless the pole divisor has degree at least (g/2)+1. Now following his lead, we are led to vary the curve instead of the divisor. E.g. we might consider the family of curves over the moduli space. Then a good Riemann Roch theorem should let us relate the riemann roch theorem for the curve fibers, to a conclusion for a related sheaf on the base space., like a kunneth type formula, relating cohomology of base space total space and fiber. I.e. a nice divisor like the canonical divisor on a curve, should be cut out on each curve fiber by a divisor on the total space, by intersecting it with each curve. (e.g. we could restrict the sheaf O(1) on the plane, to every curve of degree 4.) then we can push this sheaf from the total space down to the base space, i.e. the moduli space of curves. A good relative riemann roch theorem would then relate the universal canonical sheaf on the total space, to the canonical sheaves on the curve fibers, and the cohomology of the push down of the universal sheaf to the base space, the moduli space of curves. Ideally such a relation would let one compute invariants of sheaves on the moduli space that do arise by pushing down sheaves on the total space of curves. Hopeful applications might include finding ample sheaves on Mg, hence proving projectivity, and computing invariants of the canonical sheaf on Mg, hence potentially estimating the kodaira dimension. Now this is all speculation since i do not understand even the statement of the GRR, and have not read the paper of Harris-Mumford in which the application i cited above is made. Moreover I have never seen any proof of kodaira dimension of Mg using this method. Perhaps someone more knowledgable will comment on these speculative applications? Is this roughly the idea behind GRR and Mumford's applications of it? I.e. is the idea of GRR to understand the cohomology of a sheaf on a base space which arises as a push down, by restricting it to the fibers of the map? and how helpful is this in practice? specific question: if chi(O) is constant on fibers, does GRR allow one to determine chi(O) of either total space or base space from the other?