I second mysqltuner! You might want to start by using one of the example config files in /usr/share/mysql. There are several to chose from depending on the system resources available. Integrate any already customized options from your existing my.cnf into the example config. Turn off storage engines that you aren't using as well: 

If in fact it isn't what Frenchie said, which it most likely is, it may be helpful to look at that users mail. Cron mails output from cron jobs to the user account of that crontab. That is why you often see STDOUT and STDERR piped to /dev/null, so they wont be mailed output they don't care about. You can use the mail command as that user to check for mail with helpful output. Also, the /var/log/cron file may include helpful information. 

I cloned a VM and the ssl certificate has the old hostname. I need to generate a new ssl certificate. My question is what method was used by the server to create the initial certificate? Was this done as part of the post-install for an RPM? I'll use openssl if there's not a generation script that can be run. Thanks! 

Fake DNS server pythons script used Also, I used the dig command and the host command. I verified they make use of the resolv library. I tried this on CentOS 5.6 as well as on my personal ubuntu with totally different versions of the related packages. I'm totally stumped here, need some help on this one. 

As far as I know that will just allow snmpget requests for this data. How do I enable traps based off this info? Thanks! 

The cURL php extension for windows supports sftp. You should try to find a php script that you can place on the windows server and add to scheduled jobs. Wouldn't be too hard to create your own either. I'm sure python and .net have support for sftp as well. Or, you could install cyqwin (nasty hack) on windows and write a bash script. 

Does the originating/source IP show up in that log output? If yes does that IP show any valid requests in the http logs? Perhaps a monitoring system of some kind is checking http on your server, since you said it was in consistent intervals. Just throwing stuff out there. 

This means that you CAN just change the progname and it will look for a pam file of the new name. Not a good security practice and I am kinda surprised by this. Maybe someone knows something I don't..since the OpenBSD guys are a much smarter bunch than myself. :p UPDATE 2: Verified that PAM servicename is set to the basename by doing the following from the console: cp sshd to sshd2: 

Every directory in the full path has to have (execute) permission for the mywebsite.com user, otherwise he'll not be able to cwd into it. So you have to check permissions of: 

In my eyes it's not "either, or" situation. Your developers need as fast machines as you can get them. It improves their efficiency, it gets job done faster and prevents them from getting distracted while waiting for their computer to finish a task. Your developers also need an environment to test their application. Installation, de-installation, if it works in specific setup. If it is a client-server app, then they need several systems to test the application, and every one of them needs the environment, to be able to hunt their own bugs, not fight each other for access to the test bed. Therefore, the answer depends on what you have now. If you have just desks, chairs and coders, you need workstations, because people have to work somewhere. If you have decent hardware and think about upgrade, then get a station for the 8th developer and get them their own playground^H test environment. Ability to create and tear down machines with any configuration they like is going to be very useful. They will appreciate restoring snapshots too. OTOH if you have slow machines, but a semi-decent IT department to create test environments for your guys, then get them faster physical machines. As far as speed goes, workstations will be faster. You are talking about 32+ real cores and 64 GB of RAM dedicated just for development environment. CPU usage will depend on speed of your development cycle (how often do they compile/perform other CPU-intensive tasks), but you would like to give them at least 48 GB RAM, allowing for VMware's memory deduplication (if their environments run identical OS and, preferably, identical development tools). Still they would need something on their desk to connect to the virtual infrastructure. On the storage front, if you don't have something, that you can attach to your VM infrastructure, then an entry-level dual controller FC system will eat better part of your 15K USD. In that case building a virtualised development environment doesn't look feasible to me. 

files. If file's contents is 0, then the device isn't removable, so it cannot be an external USB drive. Some SATA drives report themselves as removable, so it may not be definitive. 

Suppose I have a product which I want to install on a non SSD drive, if exists. Otherwise, I want it to go on the drive C. For example, the following configuration is supposed to install the Sql Server 2016 in the default location: 

The following article explains how to generate a silent installation of VS 2015 - $URL$ The essential command is vs_enterprise.exe /Layout SomeSharedDirectory In the end it created the following folder structure: 

I have just started to learn DSC and have no runbooks. So far I only used DSC configurations, no runbooks. So, is it only possible for runbooks? Does it mean that nobody works with just DSC configurations? P.S. Knowing that DSC stands for Desired State Configuration I find the term DSC configurations a bit funny. 

Part of configuration is to run all the Windows Updates. I am trying to figure out how to express it with Powershell DSC. Seems like the best is to ensure that the windows updates are scheduled regularly. I found xWindowsUpdateAgent DSC resource, but it does not allow to specify the schedule itself, only to ensure that the updates are scheduled. So, is it possible to ensure a concrete windows update schedule? 

Server Manager → Manage → Server Manager Properties "Do not Start manager automatically at logon" Server Manager → Local Server → IE Enhanced Security Configuration → Off 

EDIT 6 I followed all the instructions. At the end and after a few days I noticed I have it! Switched to advanced analytics and here I have it: 

We are migrating from SVN to Mercurial and this question has arised practically from day one. So, here is the given: 

The problem is that the system temp directory is required when machine installs updates first thing after a restart. My RAM disk, however, starts through , which is probably read later in the process. My question is this - is there a way to redirect the system temp directory to a RAM disk in a way that this redirection is realized before windows installs the updates after restart? Use case: I have installed a RAM disk that gets initialized on startup. Everything works fine, including rebooting the server (it is possible to save the RAM disk image, making it survive the reboot). However, when I reboot the server as a result of Windows Update the update is undone, because Windows is unable to access the TEMP directory - the RAM disk has not been loaded yet. Truth to be told the problem is only with the system TEMP directory and there is not much harm not to redirect the system TEMP and leave it as is. Still, if I could load the RAM disk before the Windows Update resumes then I could place the system TEMP on the RAM disk as well. My question - is it possible? 

One helpful thing to evaluate responses -- ask for references, CVs of people who will be assigned for the job, experience they have with similar projects. This may be hard on companies who want to enter the market (how to get the first reference?), but it reduces your risk (lower chance they will be learning too much on your project). 

There's also a 3rd possibility. Replace your utility with a tool that pays attention to security and privacy. 

In this setup test routing on the Linux box between all interfaces. Otherwise you will be fighting on several fronts at the same time and this reduces chances of successful troubleshooting. Once you know that Linux box works (or it isn't) it will be time to hunt for reasons of observed interference. If you have smart switches connected to all the interfaces of your Linux box you might define an IP address on the port directly connected to the Linux box and try pinging between the box and the router. Me, being a suspicious paranoid, I'd carry my own laptop to the box together with a handful of known good patch cords to see what's going on. 

Before you proceed please compose a message that you will be sending to users found by mail server log parsing informing them, that your server just lost their message due to power outage/reboot/crash/human tripping on a power cable. Mail servers are very serious about data persistence guarantees. They go to great pains to make sure that when they take responsibility for user's mail, that message is secure on disk and is going to survive crash/reboot or any other event that wipes contents of the system's RAM. You are going to make sure, that their efforts will be wasted. Are you sure you want to do that? You'd loose user's data through a plethora of scenarios here, including a clean reboot or shutdown of a machine. Please, search for some other idea on mail server performance tweaking. 

I would not mix (software RAID) and (LVM) RAID features. In the spirit of KISS, I'd go with pure with LVM on top for snapshots / resizes. With 4 disks going RAID6 is a Bad Idea (TM). It gives you exactly as much space as RAID 10, but with much, much worse performance (you have to calculate two parities and face read-modify-write penalty for writes smaller than stripe size). RAID 6 gives you marginally beter resilience (any 2 disks can fail, while in RAID 10 one disk from mirror-pair can fail) at a high cost. Not worth it. RAID 10 gives you best performance possible in this setup. 

I found the following post - $URL$ Great, all I need to know now is the Product Id of SSMS-Setup-ENU.exe, right? But how, on Earth, am I supposed to do it? When I installed it on another machine and tried the approach described in $URL$ I got two Product Ids: 

I have an on-premises server and an Azure MSDN account. I heard that Azure supports the concept of a hybrid cloud where some server may be on-premises, not sure if I understand it correctly, though. For example, I have a few on-premises servers and I wish to have a dashboard with their performance. Basic stuff - CPU and RAM. To be able to configure thresholds and alerts. Can I sort of "on-board" these servers to some kind of Azure Monitoring solution and get all that? EDIT 1 This is what I can see: 

I actually tried a different approach, which yields the same result (probably because both "sit" on the same data): 

vm - a WinXPsp3 virtual machine hosted by a Win7sp1 physical machine alice is the user on vm srv - a Win2008R2sp1 server bob is the user on srv quake - a linux server mark is the user on quake Both vm and srv have the same new installation of cygwin (1.7.9) and openssh. Firewall service is disabled on vm (and its host) and on srv All the machines can be pinged from all the machines. works OK from both vm and srv. works OK from both quake and vm. works on the vm itself only, but it fails on the other two machines: 

I am trying to grant a read-only access to my temp directory to another user from the command line using icacls.exe. Tried the following (PowerShell): 

The user is added to the list of the users - fine, but it shows no permissions. So, what is the right way to do it? Using icacls is not necessary, any command line way is fine. 

It should be added to the Sql Server as a login account in sysadmin role. Visual Studio extensions that I want every developer to have must be installed from a session started by the owner account (not the SYSTEM account used to apply the DSC configurations) The TFS workspaces must be associated with the owner account. 

As you can see, I am OK with having multiple heads in the backup repository, unless you convince me otherwise. So, the question is about REV and URL, namely I see the following options for them: