I have a hard tail 29er (Motobecane from bikes direct) with 100mm of travel and do ride everything from cross country trails with friends to downhill trails with my son. I put narrower tires on for a long 50 mile fireroad type of ride (tons of fun) I did last month and wider tires for when it gets really wet in the pacific northwest (most of the time). 

There are a couple tools (both quite expensive though) that can help. It all comes down to muscle memory though, the more you spin the better you get at it. Computrainer has a spin scan to help identify flat or dead spots in your cadence. Powercranks force you into leg isolation by disconnecting the cranks from each other. 

If the strap disconnects from the bottle holder, I would keep the strap with/inside the bottle (I would clean it first). I had one of the older profile designs aero bottles and the always kept the yellow scrunchy with/inside the bottle. 

I use Rock 'N' Roll Cable Magic cable lube created specifically for non-coated cables. $URL$ Without taking the cable all the way out of the housing, I'll shift to get as much slack as I can in the cable so I can get the housing out of the stops (my bike has slotted cable stops) and put in a few drops and move the housing back and forth to get the lube distributed. 

I have not found a quick connect system that works with different manufacturers, but have found a bag that I can easily swap between bikes without needing to buy two bags. I use a Topeak Aero Wedge Medium saddle bag and have found on their support website (store.todson.com) that you can buy extra "fixers" to put on each of your bicycles. The medium Aero Wedge saddle bag carries a couple tubes and my compact pump. It has the quick connect and a single velcro strap which goes around the seat post. Very secure. I have not had any problems with the Wedge saddle bag when mountain biking (I don't go off many jumps but lots of cross country, single track and rough terrain). After about 4 years, I did have the thin plastic slot thingy (official term I think) on the bag become brittle and crack. I found the replacement on the store.todson.com website and did not need to purchase a new bag, as such I still recommend the Topeak Wedge bags. 

I am specifically interested in cleaning my chain and drive train. Will it be too corrosive and degrade my 10 speed chain? A neighbor mentioned he uses Greased Lightning, but I could not find anything on the product website about being safe to use on bicycles (but most everything else), or on bicycle review sites of people using this on their bicycles, many people using on car engines though. Note: I have used Simple Green (still do) for most my cleaning, and always rinse it off but have been cautious about using it and looking for alternatives, ever since a friend had chain degrade and break after using Simple Green. Lennard Zinn Q&A article about Simple Green eating chains. 

I run Speedplay Zeros and the amount of float is adjustable up to 15 degrees, or no float as well. The amount of force to twist out of them is hard to describe, but you do need to twist with some force from your leg to get out. You are not able to click out until you rotate to the end of the float. For me on my adjustable Zero's I like the float and must rotate to 12-15 degrees before I feel the resistance and must apply more force to unclick. On my recommendation, a couple riding buddies new to clipless pedals got the Light Action and they say they are easy to get in and out of. They only have 15 degrees of float, they are not adjustable like the Zero's. I do like having the float so my foot can rotate some and not be locked into one position, forcing my knee to track the same motion for every pedal stroke, with the float, I am able to rotate a bit and even the slight angle difference can relieve some pain. I've had ITB issues, but not anything as bad as an ACL tear. You could probably take your bike into a local bike shop to try out a couple pedals on your bike on a stationary trainer in the store. 

Yes, you can mix components from different series (you see many bikes with a mix of component level). BUT, you cannot mix 9/10 speed, do not use a 10 speed sti shifter with 9 speed derailleur. Additionally, check your front shifter to see if was made for double or triple chainring and make sure your front derailleur will work with the number of chain rings you are going to run. 

One thing I did not see already mentioned, you can ask the seller to let you have a local bike shop look it over. 

Recycled Cycles (in the University District area) sells used bicycles, I would also checkout seattle.craigslist.org I recommend going into a bike shop that just sells bicycles (Gregg's near Green Lake is great - but many others all around Seattle) and tell them what sort of riding you are planning (commuting, shopping and using the bicycle as transportation) and they will have some things to look at, test ride and compare. Not knowing what style of bike you are comfortable on it is hard to recommend a road bike verses a hybrid or comfort bike (I wouldn't look at mountain bikes for getting around Seattle, but there are lots of trails nearby if that interests you). Also, you want to get a bicycle that fits, otherwise you are uncomfortable and end up not riding the bike. I think a hybrid bike would be where I would start to look. They offer a little wider tire to allow you to ride gravel trails and work well on roads too. Your position on the bike is a bit more upright allowing better view and more comfort. 

The 10 speed chain is narrower and will work. Not ideal and the shifting might not be as crisp. Since you have an extra chain you can use it, but if purchasing new I would get a 9 speed chain. 

I ride my CX bike on more cross country styled trails, I leave the harder (downhill, jumps, berms) trails for my mountain bike. I think riding the CX bike on the trails is better when going uphill or even flattish areas, but not as much fun being hunched over the handlebars when coming back down the trail. I really slow down a lot and take my time coming down (any trail) when on the CX bike. If it is rainy and extra thick mud, the 35mm tires on the CX do not feel as stable as my 2" MTB tires. 

Did you re-lube your chain after you cleaned the bike? If I am not careful when I lube the chain on my mountainbike I get some splatter and if it gets on the brake pads I get loud braking for a while, louder when wet. Now, I slowly lube my chain while turning cranks backwards, key is slowly, both to get every linkage and not splatter lube. Then I continue to spin backwards slowly for 30-40 seconds, let is set for 5 minutes and use a rag to wipe any excess from the chain so it doesn't splatter once I get going. 

I've helped many people use an old iPhone to use the Strava app to record a ride. The key (with Strava app) is wifi connection at the beginning and end of the ride. The GPS does work without cellular data, but many apps require a connection either for maps or uploading to a website. Meaning, you won't get updated maps while riding, so you can use it for recording a ride, but not as a navigation tool. One friend even got his iPod (without GPS) to work using wifi Location Services, which seemed to only work for him while in a city (more densely populated with many wifi's along his commute). I have the Edge 500 and it records my rides, never used the map, but it is not really a map, but a line showing where you went, the next models up Edge 800 and 810 do have street maps that you can purchase from Garmin, but all cost more than your old cell phone. 

Sign up for a race or century in the upcoming summer. I find having a goal or something to work for motivating. I check the weather forecasts all the time, a bike ride on a sunny (usually still cold) day in the midst of the Pacific Northwest winter are awesome rides. As others have said, I will drive with my bike to work to get in a lunch ride, or even leave my car at work, bike home, then in the next morning. I would also recommend a second (or third) bike. Having a mountain bike can open new trails and part of the fun is if it is muddy or snowy. I keep my old bikes when I upgrade and take my old bike and turn it into a rain bike. With proper gear and nice fenders riding in the rain and cold is not that bad. Snow and ice much less so. 

I recently started using Pledge Wipes and find that the bike looks shiny and clean, and cleans up very easily after my cyclocross races, simple light water and dry and is back to being shiny and clean. Dirt does still 'stick' but comes off so easily, and with the shine, I do think it is applying a small layer of something to the surface of the frame. As with the other answers, I don't apply this to brakes, brake surface (wheels), tires, rubber, drive train... just the frame and fork. The wipes come in a container that you can get at the grocery store and I find one wipe does the bicycle and then I toss it, I have re-applied with a new wipe every couple months. 

I don't run mixed because it doubles the gear you need to carry, spare tubes for the clincher and a spare tire for the tubular, maybe some extra sealant and hope it sticks depending on the leak. There is not a need to get the same brand/make/tread tire as the clincher tire won't work on the tubular rim and the tubular tire wont work on the clincher rim, no mix and match so no need to get the same. You might look at a disc cover for your carbon clinchers. I purchased a Wheelbuilder AeroJacket disc cover and while it does not give the same sound as full disc wheel, it does give just as much aero advantage. 

The best thing to do after the race is rake out (flatten out) the ruts, the grass will come back but you don't want ruts in your grass. Course layout can help, try to limit turns on grass, rolling straight through is generally fine unless really wet and soft. We put on a race today and routed to take advantage of gravel paths in the park, open areas under evergreen trees (lots of pine needles) and zigged and zagged a path through the trees. We did have sections on grass but mostly kept to long straights. Time of year can help too, last year, this same race was below zero (no snow) but frozen ground which hardened the grass areas and had no mud. We cannot schedule around weather, but if you are in an area that is warm in September but frozen in December, I'd pick December. 

The other answers are most likely the correct solution (stiff link I'm guessing based on chain suck). But just in case you are using the term Powerlink in a generic way... 

I wrap my chain stays with an old tube. I find it works best with an old road tube (not a wider MTB tube) 

It would be very tight, looking at the bike I think 32c with knobbies might not even fit. It also has to do with the height of the tire. By adding the knobbies I doubt you will find a CX tire that will fit under the brakes. There are not many options for 30c or smaller CX tires. If you can find some tires that fit (will be tight) it will clump mud, but might not lock your wheels up. It depends on the mud, not all mud is the same, some sloppy/wet mud will not clump. But extra clearance doesn't mean everything rolls smooth. The mud in a race two weeks ago on my 29er was so thick that both front a rear wheels locked up. All that being said, you can find a CX race that has less mud. Great fun and highly recommended. Another option is to race on a mountain bike to see how you like CX racing. 

With proper air in the fork it will be hard to bottom it out. I have that same fork on my bike and hit the smaller jumps on the downhill trails and it does just fine. I don't have the guts to hit the really big jumps my son hits. I think you made a great choice with the Epic. 

Sounds like you want to use your current V-Brakes, but if getting new brakes, TRP makes mini V-Brakes that are STI lever compatible, sometimes called a brifter (brakes and shifting in one lever). Most V-Brakes have a different pull ratio which is not compatible with brifters. The TRP CX9 is for Shimano STI levers The TRP CX8.4 is for SRAM and Campagnolo levers 

As noted, the brakes on CX bikes are either Cantilever or Disc, mainly for the clearance of wider tires and mud. I am seeing more road bikes with compact cranks.