In addition to @casey's answer regarding the conditions (which undoubtedly is the main answer), don't forget the issues of size and sampling. In the US, the tornadoes can be large and destructive. Therefore US authorities and citizens are very interested in tracking and reporting them. You also have good communication. In other words you get much higher reporting rates (unlike say the Asian steppes or Africa where communication and/or population is relatively sparse) Also compare to the UK which gets more tornadoes by square kilometer than the US (NOAA URL)! So why don't we think of the UK as the Tornado Islands? Well first, they tend to be quite small, they are usually in relatively remote areas, and UK citizens & authorities are not looking intently for them (they're not a significant risk). On the other-hand, I've lived in the UK for about 25 years including a fair amount of fell walking and have never knowingly seen or been near a UK tornado. I've lived in the Dallas-Fort Worth Metroplex over 10 years now, have heard the sirens many times, and although I didn't see it I have been within a block's distance of a destructive tornado once (luckily it wasn't on the ground at that point!). 

This first descriptions of the polar vortex date back to the 1940s. You'll also note that the description above describes an upper tropospheric and stratospheric circulation e.g. this is is something happening well above the surface of the earth. The recent popular use of polar vortex to describe any particularly cold air mass can probably be traced back to someone (either a meteorologist of psuedo-meteorologist) on twitter making reference to it and then "going viral". However the media got a hold of the word, they are quite consistent in misusing it. The definition above mentions 

Conduction probably is the main method in the crust, but do not underestimate fluid convection. Every time you find a hot spring, then that is an example of fluid convection. Even volcanic eruptions could be considered convection. Possibly even larger than these too, there is vigorous convection of seawater through young ocean crust. This can be seen on Figure 10 of Muller eta al Digital Models of the World's Ocean Crust. This plots depth vs age of ocean curve. The "TBL" line approximates the curve that is expected for conductive cooling of the Earth's crust. Reality (the bars) are rather different. Although most of this cooling is in young rock, the accumulative effect shows in the older crust. (this plot is trying to demonstrate something else, but I couldn't find a good example of this classic graph that implied this convection must exist long before Black Smokers were ever discovered) 

Inertial instability is similar to the centrifugal instability in that we are looking at the stability of parcels to horizontal perturbations. In the inertial case, however, the initial state is geostrophic balance rather than cyclostrophic balance. Symmetric instability is the case where a parcel is inertially stable to horizontal perturbations and statically stable to vertical perturbations but unstable to perturbations between the horizontal and vertical. An additional constraint is that the flow is symmetric and only varies in two dimensions. This instability was also first examined as centrifugal instability, but with added baroclinity. Conditional symmetric instability (CSI) is related to symmetric instability with the difference being that $\overline{\theta}^*_e$ rather than $\overline{\theta}$ surfaces are used to asses the instability. For more information on these mesoscale instabilities, you can find information on them in Markowski and Richardson (2010) pages 49 (inertial instability) and 53 (symmetric instability). Holton (4th ed, 2004) treats these instabilities on pages 204 (inertial oscillations) and 279 (symmetric instability). Markwoski, P., and Y. Richardson, 2010: Mesoscale meterology in midlatitudes. Wiley, 430 pp. Holton, J. R., 2004: An introduction to dynamic meteorology. Elsevier, 4th ed., 535 pp. 

The electromagnetic force and related field is a strong force at very small distances (governs the way the proton and electron are held to an atom) but is relatively weak over large distances. I don't see how that small force could act on processes involved in the convection of the mantle. If memory serves, the iron in magmas preserves the force of the electromagnetic field on earth at the time the magma cools to form rock. It leaves its imprint but has no affect on the process or origin of magmatism much less the convection that drives plate tectonics 

The classic Troodos Ophiolite in Cyprus has been uplifted by a 'serpentinization event'. Upper mantle (peridotite) has been serpentinized creating a buoyant diapir. This has uplifted the ocean crust sufficiently for it to be thrust over continental crust (underlying continental crust has been inferred from gravitational surveys). The last sentence of the abstract of "Tertiary uplift history of the Troodos massif, Cyprus", AHF Robertson says: 

I agree with Speissburger that PostGIS (an extension of Postgre) has excellent Geospatial support. In the open source world, this would also be my recommendation. (MySQL claims to have some geospatial support but it is very limited in capabilities) For completeness, Microsoft's SQL Server also has good geospatial support - I think it was introduced as an extension to SQL Server 2008, and then standard after that. I have heard that Oracle also has good geospatial support, although I have never use it. 

Image used from Weatherwise magazine, AMS The axes of this plot are supersaturation with respect to ice ($e/e_{si} > 1$) and temperature. All of of these crystals are hexagonal but some are long skinny hexagonal prisms and some are very thin and wide hexagonal plates. The snowflake is a dendrite and these crystals grow between -10 and -22 C in and supersaturation with respect to liquid water. What happens is that the hexagonal crystal has 6 vertices connecting its 6 edges. These vertices produce an increased gradient in vapor (indeed, the sharper the angle, the stronger the vapor gradient becomes). At high supersaturations vapor is quickly deposited in the areas of the enhanced vapor gradient and the arms of the dentrite form. The particular shape of the dendrite will depend strongly on the vapor gradient it is experiencing, which in turn is influenced strongly by its current shape and the environment it is growing in. References: 

(this is consciously the start of the answer - my regional geology books -cf. above comment, are packed away due to a house move). The rolling hills are very distinctive of the English Jurassic & Cretaceous. Relatively low dipping rocks - long wavelength folds. The ridges are due to rocks that are more resistant to erosion. For example, the English chalk forms the North Downs and South Downs (and the Yorkshire & Lincolnshire Wolds). Chalk is actually more resistant to erosion that some of the surrounding rocks (don't believe me? Have a look at Beachy Head or Flamborough Point!). These ridges have influenced pre-Roman history - eg. the Ridgeway follows a series of these ridges. I may be out of date on this, but the folding is usually blamed on the formation of the Alps. The Alps are a long way off, but their influence can be felt as mild folding. The cause must be after the youngest Cretaceous that is present (which I think is the chalk?) - and there was only really the Alps, the Paleogene North Atlantic Volcanism (eg. Skye, Arran, Mull), and opening of the North Atlantic to choose from. As for your soils: This is where the Regional guide will help. The soils are much more recent. A decent explanation will probably involve at least one ice age, and river courses which have since changed (eg. the proto-Thames used to flow from the North!) 

no, it is not due to lush vegetation (that was not around until just hundreds of millions of years ago). The period around 2.5 billion years ago is known as the great oxygenation period. No one knows for sure, but it was probably caused by anaerobic bacteria producing oxygen for the previous billion years. They basically destroyed their environment by oxygenating earth. We have copious quantities of iron-ore formations (the banded iron formations) around this time to prove that the earth basically rusted. The free iron in the oceans picked up oxygen and precipitated out Fe2O3. Finally oxygen got high enough about 700,000 years ago to allow the first multicellular life to evolve. BTW I think the diagram is pure speculation but would alsolike to know more about the source 

Some areas may well be relatively isolated. However water will come up when it is pushed from behind! E.g. there are strong sinks in the Norwegian Sea and Weddell Sea. This water must go somewhere and drives the deep water currents. These currents are pushed from behind and will come up when they hit a steep continental shelf. Such areas of upwelling water are often fertile ocean areas where the nutrient-rich deep waters reach the surface. E.g. offshore Namibia ( NASA photo ). There are sources of heat underwater, but they tend to be on the flanks of the mid ocean ridges (Black & White Smokers). These are actually the outlets of large convection systems which feed large quantities of ocean water through the young hot upper crust. However, they are relatively shallow and not in the ocean depths (and definitely not in the trenches).