Dream Yoga. A set of practices in Tibetan Buddhism for using dreaming (including Lucid Dreaming) to further the path. Using your improved concentration (thanks to meditation) to enter the hypnagonic state intentionally and from there initiate a Lucid Dream. 

I'm going to take a different approach from the answers already given... I don't think this is a hindrance at all. It only seems a hindrance because we live in a world that unfortunately has put a high price on feelings and elevated them to the status of truth. Metta isn't a warm fuzzy feeling. It's not a feeling at all. To see what I mean, do this thought experiment... 

This is a tricky question, as the Sutras appear to contradict on this, and there are several interpretations. My take on this is that Buddhism doesn't tell us who we are, but rather tells us one of the following... 

As a Buddhist you should seek your happiness while working towards the happiness of others. Feeling bad is a self-indulgent activity done to justify inaction. There is nothing selfish about being happy in the face of suffering, provided you are doing something to help address this suffering. For instance, you mention the suffering of animals. Very well, what are you doing about it? Are you a Vegan? Are you encouraging Veganism? Do you contribute or volunteer at any related causes? If you aren't doing something to address the issue, then ask why. Why do nothing to materially fix the world (which benefits the suffering), yet go to such great lengths to make yourself unhappy (which benefits no one and adds to the suffering of the world -- you). Could it be that this "feeling bad" is a way of feeling better about not helping? The mind often throws barriers to the path, and sometimes the best thing you can do is see through these barriers by asking what is REALLY going on. So the Buddhist path is to seek your happiness while working towards the benefit of others. The right mindfulness component of this is to scrutinize your thoughts in this regard, in particular the thoughts propping up this "guilt". 

Technically speaking, the Buddha did not say that Life is suffering. This is what he said (translations vary, so be warned)... 

If the answer to either of the above is true, then the idea that a statement in and of itself would affect you in such a way is clearly absurd. I believe one of the key criticisms the Buddha had with Brahmanism was in Brahmanism's focus on rituals as acts, whereas the Buddha stressed the intention behind the act as the causal principle. I don't recall where this critique occurred sadly, so I can't give a reference. Still, it seems to support this reading, and leads to the implicit critique of anyone who clings to actions in and of themselves as missing a key point of Buddhism. In fact, Buddhism's atheistic or non-theistic stance can be read as an implicit critique of this clinging to acts as having causality. For if your own intentions play no role in an action, then clearly you are calling upon a higher power to reward or punish you for this act, even if you don't explicitly hold belief in such. In this sense, Buddhism's stance is not one of rejecting a particular cosmology, but in attempting to bring people back to bearing responsibility for their actions and putting their focus where it belongs: on intentions. 

Texts are all over the place about this. For instance, one school of thought criticizes our tendency to conceptualize our experience, at the expense of actually experiencing the thing -- and says this is us sleep-walking through life (the dream is the conceptual template we overlay on experience). For instance, I encounter a tree, think "this is a tree" and never actually see the thing before me. This would seem to imply that labeling during mindfulness is a repetition of this mistake. Another school of thought sees the labeling as a way to step outside of the experience, to not get sucked into it. So who is right? It depends. The issue here is not getting pulled in by attachment and habitual reactions. While these are a function of conceptualization, they are a function of a specific type of conceptualization. For instance, if someone does something I dislike, and I conceptualize this person as a "jerk", I likely have a strong reaction to this, and am falling into the same attachment (aversions) that have caused me so much pain. On the other hand, if I experience a reaction of aversion towards the way this person treated me, but start labeling the components my experience as Skhandas, then I'm effectively deconstructing the experience and undermining attachment in the process. On the other other hand, if I watch the experience as it is, then I can be with the sensations without the problematic concepts. So really, there is no right or wrong answer; the key is whether your technique takes you out of the conceptual trap that keeps you attached to the phenomena or reinforces it. In this case, it's about fighting fire with fire (concepts with concepts) or fire with water (concepts with bare sensations). The upshot is that you don't have the luxury of treating anyone as an authority, but have to see how you respond, and decide on the most effective method. 

Short Answer: No. Long Answer: First, you'll need to define what you mean by consciousness. If we take consciousness as "conscious awareness" then by definition, if you don't have consciousness of something, then you are not sensuously aware of it. However, it's possible that you may unconsciously register things that impact your consciousness later. For instance, if you get a "bad feeling" about someone, this may be due to you unconsciously registering several factors like quick facial sensations, tones being off-kilter, etc... 

Don't look at it that way; look at it as the extinction of suffering. The problem is that Buddhism is dealing with the ineffable, so any attempt to define these phenomena will be imperfect at best and a disaster at worst. Unfortunately, people have felt compelled to add details and in the process... well, your question is a classic example of the kinds of illusory problems people face. First, you're obviously going to gain something out of Buddhism, otherwise why practice? If someone came to me, said that my finances were a wreck, but if I worked an extra job, someone ELSE would improve their finances, I wouldn't waste my time. So why is it different with Buddhism? It isn't. However, the problem is that there are two different definitions of "self" that are being used in discourse, and it's not always clear which definition is in use. Thus semantic confusion reigns, creating illusory problems out of thin air -- nonsensical, utterly unimportant problems that prevent you from doing what Buddhism teaches you to do -- PRACTICE. One "self" is raw consciousness. If you stub your toe, you will feel it. In that sense, that you does and will continue to exist. The other "self" is the bundle of concepts that you identify with, the history and attributes that you think define "you". It's that you that won't exist and that's the source of your suffering. Confusing the issue is the fact that the experience of the first kind of self's experiences can be transformed by one's conceptual filter (it's amazing how our perceptions are shaped by concepts), so that even that self -- while not vanishing -- also seems to be transformed. That stubbed toe that hurts may involve a lot more conceptualizations in the "physical pain" than you may think. This means that this first type of self would still feel the stubbed toe, but may not feel the pain of the stubbed toe, given how much of that pain is really conceptualization. Does your head hurt yet? A classic saying is "there is suffering, but none who suffers". On the surface, it seems to almost be a claim that suffering is a purely impersonal phenomena. In a way it is, but in a way it isn't. There's experiences that make up suffering, but it's those experiences when conceptualized with respect to the illusory (second type of) self turn those experiences into suffering. Which means there really is no suffering until we actually believe there is one who suffers (curiously circular, no?) so by eliminating the one who suffers, we eliminate suffering or the suffering of the one who suffered, who actually doesn't really exist, but does in a way. Ok, NOW does your head hurt? That's the thing; when we run into so many difficulties that half our time is spent trying to duct tape the holes in our conceptual edifice, it's a sign that we are thinking about the problem in a fundamentally wrong way. Buddhism itself seemed to notice this and in (what I take) to be a rare moment of lucid self-criticism, it offered the Fetters of Views and Parable of the Poison Arrow teachings. The idea is to avoid the temptation to conceptualize and instead practice. If things get better, don't over-think it. Just do what works. 

I doubt you'll find a good answer as to whether Buddhism is a religion or a way of life, simply because there's a ton of stuff that's called Buddhism and not everyone agrees as to what constitutes a religion anyway. Many Buddhists consider taking the vows to be the thing that makes you a Buddhist, so if you want to make it "official", you can take the vows at your friendly neighborhood Buddhist Temple. Outside of that, I imagine you can call yourself a Buddhist if you believe in the Buddha and his message. Do keep in mind that Buddhism is just a label; it's really about how you live. You need not identify yourself as a Buddhist to live a Buddhist life and many people who identify as Buddhists do not live a Buddhist life. 

I think the issue isn't the brothel, but what the visits say about your clinging to (sexual) desire. How do your visits affect your clinging to this desire? 

Well, here's my take on Identity view. I think it's relatively compatible with the Sutras, but should not be considered an exposition of them. First, what is this "self"? One answer is that it's your reaction when contemplating the following questions... 

The phenomena you mention is so common it has a name. BuJu or JuBu. In fact, there's even a Wikipedia Page on it. Furthermore, the contribution to (Western) Buddhism by Jews is very impressive! Whether this is frowned upon depends on how your Jewish faith and Buddhist practice relate. Whether they contradict, co-exist or complement depends in turn on how you regard each. Since Buddhism can be treated as a secular philosophy (which is how I treat it), I see no inherent conflict. This means typical problem points like Buddhism's "atheism", Karma and Rebirth are non-issues. Even Buddhism's Emptiness (especially our lack of a "self") is not an issue (IMO) if we treat this as a statement about our experience or an injunction against clinging to these beliefs (as opposed to asserting one or the other). 

I'm going to tackle this question from a few different angles. First, is it desire or clinging to desire that causes suffering? If it's clinging to desire, then it's possible to not cling to a desire to not cling to desire. No problem there. However, what if desire is the problem -- what then? Is this "paradox" just a verbal game? Doesn't the desire to end desires automatically exclude the desire to end desires as one of the desires to be ended? Even if it didn't, once the other desires ended, wouldn't the desire to end desire end as well? Why would that desire still be active if I ended all my other desires? Does it make sense to say I have a desire to end desires when I have no other desires? So really, isn't the goal the desire to remove all other desires -- which is not paradoxical? But assuming this isn't so, where does this leave me? Can I gradually benefit from the path? If so, then it doesn't matter if there's a left-over desire, because I am still much better off. At this point, the question becomes equivalent to worrying about whether I'll get $99 or $100 -- it's such a trivial thing, it doesn't matter. Also, why do desires cause suffering? Because..