Well, this kind of scifi is bending the laws of physics. Thus, you can fully legit use hypothetical particles which aren't proofed to exist yet. So your solution is as simple as it can be: Tachyon 

Fast energy release. You can't be lethal if you give a view watt per second. This is really the biggest problem today, how will your future guys solve that? Small, the smaller the better until, lets say the sice of a cigarrbox per 20-30 shots, at least. 

To 1: Nazigermany was build on a broken nation. The people had big problems and Hitler gave them very effective solutions. (Not to say he was a hero, don't get me wrong. But he did right in the right time, to receive the peoples trust). The 3.Reich was build on many symbolic values just as the first step of the war had been. The strike against Poland had the aim to get back old Prussian terretories due their symbolic value of "This is part of our fatherland, get it back!", just like some other regions. The invasion of France was pure revenge. See Dolchstoßlegende and Treaty of Versailles Treaty of Versailles (not only the content but it's way of creation) was a huge shame for the Volk and the victory take the shame off germany. Afrikakorps had no real strategic value but gave an big advantage in moral. Germans wanted to be a big nation like GB, Netherlands or Russia, but they weren't able to conquer that many nor so valuable collonies. To conquer these big landmass in exotic africa gave them the feeling that they are at eye level with the other big nations. Ever thought about the symbolic effect of the Hakenkreuz? These and many other examples show how important glory and symbolic has been for the germans. This make me think that the conquest of moscow had changed a lot. A frenchmen(Napoleon), that bitter old enemy which is the pure evil, once captured Moscow but failed to hold it. That the germans where not able to capture what the france had done was a shame again. But if it had been done, to conquer the capital of this big, old and mighty nation, had been another huge symbolic improvement in morale. Sure, the strategic situation had not altered that far at this point, but do not underestimate symbolic. To 2: If Stalingrad had never happened, over 800.000 (!) men had not been lost at this time. Battle of Stalingrad was grinding. Even the fact that german propaganda was super effective, the Volk did noticed how long it took and that so many men must have been died during this battle. This was a big problem. All strikes so far, have been working very well. No one seemed to stop the Blitzkrieg until this point. Stalingrad was the turning point of the Ostfront and without that, Wehrmachts next stop probably had been the Ural (which for sure can not be crossed in winter). This again means, that the german troops had the chance to set up havy defence lines like the Atlantikwall, which shows that they do such things very well. Think of all the heavy losses USA took while invading the Normandy. Did you know that Hitler assumed the USA would invade somewhere else? Maybe the USA had not have any chance when the defense had been at full strenght. So I assume that the capture of moscow had changed everything. At this time Hitler had not done any big mistakes. Later he had done plenty mistakes wich finally had leaden to lose. 

For this question I'm assuming a utterly infeasible technological breakthrough suddenly makes wormholes technology possible. However there is a major catch, the 2D "windows" as they're called don't allow through matter or gravitational pull. The "windows" can be opened for about a half a million USD. Once opened these portals stay open indefinitely unless closed. Opening a portal requires a large amount of energy, and the use of expensive and bulky machines on one end of the wormhole, with only a small machine and energy on par with a car battery required on the other end. The portals are flat windows that look like portals, however were you to walk up to one you would pass through it unaffected. The portals size can be as small as a millimeter or as large as 2,600 meters, any larger would require using multiple portal machines and linking them together. A portal can have any shape with the smallest definition being a millimeter, however portals are totally flat. Each side of the flat portal corresponds to a side of the other end of the portal. Each of the two connected portals must be the exact same shape and size. Portals will continue moving as the machine that created them was, at the moment it created the portal, other than controlling its initial motion you can't move portals except as detailed below. This means if the machine was orbiting the earth the portal will continue this motion, even though it isn't itself a object and has no mass. Portals also continue accelerating or decelerating as the machine was when it created it, however while portals can continue accelerating indefinitely they will slow acceleration such that they approach, but never reach the speed of light. A portal on earth will not slowly drift, since slight changes in planetary motion such as the lengthening of days is effectively counted as deceleration thus the portal undergoes the same slowing, this only holds true for motions that continue at the same rate of acceleration/deceleration as when the portal was created. The end of the portal which requires the expensive machinery to create can be kept linked to the machines so that it moves with them, however this means you can't use those machines to make further portals. Weapon note: To prevent the scenario of potential apocalyptic destruction, due to someone launching a portal through the sun. I have decided that a wormhole will collapse if more than about the equivalent of a kiloton of TNT worth of energy tries to pass through it in a second, though most energy that can pass through it in a second is equivalent to a ton of tnt. Since the portal only allows through at most a ton of tnt, any additional energy is reflected back when it hits the portal. This is still a lot of energy so it still has a lot of weapon potential. Keep in mind, as far as I know all energy would be in the form of photons. TLDR: It's a portal that only lets light through.Well actually other details of it are more complicated, so read the whole question before answering. What uses would be implemented for such a technology assuming it essentially appeared in our world overnight? The most obvious thing I can think of using it for is as a source of near infinite energy, you could get one end of the portal in an orbit much closer to the sun and use the energy to boil massive amounts of water (also may be useful for desalinization). Using it to allow faster than light communication is an obvious application as well (though given our current technology that's not super useful). 

Everyone has some fancyful unrealistic dreams, one of mine is to travel back in time and do something like that. Not because I really want to do that, but it's a nice "what would be when"-idea for me. So I often think about that. I will not go to deep into technical detail. You just cant build thinks that you do not know much about or you have no access to their resources. Additional, it's depending on the time you 'land' in. I will go over these points and write about general topics. The "Group" factor is another thing I do not write about, due this, clearly gives you better knowledge, survival and laborforce, but beside that, this will not change anything. What mostly comes to my mind are these ideas: You will not be able to build up the whole technological evolution in your livespan on your own. You will hardly be able to build a modern computer, so how should you build a sattelite? Convince the people This means you need help, the more the better. Depending on the peoples believes you will seen as some kind of evil (inquisition), god (you set fire bevore early human know how to do that, or whatever. If you can convince them thatn you are a timetraveler there might be a better chance that they believe the strange things you are talking about. To prove your knowledge about powerfull stuff you could build a steammachine (very easy but powerfull). Get help If you gained their trust, you must teach them. Teaching others to help you is the essential key just because construction is hard labor and you need any help you can get. Help them helping you! At any time in history, people have been busy maintaining ther subsistence. If you build a letterpress, the savants have less affort on that topic and are able to help you. Building some simple ploughing-machines gives the peasants a big advantage and thus you'll get a massive laborforce. You need military advantage Assumed the people trust you, they're just one party in the world. They have enemies or tradingpartners. Some of them will notice the improvements of your party and may be harmed by that. This means your improvements will raise enemies, thus you must arm your people in a defensive way so no one can kill them with ease. But be carefull! If you give them to much advantage, they might think that they do not need you anymore or they start conquering other lands. Last point can be an improvment of your situation due this can bring you more laborforce but also this will lead to big harm in the world. If you want that, okay but consider the consequences. Do not underestimate politic So at that point people trust you, you might think. But no! There are always people frightened by change. Depending on their political force, they might speed you down or, even worse, prevent your work or kill you. You should use your technical advantage to improve your personal security. This is the most essential point! Your live is in danger all the time! 

While something like a warp drive is a staple of ftl technology in sci-fi, I wonder how this sort of spatial warping would operate on a smaller scale on earth. The idea has occurred to me to have a character with gravity and antigravity powers try to warp distance. This distance warping wouldn't extend more than half a meter from the character's body at most, and at minimum would only be skin-tight. This special warping would bear some resemblance to a alcubierre warp drive, though based on answers I am now informed a natario drive is more plausible. This power can't used to reach anything approaching relativistic speeds, however I wonder how this would work as a form of superspeed. Another detail that needs to be covered is how it works when the character interacts with objects: What happens when the character tries to move a stationary or slow moving object? What about trying to move bullets and other objects that are fast in relation to the hero's actual speed, and are slow compared to the movement of them and other stuff in their warp bubble. (The hero is also a vampire which grants the required secondary powers) How exactly would something like a warp bubble work in a atmosphere at non-relativistic speeds? Could it avoid the collateral damage normal super-speed entails? How would this spatial warping affect the atmosphere that occupies the warped space? What would this power do when the character interacted with objects not in the field: both slow moving objects and stuff like bullets. What would such a power look and sound like, both to the user and bystanders (I'm assuming the hero has super fast perception and some degree of super senses to cope, and can already run ~400 mph without warping space, or otherwise using gravity control). Ultimately I'm really hoping this power will allow things like this scene (except with superspeed that isn't wildly inconsistent) Bonus Question: What other clever uses would you use a gravity control power for, other than the standard and obvious uses. Assume you have all the other powers mentioned as well: Super senses, super toughness/strength and a baseline speed around 400 mph, In addition assume an ability to increase perception speed to a nigh unlimited amounts. Super-reflexes also protect you by immediately ramping up perception speed in response to danger sensed by super senses, effectively one's subconscious is always perceiving things in slow-motion watching for danger. 

The first question that comes to my mind: How is the energy stored? The US-Navy just equiped some battleships with laser guns and their biggest disadvantage is the charging time. You need to store the necessary energy, if you can't produce it fast enough. There are a lot benefits over projectilweapons, but also disadvantages, keep that in mind. It's very unlikely to carry a mini-nuclear-reactor in your handgun, so you must store it. Which requirements must the storage suit? 

Joy is measurable as a state in which specific hormones, like endorphine, are present in specific, or higher, concentration. Due this, Joy is actually just a specific state. Following to this fact, if the A.I. has a state specified as 'Joy' it literally has 'Joy'. This depends only on definition. 

Fast energy release: A storage that we know today which can release energy very fast are capacitors. These have problems which make them unsuitable for our purpose, like an energy drain over time and small capacity. Batteries cannot release energy fast enough. Fuel cells could be a solution due they could set high amounts of energy in very short time but are technically very complex, depending on the fuel. Due we are in SCI-Fi here, our todays problems can be solved in your setting and the complexity might not be a problem anymore. Biggest Problem of today with fuel cells are heat and low efficiency, but that has been the same with OTTO-engines 100yrs ago, so what... Size: You want your weapon to be handable by small woman hands. For home-defense very small pistols are not uncommon and you must try to fit that requirement. It's not necessary to provide 50rounds if an average person cannot hold the weapon, 5-10rds are good. One container or cartridge? Both have their advantages. As it has been said, for military purpose, where a lot of shots are fired in a short time it is essential for the safety of the gunners that there is no delay between triggering and the shot. But in home-defense you don't have to spray a lot of ammo, a few rounds is good to strike back an attacking person. So far booth, container and cartridge fit the requirement. Advantage of container: You can just fill them with the needed chemical, its basically a fuel-container and thus easy to use. You have only one source of errors here, not like cartridge. Every cartridge could be damaged and block your weapon, even if the next one is fine. This is both, an advantage and a disadvantage, if you have a jam with your cartridge just release the magazine, unload the blocking gardridge and reload. To fix a broken tank might not be that easy. Advantages of cartridge: The handling of cartridges is easy but a little work, if you have ever loaded some magazines, you know what I mean. Error sources are plenty, like I wrote at the Advantage of containers. But what makes cartridges really good is the fact that you can load various cartridges! It's not unusual in military purpose to load some tracer bullets at night or AP-cartridge if some enemies might wear bodyarmour. You cannot know what comes and thus different cartridges are a high benefit! Especially with energy weapons. We are talking about home defense and you don't want to kill someone but might tranquilize the attacker. If you have 10rds in your magazine, you can load 5rds tranquilizer, 2rds lethal if the tranquilizers don't work for any reason and if in the worst case the attacker wears body armour 3 further shots of armour piercing ammo. Or whatever you want. For me, cartridge is the winner!