To me it looks like the first bit or a small version of what we call in Dutch 'kruiend ijs' (stacked drift ice). The corresponding English Wikipedia page is 'Ice Shove' which seems the result rather than the action. This happens when there is a big surface of ice which gets broken up in strong winds. If the wind is from the same direction for a while, the ice from the lake or part of the sea will all move to one end, pushed on by the ice behind it, while the water in the break freezes up again and the whole of the lake stays frozen if it stays cold enough. In cases where the ice is broken up already, because of the weather or because of icebreakers, the build up can be even faster. The ice becomes an unstoppable force if there is enough with a strong wind behind it and in all cold winters in the Netherlands there are warnings for some lake side roads. (And the villages and individual houses but those do not come over the national radio.) 

I would use a Packers knot, also known under several other names. This is a Thump knot or Figure of Eight knot tied around the standing end, tighten the standing end and tie it in a half hitch around the end sticking out of the Thump knot. (I learned it with and extra thump knot in the end of the string so the half hitch has less tendency to slip off.) In thin stuff this is a knife knot, but in proper rope or good quality string, you can make a slipped Thump or Figure of Eight and undo that when you want to undo the knot. 

Any sturdy box big enough to hold them would work, also when the box is a lot bigger. You can fill the empty space with something soft, like a piece of clothing you happen to have handy. The smaller (but still big enough) your box is, the more snug your pair of glasses will sit. In a sturdy box you can put your glasses in any kind of bag. When you do not have a box handy, you can also just fold the glasses in a hanky or an other soft piece of cloth you have on you and put it in an outside pocket of your coat (as long as you do not lean against that pocket) or in your shirt pocket, (again when you keep it free from outside pressure) or in a suitable pocket or area of your bag. If your only box option is rather weak, you can still use it but more like a soft case, fill the open area with something soft and keep the box from getting too tight in whatever space you want to transport it. The filling of the box needs to keep the glasses whole, a weak box itself can not do much of a job. I always use sturdy glasses cases but I have seen my father who prefers the soft case his glasses came in, in combination with his shirt pocket. 

What to sleep in? Any building will be inviting vandals, so I would just level out a part of the plot with easy access for your car or a camper van. Instead of having a building you can bring a tent or a camper van, RV or a trailer that is ready to camp in. In (parts of) Europe it is also quite common to see a small trailer that holds a tent, which you fold out into a roomy tent big enough to sleep 4 or even 6 people. The beds are part of the structure and there is some space for the essentials. A base for your nights! That flat area can be just dirt if the dirt in your plot is going to work for that, it can also be tiles or concrete slabs you put in, cut wood or if allowed in the area, a slap of concrete you poor on the plot. Or you can make and maintain a lawn to camp on or around if you are willing to put in the time for mowing it and the tent (or vehicle) will not be on it enough to do damage. Of all above the concrete slap will have the most impact but is also the best collecting all that drips from the vehicle so you can collect that and take it off site if needed. If you are in an area where forest fires are common or very dangerous, I would not make a fire pit but use a fire container which you can put in your car when you leave, either a BBQ or a fire cage. How to make the going out effort free? If you want to stay in a tent or several small tents, you can have all of the gear packed in a trailer or a couple of duffel bags which you can put in the back of your car. A trailer, camping van or RV are always ready to go. And the fold in trailer tent is basically ready to go, although you might prefer not to store the extra's inside long term. Drive on or not? The less easy the access to the plot, the less likely someone will come and make use of it, (either as you would or as a vandal) but the less easy it will be for you to arrive and leave. So it will be a trade off. Consider parking a bit farther out and walk your gear in over a narrow path compared to driving onto the site. If the site is a bit farther from an access road you may have to walk your gear in. In which case a small cart with wheels suitable for the ground might be a very valued part of your kit. Facilities! If you are just camping there once in a long while, you can dig a latrine or bring out all human waste as well as all your (kitchen)waste. But if you do go there often, you might want to consider a 'loo' structure where you can easily collect the human waste to take off, (which can be a tent like structure) or build a system that does not need the taking away of waste, compost loo's come to mind but are likely not the only suitable structure. Using a camping vehicle you might have a waste water system doing it for you. Waste water that is true water might be allowed to get into the ground or through the ground into a natural stream in/near the plot, but only if it is clean of chemicals and disease. A shower (behind a screen for privacy) can be rigged with a bucket or watering can, over a small tiled area for foot safety, as long as no unwanted chemicals are used.