Now, eliminate every other food source save for cannibalism. It will probably be worse than 10x decrease, for the sake of simplicity assume that a predator reaches maturity in 2 years, and all predators are cannibalized at that age, it would take on average consuming 1 member of the species monthly for 2 years, or 24 in total for the system to produce another "ready to eat" adult animal. Now, if you have a 24 fold decrease for every iteration, it is quite obvious that sustainability is entirely out of question, and you have an example population size, it is trivial to calculate how many generations it will take until extinction. Let's assume a rather numerous population of 1 million: 

Another possibility is that younger individuals, being smaller and more nimble and agile, might be able to catch food that older, larger and slower individuals might not. But that's not very sustainable IMO. It could also be the reverse, as individuals age, they might acquire traits and skills to obtain food from alternative sources. For example growing external physical features with the properties of a net that can trap large enough quantities of insects or microorganisms (like a whale does with plankton) to be a viable source of food for a long term survival. The older an individual grows, the more calories it can obtain, allowing it to grow in size significantly, to the point of becoming a high value target for a pack of younger individuals that will be required to take it down. With age individuals might also develop glands that produce chemicals that attract more of their foodstuff. That sounds fairly sustainable, the young will initially be breast-fed up to a point, after which they will be forced to prey on one another, as they wouldn't really pack enough force to take down an adult, in a process of natural selection that will allow only the strongest to reach physical size large enough, so that they can take down adults by forming packs. And only the most successful members of each pack would be able to reach adulthood when they can attain self-reliance by developing capabilities to access another food source, and over time become prey to the subsequent generations. 

Given that the wizard, a low level magic user in a dry area could easily create wind gusts causing sand/dust storms to hide their movements from the enemy. Strong wind gusts could also make radars malfunction and damage surveillance equipment. Just those two combined could at best cause a little delay in advancements or at worst allow the enemy to sneak bigger more powerful weaponry into good positions for attack. Defense The same things go for defense. Good cloud cover and fog could hinder an enemy who is trying to advance. A very good wizard could create small storms on top of advancing enemies. The tactical advantages are endless if you can control the environment of a battle. Missile and NBCs(Nuclear, biological, and chemical weapons) Sudden changes in weather can throw off important calculations which can make weapons of mass destruction very unstable and hard/dangerous to try to use properly. Sudden gusts of winds can throw off the trajectory of a nuclear warhead. Even though magic is possible NBC weapons would still be very deadly, but it would give some hope to defenses because even for fighter jets, flying in storms is hard. Overall, war as we know it would be over and it would be even harder to try and gain an advantage against another magic wielding nation. The Global Security(link above) outlines most of the things I talked about and much more. Magical Creatures In my opinion the magical creatures would be impractical to use in war because of the easy counter by another wizard. Unless a very powerful wizard made a magical creature in a military base and it killed all the wizards that could help, the magical creature would quickly be banished. Probability Unless you are in a long range gunfight not many things in battle are left up to chance. At a time when any calculation no matter the complexity is possible by means of supercomputers most variables are found and accounted for before it can cause real harm. Guidance systems for missiles and bombs are extremely accurate and most problems are caused by human error. Side Note If magic was suddenly discovered by more than one nation at a time the war would probably be over before it started. The nation who gained control of the first magician would wield the power to take over/attack other unsuspecting countries with magical creatures and powers that they had never seen. Just like the use of nuclear weapons, the use of magic in war would have to be monitored and controlled very strictly to prevent hostile nations from doing anything crazy. Supreme wizards would be extremely powerful and even overpowered. A storm twice as large as Katrina would cost almost a quarter of a billion dollars which would cripple, if not bankrupt a poorer country. An out of control supreme wizard would devastate economies. And they say that corporate espionage is bad... Edit: 

Being able to stay at sea, without resupply, for longer than everyone else. This is a game changer. It transforms brown water navies into blue water navies and gives regional powers global reach. We can see it today; there are perhaps two countries capable of independently projecting top-tier power anywhere in the world for a sustained period (the US and France), with another few working on it (a few specific examples; the UK once it sorts out its naval air power again, China working on naval air power and in the last decade has transformed their logistical support navy to allow global deployment, Russia trying to become a serious naval power again, India ever advancing their naval ability). Some nations have tried and failed in recent years. To do it, you need a navy with global reach. Technologies that were heavily improved in the years following WWII that massively improved the reach of warships: Desalination. Post WWII, the US put a lot of effort into desalination research. If you can make more freshwater, faster, for drinking, cooking, cleaning, cooling and freshwater-hungry maintenance tasks, you can extend the amount of time your ship can stay at sea without resupply. This extends the range of your ship, extends the logistic reach, just makes everything better. Ships that have to return to port every week are very limited in deployment; they need stronger logistics chains, they're more vulnerable to disruption, they need friendly ports, and so on. Food preservation and compacting. Similar advantages to being able to make freshwater. The more food you can carry, and the longer it lasts, the longer you can go without resupplying food. Freezer technology, preservatives, processing food to increase nutritional density. The technology of food preservation came on enormously in that time period. Medical advances, and medical technology advances. Crew get injured and sick. If you have to return an injured crew member to port, or transfer to another ship, it could be a very big deal. The vessel may have to effectively take time out from its primary mission to meet a support vessel to transfer crew. Even if you don't do that, you're now a sailor short; you'd need to meet another ship or return to port anyway to replace that sailor, or continue at reduced capacity. The ability to keep your crew alive and healthy makes an enormous difference. Also, communications. The ability to communicate quickly, reliable, securely and in large quantity with a vessel is genuinely transformative. Communications technologies came on enormously in the period in question. If you, and not your opponent, can talk to your warships anywhere in the world quickly and securely, and they can talk back to you, you have the advantage. You have a single consolidated view of everything your vessels are doing, what their condition is, what they can see. The closer to real-time you can make this information, the greater your advantage is. It's a huge advantage. If your opponent can only manage one short message a day, every one of his vessels has a delay on reporting, retasking, everything. It's the difference between a navy acting as a unified whole, and acting as fifty independent vessels doing their own thing. Wars get won and lost on communications. If you (and not your opponent) can coordinate your forces in near real-time, and you can disseminate information quickly throughout your forces, you can negate opposing force advantages in weapons, numerical superiority, speed, and so on. 

If a plausible scenario is desired, then there must be another food source, one that is of very low efficiency, requiring a lot of effort to obtain food with very low nutritional value. This also offers additional plot directions, as the population will gradually diverge into a cannibal group that seeks the high stakes, risking their lives to obtain high protein meat, and a group that is more like herbivores, although they can go for insects or microorganisms or some symbiotic relation with other species of life that can still provide nourishment. Depending on the environment setting, both groups could develop either collective or individualistic behavior and grow more and more distinct. The divergence can be either a conscious choice or a product of evolution. A subset of the species might not be able to extract nutritional value from a source other than meat. 

In just 4 generations, or 8 short years that population will be reduced to only 3 individuals, which will have quite the dilemma - breed or eat, presuming you still have members of both genders, and of with the prospect of no more food whatsoever. In reality it will be even worse, much, much worse than the theoretical worse, because younglings will have a really hard time taking down adults, and parents will have higher energy expenditures and less chance overwhelming another adult to feed themselves and their offspring until it is large enough to hunt. It will be far more likely that adults consume the young, because of the energy disadvantage their parents are put into. There will be a lot less additions to the population than the theoretical number and extremely slim chance than any newborn reaches maturity. In practice, it will be nothing short of a miracle if the population is not completely extinct in 5 years or less. 

Weather Assuming that each warring faction is bound by some rule preventing them from constantly counteracting every one of its opponent's moves, then controlling the weather would be highly beneficial for many reasons. Whole new use for Kamikaze and spies In WWII certain disposable airplanes and people flew into enemies for one sole reason: to cause mass damage. They had no intention of getting out alive. This could be used to any armies advantage if they had spies who was also a weak apprentice. The spy could, in essence, summon tornadoes on top of enemy bases/barracks. A PT-76 tank weighed upwards of 14.6 tonnes(32,000 pounds). The heaviest object lifted by a tornado was about 81 tonnes(180,000 pounds). Given than a non-experienced magic user probably can't create that powerful of a storm, a tornado right in the middle of a military base would still create some serious damage. Tactical Advantages According to Global Security: 

Long term survival of the species by means of cannibalism is simply not possible. Without any other mechanism to put energy in the system it is simply not sustainable. The stronger will eat the weaker and then the last remaining will starve to death. Although a vast population spread over a large area could take quite a while before complete extinction. Consider that even on Earth, with its countless species of life, there is no such thing as a self-sustainable ecosystem. For the vast majority of ecosystems on the planet, save for deep sea creatures, 90% of the energy actually comes from the outside - namely that is solar radiation, a.k.a sunlight. A simplified foodchain energy pyramid puts every step of the pyramid at an order of magnitude less energy content. Meaning that plant matter constitutes only 10% of all incoming solar radiation energy, primary consumers only 10% of plant matter, and so on. 

Virus mutating into brutally effective killer of large human populations. An existing virus, that is effectively harmless with many carriers, is prone to mutation, and the dominant strain has changed in recent years. Scientists playing with the new strain discover than if just a very small set of genes further mutate, it becomes an apocalyptic disease; exactly the right incubation time to be spread the most before killing the host (including humans, if they weren't susceptible before) in ninety-something percent of all cases. A scientist goes to cook some popcorn, and remarks on how there's no way to know which of the grains will pop first, but they can estimate very accurately when that first grain pop will happen. She realises that the same can be said of the disease; they know roughly how many human carriers there are, and the mutation rate, and which genes need to mutate, and realise than within X years, the odds of it happening are large. They have a good idea of the timeframe within which it will happen, but there's no way at all to predict in which of the millions of unknowing carriers that deadly mutation will happen.