By your description of your diet, it looks as if it is made up of the right stuff. The only question is if it is enough. As long as you have enough protein, it would be sufficient to protect you from the first bullet point. This article suggests that you won't use more than 0.65g of protein per pound body weight--or if you are genetically gifted, .82g of protein per pound body weight. As far as point 2 is concerned, as long as your performance is not regressing, you have enough Calories to support your level of activity. Many weight lifters will experience a drop in the max they can lift while dieting, but I'm talking about either a sudden drop in performance or each time you exercise you continually drop performance. On the last point, this is where people don't have sufficient water, where sweats while exercising, sit in the sauna to sweat out the water that they have, etc. Linked is an article that goes into more depth with this sort of thing. However, the more you lose the more it affects your performance in your match/competition. This article suggests that the max you should ever try to lose with this approach is 5% of your body weight. So what's going on? It's hard to say, but any time you change your eating habits, the first weight to come off is water weight. It's not unhealthy levels of water weight, but if you've significantly reduced your sodium intake and the amount of inflammatory foods you eat, your body will let go of the excess water that it no longer needs. If you are having fewer than 125g of carbs a day, the next source of weight loss will likely be the glycogen stores. Depending on your body weight, this can be as much as 5lbs worth of weight. This is the reserve energy your muscles have. Finally, as your body breaks down fat and burns it, the byproducts are urinated out. This will continue for a good while until your body finds a new equilibrium known as homeostasis. In order to keep losing weight, you will have to cycle through different approaches to keep it from reaching that equilibrium before you hit your goal weight. Also, at 185lb, you may consider increasing your muscle mass rather than just focusing on fat loss. This can happen rather rapidly. 

Unless you are an elite athlete, it takes most trainees a long time of pushing very hard to truly get into a place where you could say they are over-trained. There are several ways of managing fatigue, and well written training programs will build some of these features in for you. 

If you are no longer a novice at your sport (or with your training), you may be on your way to becoming an intermediate. If so, you'll have to make some modifications to your training program to help you keep improving. 

A diet that consists of an even split 33% of Calories from each macronutrient is actually a pretty well balanced diet. Another good split is 30/30/40 (protein/fat/carbs). As far as carbohydrates go, the more you de-emphasize grains and emphasize green vegetables the better your diet will be. Meat is not bad. Fish is probably one of the best choices, usually anti-inflammatory (which reduces blood cholesterol), but prefer a filet over fish balls. Fruits are also good in moderation. Eggs are also good. To put things in perspective, most sources of meat include about 20g of protein per 4oz (closed fist portion) of meat. As far as meat selection goes, if you favor grass-fed (or natural diet) sources of meat, the fats will have a more favorable balance of Omega-3 to Omega-6 fats. This will improve your health overall. The biggest thing I see in your diet, is it seems to emphasize carb sources over protein sources, and possibly not enough fat. As to your exercise, you will need to do something more than just upper body if your goal is to lose fat and gain muscle. You want to stimulate your whole body. You can do that with body-weight exercises. Burpees, squat-stands, etc. engage your lower half, and can help improve on the work you are doing with the upper half. 

Intensity based training is more concerned with heavy triples, doubles, and singles and rarely includes sets over 5-6 reps on anything. It's usually used with compound lifts for greater economy of training. The limiting factor here is your central nervous system (CNS). The heavier you lift, the more muscle fibers you recruit for lifting. Sleep becomes the most important recovery tool, although food helps a lot. Conclusions: 

I'm feeling like I need some improvement. My hamstrings are more flexible than my lower back. As a result when I sit and lean forward, the only place I feel the stretch is my lower back. When I hold my legs to deepen the stretch I get lower back pain like I stretched the back too far. It goes away by the end of the second day, but this is the stretch that I'm thinking I need to remove. So how do I correct the flexibility imbalances that I have? NOTE: My goal is increasing my range of mobility (ROM). 

I've found Strengtheory.com to be an excellent resource for science based strength training articles. Recently, Greg Nuckols did a 2 part series on your drug free muscle and strength potential. 

I personally did the SL route for the past 11 weeks, but will be switching to SS after week 12. The primary reasons are that 5x5 is getting a bit heavy now and I'll appreciate the lighter load, and power cleans are fun and want to incorporate them into my workout. 

The purpose of these is to give you time to feel and correct your balance while you are in the most mechanically disadvantageous position. Use weights you can keep a straight back with. You want to focus on keeping the balance of the weight on mid foot. With a barbell, that happens when the bar is over your mid foot. You want to practice the descent and ascent so that the bar doesn't travel back or forward from mid foot and your balance is steady. During a squat, work on the following form: 

Hook Grip: Wrap your fingers around your thumb to hook it in place. This adds quite a bit more strength to your grip. It is uncomfortable at heavier weights, but it provides the same symmetry that you get with double overhand grip. 

In the running off season, you can maintain a decent level of conditioning by running an easy 5k twice a week. The effort should be in the aerobic zone, and it's purpose is just maintenance. This is where you'll spend more time strength training. In the running season, you'll lift 2x a week using a program like Wendler 5/3/1 (there's different variations) and not worry too much about increasing weight. Perhaps work on increasing reps--which also helps with muscular endurance. Worst Case: Training Both Simultaneously A friend of mine agreed to do a power lifting competition with me, and then a few weeks later told me he entered the Marine Corp Marathon. The race date and competition dates are only a couple weeks apart. This is going to be a rough time of training, particularly because the legs are getting fatigued from the running and the lifting. 

You can use any of several alternatives, but you want to work with a weight you can do 3x15 (3 sets of 15 reps each). Feel free to drop 5-10lbs each set if necessary to keep the rep work going. If one variation of exercise causes the pain or makes it get worse, choose a different alternative or lower the weight. Do the lat work every time you are in the gym and try to increase the weight no more often than weekly. After 2 weeks of this, you can start to slowly increase the weight on the deadlifts--staying below the weights that cause pain. By the end of 6 weeks you can taper the lat work down to only being done after deadlifts. By that time you will have built up the work capacity of your lats and repaired the strain. I recommend that even after the 6 week rehab work is done, you don't just jump right in to 90+% work on the deadlift again. Build up from 80-90% again. 

With a healthy pancreas, and an eating plan that allows it, your body will start burning fat 6 hours after you have your carbs. If your diet is very high in carbs and your pancreas is having a hard time keeping up, it will never burn fat. I suppose a more complete answer would be in terms of glycemic impact instead of blanket carbs. I wish I had some reference material to link to. The information I have was from a registered nurse that oversaw the diet plan I was on. The most common time that all of us have with at least 6 hours of no carbs is while we are sleeping. Yet another reason for a good night's rest. NOTE: according to the same source, your body can take up to 12 hours to break down complex carbs and turn it into sugar for the body to use. That's why runners will carb up the night before a race, and not the morning of. They need the boost of energy after the carbs are processed. As to what your body burns during exercise, it's a function of your heart rate. Zone training is built around different thresholds of what that exercise does for you. The bottom line is that the lower the heart rate the more fat you burn, and the higher the heart rate the more sugar you burn. If your goal is to lose fat, it's better to walk on a treadmill for an hour keeping your heart rate in zone 1 than it is to run a 5k. There are other benefits to the higher heart rate zones, so a balanced cardio plan will have them all covered. Summary of zones: 

At first glance, it looks like the two articles contradict each other. However, understand that there are differences among individuals, and some are more prone to diabetes vs. heart attack, etc. Any time you have an excess of fat, your body has to work harder to move. Adding weight too fast will cause your heart to not be able to keep up with the new demands of a heavier frame. To answer your questions more directly: 

Bulking is Most Effective When Already Lean If you are already lean, you can tell by looking in a mirror whether the increase in weight is due to muscle mass or fat mass--or the relative percentage of each. The bottom line is that adding muscle mass is not easy. It can take a while to add a pound or two of muscle mass, but when you do, you will be burning significantly more Calories even at rest. The majority of the problem is that your body likes to maintain the status quo. If it is in the mode of storing extra calories as fat, it will tend to continue storing more of your excess calories as fat than as (more accurately within) your muscle. If you are already obese (>20% BF for young men or >25% BF for older men), then your body is tuned to store fat. The best way to break that cycle is to get to 15% or below body fat (assumption: men). It's about that threshold that the body is more tuned to feed your muscles than your fat cells. Walking Not Effective For Fat Loss Quite frankly, walking doesn't burn a lot of calories. It does help, because it gets the blood flowing which helps reduce soreness and other issues with strength training. However, you need a way to get the best of both worlds. This is where we enter the world of conditioning. Conditioning can be as simple as adding a weight vest while you are out walking, or it can be as widely varied as the different forms of High Intensity Interval Training (HIIT). In order to burn Calories you have to expend more energy than you take in--but if you are "bulking" you are taking in more calories than you burn. This is the conundrum, and yet another reason to separate the activities. The bottom line is that movement burns Calories. High intensity work will continue to burn fat just as low intensity work, but will also deplete your glycogen stores much quicker. Once the glycogen is burned up, the only energy source left is fat. But don't get too ahead of yourself here. See below when I bring in the concept of diet... Multiple Ways To Train If you care about increasing muscle mass, then training for muscle size is going to help your goals quicker and more effectively than training for strength. Paul Carter calls this mass building, or base building. It is similar to bodybuilding, but the end goal isn't the perfect ratio of muscle sizes. The end goal is to increase the ceiling of strength. When training for mass (base building), I found myself increase in size around the chest, and decrease in size around the gut. That is until the holidays came and I started over eating my gains. My goal here was strictly eating to maintain weight. I wasn't doing conditioning, just long sets and a decent amount of volume. As long as I didn't eat too much, I was trading mass. However, once I hit equilibrium (i.e. still maintaining weight) the fat wouldn't come off anymore. The other side of training for mass is that you are burning more calories because you are training more volume, which requires more work overall. It's All About Energy Balance At the end of the day, whether you are trying to get slim or build muscle, you have to balance the needs of your body for energy. You have to be in a caloric deficit to burn fat, plain and simple. You have to be in a caloric surplus to build muscle. Unfortunately, the capacity of the body to pull from the fat stores while building muscle is very limited. Various diets attempt to address the conundrum by something called Calorie cycling. This gives your body more calories on the days you weight lift, and fewer calories on other days. The net result over the span of a week should be lower than your requirements if you want to primarily lose fat, or higher than your requirements if you want to primarily gain muscle. As useful as Calorie cycling is, it can only do so much. In essence, it is best to pick one primary goal and pursue that while having the least amount of impact on the other goals. For example, if you are obese, the primary goal should be to lose fat while preserving the muscle you have. If you have normal body weight you can either maintain or go for muscle building while minimizing the amount of fat that inevitably will be added.