If you're racking up the kilometers / miles your chain could be wearing out. This is easy to check. The link spacing on bicycle chains is 1/2" – there are tools for this, but you can get a rough idea with just a ruler – measure out 10 or 12 inches along the top of the chain. As the chain wears it will get longer and you'll see the pins moving apart. A chain is worn out when you're approaching 0.75% of "stretch." Roughly speaking this is about 1/8" at 12 inches. If a careful measurement show you something close to that you've probably found the culprit. Replace the chain for sure, a worn chain also damages the cassette and the chain rings. All of which are more expensive than a chain. The conservative thing to do would be to replace the cassette along with the chain (and it sounds like you want one that gives you a higher top gear). If money is an issue start with the chain. IF the problem persists, also do the cassette. 

It will depend on the rim width, according to Schwalbe's table of tire size to rim widths you'd be fine with a 17 or 19 mm rim and you'd be pushing it if you have a 21 mm rim. 

Once you know what you've got you'll know if the the strategy is to unthread the freewheel body or to find a way to loosen and lift off the cassette. It is possible that the cassette has worn into the freehub body, like this image from Sheldon: 

If you have a bike you can ride now, I'd suggest putting its gear configuration into an online gear calculator (I'm kind of fond of this) so that you can see the ratios and spacings of a bike you've ridden and compare them with the options you're considering for your new bike. For me, I'm most interested in a gear that feels good for cruising on the flat and a good hill climbing gear (for me this means one where I can spin pretty close to my "normal" cadence). From the bike that you know, think about what you'd like to improve – say a higher climbing gear, or maybe a couple of options for a cruising gear (especially if it is windy where you are). I also really like Jasper's analysis of the step between the chain rings, that seems like a helpful way to think about cranksets. 

The thing'a'ma'bobber we're discussing would solve the problem that the Park article alludes to. I used to make fairings for depth sounders on boats by mounting the sounder and then taping neatly around where the sounder didn't meet the hull and forcing in epoxy goop (technical term there). I think you could do something very similar by wrapping the cable firmly, but not so firmly that it would distort the cable, with tape. Leave a small hole into which you can squirt some RTV caulk (here's one example from Permatex, but there are many others). Let it cure then you can do the final taping. It may try and stick to the bars and cable, but that's a good thing. It will peel off when the time comes. 

If you do that, the wheel should hold where you put it. You might want to put the adjusters back in. They will help get the wheel in the right place, so you won't need so many hands to install it. 

I'd guess that what happened is the other end of the cable slipped (at the anchor bolt on the brake). It probably wasn't tight enough and when the brakes were applied the cable pulled through the anchor bolt. Now the cable seems too loose at the barrel adjuster, but really it is too loose at the brake. All you probably need to do is to loosen up the anchor bolt so that you can pull the cable back through and then tighten it down again. When you do this inspect the cable to make sure that it isn't starting to fray. If the brakes had been solid and this is a sudden change the cable fraying is one of the more likely reasons that I can think of for the cable suddenly becoming loose. 

As I was looking at the brakes, I noticed that the pads seem to be closer to the rotor at the outside (like their resting configuration is 'V' shaped). As I adjust the pads I start to hear dragging sounds well before the brake travel is reasonable (the lever will go all the way to the bars, and I can move the wheel by hand when the lever is bottomed out). There seems to be a reasonable (i.e., way more than the runout in the disc) amount of space between the pads and the disc where I can see. I also noticed that the pads themselves do not sit parallel in the caliper. With the adjusters backed all the way out, I can get one side or the other to sit against the frame of the caliper, but the other is slightly angled. It seems like the spring is not pushing out evenly. Any ideas about what I should do next? Should the pads be tapered / sit in a 'V'? 

The derailleurs (aka switchers) are controlled by the cable that runs between the lever and the derailleur. On most bikes, increasing the tension in the cable will move the front from the inner chainring towards the outer chainring. Here's what I'd do: 

From the picture, and what you describe, the tire is wider than the rim. This means that if you like to run the brake shoes close the rim that you'll be unable to remove the tire without having to find some way to "lengthen" the cable. There are three common options that I know of: 

Most bags (that I've seen) don't reach past the diameter of the front wheel when they are mounted on the rack – I really don't think there will be a significant practical issue regarding the size of the bag. I've ridden, a lot, with both Kirtland and Ortlieb Rear Roller panniers on a variety of front racks – both conventional and low rider style. Mostly it just works. It is possible to load front panniers with enough weight to affect the handling of the bike – I used to ride in New York City with electrician's tools and supplies in my Kirtland bags. That got interesting, but it was never scary (although I was much younger then…). If you're planning relatively light loads (< 5 or 10 kg or so) I don't see much of a problem. The Ortlieb connection system is pretty flexible. I think you'd be able to get any of their front bags onto a relatively normal front rack. I think the best thing to do would be to take @Batman's advice and visit a bike shop that seems willing to listen to you with your bike and try out some likely candidates – or order one online from a vendor with a good return policy. I think the odds are very good that you'll find a bag that works. 

It seems like the first question to answer here is: freewheel vs. cassette. The, assumed, age of the wheel and being a 6-speed does suggest that it's a freewheel. However, even if it is an original wheel from the late '70s it is not out of the question that it could be a cassette (at least according to Wikipedia). Looking at the parts, I see several clues that make me think cassette: 

The bottom line is that it should be possible to make your bike quite comfortable. If it isn't the problem is much more likely the fit of the bike than you. 

I'd like to try riding to the airport or to public transit when I travel. Does anybody do this? Any suggestions for how to secure a bike if you're going to need to leave it for a week or so? 

If utility is more important that looks, a stem riser will get you a long way (well 50 - 80 mm, about 2 to 3 inches). There are various makers, but they all look more or less like this one. Prices run from about US $15 to $30. The riser and the existing spacers take care of the holding the headset, you don't need spacers under the stem with the riser – just the spacers between the bottom of the riser and the headset. 

If you don't have good measuring tools (and know how to use them, but that's not too hard) it will be very hard to tell the difference between 25.4 mm and 26 mm – until you try to fit the bars in, then it will be obvious… For a bike of that vintage odds are good (according to my recollection and Sheldon Brown's Crib Sheet) that the size is 25.4 mm. So what you should do is by a set of 25.4 mm bars (ideally from a nice LBS that you want to support anyway) and see if they fit. If they don't and you can't return them get a 0.3 mm shim – Nitto and I think some other make them. If you're feeling flush get it with the bars just in case. 

You mentioned wanting to loose weight, that's one of my projects too. There is some interesting research out there suggesting that the problem of loosing weight is more than just "making output exceed input." You might take a look at Grant Peterson's book Just Ride, it is a collection of short essays on practical biking and includes a good section on health and fitness. I have a somewhat contrarian view on gear and upgrades – especially when you're riding for fitness. Much of the "gear head" movement in bicycling is around efficiency. But efficiency isn't really your friend when you're out to get exercise. Make changes to your bike to make it safe, to make it comfortable, and to make the riding enjoyable. 

It is likely that you need more leverage. Off the bike the derailer and hanger will be hard to hold. If you have a vice you could clamp the hanger in the jaws and then turn the mounting bolt counter-clockwise. With the hanger held firmly the wrench you're using may be sufficient – and the penetrating oil suggested by @Frisbee in the comment above will certainly help. If you're still having trouble loosening it, first look at the back of the hanger (the side towards the wheel) to see that the bolt and hanger haven't been "staked" – sometimes parts that are fastened together with threads, but which aren't meant to be taken apart, will have the threads intentionally damaged to prevent loosening. If that has been done you can probably still get it loose, but it will take more effort. It might be worth just getting another hanger if you have a local bike shop (LBS). In either case (staked or just hard to move) a longer wrench is in order – if you have one, great – but if you don't there are a number of ways to "cheat" one is to use a length of pipe over the end of your existing wrench, another is to use an adjustable wrench to grip the end of the existing wrench, you can also hook the end of a box wrench over the existing wrench. Just be careful as you improvise to think about avoiding slips – they can hurt! For inspiration: 

You might find that the time difference to ride the bike isn't really as long as you'd think. As an example, my mechanic is about a 20 mile ride from my house. There's a bridge with a $5 toll in the way, so driving there and back is about $15, and it takes about an hour round trip (including some talking to the mechanic). I can do the ride in about 90 minutes, maybe a bit more if I'm hot and tired. So this ends up looking like a wash to me – I'd have to work at least half an hour to pay the out of pocket costs of the trip, it would take me around half an hour to get back, and I got in a good bit of exercise. 

I have an Ortlieb Back Roller pannier that has developed a rip about 6" (150mm) long along the lower rear inside corner – where the side/bottom joins the back (wheel side). It looks like this: 

I feel your pain… One place that I've found that seems to stock large shoes is Bike Tires Direct. Both Shimano and Sidi seem to make models that go up to at least size 52. If you don't want to order from the US, you could still use their listings to find some candidates and then ask your LBS what they can order for you. The shoes will come in two styles "road" and "mountain." Road shoes have a flat sole that the cleat mounts onto (and thus are quite unpleasant to walk in). Mountain shoes have a recess for the clear. Road shoes often use different cleats than mountain shoes (three-bolt vs two-bolt). Cleats usually come with pedals, not with the shoes. You can also buy cleats separately. So find out what kind of cleats your bike needs and then get shoes & cleats to match.