Here's what I normally use in those conditions. Everybody has their own preferences; this is just an example rather than a required list. 

Trekking poles are lighter and sometimes easier to break than ski poles. Some have the advantage of folding up into a short package. If you use trekking poles, you may want some with changeable baskets so you can put on some larger baskets that won't sink into the powder so easily. 

Double wall tents keep most of the condensation from forming on the inside of a tent, and they're warmer. In general, they do a better job keeping the rain out. Double wall tents are preferable in colder or rainy weather, and I consider them a necessity for snow camping. 

25-45 degrees of slope. If you can avoid this, you'll avoid most avalanches. New snow or newly wind-loaded snow. Unstable snow that collapses under your feet with a "whump". Pillowy or wavy looking snow. Recognize an avalanche chute -- an area with missing trees, messed up snow, etc. 

American Trail Running Association keeps a list for every state. It's not an exhaustive list, but it has some details for running. $URL$ 

Bleach or Tilex will get rid of mold, but you should try it on a small piece first to make sure it doesn't ruin the sticky glue. 

500 ml and 20 oz water bottles from a convenience store will freeze without breaking. You can carry them inside your clothes, in your pack next to your body, and keep them inside your sleeping bag to help keep them from freezing. 

XC skis don't need to be broken in. Older skis may grip better because they are more scratched up, but they also won't glide as well as new ones. Wax doesn't seem to hurt waxless skis unless you put tons on so it fills in the cavities behind the scales. 

Some crampons have a heel lever that clamps down on the sole at the heel of the boot. These are more stable, but they don't always fit things like rubber boots. Steel crampons will stay sharp, but weigh more than aluminum crampons. If you buy them online, make sure you can return them if they won't work with your boots. Probably it will be no problem with hiking boots, though, because they're pretty universal. Crampons are generally tightened with straps that pull on wires or metal pieces that hold the crampon on the boot. If you plan to use them in warmer snow, you might want to consider anti-balling or anti-ice plates. These are plastic pieces that go under the crampon to keep snow from building up on the bottom. 

In general, the time from high to low tide or vice versa is a little over 6 hours. This varies by location, of course, but it will get you in the ballpark. 12 hours and 15 minutes from high tide to high tide is little more accurate, because some places the low tide is early or late relative to the high tide. If you plan ahead, you can look up the amount the water level changes with the tide in your area. (Make sure you check it for the days you'll be out -- this number changes over time.) Then you can compare that to the high tide line to estimate how far the water will go up or down. 

Some people prefer to have one long enough to use as a short walking stick. Others prefer to save weight and go as short as possible. In any case, it should be long enough so that you can use it properly to self-arrest. Everything else is optional. You could rent a couple of ice axes of different sizes, go out to a steep snowy slope, and practice self-arrests to see what you're comfortable with. The practice will be valuable in itself. Keep in mind that stopping in powder, ice, and deep slush are all different experiences. 

Too much water is better than too little. It's a good idea to drink before you're thirsty if you know you're going to need it. You can guess how much, and then drink more or less depending on the frequency of urination. Higher altitude, warm weather, and physical exertion all cause more water loss, so you need to drink more. As you get dehydrated, your mouth gets dry, you stop urinating, and you may get a headache. 

It takes more than 4-5 days to have problems from a limited diet, as long as you get enough of short-term things like salt (which is not normally a problem). Even so, I usually take some Flintstone chewables and dehydrated meals along to be healthy. 

If it is deep and near the edge where it can cause the metal edge to bend under use, it should be fixed. Other than that, skis (and snow boards) can handle a lot of gouging. The main problem is that it slows down the skis a little, and might affect turning if it's pretty bad. Luckily, gouges are reasonably cheap and quick to have fixed. 

Shirt, 2 fleece layers, and a waterproof jacket with a hood. Thin long underwear (not cotton), fleece pants, goretext pants. I carry an extra fleece top, pants, and socks (in case I get cold). Hood on the jacket, a warm balaclava, and sometimes goggles to keep my head warm. Warm boots with as many socks as I can fit without restricting the blood flow in my feet. Goretex will work, but you need more socks because it allows air in. Insulated rubber boots (gum boots) will work fine, and can handle most crampons. Gaitors if there will be much snow. These help keep your feet warm, too. Mittens, or really warm gloves. Glove liners are good. Heating pads for hands and feet (they are different), and something to start a fire with. I will always turn around if I get too cold. 

The data from the old wind forecasts probably came from NOAA, and it's available here. The raw data is in the form of GRIB files. You can do a search for "GRIB Viewer" and find some apps that will work. You can also search for "GRIB KML", and might be able to download grib files in a KML/KMZ format that can be shown on Google Earth or Google Maps. 

Mohair is lighter and glides better than nylon, but does not grip the snow as well going uphill as nylon does. I have used rubber skins before, which will really climb steep stuff, won't glide very well at all, and weigh a ton. 

If you use your current tent, you should make sure the rain fly (outer layer) covers the entire tent. Otherwise you will have a healthy layer of frost on the inside of the tent (in the uncovered area) every morning. Four season tents usually have more poles and are sturdier than three season tents, for wind and snow protection. They may also have the option of closing off the ventilation for warmth. 

Seawater typically has more organisms growing in it than a flowing stream of clear water. However, it's a good idea to use something (boiling, wet ones, clorox wipes, etc.) that kills giardia, microspiridia, and other protozoa or bacteria than can give you the diarrhea. 

I pull them off gently, and if their head detaches in my skin (rarely happens), I'll dig it out with a needle or tweezers. Then add neosporin, and occasionally look for oddly-shaped rashes. If you spray your socks with deet, it will help keep them off. 

Yes, but it will really make you cold. It takes about 30 times more heat to heat water (melt ice) from 31 to 33 degrees (F) than it does to heat it from 33 to 35 degrees. That heat comes from your body if you eat snow. 

If there is another person person onboard, have them do nothing but watch the person in the water. They should point a finger at person in the water and never take their eyes off. Toss out life buoys, life slings, floating cushions, etc. If you have it, hit a man overboard button on your GPS. If not, make a waypoint. Stop the boat, lower the sails. Motor back to the person in the water. If possible, drag a rope with a float (life jacket, life sling, etc.) on the end to the person can grab it. If that's not possible, throw the rope or get close and try to get the person to swim to the boat. If at all possible, do NOT get into the water. Only if the person is incapacitated or incapable of holding into a rope should you consider it. 

Every boat is different, and every crew is different. There is no set standard. Some people go single-handed on a ketch, some have fairly large crew. Bernard Moitessier used to sail a 39-foot ketch single-handed and with his wife. 

It's not reasonable to assume that it would add 15 degrees to all bags. Every bag is different, and the ground (snow? type of pad insulation?) and amount of air flow makes a difference. Incidentally, some bag liners are waterproof and not breathable. This can cause condensation and make it feel colder inside than it would without the liner. 

If you have a hiking pole you can use it for self arrest. Keep the strap around your wrist. When you fall, hold that hand away from the ground. With your other hand, grab the pole a few inches from the point and jam it into the ground. It's a little like using a cumbersome ice axe. 

I almost always hike in tennis shoes (court shoes) if it's reasonably dry and free of snow. I use them for climbs, day hikes, and backpacking. I don't have ankle problems, so I don't the ankle support. The tennis shoes grip rocks better and have better padding than my boots. (I do carry extra socks, though, for dry feet.) 

Ask Google. "public hunting land statename" will get some good references. Also, most vacant property administered by the Corps of Engineers is open to hunting. 

Think about doing this at night. If the boat is beyond swimming distance of shore, be sure everybody on the boat has a life jacket (and hopefully a harness) with a strobe whenever they are on deck at night. It's pretty difficult to climb onto some boats from the water. You should find out the best way to do this in your boat. Losing someone overboard is probably the most dangerous thing in offshore sailing, and it is almost completely preventable. 

If you put a sleeping bag on the outside of the pack, you should have it in a stuff sack or something similar that is strong, waterproof, and has loops for straps. A sleeping bag is something you don't want wet or lost. You can strap the stuff sack with the sleeping bag anywhere, probably near the bottom or on top of the pack. I usually pack the sleeping bag inside and put the pad, tent, and other cumbersome things (snowshoes, crampons, rope, extra shoes, etc.) I might have outside. 

If you run out of fuel, have engine trouble, run aground soft, when there is no immediate danger to the marine environment, the boat, or the persons on board, then towing is just towing. If a vessel is hard aground, stranded, on fire, or sinking, and is towed from the site, it may be considered a salvage operation. This once meant a reward of a portion of the vessel's cargo, but now it just means the rescuer is entitled to reasonable fees determined in a standard way (see the link below). This is international maritime law, and applies to the open seas (outside the line of demarcation, in the U.S.). $URL$ 

Distilling water is a just about as pure as you can get it, better than filtering. You theoretically end up with zero dissolved solids and zero bacteria, viruses, etc. It is possible, if the water has the right chemistry, for some dissolved chemicals to condense along with the water (like methanol can in an ethanol still), but that's not very likely. 

There are no creams that will prevent poison ivy. Avoidance and long clothes are best. One thing you can do is wash it off. Usually if you catch it within a couple of hours, you can scrub off the oil on your skin with soap and water and a washcloth. You can't see the oil, but it seems to require about the same amount of scrubbing as if you were scrubbing off motor oil or grease. Since you can't see it, you have to scrub the entire exposed area. This won't help so much if you get a systemic reaction to poison ivy. If you wait too long, the oil binds with the skin and the fun begins.