If we're talking about translation, then those are very much the actual exact translations of the words that the Buddha used. If we're revising the wording beyond dictionary meanings, then we're not really talking about translation any more, but entering into realms of commentary and interpretive rendition. The terms themselves are pruṭhavī-dhātu ("earth"), āpa-dhātu ("water"), teja-dhātu ("fire") and vāyu-dhātu ("wind"). Of these, only fire or "tejas" (Skr.) has a broader semantic field reaching into "energy", "efficacy", "heating faculty" etc. The rest of the terms used are rather literally the natural phenomena. Even while (an abundance of) specific words for solid, liquid etc. would exist. The quad are abstract phenomena, represented with the four elements as their symbols/pointers, that each carry a large domain of connotations, typically also found in the characteristics of the physical elements. The elements' basic properties are outlined in any number of classical writings for the benefit of those keen on grasping their relevance and dynamics. (Further, their properties will in practice, if explored, emerge on spectrums broader than these basic vectors of examination, which have been traditionally deemed useful as meditation tools.) In my personal view, it's not that hard to grasp that "water" implies more than literal h2o, etc. and simply get used to the olde "table of symbols". There will always be more to these phenomena than we can hope to convey in a single word. Entering into them through natural phenomena is rather useful, as they provide a commonly and immediately accessible concrete field of reference. Given the choice of classic and concrete words/objects for pointers, even in the presence of more abstract alternative wordings, it's worth considering that such terms may have been chosen for reasons of sound strategy... factoring in both the nature's immediacy, and the Indic continuum of reference; of which only the latter's relevance is subject to contextual change. As for your choice of alternative words: While "solid" and "liquid" are in tune enough with "earth" and "water", "heat" reduces the implications found in "fire", and "force" is rather broad for "air". Perhaps you were looking for something like momentum or impulse? There would also be a reduction there, given the implicit model of vital airs ("prana") generating the motions in our body; and, there's an "aerial" quality and distinct agency to it, beyond simple "push/pull/move" dynamics. 

Transliteration: oṃ āḥ hūṃ badzra-guru padma-siddhi hūṃ The following two characters differ (Tibetan script followed by IPA): བ = /ba/, ཛ = /dza/. Why is that? There's no व "va" in the native Tibetan alphabet, so the options are ཝ "wa" or བ "ba". In this case, "ba" has been chosen. Letter ཛ /dza/, instead of the native "ja" ཇ /dʒa/, is commonly used to transliterate the Devanagari ज "ja", being phonetically closer (although not identical). The spelling of "padma" is identical, however in Tibetan the pronunciation becomes "pema". Likewise "badzra" becomes "benza", non-native Sanskrit conjuncts like "dzr" often morph like that. The literal spelling "pema" has also entered some Tibetan texts, though I haven't seen it used for this particular transliteration. There are also variations (regional/lineage/historical) of the actual pronunciation in Tibetan, so the answer to your question, "which version is more authentic", depends largely on "according to whom". Undoubtedly each Tibetan lineage will hold that their version is the preferred one. If you should find an Indian Vajrayana practitioner from a native lineage, they would probably prefer the Sanskritic version. If you happened to find a heir to the Mahasiddhas of early medieval Bengal, chances are they'd prefer you muttering "bojro-guru podmo-siddhi" instead. To each their own, I say, and all success. "Is it up to the individual?" Again, it depends. If you follow a traditional Lama who has inherited a certain version, then that's probably what you are expected to emulate. (Be aware that Roman transliterations in Tibetan writings available in English are often approximate, if not crude, and non-standardized. Find a recording and follow that if you want to have it 100% per the source.) If you follow your own lead, then yes, surely it is up to you, and your experience, which variant you may prefer. If you're a lonely rider on the path to nowhere, you will want to burrow into the effects of each version and try to pin down the mind-space and energy impact conjured by each variant, along with the syllables when individually uttered. (This is worthy practice with any mantra and in any case.) The greatest benefit follows from no particular pronunciation, but from the skill of entering the mantra and deploying it as a medium for entering the "lotus-born diamond-master" space of awareness, flanked by the energies of the seed-syllables — and in due course embodying all that yourself. 

Do you believe the karma system? If you do not believe it, then it is neither good/right nor bad/wrong according to Buddhism. This is not a topic that Buddhism can address, just like Buddhism cannot address how to heal burning. In fact, this may be the answer. You do not need to go to Buddhism for an answer. Just go back to common sense. In real life, a lot of problems can be solved by common sense. If you believe the karma system, it is not a good thing to the dog. The dog is suffering because of the fire, but what drives it to the fire and the suffering is its karma. The dog will have a new life if you killed it, and continues suffering. Unfortunately you can rescue it from the suffering of burning, but not rescue it from the suffering. Even Buddha can not rescue the dog from suffering. However, in many lives later, the dog may bore as a human, and may learn about Buddhism. And since it is not a good thing to the dog, it is not a good thing to you. I am not sure if it is a bad thing. I guess it may not be a bad thing as long as you kill the dog solely for free it from suffering, not as an excuse to fulfill your desire for killing, or an excuse to stop yourself feel uncomfortable or an excuse to stop your helplessness (the eager that "I have to do something"). You may need to examine your mind carefully via, say, mediation, since desires sometimes hide deeply. Also, it is dangerous if you are not a butcher already. You need to find a proper way to kill the dog. Some people get used to killing or even get excited after they actually kill an animal. Also, do not think too much about whether it is good or bad for you. The bad thing is dog has been burned. And it is bad for the dog. And it already happens. If you can heal it, then go ahead. If you cannot, then you may ask someone else's help. If neither of the above applies, then it is a difficult choice, because the situation is difficult. And Buddhism cannot let you choose among difficult choices blindly. It is difficult for the dog, and it is difficult for you. The Buddhism cannot help much here, since the very assumption of Buddhism is life is suffering, and life is difficult. Buddhism is not karma economics trying to maximizing good karma and minimizing bad karma. Otherwise you may get illogical conclusion like killing the dog violently may speed up its process to become human again. Buddha gave some examples of karma, which are just illustrations to help you understand the system. Buddha is teaching relief, not karma calculation. Good karma is good because it drives you towards relief. You should not try to pursuit good karma. It is not the goal of Buddhism. In fact the ultimate goal of Buddhism is not be ignorant about karma to avoid producing new karma, and eventually get rid of the karma system after paying off all existing karma. 

Not that very unlikely. In Ancient India, an average person does not have access to internet, books, mediation centers, etc. to learn about Buddhism. In fact, an average Ancient Indian person is illiterate. However, there are still a lot of people achieved enlightenment as recorded. Also, the WHO definition of health is: 

You may not bother raining. But you are still wet walking in a rain. All people can see is you are wet, but they cannot conclude that you are bothered by rain solely from the fact that you are wet. And Buddhism is a way to let you not bother raining, not a magic to let you walking in a rain and keeping yourself dry. 

I am familiar with the term “pārisuddhi-sīla”, but this only relates to monastic practice (restraint according to Vinaya, restraint of senses, purification of livelihood and restraint in use of the four requisites). I have not heard of the "ultimate version of the five precepts"... where are these mentioned? Your first five bullet points are mentioned in the Atthasālinī under courses of immoral action (also mentioned in the Vinaya), but I have not encountered “If you can stop a killing you must stop it”. Is this from a Mahāyāna text? Your questions seem to be around this final bullet point. Please help me to better understand and I may be able to offer an answer. 

The first link of paṭiccasamuppāda is “avijjā paccayā saṅkhārā” (conditioned by ignorance, formations arise). Analyzing this from the perspective of the Abhidhamma: 

Looking at this list, it appears to be grouped according to style of presentation rather than by intended audience. Some of these (udāna, itivuttaka and jātaka) ended up being separate texts in the Khuddaka Nikāya. 

When analysing a cup of coffee, a scientist might break it into solid (the cup), liquid (the coffee) and gas (the aroma). According to the Abhidhamma, a cup of coffee consists of rūpa such as hardness, roughness, heaviness, heat, visibility and odour. The Abhidhamma focus is on how the cup of coffee is impacting the senses. The focus of Buddhism is spiritual development and spiritual development involves the mind, so the Abhidhamma approach uses the mind as the starting point. This is why in the example of the cup of coffee, the Abhidhamma focuses on how the object impacts the senses. The word “element” tells us to focus on the properties rather than the literal meaning of earth, water, fire or air. The Four Great Elements are experiences, Ultimate Realities, not concepts. The ancient Greeks and others used the same four elements to describe the composition of the world, but generally adopted the literal or symbolic meaning rather than Buddhist approach that focuses on properties. Rūpa are not abstract categories; they are the realities that appear in daily life. Earth-element is the experience of hardness or softness, roughness or smoothness, heaviness or lightness. Here are some exercises to experience Earth-element. Be aware of hardness in the teeth; bite them together and feel how hard they are. Be aware of softness by pressing your tongue against the inside of your lips to feel its softness. Rub your tongue over the edge of your teeth or brush your hand over the skin of your arm and feel roughness. Experience smoothness by wetting your lips and rubbing your tongue over them, from side to side. Place one hand on top of the other in your lap and feel the heaviness of the top hand, or feel the heaviness of the head by bending it forward. Look for lightness by wagging a finger up and down and feeling its lightness. If something floats in the ocean, it is because the Earth-element in the ocean supports it. If a balloon floats, it is because the Earth-element in the air supports it. Water-element is flowing and cohesion. Flowing and cohesion cannot be experienced, but it can be understood by the mind. To understand flowing, imagine the blood flowing through the blood vessels, the air flowing into the lungs, or heat flowing throughout the body. To understand cohesion, consider how the body is held together by the skin, flesh, and sinews. The blood is held inside by the skin, like water in a balloon. Without cohesion the body would fall into separate pieces. The force of gravity which keeps the body stuck to the earth is also cohesion. Fire-element is the experience of heat and coldness. It is usually very easy to look for heat throughout the body. Feel the coldness of the breath as it enters the nostrils and then understand it throughout the body. The function of Fire-element is to ripen, mature, age and burn up. The Fire-element also aids in digestion. Air-element is the experience of supporting and pushing. To experience supporting, relax your back so your body bends forward. Then straighten it and keep it straight. The force that keeps the body straight is supporting. The supporting Air-element ensures that all things maintain their shape and do not collapse. To experience pushing, be aware through the sense of touch of pushing in the centre of the head as you breathe in and out or experience the pushing as the chest expands or as the abdomen moves when breathing. Wherever there is movement, there is pushing. Though the function of Air-element is causing motion, movement is not the alteration between two stages of the same rūpa, but rather as the disappearance of one rūpa and the immediate emergence in its place of another rūpa. For example, in a movie theatre, many static frames are projected onto the screen each second and a sense of movement is created. All groups of rūpa include the Four Great Elements. In a stone and a snowflake, the Four Great Elements exist in equal proportion, but of varying intensity. The intensity and the Mental Factor of Attention determine which experience body-consciousness recognizes first. For example, when you put your hand in water, the softness felt is Earth-element, the coolness felt is Fire-element and the pressure felt is Air-element. If the water is cold, then the Fire-element may be experienced first. If there is attention being paid to the sensation of pressure, then Air-element may be experienced first.