This isn't a direct answer, but a relevant anecdote. Many years ago in college I went with some friends to a nearby state park with a lake. After a while, we decided to walk around the lake a bit away from the crowds at the official lifeguard-patrolled beach. We got to a nice spot to get into the water at the side of the lake and went swimming. We just put our stuff down at the side of the trail and went into the water. There were occasionally people going by on the trail, but we didn't think anything of it. When we got out of the water, two of my friends found their stuff was gone. They both had bright-colored backpacks. At first I thought my stuff was gone too, but then realized my pack was right where I left it only about 1 m from where theirs was. The big difference was that may pack was a dull gray-green color and blended in with the surroundings. The theives must have been right on top of it at one time, but apparently didn't see it. So the lesson is camouflage works. 

It's always OK to move fallen debris from the trail, assuming you are sure you are on a real official trail. Make sure you don't accidentally remove "brushed in" trail entrances. That is where brush was deliberately piled so that a trail is not used, hopefully eventually reverting to just woods again. If you're on anything with clearly deliberate blazes, you're safe. For anything more than clearing debris without tools, you need to ask the owner or administrating agency. Public agencies usually have rules that they don't want any unauthorized trail work. This is just to make sure they don't get morons doing stupid things and to avoid liability. If you get to know the manager, forester, committee, or whatever that oversees a particularly area and they get to know and trust you, you usually end up with a informal arrangement where they trust you doing trail work without asking first and without them formally giving permission. Some groups can be real control freaks and don't want anyone, even those that clearly know what they are doing, doing trail work without 3 levels of approval. I know one organization that takes this to the extreme. They have a "steward" assigned to each property, and then a few master stewards for groups of properties. Even though I actually built some of their trails, I can't go out there when I have a spare hour and clean up a trail without prior approval. I don't feel I should work that hard to give away my time for free, so I find a different place to do trail work. There are plenty of places run by other groups or organizations that are happy to have me help. I'm on the trails committee in my town, so I am actually authorized to go out with a chain saw and clean up a mess on any of the town land whenever I see a need. However, we don't want people going so far as using a chain saw without talking to us first, but even then there are certain individuals and groups we know aren't going to make a mess and nobody is going to make a fuss about one of them going out and clearing a major blow-down. But, we're not going to tell you that if you come and ask as a individual, especially if we don't know you. A good way to get known is to volunteer for organized trail work. I don't know how other towns work but we probably have 1-3 formally organized events a month except when the snow it too deep to do much useful. After you show up a few times, the organizers will recognize you and you'll be trusted a lot more. You might even mention a particular trail you think needs some work and offer to take care of it over the next week or two. Once you're known, you'll probably get a quiet unofficial nod and it works out for everyone. Added: A good example illustrating the issues envolved came up last night at the town Trails Committe (of which I am a appointed member) meeting. We learned that someone or some group has gone out to several trails with a leaf blower and "cleaned" them off down to bare ground. We're pretty sure it was the local mountain bikers club, or at least individuals from there. We have a generally good relationship with the mountain bikers, and they show up regularly to help out with scheduled official trail work. We don't really want to get in anyone's face about this, but would rather the leaf blowing wasn't happening, at least not without prior approval. The problem is that this promotes erosion, and also gives the trail a unnatural and less wilderness feel. We also really don't like anyone working on trails with powered tools without coordinating with us first. It's too soon to tell how this will be resolved. Some polite off the record conversations will be had with those envolved, and that will probably resolve this issue. This is a small town, we pretty much know who is doing what, and we also understand they probably thought they were improving things. Mountain bikers don't like downed leaves because they can be slippery and cover up hazards. In any case, this illustrates some of the problems you may create for other people when doing what you think is helpful trail work. I'd say catagorically to never go so far as using powered tools (chainsaw, weed whacker, brush mower, leaf blower, etc) without getting the proper permission first. Picking up trail debris and even pruning back small overhanging limbs with a hand clipper would be OK in most cases. Everything in between is a gray area where you should first at least know who the owners or managers are, what rules there might be, etc. 

I appreciate everyone's help and opinions here, and want to report what we ended up doing. We (the Town of Groton Massachusetts Trails Committee) looked at a variety of options. At first the plan was just to do what everyone else was doing in the backcountry (where you can't drive a motorized vehicle to), which is overwhelmingly plain routed wood. After becoming aware of the two-colored plastic material and getting the responses here, that's what I thought we'd end up doing, and the Trails Committee was generally accepting of that. Getting such signs made for a affordable price turned out to be the difficult part. I contacted a bunch of local sign companies. There are a surprisingly large number of them, at least here in north-central MA. Of the 10 I contacted, 4 never returned my call, and 4 more turned out to be just design services that get their signs made elsehwere. That left two places that I talked to that actually did the sign fabrication. The problem with commercial companies like this is that they have a significant setup charge, which is a problem since each sign at each intersection is unique. Skipping over some details, it would cost around $120 per sign, plus material, for getting signs made this way. The plastic material is expensive (but worth it in longevity), but only available in 8x4 foot sheets, else the price goes up fast. That means you have to have a place to store it and deliver blanks to the sign shop yourself when you want signs made. At $120 per sign, even just 10 intersections would cost $1,200, and that would be a tiny fraction of our trail system. We have about 115 miles of trails, and probably a few 100 intersections. All of them don't need signs, but this was still too expensive to deploy this system broadly. Then I looked around for who might have a suitable router we could use for free or low cost. My first call was to our local high school. They were quite happy to support the Trails Committee and would have let us use the equipment when not otherwise in use. However, it was only meant to fabricate small things, had only 6 inch travel, and was enclosed to that larger things couldn't stick out and be done piecemeal: