I have always had a bit of fat on my body. I was never fat nor even chubby but always 4-5kg too much on myself. I just thought it to be my genes because my whole life i did a bit of sports. Going bycicling sometimes, going swimming, skating, ice-skatin, skiing. I did everything. Nothing regularly but sometimes. And at my parents altough i ate sweets they cooked fairly healthy. So as stated, i just thought it to be in my genes, to gain fat a bit faster. But in the last 4-5 months i started going bouldering regularly 2 sometimes 3 times a week for 2-4 hours each time. I dont think that this extremely much of a sporty activity, but still i lost 6kg in these past 4-5 months, altough i built a hella lot of muscle which is actually much heavier than fat. So i must have lost at least 10kg of fat(currently 72kg at 176cm). But the thing is, i do ate almost the same. Every now and then a Kebab or Burger or yesterday for example a whole 0,5kg cup of ben&jerrys. And everytime after bouldering i drink 1-2 beers (the reward of course ;) ) I was training in the gym earlier in my live and noticed no real weight loss. How can his be? Is doing something regularly so much of an impact on the body? Is maybe bouldering such a good sports of loosing weight because you need to whole body for it, in contrast to working out in a gym? If yes, how does this work? Is the metabolism so turned on or what is the reason for my pretty significant weight loss? This is my first time here in FitnessSE and i hope this question is in the scope of it :) If not let me know and i will change the question accordingly 

Work your shoulders and traps a bit more to thicken 'em up. Also, maybe wear a thick sweatshirt and wrap the bar up with a towel. 

Ivo's answer is good. Also, 'how' to cool down can also depend on how you got to the gym and what you did. If you walked/biked to the gym, and you just came in to run/jog, you can use the walk/bike back as your cool down. If you lifted weights, it's good to cool down with a couple of light sets [finish with just the bar]. This lets your pumped muscles go through the motions and stretch without being worked hard with a heavy load. 

You cannot burn fat in a specific location, legs do not use only leg fat, and so on. If you want less fat on your legs you will need to reduce fat overall. 

Many reasons, primarily because leg muscles aren't as visible and often not considered as important aestetically. This is the same reason people don't workout their back enough. Of course, in the long run, doing arms and chest will make you look silly and it will be obvious that you aren't really strong. Some people also think that because they ride their bike to work/to the gym, they don't need to workout their legs. This is not true. 

Using landmarks [buildings, trees, signs, etc.], you can do interval sprints easier than having to deal with treadmill settings. 

No breakfast, but half of an energy bar before jogging is good to get some sugar and carbs in your system to get the jogging started. Then a not too heavy but well-rounded breakfast afterwards. 

Is this for after weights? If so, swim for a few laps concentrating on your arms/shoulders. [You will be swimming to work your muscles not your stroke.] For example, swim freestyle but keep your hand open, fingers together, as you push through the water, giving a little resistance to work the muscles. You can also do chest fly's standing in the pool and also bicep curls and tricep push downs, all with hands open. 

If you're talking about the natural fluctuations of T, the answer is likely No. It's a common idea that it's good to do leg day even for arms because squats and deadlifts give you high temporary levels of T (all exercise do, but squats and deadlifts use a larger amount of muscle.) This higher level of T is then supposed to be good even for your arms. Studies where one group is training arms while one is training arms and legs do not show this effect however, the higher T levels in the latter group does not result in a higher muscle growth in the arms. 

It's the first thing you do, so no excuses as to no time. You get it done. Your metabolism increases for the rest of the day, burning a few more calories. You get energized and your muscles are stretched, so you're more apt to take stairs, walk a little further, etc. Save an extra shower. 

In addition to the assisted pull-up machine already mentioned... If doing them with palms facing towards you with a shoulder-width grip: Work your biceps, forearms, and triceps [even though triceps are a pushing muscle, these will just help in strengthening your arms] If doing them with palms out with a wide grip: Work your forearms, lats, biceps, triceps. Don't cheat so you can up your number. Stay in good form. If you have some pounds to lose, do cardio. Working your muscles and losing the amount of pounds you need to pull up will get you to your goal faster. 

Each leg is about 10% of your body weight [2], this should mean that about 2*0.1*400*4 kcal = 320 kcal are stored in the legs. This is probably a relatively low number considering the fact that legs are dense in terms of muscle, compared to the torso which is filled with organs and other non-muscle tissue. So my conclusion is that you will deplete your leg muscles to about 50%, but you don't have to completely deplete your muscle glycogen to have lipolysis (fat release) due to the exercise. There is no definite connection between temporary lipolysis and total fat level changes though. So the "total effect on fat burning" will as always, completely depend on your diet, if you eat enough, fat storage will be higher than fat burning, and you will have a net gain. [1] $URL$ [2] $URL$ 

Enjoy the time off. Let your body rest. Take some pictures, enjoy the area. You'll be back into your routine afterwards. As long as you don't eat a lot of junk food, you'll be ok. If you really want to, work your muscles instead: Do some push ups, sit ups. Climb trees, which will make you work different muscles that you didn't know you had. 

Find extra, extra large jars, e,g. big pickle jars. [go to a local deli...they might have empty one's that they get rid of]. Start light, fill with some water. Close lid. Grip lid evenly with all fingers. You can hold standing for a specific time, or walk around with them (preferred). As it gets easier, add more water. You can do one hand at a time or both together, depending on how many jars you get.