Water's water. As long as it is water and does not contain known poisons like pathogens or heavy metals then you'll be fine. You don't need much Mg for proper function. The well respected authority on the sceince of running, Dr Tim Noakes, is quoted as saying: 

Body fat measurement scales work well enough for your purposes. I've used one for years. However, I suggest you set yourself up a protocol so that you are consistently measuring. I do it every week, on a Tuesday to allow a day after my last long run on a Sunday. I do it in the morning, before breakfast but after I've used the toilet. I write the results down in a little notebook and use it to tell me where I am in terms of muscle and fat. 

So you went for a long run for your current training level and felt tired for a few days afterwards? That would be expected and rather the point. You're trying to stress your body so that it will adapt to the stress and then some (supercompensation). This process means that you will be a bit tired. I'll note that some of the commenters wanted to calculate your calorie usage in order to replace it on the run. This is generally impossible. The combination of the maximum gastric emptying rate and ensuring the concentration of what you ingest doesn't cause osmotic problems mean that your maximum calorie intake is around 300kcal/hour. This is much less than the amount of energy you will be burning. As you train, your body will become accustomed to using stored carbohydrate and fat stores to manage this. 

I love running downhill. It's my favourite part of trail running and where I pass people the most (then they pass me back on the uphills - c'est la view). Using boots would be a tragedy unless you are fast-packing or hiking (the extra load requires greater support in your lower legs). 

My habit is to go for a short run before committing to a race after an injury. What I'm looking for is any modifications to my running gait because of the injury. I know from experience that if I have to modify something because of pain then I simply shouldn't run. Otherwise, toughen up and run the race; even if just for more race experience. 

No, not really, but so what? If you can visit the multiple hills several times a week then I would do that a lot. I would then add the one large hill as part of your long run(s) on the weekend. Hills are great strength training for runners so doing lots, and lots of different ones, is great. 

I'm not an advocate for Atkins but the theory is that carbohydrates, proteins and fat are all metabolised by the body in different ways before it becomes the direct food that our cells use. Low carbs advocates suggest that digesting carbohydrates increases the level of the hormone insulin in our blood leading to cells accepting that energy and storing it as fat. Conversely, eating low levels of carbs does not raise insulin and thus that storage mechanism is not invoked. The body also has to switch processes to metabolise the fat and protein you're eating - which is pretty much the same mechanism it uses to burn body fat. Secondly, there's some evidence that it's the protein in food that makes us feel full and stop eating. There's certainly evidence that Atkins is simply a low-calorie diet. Theories are that this is because it's rather hard to find food that is low carb and because of the satiation I just mentioned. 

The body takes in energy from carbohydrates, proteins, fats and alcohol. Any energy it does not use will then be turned into fat. Thus for your question 4 the answer is no. If there were such a diet with 0 fat it would be very dangerous - the body needs a certain amount of fat to function. (Eating too much protein without fat is know as "rabbit starvation". The Inuit (who ate a diet very high in protein and fat) experienced this during Spring when the only thing they could find (often) were very lean rabbits. Vilhjalmur Stefansson experienced this when demonstrating the diet, under controlled conditions, at Bellevue Hospital Question 3: false Question 2: false Question 1: false 

Running 7km every other day is a fairly normal kind of exercise so I would be surprised if such an effort required Mg supplementation. 

There isn't currently an integrated theory such as you discuss. I would recommend reading The Lore of Running for a long discussion of the impact of various conditions on running times. 

Generally speaking, for running you should never wear cotton. Once it gets wet it chafes and that hurts. Options: 

I would be uncomfortable with drinking both lots of tonic water and taking tablets. I don't see the point of worrying about quinine and I would be worried that you are diluting your system too much - and therefore don't have enough salt concentration. However, with the cramp happening at 19km or so I would be suspected undertraining more than electrolyte imbalance. Recommendations: 

Pain beneath the knee cap can have many causes. Most often, it's caused by your biomechanics being a bit off so your knee cap is tracking badly as your leg moves. It can also be referred pain from some other problem in the area. (Referred pain: the nerves are shared so pain in one spot can feel like it's coming from somewhere else). My advice is to see a physiotherapist and ask their opinion. I would expect some strengthening exercises, some co-ordination excercises and possibly some stretching. 

There are examples of athletes getting rhabdomyolysis such as Erik Skaggs or Don Davis. However, there are some studies that show that NSAIDs may be protective of the kidneys. 

The signs and symptoms of dehydration and the signs and symptoms of hyponatremia are very similar. However, they can both be fatal if not treated and the treatment is very different for both. In fact, the treatment for one can cause death if the problem is the other. This whole topic is how to keep water and salt balanced in the body. Putting one or both out of balance causes various problems. 

I say consider because you have enough to worry about just getting this program underway. @RyanMiller's answer is very good. Running quietly with your feet under you is another way of saying fore-foot running. Keep it up! 

Hmm... well this sounds like a bad idea. When you're running an ultra you need to listen to your body and know when to push it, how to feed it and how to water it. I wouldn't want to try and split a route down and plan it to that degree. You don't know what the terrain is like nor do you know if it's going to be hot or cold on the day. 

I'm going to add to M. Cypher's excellent answer. I run a lot in Vancouver, BC which has similar temperatures. I also used to run in Wellington, New Zealand which is about as windy and cold as Chicago, Il: