A layperson does not necessarily have to be a householder. A layperson is not necessarily clinging to a house if they live in a house. One can hold something but still not cling to it. When I use the word "hold" here, I mean to "have something" or "feel something" or "use something" without clinging to it, like for instance, "one can have love for a parent without clinging to the parent". 

This answer is from a Mahasi Vipassana perspective. The worst influence on us is ourselves and our own wrong view. If you have no views or opinions then you could feel more secure because you couldn't influence yourself with (wrong) views or let anyone influence you with (wrong) views. At least while practicing have no views and no opinions. Right or wrong views during practice is wrong view. To have any thoughts on purpose is wrong practice anyway. "Right view is no view" is one way to explain right view. Let's hope you find a good teacher and they plant the initial seed of right view and good practice within you. Metta 

Samsara is a continuum of our individual mind moments. Dukkha is the deep down feeling that something is missing or wrong that occurs throughout Samsara. 

That's kind of an advanced book. There are no body parts within each of our own bodily experiece, only sensation. Unless you are a natural you can't see how fast the mind works or see if awareness arises simultaneously in the beginning. It's all a blur until we have practiced long enough. I guess your being taught to see things as they are in your own experience. While one does this kind of practice one sets concepts aside. Ideally even Dhamma theory could be put aside when one gets the hang of the practice. 

Are there any meditation computer feedback programs out there? Like Biofeedback. What could they do? Allow a teacher much insight into a student? Allow a meditator to know when wandering is happening, when subtle thinking is happening or to know when reality is seen directly or with concepts? Would this be a helpful tool to be used all the time, only sometimes or never?-(Perhaps because it creates a duality, it creates aversion, it's unnessasary, it's not in the Pali Canon or anything). 

Meditation lessens the practitioners suffering and the suffering of all those around the practitioner. If you meditate then you are being the change that you would like to see in this world. When you meditate you are learning to be selfless. You learn to help yourself by helping others. 

"Dry insight", is not practicing without concentration but it is practicing without cultivating much jhana. 

Watching a crime anywhere, on TV, the computer or in one's memories has potential to cause unwholesome states to arise within one. This is why we try to be mindful on a moment by moment basis. If one knows that something(like crime) is around that might make unwholesome states arise inside a person then that can be reminder for one to be mindful. If one is correctly mindful when an unwholesome state like anger arises inside oneself then one doesn't act on anger. If one isn't mindful when anger arises then one is in the proliferation zone, unaware of the whole prosess of anger and is liable to react unwholesomly. 

Did the Buddha teach that a permanent or impermanent changing self or soul cannot be found, did he teach that it cannot exist or what? 

There are no words. There are no borders. There are no countries . There is no "other". There is no "self" But that doesn't mean we do not conceive of words, borders, countries, others and the self but we mix conceived reality with ultimate reality without even realizing it. Mindful Meditation on reality shows us how to untangle our perceptions of reality. We have to practice to understand this. 

The more a certain teaching of the Buddha is repeated throughout the suttas, the more likely that certain teaching is an authentic teaching from the Buddha. I suppose that is just common sense. May we all find peace and happiness and be overflowing with metta in all directions... 

The force that keeps one bonded to samsara is desire. Desire for continued existence. "Even in the midst of utmost Dukkha, why doesn't the realization come that let me leave this path that causes Dukkha altogether" Because, most likely, you only intellectually realize Dukkha and unless you are enlightened , you have the habit of wanting to continue your apparent existence. Many words, like "ignorance" are not exact and precise translations from the original Pali words. A better meaning of ignorance (in a Buddhist context) is what one doesn't deeply understand. If one only has an intellectual understanding of things like dukkha, impermanence and not-self then one is still ignorant in the heart of those things. People mix love and attatchment. This is just what is. It is possible to love without attatchment. Maybe I am missing something somewhere but what does our ability to love one another have to do with what keeps us bonded to samsara? 

..."I never understand why physical contact is automatically associated with erotic practices"... We are not in control of how sensual desires arise. The only thing we can do to control erotic desire is to cut out what has been known to make the erotic desire arise and that means abstaining from physical contact. Doesn't it help meditation practice when we don't do things that could possibly lead to defilement and distraction? Erotic desire entangles and greatly distracts us from the task of seeing things as they are. Metta :) 

When it looks as though someone has died, the someone is really just experiencing another change and then is changed(rebirth). Death and rebirth is just change. When we are alive, we die and are reborn ever moment in the form of changes in the mind-body. Nirvana means you have let go of everything, even your desire to exist or not to exist. So the difference between Nibbana and death is that one has to desire to understand the reality of the body and mind's experience to achieve Nibbana because otherwise we will desire to go on existing and dying. The only requirement for death is birth. 

Pondering your understanding in this particular situation and any subtle intentions or assumptions behind it could reveal a lot of hidden inner truth you might never have seen before. 

You don't have to believe anything because when one practices "seeing things as they are", that is how one knows "what is" beyond any belief. One who lives by the Dhamma does not merely study it but practices it. If one just studies the Dhamma then one will be likely to cultivate many wrong views and unnecessarily over think and contemplate the Dhamma for themselves. People who only study the words of the Dhamma are not experiencing "what is", they are reading about what is. One contemplates impermanence not by reading about impermanence or intellectually pondering impermanence. One contemplates impermanence by experiencing the impermanence of experiential phenomena, moment by moment. This is directly seeing what is without a concept or judgement modification. It is good to stick to an agnostic "i don't know" attitude concerning rebirth, samsara, nirvana if one truly doesn't know. It's not necessary to chase after liberation because all we need to do is "see things as they are" and "accept what is". Liberation could be like a nice side effect. Hope this helps :) Metta 

You can be reborn in this life as an actor. In a fundamental way, life is like a stage and we are the actors in the play. I guarantee you that your desires will lead to results. 

The only reason he was thinking after his enlightenment was to teach others otherwise he would have just sat in meditation until parinibbana. It's not that there is "no self", it's that there is "no self" to be found. The Buddha used pronouns as a convention and he did have a self in a conventional sense. We have to understand our moment by moment experience to understand this teaching. Anatta isn't really so mysterious, it just gets us all were we live. You wrote:In thoughts there was no necessity to fake self for sake of communication This is a translation. Why do we think that the suttas are so PRECISE down to the pronoun? I think that sometimes we are appealing to scriptural authority too much. This authority requires a little wisdom on our part, doesn't it? I myself try not to be a stubborn skeptic, I mean sticking with a point of view because of various bad habits and wrong understanding. It would be very unfortunate if we couldn't ever get past our stubborn opinions. We would be forever doomed to stay asleep while we continue sleepwalking around mindlessly bumping into each other. 

You can see how anger causes more anger? Aversion causes more aversion? The ideal in Buddhism would be if you could cultivate wisdom or metta. Then you could better keep loving other people as friends regardless of hate or love. Acceptance of the anger, equanimity, impartiality and loving everyone even when you are loving just one. No one can hurt your feelings, we all hurt our own feelings by reacting to them. -metta 

1-I'm still debating or trying to understand whether one should experience fully all emotions and states or whether one should apply antidotes to certain states when they arise. Generally speaking, which is the case? Which would correspond to being fully mindful? You can try to experience fully all emotions and states as you apply an antidote. You wouldn't have to stop being mindful in order to do this other "antedote" practice, you can be mindful of the other practice too. When we "experience fully all emotions and states" moment by moment, that is mindfulness. 2-I am having extreme difficulty with anger and pride when they arise, as when they do, I seem to be unable to keep a compassionate attitude. Basically these states seem to change my mood and outlook when they occur, and I have difficulty experiencing them without doing this. You can be compassionate towards yourself as you are mindful of your reactions to attempting to be compassionate to yourself. If you see you are suffering, tell yourself "it's okay". Be nurturing to yourself and be mindful of your reactions to your own compassion being aimed at you. Maybe you dont feel your worthy of compassion grom yourself. Then tell yourself "Its Okay". 3-Lastly, I'm unsure whether this is related as well but I noticed I have a much easier time doing mindfulness when I'm basically curious and aware of everything arising rather than re-focusing on the breath. Any ideas on that topic? Always go back to the breath. This is what grounds the practice and facilitates peace. The breath gives the practice a home. You will grow more and more weary of everything arising, if you are practicing correctly. 

I pay homage to the Buddha, my Karma and the Sangha. I pay homage to the Buddha, the Karma and the Sangha. I don't know... I never heard anyone refer to the Dhamma as a possession or something that is spoken of dualistically like karma (my good dhamma, my bad dhamma). So just grammatically it doesn't really fit. Really, these are just words. Ultimately we don't possess anything and there is more to the Dharma than just karma. On the other hand, concepts in Buddhism fit together with such incredible grace that it can sort of seem like one concept is the same as the next concept but from another perspective or in another context. I hope I'm not misunderstanding your question and I hope this helps.-metta 

Right Understanding (Samma ditthi) Right Thought (Samma sankappa) Right Speech (Samma vaca) Right Action (Samma kammanta) Right Livelihood (Samma ajiva) Right Effort (Samma vayama) Right Mindfulness (Samma sati) Right Concentration (Samma samadhi) I suppose you don't have to practice all 8 if you only seek temporary results. 

Right effort(sammā-vāyāma) in terms of mindfulness is not a forceful , grit your teeth kind of effort. It's a moment by moment, continuous, good cyclical habit kind of effort. Cetanā is Pali for 1- intention 2- volition 3- directionality of mind 4- attraction 5- urge Intention(cetanā) can be defined as a mental factor that moves or urges the mind in a particular direction, toward a specific object or goal. Intention(cetanā) is the most significant mental factor involved in the creation of karma. Sammā-vāyāma and cetanā are two different concepts. In practice, one concept(or the actual experience the concept points towards) might happen right after the other though. Then there is right intention (samma sankappa) that isn't really like sammā-vāyāma. Imho at least. Samvega, the sense of shock and empty alienation that comes with realizing the futility and meaninglessness of living in the sleeping world, is what motivated the Buddha and others onto the wholesome eightfold path. Some are motivated by other things like faith(saddhā) in the Buddha's teaching. Right effort and right view are the two most important factors for an insight meditator to understand, it seems to me. Right effort can be something like, effort to continue striving to remember to focus awareness on whatever experience arises in awareness and to strive in a broader sense to transcend all assumptions even the ones we don't yet see. The Four Supreme Efforts (cattārimāni sammappadhānāni) 1-Restraint Not to let an unwholesome thought arise which has not yet arisen(anuppādāya) 2-Abandonment Not to let an unwholesome thought continue which has already arisen.(pahānāya) 3-Cultivation To make a wholesome thought arise which has not yet arisen.(uppādāya) 4-Preservation To make a wholesome thought continue which has already arisen.(ṭhitiyā) Effort can come easier with interest but then the path is to eventually develop a certain disinterest. 

Buddhists don't do nothing do they? Cultivate compassion and Metta for them instead of anger like they are cultivating anger or ignorance and you will be doing something as a good person :) 

If one practices Goenka style Vipassana or Anapana meditation then the main object of contemplation is the nose area. If one has a cold and the nose is blocked then is it o.k. to breath through the mouth, chest or abdomen(in the Goenka, Anapana or any Buddhist meditation that uses the nose area)? If, in that situation, it is proper to breath through the mouth, then are there any special instructions for breathing through the mouth in Anapana, Goenka or any other Buddhist meditation practice that uses the nose area? What if one has always found it difficult to breath through the nose because of a partial blockage or some unknown condition that might be psychological? 

It's not the word that's the problem but the arising of sudden unmindful pushing away of what is arising in one's experience(AKA anger). This is why we try to be mindful continuously. Also, if someone else was there and you intended to hurt them with words that you know they will be sensitive to then that is a defilement. It all boils down to our intentions even if they don't come to transgression. 

I always wondered why do people that practice Buddhist practices, label or opt not to label themselves "Buddhist". 

Buddhism(as well as other contemplative religions & methods) is life affirming. Most people are asleep to what reality actually is. They are too busy worrying about and planning for a future that never exists and judging things based on a past that never exists. They are hardly ever in the present moment were reality actually is. This is why we are so stressed all the time. Being asleep to reality like this is the very definition of "life negating" and it causes us such unnecessary suffering. In Buddhism we are constantly reminded how all problems are an illusion and should be ignored. Who told you that? Nothing should be ignored, that is what we already do. Problems are not illusions and at the same time problems are illusions. It depends on the level of reality we are working with. The practices of Buddhism are meant to make the individual happy and capable of coping better with lifes problems. The Buddhist way is to be selfish in a good way. If someone has a problem the appropriate thing to do is to help that someone and this good action(karma) helps the practicing Buddhist. You see, the reason Buddhists help people is to help themselves even after the ego is transcended. 

"Lord Buddha" is used all the time ". Translations from Pali would often use language from the Bible, at least in earlier translations. Sounds like appreciation to Lord Buddha for plucking one out of the fire of sensual desire. Many people asked to be taught the teachings in many ways, some misunderstood the teachings before they asked and some understood at least what they were basicly about but in the above I think perhaps they are using poetic licence.