Posit that throughout your day you interact with innumerable people, but these people as they see themselves in interaction with you, speak and operate in a sort of identification with the "ego" that resides in them. For Lacan, this "ego" (the image we all have of ourselves and that we speak from when interacting with others) is a fiction. Being a fiction, he doesn't want to make this the target of his focus. It doesn't help him in his endeavor to discover what truly ails or drives a person (a patient, a lover, an enemy etc). The ego isn't ignored however, it's just called the "subject of the statement", an idealized presentation created by the subject of enunciation as a means of reflecting to different others the mirror that enunciative subject unconsciously develops as a coping mechanism for the endless array of social settings and demands this fragile ego tells itself it needs to interact with and survive. The "I", the "ego", the "subject of the statement" is viewed as a signifier and indexical because it allows to understand both it's (the subject's) statements, and ultimately, the subject of the enuciation. The subject of enunciation is what in Freudian terms would be called the unconscious. It is the same subjects that you encounter in your interactions but the parts that is hidden from their ego. It is more precisely all the agencies that speak through the subject of the statement. Your neighbor sees all of his action and utterances as sovereigns acts that he does in full independence of everyone else. What is revealed through the recording of the subject of enunciation is a an amalgam of agencies (forces in Nietzschean terms) and the neighbor is the agent. What this means is that truth is always deceptively divided in the individual. There's the truth as the subject of the statement presents it to itself and to Others, and there is the truth that is only uncovered through the analysis of the statement of the encunciation. E.g. he states in Seminar XI of the Ecrits: 

To understand extension I do not believe you need to understand his idea of geometric being (or objects as conceived geometrically). Geometric being would be an attribute as perceived by intellect or mind, as a mental aid in measure. Or to use his terminology, as an "imagining" and not a comprehension (understanding the composition of relations constituting a body). Thus one is not in the same plane of discussion as with simple bodies in extension. One would be thinking in images of existence instead of being in relation to the existent. It sounds minor but he wrests a lot on establishing a sort of isomorphic non-causal interaction between these two separate planes of modality. He wrestles the most and fleshes out his thinking on this topic mostly in the Treatise on the Intellect. Anyhow, starting from the beginning of the Ethics: If: Proposition 1 establishes that God thinks; and Proposition 2 establishes that God exists in extension. then, this parallelism runs throughout all attributes of substance. Bodies exist. Thinking exists. All deriving from God as modes of extension and modes of thinking. And more importantly, this parallelism exists in complex relationships of reciprocity (e.g. "The mind is therefore the idea of the corresponding body" Book II Prop 11) All bodies thus refer to the other finite existing modes that determines it. Put another way, all extension is determined by its extensive parts/relations. Any type of body presupposes an existence which exists in extension and which can be affected by and can affect other bodies. I think there is the extent to which he postulates on the quality of extension-in-and-of-itself. The Kelvin knot type of idea is interesting but I don't think he would see that type of qualification as necessary for defining the essential character of extensionality, which he aligned more to the idea of Power of action (i.e. what it could do in affectus, affectio or essence). Measures (such as geometrization), numbers, signs, images are all occurring in mind or thinking, not in extension itself. 

Firstly, according to science the inherent property of the object is the reflectance of its surface. Secondly, it depends on both the object and the light which strikes the surface, which mix of wavelenghts is reflected into our eyes. Thirdly, it depends on the human visual system how we experience as colour the mixed wavelenghts of the incoming light. The term wavelength is an objective physical concept, while the colour impression is a subjective experience. Along these lines I would resolve the apparent contradiction in your statement. 

One possible approach to the philosophical term fact is Wittgenstein's Tractatus Logico-Philosophicus. It begins: 

You cannot determine a property of something which does not exist. Properties need a subject whose properties they are. 

Your question operates on two different levels: On one hand you describe how people search natural explanations in daily life. On the other hand, you ask on a theoretical level 

Your question is not realistic because it builds on an impossible premiss: Laplace could not know, but thanks to quantum mechanics we know today: It is not possible to determine the exact position and impulse of all particles, due to Heisenberg uncertainty relation. This fact adds also a physical impossibility and complements the remark of user 259242 that the question is logical inconsistent. 

@EthanAlvaree I assume that you consider psi an unary predicate. And that your statement psi equivalent false means: For all x: psi(x) is false. If that's what you mean, then nearly by definition: psi equivalent false if and only if The set of all x, which satisfy psi, is empty. 

Physics does not use complex numbers to count entities. It is sufficient to count mangos by non-negative rational numbers, i.e. 1 mango, 1.5 mangos, 1/3 mango etc. You are right that quantum mechanics is based on the psi-function which is a complex function. The squared modulus of this function, a real number between zero and one, is the probability distribution of particles. Only the latter can be measured. But the mathematical formalism of the Schroedinger equation is based on the complex psi-function. The real probability function is not sufficient. To understand nature we have to learn which means are suitable to apply. Nature does not follow our predilections. Complex numbers, in particular imaginary numbers, are definable and understandable. Concerning the definition: A complex number has a real part and an imaginary part: z = x+iy. It is possible to add, subtract, multiply and divide complex numbers similar to real numbers. The benefit: Each polynomial equation of degree n with real coefficients has exactly n complex roots. E.g. X^2 +1=0 has the two roots i and -i. Whether complex numbers are understandable or not, depends on how familiar one is with complex numbers. From a mathematical point of view, complex numbers are necessary to solve problems from real numbers (solutions of polynomial equations) alike irrational numbers are necessary to solve geometric problem with rational numbers (diagonal of the unit square). Irrational numbers are not irrational in the literal sense. Complex number are not complex in the literal sense. Imaginary numbers are not imaginary in the literal sense. 

Traditionalism, the philosophy of Edmund Burke which states that there is great wisdom embedded in our social institutions and culture, so we should be careful before we try to tamper with them Libertarianism, the philosophy of John Locke which says that people have fundamental negative rights that the government should not infringe 

The dominant ideology of the Republican Party is known as American conservatism, and it was developed by William F. Buckley and his magazine National Review starting in the 1950's. The founding mission statement of National Review (see "The Magazine's Credenda" at the end) is a good elucidation of this philosophy. It is formed from two strands: 

If something has a natural desire for something, then that desire cannot be in vain, i.e. it must in principle be possible to fulfill that desire. All things have a natural desire to exist. Humans have knowledge of eternal truths about existence. Thus humans have a natural desire to exist forever. Therefore, humans exist forever. 

These two strands were merged into the ideology we call American liberalism by John Dewey and his followers, who argued that we needed a broader conception of liberty than the one maintained by laissez-faire negative-rights libertarians. The key idea can be summed up in a quote from Anatole France: "In its majestic equality, the law forbids rich and poor alike to sleep under bridges, beg in the streets, and steal loaves of bread." Basically, the idea is that the freedom to starve because you have no food is not a meaningful freedom at all, because it does not maximize your autonomy or allow your to realize your potential, which were important goals in classical liberalism. Thus Dewey argued that we should recognize positive liberty as well as negative liberty, meaning that e.g. just as we ought to recognize a right to live without someone killing you, we similarly ought to recognize a right to live without dying due to lack of food. Thus American liberalism advocates that the government should play some role in the economy in order to give people autonomy and enable them to pursue their own happiness, along the lines of the "responsiveness" part of the Progressive philosophy. Thus Americans liberals still try to achieve the goals of classical liberalism, but they sometimes do it through Progressive means. (This is akin to how, as I discuss in my other answer, American conservatism tries to achieve the goals of traditionalism, but often through libertarian means.) There's one other way that American liberalism differs from classical liberalism: classical liberals took a deontological perspective on liberty, viewing personal autonomy and the pursuit of happiness as things that are inherently worthy of being promoted, regardless of what they lead to. American liberalism, on the other hand, because it emerged partly from Progressivism, tends to take a more utilitarian perspective on such things, viewing autonomy merely as a means to an end, the end being increasing the happiness of as many people as possible. The liberal understanding of utilitarianism is perhaps best understood through the work of John Rawls, who proposed a thought experiment along roughly these lines: suppose that you're a soul waiting to be born, but you don't know which body you're going to be born into and what experiences that body is going to have. But before you're born, you have the opportunity to design how society and government should be. How should you design it in order to maximize your chances of having a good life? Well, you don't know what desires you're going to have, but whatever they are, you're probably going to want them fulfilled, so you would want a society that as much as possible allows people to pursue their own happiness. And you may end up being born in utter poverty that may prevent you from being happy, or you may start off being wealthy but then you may suffer calamities like disease and natural disasters, so assuming you're risk averse (as humans tend to be in most circumstances), you'd want the government to have a safety net to shelter you from such risks. So that's where the basic contours of the liberal position emerge. Finally, let me mention something about foreign policy. The Progressive presidents advocated a very interventionist foreign policy, since they were motivated by the desire to help people as much as possible, even people abroad. Liberals still share some of this impulse, and are willing to support limited American military intervention in circumstances of extreme humanitarian crisis. But mostly their foreign policy views were taken from classical liberalism, so they they're antiwar for the most part. EDIT: Yuval Levin has just written a book which argues that the positive rights vision of liberalism originated not with Dewey in the early twentieth century as I suggested, but rather in the late 1700's with Thomas Paine, one of America's founding fathers. Levin argues that the modern American left-right divide originated in the debate in America and England over the French Revolution. Paine was an enthusiastic supporter of the French Revolution, because he thought that government is an institution deliberately created by people to sageguard their individual liberty, and so it could be overthrown whenever the people thought it wasn't doing a good job. On the other hand, Edmund Burke, a predecessor to modern conservatism, saw government as an institution that grew organically as a tradition, and that we should be suspicious of making changes to it just because individuals in the current generation happen to object to it. In any case, Paine's philosophy of individualism led him to believe that an individual can only realize his full potential if he's not constrained by material want, so he believed in the government providing basic necessities to everyone. Thus, Levin argues, the early twentieth century Progressive movement was merely reinventing the wheel. 

For each of these propositions Kant gives a "proof". In the second part of this work Kant deals with dynamics. But he does not give a proof of the inverse square law. Kant does not consider synthetical knowledge a priori the principle of induction. It was just the aim of Metaphysical Foundations of Natural Science to show which insights can be derived without using induction. Added. One can freely download Kant's work as $URL$ 

IIT is a proposal to explicate the concept of consciousness by information theory. More precisely, by a mathematical formalization and a prescript how to determine the degree of consciousness of an information system. In a survey article, "Reggia, JA: The rise of machine consciousness: studying consciousness with computational models." ($URL$ compares four current approaches to study consciousness with a computational model. In characterizing IIT he writes: 

After your comments I assume the last line claims "Exists x Likes(x,carl)". To prove the claim, take x = carl. If in line 2 you take x = carl and y = max, then line 1 with Likes(x,y) implies Likes (x,x), i.e. Likes (carl, carl), q.e.d. Do you agree? 

As an introduction I recommend Koch, Christof: Consciousness - Confessions of a Romantic Reductionist. (2012). Chapter III reviews some definitions of conscious processes, taken from different view points. Whether a person is conscious or not and to which degree he is conscious can be derived from its behaviour. That’s a method used by paramedics using a checklist. A more refined criterion to decide about the conscious state of a person is to check the activity of the neocortex and the thalamus. A more philosophical definition of being conscious is to register how things seem to us (qualia). In any case, conscious mental processes are restricted to the neocortex. 3) An early classification of states of consciousness is given by the Mandukya Upanishad from the beginning of the common era. The Mandukya Upanishad distinguishes four quarters of atman (= the self): 

I think the wish was father to the thought. The domain of gods is a screen of projection. Often these projections are anthropomorphic. In Europe this insight has been uttered the first time by Xenophanes (6./5. century B.C.E.) in fragment B15. 

Nobody knows whether we not are just a computer programm. Hence your question makes the presupposition, that we are no computer program. But that presupposition has to be demonstrated first. Of course, the view that we just are a computer program is a new and radical concept. Like most such concepts, at first it seems strange. But that’s no argument against being possibly correct. On the other hand, it's a good reason to work out arguments which support this view. Insofar I consider your question very interesting and worth a serious discuss, free from prejudices. The view, that we possibly are computer programs and that our seemingly real world is a virtual world has been discussed in chapter 10, Universes, Computers, and Mathematical Reality from Green, Brian: The Hidden Reality. Parallel Universes and the Deep Laws of the Cosmos. 2011. Subsections “Are you living in a simulation” and “Seeing Beyond a Simulation” deal with the question from your post. In the latter subsection Green writes: