Isnt the desire for giving up the desires, a desire? Yes, certainly. That desire is what causes one to give up. If I use the term Tanha for desire, then Tanha is the cause of existence. Tanha is eradicated only reaching the statuse of Arahant. 

"What are the “Qualities of the Buddha”?" Qualities of 'Bhagava Araham Sammasambuddho' is infinite and cannot be known by any human being. Please see Sampasadaniya Sutta of Digha Nikaya. The expression "qualities of the Buddha" belong to English Buddhism. Oxford Dictionaries define the 'the Buddha' as a historical figure that lived about 25 centuries ago-his birth date or the date of death is unknown. However, the Tipitaka published by the Pali Text Society refer to a Bhagava Araham Sammasambuddho, in the Sutta and Vinaya Pitakas. Most of the words in the two Pitakas are utterences of Bhagava; the word means a spiritual teacher. Human beings who have no clue to even the physical form of Bhagava, what would they know about his mind? 

Ideally, sexual pleasure should be avoided since it is craving. But Buddha knew that this was difficult for the laity. Therefore, he suggested that the laity should avoid sexual misconduct. Sexual misconduct is simply sexual behavior which is outside social acceptance. And you can interpret that according to your own society. 

Adi Buddha is the first primordial Buddha. The trikaya consists of dharmakaya (truth), sambhogakaya (bliss), nirmanakaya (emanation). Adi Buddha is particularly known for emanating the universe. Buddhahood is neither god nor man. All devas (including Vishnu) in Buddhism are created and impermanent. All Buddhas teach the same thing, although they might teach it in a different way. 

I look at apologizing like confession. Buddha clearly taught that confession eradicates karma. How much karma is another question. A simple apology probably does not eradicate much. Better to recite a confession. Better still through meditation. 

Precepts are originally designed for monks. So, a monk would totally abstain from sex. However, for the laity Buddha simply said that the average person should avoid sexual misbehavior. Sexual misbehavior is simply sexual conduct which is socially unacceptable. One example is adultery. Another might be beastiality. Another might be homosexuality. It largely depends on the culture. 

Firstly I'd like to provide some context: When I first began getting into the Buddhist teachings, specifically that of the Theravada tradition, I'd often do things such as passively play the Dhammapada in my earphones while riding my bike, or keep it on low volume in the background while I did something else. My goal was to be able to gain a basic grasp of the dhamma through forced repeated listening, and to an extent it worked in the sense that I memorized a lot of verses and ideas found in the Dhammapada, and upon hearing a verse quoted, I have an "aha" moment in the sense that It feels familiar. Furthermore, my mind and speaking style had a subtle change as well, with my head being fixated on "illusions" found in everyday physical existence. Overall, there was definitely a change in my physical being. In Buddhism, mindfulness is praised and shown as the key to making spiritual progress. While I did employ mindful practices such as watching my mind in everyday life and meditating every once in a while, the practice I used for the longest time was definitely not that of a mindful one. Yet, it seemed to have occurred to me that reaching a certain point in Buddhist practice, even through mindful meditation, requires a certain degree of destroying the old and replacing with the new, in the sense that old beliefs such as those cultivated through childhood can prevent one from going forward in their spiritual practice, or in that sense any practice, be it learning a skill or whatever (i.e saying to yourself constantly that "I'm this, I'm this kind of person/ I was made to do X"). Whether through the words of Buddha or through the teachings of other Buddhist practices such as those of a tantric origin, what is the Buddhist perspective on knowingly "brainwashing" or "rewiring" yourself via methods of repeated listening, binaural beats, and other various forms of hypnosis and subconcious alterations to make changes to your life and perspective on things? 

It mostly depends upon your state of mind at death. However, it is also said that your karma comes to weigh heavy on you at that time. When a good person dies, he dies with goodness and light karma. When a bad person dies, he dies with a disturbed mind and heavy karma. There are six possible state of rebirth in samsara: hell, animal, preta, asura, deva, and human. They correspond to hate, ignorance, craving, jealousy, pride, and humans have not to much of any of these. So, this person you describe would be reborn as a preta. A preta is a craving monster who's appetite cannot be satisfied. A horrible fate. Likewise, a good moral person who is born in the heavens of the devas gets to enjoy the heavenly life. I would say that the good person is luckier. Even though that existence, like all such in samsara, is limited. Better to be reborn in the pureland of a Buddha. But you have to take refuge in that Buddha and end these mental deficiencies. It is the training ground of bodhisattvas who can eventually transcend samsara. 

"Are there any body who achieved Nibbana currently (in the current world). If so give one or two names, please". The easiest answer to the above question is to say 'Not known'. However, please consider the following. The name Lord Buddha (Bhagava Buddho) gave to his teaching is Dhamma-Vinaya. Dhamma cannot be understood because it is based on: Dukkha Ariyasacca. Dukkha (dukkham) cannot be translated into English. See the following quote from the entry, Dukkha in the PED. B. (nt.; but pl. also dukkhā, e. g. S i.23; Sn 728; Dh 202, 203, 221. Spelling dukha (after sukha) at Dh 83, 203). There is no word in English covering the same ground as Dukkha does in Pali. Our modern words are too specialised, too limited, and usually too strong. Sukha & dukkha are ease and dis-ease (but we use disease in another sense); or wealth and ilth from well & ill (but we have now lost ilth); or wellbeing and ill-ness (but illness means something else in English). We are forced, therefore, in translation to use half synonyms, no one of which is exact. Dukkha is equally mental & physical. Pain is too predominantly physical, sorrow too exclusively mental, but in some connections they have to be used in default of any more exact rendering. Discomfort, suffering, ill, and trouble can occasionally be used in certain connections. Misery, distress, agony, affliction and woe are never right. They are all much too strong & are only mental (see Mrs. Rh. D. Bud. Psy. 83 -- 86, quoting Ledi Sadaw). Ariyasacca is usually given the English Equivalent 'Noble Truth'. The term 'noble truth' is not in Oxford Dictionaries. That means it is not an English word. No one understands the Dukkha Ariyasacca, therefore they cannot understand Nibbana. Therefore the question is meaningless. 

Firstly, I think you should, because I for one feel like many people are conflicted on how to handle situations with beggars and other homeless people. Tell them that giving depends on your intentions. Some people help out beggars with the intent of satisfying a desire, or tricking their ego into believing something (example: I'm a good person, because I help out beggars, I donate to charity...etc) when in actuality, they are doing it to satisfy a deep rooted desire they have. If I knew money I gave to a beggar would lead to drug abuse and self-destruction, I believe the Buddhist way would be not to help the beggar. On the other hand, if I had no idea about a beggar's drug problem, and I gave it to him with the full intention of only providing for his well being, then giving would be a good thing to do. Though I think another important thing is the context. If you feel like you have to help the beggar because the situation calls for it (maybe they approached you and you feel pressured to comply?), then you shouldn't, especially when you need the money yourself, because that is not the same as giving to a beggar out of your own good intentions. 

What is Sat-Dharma? Sat-Dharma is most probably a Sanskrit word. I am not sure what it means because I use the Theravada canon. In the Theravada canon there is a word saddhamma. Most probably that is what the question refers to. The meaning of Saddhamma is: Dhamma of Sappurisa. A Sappurisa is a person who has two qualities called Hiri and Ottappa. There are no English equivalents for these two words. Rough equivalents are: (1) Hiri: shame shyness. Hiri prevents one from transgressing social norms, family traditions etc: (2) Ottappa is fear of wrong-doing. An Asappurisa is a person who has no Hiri and Ottappa. Above explanations are based on the sayings attributed to the Lord Buddha (Bhagava Buddho) in the Theravada canon. 

Is it possible to use meditation to gain Self control? I would like to define the words meditation and 'Self control' before answering the question. Definition of meditate is: Focus one’s mind for a period of time, in silence or with the aid of chanting, for religious or spiritual purposes or as a method of relaxation [Oxford Dictionaries] Self-control: The ability to control oneself, in particular one’s emotions and desires, especially in difficult situations [Oxford Dictionaries] According to the above definition meditation and self-control are not related. So my answer to the question is no. 

There are many sutras which claim that it is merit to copy them. So, even if you did not own the copy of the sutra I would think it was okay to copy it. The problem arises when deciding what to do with that copy. Copyright is a modern concept used to protect commerce. To avoid breaking the law you should own a copy. But, I think the original meritorious idea was to spread the teaching of the sutras. Spreading the dharma is not always without cost. The dharma is free, but the media may not be without cost. You also have the issue of the clergy charging money in place of accepting donations. Donations is acceptable in the right place and time, but some societies are not accustomed to that practice. 

The bodhisattva precepts forbid the killing of "sentient beings". Bacteria is not sentient so I see no problem with using antibacterial soap. It is also rather difficult to avoid killing bacteria through daily living. So, it would be extreme, if not impossible, to try to kill all bacteria around you. 

Four great elements : what is the other 2 elements? In the Nikaya Texts, there is a term called 'Cattari Mahabhutani'(four Mahabhuta). These Mahabhutani consitute Rupa. (See Sammaditthi Sutta). A being (human being is an instance) is defined in terms of six Dhatus. It is Cattari Mahabhutani and Akasa and Vinnana Dhatus (Caddhaturo Ayam Puriso) (See for example Bhahudhatukasuttam.) However, there are no meaningful translations of these Suttas in any language. These Suttas could be understood only by Lord Buddha's direct disciples, who listened to Lord Buddha in person. This non-understanding is the reason for the existence numerous Buddhist traditions and sects. 

"Was Buddhism a rebellion against the Aryans?" It is difficult for me to understand this question. Oxford Dictionary defines Buddhism thus: A widespread Asian religion or philosophy, founded by Siddartha Gautama in NE India in the 5th century bc. Aryan is defined as: Relating to or denoting a people speaking an Indo-European language who invaded northern India in the 2nd millennium bc, displacing the Dravidian and other aboriginal peoples. I am unable to see the connection between Buddhism and Aryans. However, it is a fact that Pali Text Society, London, publishes a set of books it calls Tripitaka. In this set there are two Pitakas called Sutta and Vinaya Pitakas. These Pitakas attribute virtually all the saying in them to a person named Bhagava, meaning Lord. There are many other epithets by which he was known. The Sutta Pitaka essentially contains the truths about all beings--humans, gods, animals and so on. This is the Dhamma pointed out by the Lord (Bhagavata Dhammo). The Lord was the Leader of gods and men (Sattha Devamanussanam) and the Dhamma was for the welfare and happiness of all beings. The word Ariya is found in the Dhamma. It has no racial connotations whatsoever in the Dhamma. There is no English equivalent for the word. One of the guiding prinicples of the Dhamma, called Avihinsa is never to kill or hurt any living being under any circumstances. Why talk about rebellion? The Dhamma of the Lord, was verified by the Lord by seeing with his own eyes (Sacchikatva) before proclaiming to the world. They are absolute truths.