The Valsalva maneuver in the squat is basically identical to holding a deep breath and preparing to be punched in the abdomen or to push a stalled car. How does the squat train the abdominal muscles? As you squat progressively heavier weights, abdominal contraction plays an increasing role in maintaining spinal extension (somewhat counter-intuitively): The abdominal muscles help keep the torso rigid by compressing the air trapped in the lungs, but only if you don't allow your abdomen to bulge outward. This resistance to lengthening the abdominal muscles under load provides the stress via which squats train those muscles. 

Regarding holding your breath: Please consider modifying your Valsalva Maneuver by closing your airway with your glottis instead of your lips/tongue/etc. This modification might allow you to resist leakage better. Please see also this related answer about the role of the abdominal muscles in the squat. 

With respect to the example that you provided, the additional sets might benefit you in subsequent attempts at longer sets (for example, 10/8/7), if you recover and adapt from the additional sets. The additional sets probably will increase your recovery demand, and the additional fatigue may negatively impact other exercises that require those muscles. 

The feeling of pressure in your head, especially during a heavy lift, is normal. That feeling is accurate, as the increase in intra-thoracic pressure extends into the cranium via increased blood pressure and increase cerebra-spinal fluid (CSF) pressure. This means you're doing the maneuver at least partly correctly. 

You should get stronger. Stronger muscles protect joints better than weaker muscles. Yes, fast-twitch muscle fibers tend to atrophy more quickly than do slow-twitch muscle fibers. Effective strength training is the best way to preserve as much of all types of muscle fibers as possible. 

The Barbell Prescription, which explains from human physiology why to train for strength, and why to use barbells to do so. Starting Strength: Basic Barbell Training, which explains from physics, anatomy, and biomechanics how to perform the basic barbell movements (that is, squat, press, deadlift, and bench press), and why to do them in the described ways, and what to do to correct common movement-pattern errors. 

The lifter in the video is doing "high-pulls", which are assistance movements for the clean. He appears to be lowering the barbell from shoulders to thighs (the latter being the "hang" position) with some (but not complete) control, which is appropriate. He is in fact mostly letting it drop unimpeded, but is engaging shoulder and back musculature. Reverse-curling the barbell or otherwise slowing its descent is not essential to the exercise, and could increase his risk of developing an "arm-pull" habit, which is highly detrimental to cleans. Personally, I don't like that he releases the barbell from the hang position to the floor at the end of the set, but he is using bumper plates, so the offense is minimal. 

There is indeed variance between individuals' proportions, but your ability to touch your toes, relative to your friend's ability, is no measure of your torso length relative to your legs' lengths. 

You may be able to build muscle mass in your right calf by exploiting the stress-recovery-adaptation that underlies effective strength training. That is, in your case, you may progressively overload your calf muscles by doing weighted single-legged calf raises at appropriate time intervals, with increasing work-weight. Start with three sets of five ("3x5") single-legged calf raises with just your bodyweight. If that is too difficult, then begin your training with assistance: use your arms to support just enough of your bodyweight to your enable you to finish the sets. Next time (in 48-72 hours), try to use your arms even less, or not at all. Next time after that, hold a five-pound weight (for example, a dumbbell) in your right hand. Continue to add weight from there. Be sure to eat and sleep enough to enable recovery, that is, muscle growth. 

Yes, toes lifting off of the ground during a squat is bad form. For stability (safety), you must keep the whole sole of each foot on the ground during the entire movement. 

Creatine monohydrate, 5 grams per day, is beneficial in multiple respects and across different fitness goals, especially resistance training and high-intensity interval training (HIIT). Protein supplements such as whey protein powder can be beneficial across different fitness goals, too, especially any kind of resistance training. For further reading, please see "Stop Wasting Money - Nutrition Supplements that Actually Work". 

I am sorry to hear that you are (or were, 15 months ago) in pain. Anti-inflammatory medications (for example, NSAIDS) might reduce pain and inflammation. As you may know, these are relatively inexpensive and available without restriction, at least in the U.S.A. You may find some relief, and accelerate the healing process, by returning to your squats, with emphasis on "perfect" form, and temporarily using lower weights. For example, if you had been squatting 100kg for three sets of five, then squat 50kg for three sets of eight during your first workout. It is possible that the cause of the pain is not a hip flexor strain, but instead an impingement of soft tissue between your anterior inferior iliac spine (AIIS) and your femur. To avoid this, be sure to angle your toes approximately 30 degrees outward before you squat, and shove your knees outward (laterally) over your feet as you squat. 

Inhale as deeply as you can. Hold your breath by closing your glottis ("throat"), not just your lips. Contract your torso muscles hard, including your abdominal muscles. Do not either "suck inward" or relax outward. Squat downward, and return to the starting (standing) position. Release the held breath only after completing the movement. 

"Looking muscular" largely depends on your bodyfat percentage, which you seem to know. Sets of five reps are good for stimulating development of strength and size, but ultimately, to "look muscular", you probably will need to continue to lose bodyfat. 

I am not a doctor. None of the issues that you describe preclude barbell-based strength training. You probably can squat, press, deadlift, and bench press just fine. (Note that these movements aren't "weightlifting" in the sense of "Olympic weightlifting".) If necessary, you might vary the movements; for example, shoulder stiffness may temporarily preclude low-bar squatting, so you might squat high-bar instead. You needn't worry about "solidifying", via strength training, the postural aspects that you described. Just train the barbell movements with proper technique, including appropriate spinal extension (but not hyper-extension) in the deadlift and squat. Furthermore, it's unclear whether the postural aspects that you describe really are "issues" or "problems". (Do they actually cause you pain/discomfort? Are you sure?) Aside: Rolfing is in the panoply of "complementary and alternative medicines" or "CAM"; in short, bogus. Consider using that money for a gym membership or barbell equipment. 

If I've converted units correctly, then "8 stone and 1.1 pound" is 113.1 pounds. At 5 foot 6 inches -- which is not "tiny", in my opinion -- you are grossly underweight. As @xCodeZone commented, "you don't need to cut down your calories"; on the contrary, please consider eating enough food to increase your total bodyweight to, say, at least 170 pounds. Note that you cannot exclusively gain (or lose) muscle or fat: while gaining muscle, you'll gain some fat, and while losing fat, you'll lose some muscle. In addition to eating more, I suggest heavy squats, deadlifts, and presses for your one day per week in the gym. This will spur muscle protein synthesis, so you'll gain strength and muscular bodyweight (again, in addition to some fat, which you can lose after getting stronger and bigger). 

Eat more food, especially protein, so that you can increase your bodyweight. Reduce your squat work-weight increment from 5 kg to 2.5 kg. The stronger become, the smaller your increments must become. Remove lunges, split squats, and extensions from your program. You don't need them, if you're squatting and deadlifting. Please consider the Starting Strength program, which can help you determine appropriate work-weights and frequencies for these exercises. 

A curved treadmill will not help you "maintain a short, quick stride". In fact, unless you modify your stride specifically for that treadmill's curvature, your stride will be longer: your feet will maintain contact with the treadmill through a longer arc (range of motion). If you intend to improve your form for running on normal (that is, "flat") surfaces, then I fail to see how a curved treadmill will help you. 

It's indeed possible that you pulled a muscle. But, since the discomfort seems to be mostly symmetrical and less apparent while you rest, it seems more likely that you are experiencing Delayed-Onset Muscle Soreness. If that's true, then your discomfort may peak about 48 hours after the initial stressor (pulling the wagon). Consult a health professional if the discomfort persists more than a week later. 

Imagine hanging a string (that is, a plumb bob) between the racked barbell and the bench itself. The "foot side" of the bench is the long (majority) portion of the bench, that is, the part closer to your feet. Position yourself on the bench so that your eyes are not directly under the bench, but instead are perhaps one or two centimeters "down" (toward the "foot side") of the bench from the barbell. 

Without seeing you press, I'm uncertain what's causing your imbalance. However, you may be able to improve your balance in the press by: 

Starting Strength recommends that each trainee commence training with the following simple "novice" program, alternating the following "days" across workouts that should be performed every 48-72 hours: Day A 

There is no meaningful standard for ankle flexibility other than "Can I do what I want to do?" I'm unsure whether it's possible to have problematically-excessive ankle flexibility. "Butt wink" often results from failing to take a toes-out stance and to abduct (that is, "push out" laterally) the thighs/knees during the squat. The more parallel you keep your thighs, the more likely you are to (perhaps unintentionally) flex/round your lumbar spine and pelvis ("butt wink") to avoid one or more of the following: 

No, it's not bad to contract the muscles of your torso, buttocks, and legs during push-ups, regardless of whether you're going to failure. You must be contracting them to some extent regardless. Consider: Why would not want to contract those muscles? 

Protein supplements such as whey protein powder can be very beneficial, especially to strength trainees and bodybuilders. If your stamina is reduced due to under-nourishment (for example, a caloric deficit) then protein supplements may improve your stamina; but, if you are under-nourished, then you will have a very difficult time trying to build your muscles. Multiple sets of 20-25 repetitions is are not ideal for increasing muscular strength or size; they are essentially a form of metabolic conditioning. Instead, consider doing three sets of five repetitions of compound barbell movements such as the squat, deadlift, and overhead press. 

The core principle is the General Adaptation Syndrome (GAS): the ability of a living organism to undergo a stress and, by recovering from that stress, adapt. In this case: 

Picking a point of focus. Before beginning each repetition — preferably for the entire duration of the set — pick a point straight ahead of you at eye level and stare intently at it. Wandering eyes change the visual point of reference, making balance more difficult. Keeping the barbell close to you, and your elbows forward and up. The barbell must start quite close to you and remain quite close to you for efficiency and balance. Touching the barbell to your neck to begin each rep is a useful, tactile check to ensure a good initial position. The barbell must travel upward and downward close to your face ("aim for your nose"). Pressing straight upward. Fairly frequently — especially with lower weights, which permit greater form deviations — lifters will fail to press the barbell in a vertical line, and will, instead, press the barbell in a path that slopes upward from anterior to posterior. (#2 above contributes to this.) This causes balance trouble when the barbell travels too far backward; it should end up directly above the shoulder joints, not behind them. 

Edited Stretching is good for ... more stretching. Do it if you like, but not because you hear/believe that you "should stretch" without further rationale. One rationale for stretching: It may help you tolerate a specific greater range of motion (ROM), for example, if your shoulders don't (currently) allow you to carry a barbell in the low-bar position for squatting. Another source claims that "Post-exercise [static] stretching appears to have a little effect on reducing muscle soreness 1-7 days after exercise". I haven't found substantial information about post-workout dynamic stretching. Foam-rolling might help you with your soreness. As with stretching: Do it if you like. It's a "shrugger": a treatment idea that has some plausibility but has had little or no good, powerful testing. There is a small, flawed trial of foam-rolling that claims a slight benefit. Another study,"The Effect of Foam Rolling Duration on Hamstring Range of Motion" found "no significant differences between baseline knee extension ROM and the ROM present after foam rolling"; this study isn't especially powerful (in terms of size), and has significant methodological weaknesses (for example, variability of pressure and area of foam-rolling). 

Let's be specific: by "overtraining", we really mean "applying a stress from which the organism cannot recover and adapt" in the context of the General Adaptation Syndrome, which we can summarize here as "stress, recovery, and adaptation". So, the question becomes: "Is it possible to stress oneself (that is, volitionally) to an unrecoverable extent?" I'm unsure whether this is possible. The accounts of Pheidippides suggest that yes, it is possible. I suspect that other examples exist. On the other hand, the vast majority of us probably aren't "overtrained". 

No, you do not need to compensate your stair-climbing with another exercise. Other than slightly-increased glutes, no other effect will be visible, unless you use this exercise (probably in conjunction with reduced caloric intake) to cause a net caloric deficit such that you lose bodyweight/bodyfat. 

All of what you've described sounds like normal human movement, and unlikely to harm you; however, a disclosure: these ways (fast and slow) are how I ascend stairs, too. A minor note: I suspect that your feet are in plantar flexion, not "flexed out". This position, coupled with flexed knees, provides more shock absorption than dorsiflexed feet and extended knees; you could try the latter to convince yourself of this. 

Note that -- unless you are relatively untrained -- any squats that you can repeat for minutes (never mind hours) will not provide enough stimulus/stress to drive strength increases for an appreciable length of time.