The golden rule in itself is fine, but it is naive to follow a rule which has no instructions for successful practical application. This, I think, is what is likely referred to when the golden rule is called childish. "Do onto others, as you would have them do onto you." gives no thought to the practical applications, specifically where two people who have differing ideals come together. The Golden Rule quite often completely fails when one tries to use it across cultural boundaries. Or even in the same culture many people have different views on many things. If the way you would want to be treated is seen as offensive to another person, what then do you do? The answer requires more thought than simply following the single statement in the golden rule. Perhaps an amendment to the golden rule should be as follows "Do onto others, as you would have them do onto you if you were in their place". The difficulty of practical application is still present, but at least it is noted that you should consider that not everything you like is liked by others. 

Here I'm talking about the idea of mystery in a religious context to make the point that human consciousness can be deemed miraculous, where miraculous is used without the normal religious context. What I am really meaning here by mystery is something that is never completely knowable, and appears miraculous. I suspect it relates to inescapable nature of subjectivity in our everyday phenomenal reality: no subjectivity, no self. 

On a related subject, from a terminological standpoint, I'd be very interested in people's thoughts on this question: Are games involving uncertainty truly quantum games, or merely representation of ideas arising out of quantum mechanics? 

Fun question! I suspect it is because our reality is subjective and we name the phenomenon for the way it appears to us. Because of relativity, from our perspective, the sun does set and it is the sun, not we, which is moving. This is not so inconsistent with what is actually going on, because the rising and setting of the sun is a function of the rotation of the earth in a roughly 24 hour cycle, as distinct from the the revolution of the earth around the sun. It's more that, from our perspective "the sun sets" below the horizon where we can no longer see it. As @SonOfThought astutely points out, using scientific language to accurately describe the phenomenon would be more expensive linguistically, less aesthetically pleasing, and unlikely to catch on. (Even scientists use "sunrise" and "sunset" as shorthand.;) 

One person's freedom and liberty ends abruptly where that of another person's begins. Historically we have had to give up some measure of freedom in order to limit others from the ability of abusing their freedom to cause harm. That has long been the argument. I believe that in this particular instance the words equality and justice were added simply to assist in making a point and to gather the required letters to spell security. 

One possible loophole is if you divulged this information about Moonlight to your spouse (if you have one) or someone of similar trust. This would give you the ability to keep your promise (since spouses are often considered single entities when it comes to secrets) and also give you someone with which you can talk with about it in detail and trust that the secret is still kept. In the least this option would give you opportunity to get things off your chest and lesson the burden of keeping a secret while still keeping it to what might be considered an acceptable degree. Otherwise, I would have to say that a promise is a promise and without proof that the other person is someone with which you cannot form a loyal bond with, you must remain true to your word. 

You must at least understand logic, especially symbolic logic because it underpins many areas of philosophy, not to mention mathematics. For example, Kant would not have written such great books if he was not interested in logic. He even studied mathematics in his spare time. He also played around with many natural sciences like physics. I doubt he ever published anything, but I know he actually explained why galaxies and solar systems lie in planes using conservation of angular momentum. Some people like Russell and Godel start by studying philosophy but then realize that they are much more interested in logic, paradoxes, proofs, etc. You must also understand that there is not just propositional logic, there are things like modal logic for example. Overall, many great mathematicians were also philosophers, and vice versa. For instance, Leibniz and Descartes are among many. 

Marxism, well-intentioned but difficult to apply via human agents, particularly in pre-"information age" societies, was, in part, about reducing economic disparity. Social liberalism has the same core motivation, with the emphasis on social normalcy, as opposed to material equality. 

Which would seem to be a different type of indeterminacy than those arising out of observational limitations. 

Certainly, but the logic would likely be fuzzy (T/F for any given aspect of affinity can be a value between 0 and 1). Certainly relationships can have a utility function. In terms of valuing two other people equally, there is no mathematical or philosophical reason one cannot, unless the sorting algorithm requires a clear hierarchy with no ties... 

The trouble with the golden rule is not the rule itself, but it is our own points of view and interpretations of what our actions and the actions of others are. People often misinterpret each other and misjudge each other's actions (for any number of reasons). Given this, it becomes very difficult to follow the golden rule accurately. Suppose of a culture where it is customary for a guest who stays the night to sleep in the masters bed and enjoy the company of his wife. Suppose the guest is strongly against adultery. How are these two supposed to follow the golden rule when they are so incompatible? It is in each persons point of view and interpretation where it becomes difficult to follow the golden rule. It's not impossible, but as you can imagine, there are many examples where two people who have different views can disagree on how the golden rule applies. 

Probably "what seems reasonable", although this itself is highly subjective, as demonstrated by the great gulf between what factions in the US consider "reasonable". There are issues with journalism to be sure. For instance, any coverage of the national debt that only mentions the size of the debt is an abuse of statistics, because the number is meaningless without the context of currency values, interest rates, percentage of GDP, etc. Nevertheless, the purpose of Journalism, similar to science, is to report on events/phenomenon is the most objective manner possible. (True objectivity is impossible within any given system, including what we call "reality", but that does not negate the legitimacy of the goal. Thus reasonable analysis of data and application of confidence levels in interpretations is critical.)* Based on Mr. Mooch's own admission, it is quite reasonable to assume he used vulgarities in reference to this or that person. By contrast, one might be more skeptical of similar hearsay in regards to President Obama, because he doesn't have a track history of public profanity, but might be more open to the hearsay that someone "saw the former President sneaking a cigarette on the patio at the Country Club," because he documented as having this habit early in his presidency. Part of the problem is that critical faculties differ with each individual, and the embracing of one's biases, which can be a tool, seems rarely tempered by questioning of one's assumptions. The issue partly relates to the hegemony of subjectivity, which is sometimes abused to cast doubt on scientific positions. (The idea that "evolution is just a theory" demonstrates unequivocally that speaker possesses not even the most basic grasp of what science is per their misunderstanding of "theory", equated in this case with what is known as an "hypothesis".) So, despite the addage that "Opinions are like #ssholes--everyone's got 'em", not all opinions are equally valid, because some "opinions" are supported by evidence. 

Descartes a priori assumptions were: mathematical statements are valid and God is not a deceiver (note that the latter implies the former). The reason why God is not a deceiver is because God is a perfect being (according to Descartes), and cannot deceive us in anyway. If God is not a deceiver then God gave us senses which are not totally unreliable. This means we can tell when we are dreaming. 

Causality is essentially the relationship between cause and effect. Specific definitions depend on the context. For example, in physics, and in particular thermodynamics, we define an arrow of time. In the philosophy of science, one might talk about causality in special relativity. For example, special relativity does not allow communication faster than the speed of light, since this would violate causality because to some inertial observers, information would travel backward in time. In quantum mechanics, one could say that virtual particles (particle-antiparticle pairs) violate causality because they essentially borrow energy from nothing (the vacuum) but this is allow by the time-energy uncertainty principle. In logic, or mathematics we have sufficient and necessary conditions (causes), if satisfied, yield some results (effects or consequences). There are many questions a philosopher could ask. Can two events be causally connected? Is there free will? What is determinism? Is our universe determinist as Laplace thought, or does it just seem that way? Can we rely on science to answer these questions? Hume's answer to the last question would be -- no, due to the problem of induction. 

Absolutely. I'd look to the framers of the US Constitution--the Bill of Rights supplants any religious doctrine in US society. Most modern democracies are likewise non-secular. The relationship of religion to ethics is likely a function of limited understanding of the natural world and primitive mathematics. (Without rational explanations for natural phenomena, one is left with only imagination to fill in the blanks, unless one takes a strictly rational, Socratic approach.) Once you have advanced mathematics, you can start analyzing issues such as economic and material disparity. Religion is partly used as a method of contextualizing suffering, which is often the result of disparity/disequilibrium. 

I think you have to look to psychology for this. (Matter and anti-matter are defined by equal but opposite charges. Humans are much more complex than elementary particles so you aren't going to find the exact opposite of the self that can be precisely quantified and proven to be perfectly symmetrical.) However, Jung introduced the concept of the shadow, which is in conflict with the conscious ego. I'd take it a step further and use the term nemesis in the sense of an agent that acts in opposition to the self. This utilizes the idea of the will, which implies intent, a quality that is only possessed by conscious beings. The intent of the nemesis is counter to that of the self. 

To be honest, it is hard to recommend a single book. If you really want to understand philosophy, you must read many books. So you might want to start with Hume's Enquiry Concerning Human Understanding, Berkeley's Treatise Concerning the Principles of Human Knowledge, Descartes' Meditations and Discourse on the Method, as well as Kant's Critique of Pure Reason and Principles of the Metaphysics of Morals. These are by far the best epistemology/metaphysics books I have ever read. It might seem obvious recommending such well-known books, but they are well-known because they are truly phenomenal. Also, if you are interested in the development of mathematics, and in particular analysis, I would recommend The Analyst by Berkeley -- a remarkable book. If however, you do not have time to read them all, start with Hume's Enquiry Concerning Human Understanding and Berkeley's Treatise Concerning the Principles of Human Knowledge, and avoid Kant' Principles of the Metaphysics of Morals, and any of Kant's books because they are very difficult to read. You need to read each book at least twice to understand Kant. 

I find another useful way to look at it is in the context of Conway's Game of Life, where the game is an analogue for a universe. The discrete cells in the automata only have limited information based on spacial position, with hard limits on communication speed (analogous perhaps to c). The only entity that comprehends the entire system is the system itself, which may be taken as a commentary on Laplace's Demon. Rationality is bounded, and always subjective, except in the case of the model, which is itself a rational system. 

There is a famous saying of Saint Augustine which seems to reflect this idea, with an added entreaty: