In principle it would be possible to do so. In fact this is exactly what we do if we convert a marginal effect at the mean to a willingness to pay. We calculate it for the average person in the dataset. One can also distinguish the average WTP by subgroups and socio-economic characteristics such as gender. The reason why academic papers do not often go beyond that (I guess) is that the predictions become so specific that they are hardly interesting anymore. Who would be interested in the willingness to pay of say "a 27 year old male with 12 years of education, an annual income of 24000€, voting republican and an interest in violent video games"? What about when he is 28 years old? Given that these models are typically non-linear their WTPs are going to be different. Moving to a practical point of view price discrimination at such detailed level is impossible at the moment and for a number of products it may even be illegal (insurance is an exception). Finally, a problem with any contingent valuation problem is that is willingness to say rather than willingness to pay. This is less of a problem in markets for goods with which the participants have experience with the good in question, but there will always be a bit of hypothetical bias. 

The true answer is of course it depends. What it depends on is how you define sustainability. In a natural resources context, with weak sustainability, soil quality is a capital asset, just as a fish stock, a forest or an oil field. Given that we have manure and fertilizer I would argue that it is a renewable resource (until we run out of phosphate perhaps or poison the soil with too many pesticides), but let's start from the simpler case of a non-renewable resource. In that case the golden rule tells us to gradually exhaust the soil until no more degradation is possible. In the simplest case we should degrade at the rate of interest. You correctly observed that in principle there are no externalities. The individual optimal solution is equal to the social optimal solution, provided the individual discount rate (interest rate) is equal to the social discount rate (see e.g. Clark 2010 for this often missed point). One can modify such a model to allow for renewable resources with the use of fertilizer or natural regeneration, which would change the solution somewhat. Kenneth McConnel (1983) has a model showing the basics. The reason that soil exhaustion is optimal is that the proceeds can be invested in alternative assets, which generate a larger rent. The problem is of course that i) this model assumes we discount the future (which we do) so future generations are discounted; ii) such models at an economy wide level typically assume the existence of a backstop technology, something we can use when we run out of good quality soil. Whether or not something like that will exist is debatable. Moving towards a strong sustainability viewpoint the main thought is that we should not deplete our natural resources beyond their regenerative capacity, unless we already have a substitute. We don't currently have a real good substitute for soil quality, although we can use fertilizers and such to make up for some of that. From a strong sustainable perspective we are therefore not (yet) sustainable. From a bit broader perspective the production of artificial fertilizer is very energy intensive, and one can question whether the current amounts used (as well as the earlier mentioned pesticides) do not have unintended effects, but then you're back at externalities. 

There are prices in the utility function and $\frac{\partial U}{\partial p} \gt 0$ . This solves the problem but it introduces more issues. On the one hand, the price doesn't belong to a basket. On the other hand, he doesn't just spend all of his income to buy just an extremely overpriced glass pane, so they must be introduced carefully. The basket has a "perceived as expensive" variable that accounts for the behavior. How would such variable differ from being just the price is intriguing... 

Notice that, if you log-linearized your equations, $\epsilon=1$ would mean a 1% deviation from the steady state. 

Convenience yield. That is, they provide some convenience, like cash for making transactions. The convenience is especially linked to illegal transactions. This already has a model to describe behavior: Baumol-Tobin (which is also a model for storage and logistics). There's a huge lack of information to apply it (who knows enough about money laundering to make a prediction?) Rational bubble. This is where all models break apart. Speculators don't care about the future value, just volatility now (because that's how they turn a profit), much like they don't care about a bond's yield but for changes in its price. In the short term, supply is limited: Bitcoins aren't being created fast enough, competitors like Ethereum or even Dogecoin have still to catch up and there are no derivatives that allow betting against Bitcoin prices (Bitcoin futures have only recently started being offered). Demand is also limited because speculators are buying the asset for short-term profit, not for keeping it long-term. 

Mix everything up and you can forecast population with a combination of previous population levels, surprising events and population growths. 

First, I'll introduce the observation and then ask the question. I have a brother-in-law who has a quirk: given the same product and two prices for it in different stores, he's willing to pay the greater one. For instance, he preferred window panes cut from a more expensive store, even if they are the exact same thing. He also goes to expensive restaurants and order basic meals (say, beef with salad) so there's very little extra they can offer for a steep price increase. Trust me, I can continue providing examples until you convince yourself that he just like to pay more, given the opportunity. I wonder how would one model such behavior. The easiest way is to give up and say he's irrational (his choices can be easily shown to be intransitive) and be thankful that he's a minority. I'd like to explore other alternatives: 

What you need is the future value of an annuity. If you have a payment P paid for N years, compounding at an interest rate i, the future value of that is: $FV=P*( (1+i)^N - 1)/i$ This will give you the future value at the beginning of the year. To get it for the end you multiply with (1+i). In your example filling in P=8000, i=10%, and N=2 gives you 16800, which when multiplied with 1.1 gives you the desired 18480. 

Not a real answer, but a few thoughts. (1) In principle I think it can be done as long as the preferences changes relate to current consumption trade-offs e.g. sweets versus bread now, rather than sweets now versus sweets tomorrow. The latter is the problem of time inconsistency you link to in your comment. There's a large literature on time inconsistency, hyperbolic discounting etc., see for example also Laibson's classic. Incidentally, if the consumer can somehow commit to a certain path, that solves the problem of the inconsistency. (2) If you're looking at the whole economy, a way around the problem is to work with a representative consumer that incorporates both the preferences of the young people and the elder people. As long as the relative proportions of the population do not change over time the representative consumer should make the same choices in the aggregate. (3) How to do this in a practical way in the utility function: you could include time dependent weights on the different goods, where one increases and the other one decreases. It would definitely become more difficult to solve, but would be doable for small problems, and if the weights are simple functions of time perhaps even possible for larger problems. 

You make a mistake in setting up your individual profit functions. Given that the total revenues from sales are $y=K+L$ and they share revenues equally their revenues are $1/2*(K+L)$ 

If you ask me your question is better suited to cross validated (stats.stackexchange.com). Anyway you're probably confused because the percentages refer to different base lines. Note that the 60% of disease at B in 2017 refers to 40% of the population, whereas the 30% in 1917 refers to 30% of the population, so they are hard to compare. Try working it out in absolute numbers to get a clearer picture: In 1917 if there are 100 people, 70 of ethnicity A, 30 of B. Of the 70 people of A 7 (10% of 70) get sick, of B 9 get sick (30% of 30) In 2017 there are 100 people, 60 of ethnicity A, 40 of B. Of the 60 people of A now 18 catch the disease (30% of 60), and of B 24 catch the disease (60% of 40). Observations: overall sickness has increased (16 vs 42). The absolute increase in sick B people (15) is larger than that in A people (11), but this in part due to the fact that there are more B people now 

While the targets are aggressive and they already surpassed this year's band, market's inflation expectations consistently have a downwards trend. Finally, what's so special about 2%? An unexpected deflation has a negative short-term effect on growth. High inflation also has a negative effect on growth. So, being stable around 2% is a nice "Goldilocks" zone. 

There's a bunch of different answers, depending on which of the paragraphs you want to address. In order: 

Work recursively with each variable and provide an analytic function for them, for every moment on time. Calculate a value if you are simulating it, using the policy functions at each step. 

It really depends on context and model. As an example, consider a Real Business Cycle model, with a representative individual that values consumption and leisure. Given a technology shock, adjusted labor will drop and, eventually, return to the stationary state. This could mean that people are laid off because the new technology replaced them, or because there's a shortage of qualified workers, or even that people decided to work less, now that the rest of the (more productive) society gives them unemployment benefits. I haven't worked much with search&match models of unemployment, but given a set of firms with varying productivity, I guess a model could be constructed to define labor-saving and labor-augmenting in precise terms, based on the effect a shock has on the probability of firing people. Finally, labor-augmenting technology is necessary for balanced growth. You may not care about it, but many models do. 

Add this with huge information asymmetry and you'll get a highly volatile, high-rising price. As long as (1) doesn't change too much, it's a bubble. 

Can you think of other alternatives, superior to these? Maybe ones that involve consumer aggregation? 

On one hand, there's a reserve requirement. This ubiquitous regulation comes from the fact that banks are by their very nature illiquid: if they make a profit by lending other people's money then they can't give all that money back immediately. A minimum of liquid reserves may (or may not!) be established, by the central bank and/or the bank itself, to safeguard deposits. On the other hand, consider that the bank lends all the money he's allowed. The borrowers won't have immediate use of that money, so they store it in the bank once again as deposits. Now, the bank can get those new deposits, fulfill their reserve requirement and lend that money once again. Repeat this to infinity, that is, until 100% of the original money is reserve requirement. Suppose you have 10% of R.R.: $$ C_1=100\%-(100*{10\over 100})=90\%\\ C_2=90\%-(90*{10\over 100})=81\%\\ ...\\ C_n=0.9^n\\ \sum_{n=1}^\infty C_n={0.9\over{1-0.9}}=900\% $$ What this means is that, even though the economy has a certain amount of cash, it may behave as if there's more, with an upper bound on 900%. The bank isn't benefiting with money creation except that it's lending more money than at first sight. 

Turns out that the new constraint no longer plays a role in determining the optimum! The optimum is now determined by the constraints: $S\geq0$ and $2K+3S\leq10$. The answer to your question should now be clear: the shadow price is valid up to the point where that particular combination of constraints continues to determine the optimum. In this case that means that you can increase 6 to $6\frac{2}{3}$, for a corresponding increase in the objective function of $10*\frac{2}{3}=\frac{20}{3}$ After that point the combination of constraints no longer determines the optimum. As a side point let me add that at least the Excel solver (and I expect therefore many other solvers too) report up to which point you can relax the constraints before the optimum is determined by another set of constraints. 

Your y2 needs to be the output associated produced with those inputs. Given that you have a CES production function and you use World Bank Country data as inputs, you need output of the countries in that specific year. Typically we use GDP as a measure of output at country level. You can get it a.o. from the World Bank. 

At least in environmental and resource economics it is because it internalizes all externalities. If there is only a single person to consider (and the payoff of this person is "made up" of the sum of individual welfare) than by maximizing the sum all externalities get accounted for. 

I'd expect both the employers and unions to fall for sunk cost arguments (can't quit now, we've gone so far...), which a rational player wouldn't do Repeated games in the presence of uncertainty often have multiple equilibria that can be supported by trigger strategies. Although these trigger strategies are subgame perfect, they are also non-renegotiation proof, and that is probably exactly what you're interested in. 

In principle it's a plane for 2 independent variables or a hyperplane for more. An exception is when your independent variables are a continous and a dummy variable. In that case the dummy basically changes to the intercept only so you could show two lines with different intercepts. A work around if you have 2 continuous independent variables is to show the relation between the dependent and one independent for several values of the other independent. 

I can only give an answer on the theory behind it, hopefully that will be enough. You can solve this using a game-theoretical framework and a solid source is the classic Fundenberg & Tirole's "Game Theory". This game depends crucially on the way the bid is structured and if there's any knowledge of how other agents respond. In a typical bid with no extra knowledge, a natural result is that everyone offers the lowest (or almost the lowest) possible price they can afford. Buyers like bids for this reason. A second enrichment to this theory appears if you can gauge other agents' responses with a signal (previous contracts or quarter reports). In that case, you end up with a probability distribution for other people's prices and the price you'll set will depend on the probability you want of winning the bid. 

First, you need to be more precise about what "society contribution" means. After all, working as a drug seller may or may not contribute to society! Using a pretty standard definition like Pareto Optimality, by sacrificing consumption for a price and allowing others to consume or invest, someone else is better off and/or more production is available in the future. Indeed, they can afford less things in the future. But that's like saying you can afford less coconuts because you bought a watermelon. There's a trade-off with expenditures, but in this case the trade-off is against the future. While it looks like hurting society, consider the economic forces put in motion because this individual, with a desire to spend, now has the ability to do so. Just as an example, if everyone had to save their own cash to buy a house, the construction sector would be highly inefficient, volatile and people that want houses, even if they could pay in a few years, would stay homeless. It has more to do with the social value of banks than of lending, but let's have a stab. Indeed, A and B may come into an agreement. This has a couple of hidden assumptions. Say: