Oh, you do have your accepted answer already, but I want to add something for the fluff-factor. When reading this I felt remembered of a never ending space opera from Germany: Perry Rhodan. Its pretty unknown outside the country, but still... they had there habitated rouge like planet in the year 1965 ready if I recall correctly. Its name was... the 100-sun-world. While it wasn't settled by humans, the bio-robots living there where pretty happy just a hop outside the galaxy without a central star. Guess what its pseudo-science explanation was? Right: they placed about 100 artifact mini-suns around their planet to get a neverending day and surface condition that allowed the space operas protagonist group to visit it without wearing any protective gear. So if you feel adventurous, let your guys use a similar solution. At all, there is no hard-science tag attached to your question. Oh, if someone ponder about these robots: their name where "Posbi" I think. They may still be around, because that space opera didn't come to an end until now. 

Looking over that list, I think we still need more specific task. At the moment that does feel less like world-building but plotting advice. Anyway, all that does look like a human is useful if you enemy is human after all. Try to hide a commando-dragon at the other side (I'll use this therm to describe our world). Neverless, that sounds like the party-building part of some sort of game, if yo ask me. But still... they expecting an attack. Why? I mean, they do have their pocket-dimension where they do dwell and don#t cause any harm to the other side. Are there some rouge specimen, that do enjoy causing trouble in canadian small settlements for nothing else but fun? Or do they have something in their pocket-dimension, that someone (a three-letter-agency from a three-letter-country for example) might be interested in? Some rare ore from that dimension of theirs? They could trade. Or do these bad guys just want their bodies for medical tests? Yes, right now it feels way to open, your question. All of the guys you named would be useful in a certain task. For example a sea serpent is something I would expect to be very good at denying access to a lake. Some of them could close a small passage in the ocean, like... that one in the red sea, or this one next to Indonesia. There are no battleships ready to combat any more at this earth of ours, and these stealthy ships of ours do have a paper-thin hull. Even more, a submarine would be a suicide-mission. At the other side, your serpent would be pretty hard to spot (not magnetic, no "engine", but a SAD could work maybe, or they sonar-ping him ear-dumb). All they could do is send chopper and drop explosives into the water, because any ships rudder would be a prime target for a serpent who know what to do. The only surface-vessel that would be pretty invulnable to these bad fishies were last to be seen at our surface waters during world war 2. And... wait, maybe the Kirov would work, if you use it to deploy something else than missiles with it. As you see... provide the scenario fleshed out, and we can estimate things to think of you might forget to take into account. But just asking " I have a dozen magical creatures I want to fight a modern day army... tell me what happen!" is... well, an answer fitting this question of yours would probably make its way into the book-stores. 

An Earth-like planet lacking an axial tilt would have incredibly little variation in climate and therefore few global weather patterns. There could still be some forms of air and water circulation because the planet is still spinning, but their movement would not be accompanied by the significant changes in heat and moisture levels that can drive catastrophes like hurricanes. Intense sunlight would also affect all cultures globally, and the concept of a "year" would be highly theoretical (those navel-gazers keeping track of the stars) rather than grounded in a seasonal cycle essential to the material wellbeing of all. The length of day and night is absolute in this world. There are no long winter nights, no recurring sense of having more time in the light then less then more again. I think change might be viewed as more linear than cyclical. Perhaps people would tend to be more afraid of change because they are not used to it, or perhaps they would be less afraid of change because they are not conditioned to the highly predictable one of seasons. Changes in the magnetosphere when poles shift have huge impacts on geology and evolution. If the axis never "wobbles", does it just flip every so often? In a world where all points on the globe receive the full intensity of sunlight, this could have especially deleterious effects. When the poles shift, there is momentary exposure to greater radiation since the planet loses the protective field of the magnetosphere. Our last pole reversal here on Earth was about 800k years ago. In terms of the evolution of hominids, this likely occurred before the first Homo sapiens but soon after Homo erectus and Homo ergaster began to harness fire and build simple machines. I don't know of any anthropologist who thinks the pole shift had any role in the development of civilization, but this is fiction so it's fun to imagine. What if that pole shift on Earth contributed to the speciation of Homo sapiens due to mutations from increased radiation? Maybe in this tilt-free Earth you'll find multiple, closely related intelligent species, with biological differences contributing to different cultures in the absence of climactic variation. 

You needn't look much further than the American opioid epidemic to see how this could happen. West Virginia has 42 fatal opioid overdoses per 100,000 people, and that number is skyrocketing year after year. This exceeds the rate of live births, and similar figures can be found throughout Appalachia. To whatever degree you could consider Appalachia to be a civilization independent from the rest of the United States, it is committing mass suicide by numbing agent. So what's happening there? Few jobs and little opportunity. Crushing poverty. And a couple small groups outside the "civilization" making money off a fun way to die. 

If both poles are temperate and all the space inbetween is pretty uninhabitable, you might want to consider making creatures like our Arctic tern, who migrates between the poles every year. The arctic tern has an unusual strategy of going to the small part of the Earth that is least habitable, and leaving before things get comfortable enough for predators to return. In your world, most animals with the ability to cover that kind of distance will follow the warmth, but there will likely be one that does the opposite, taking advantage of the emptiness the warmth-seekers leave behind. If both poles are habitable, maybe there is a civilzation on both. These civilizations would be extremely isolated with regard to trade, but they could communicate with one another if they can train some of these migrating creatures to carry messages. You could have exchange of ideas without substantial exchange of goods. 

what a interesting question. Most non-energy solutions have been posted already, I think. But I feel that something is missing right in your question: what do you count as "energy weapon"? When I hear this I think of Star Wars Blaster and Turbolaser and these Weapons the Jaffa from Star Gate do carry around or proton torpedoes. Well... But you asked for a science-valid resolution. So count out all of these above, even if there might be some realism behind, if you dig deep enough. So... still, what do you accept as an energy-weapon? And what do you accept as a piece of artillery? From what today is used, you separate into Direct Fire Weapons and Indirect Fire Weapons. Most artillery is the second type (even if most of them can do both), but what we do understand as artillery is something that specialize hitting stuff beyond their line of sight, using calculation, observers or intelligent ammunation. To archive this, your weaponsystem should be able to do this. Using energy. Even further, a piece of artillery could be everything that isn't a handheld weapon. Even tanks can be artillery (no, not self propelled howitzers, real tanks), if you wrap your description carefully... At all, they are a piece of self propelled direct fire barrel based artillery with extreme crew and weapon system survivability due to well thought placing of highly resistant armor plating. But thats quite a description for a tank... So first question to clarify: What kind of combat participant would you accept as artillery? Second problem: what is energy? Does a random burst of hard gamma rays count? Does it need to to flash colorful? Does it need to make boom? I want to ask you what I asked the guy who opened that Railgun vs. Gyrojet question: What the hell you want to archive using this energy-artillery? Leveling enemy installations? Keep enemies away from a given point? Performing priority target sniper shots? Provide gas or other nasty agents? Well, for that case energy weapons would be not usable... but Artillery is used for providing smoke-screens this days - especially the smaller pieces, like mortars. So... lets take a simple approach and say, your energy-artillery would be a self propelled unit, that is tasked to do indirect fire support at a range of targets, primary to deny access to an area... no, wait you said, your first though was that artillery shells the enemy using dematerialization ammo. That sounds like a task for an anti-tank whatever. WW2 ones were direct-fire units, and still... if you want to make sure to hit something, you need line of sight. Either the gun itself, or someone who can aim for them (even the ammo itself does count, but you will have a hard time creating an intelligent plasma bolt). Otherwise all you would do is cutting huge holes into the battlefield, sometimes get a lucky indirect hit, what would... well, the same this days artillery do. Here does one thing kick in, the other posters already mentioned: Energy as a weaponized wave isn't able to curve over a prop at your battlefield. Either you can ignore this and right punch through, or you need to stay with the good old ballistic shells. And shooting through the Planet? When your enemies turn off their shields. this attack is supposed to react to, you are bad off. Even more - your position would be known if they have a way of tracking these beams. Or they get triggerd by something in the ground, like an unstable repository of ultra heavy metals. Uh... sounds like you can accidentally blow up the whole planet doing this, or at least the continental plate your units stand at. Well... your decision. So... what to do? Whatever you want to - if you need the traits artillery is widely known for - indirect fire, providing big boom - you either stick with shells or allow some magic. Or Plasma. Its not this inefficient as one might assume. All you need to do is keep the containment intact until it hits something. Let me think... XCOM used a plastic, that is wrapped around the plasma bullet when it leaves the gun. I don't remember the details, but why not use a meta-material, that can be created like a soap bubble and transform heat-energy into magnetic fields. As soon as it hits something, that containment-thing break and whatever did cause this get a plasmasplosion right in its face. Sounds pretty mean. Finally... when you want weapon-systems, think of us as kind of weapon companies. Tell us, what your weapon system should archive, what it may use and so on, and you might get a big idea from someone who happens to know some crazy stuff that might suit your needs. Because maybe the task you try to archive with your energy-artillery is done better by something other. Well... yea, like the satellites the others mentioned. Have a nice day