Any action will have a result somewhere in Samsara. Obviously a student performing correct practice kamma with a wise teacher of kamma will have fruits in this life such as jhana or the 16 stages of insight. -Metta 

How do we better determine when it is time to use logic and reason and when it is a time to just see things as they are? Note: We don't have to disclose the specific kind of meditation that we practice but it might make our answers less ambiguous -metta 

Mara isn't necessarily a real being. Mara is our own propensity to follow wrong views, doubts, defilements, bad habits and to give up on reality as it is. If Mara is a being then Mara would suffer like any unenlightened being. Is there some scripture somewhere that states that Mara is immune to suffering? I have never heard that Mara was female. What scripture supports that Mara is female? 

It means your probably making bad kamma. There is no magic in taking the precept vows. We dont need to be affraid of making bad kamma when we can make right effort and determination to keep the precepts. 

(I should note that the above advice is for people who are practicing some kind of vipassana mindfulness outside an intensive retreat. It's not intended for a samatha or concentration practice) I always wondered why we don't go into greater detail about how we practice in this forum. This greater detail would give a bit of an indication of your karma at least for others to give you their advice about it. Maybe your karma doesn't have enough encouragement behind it. I found myself needing advice on how to get myself practicing. I found many useful and free dana ebooks written by various teachers online. Also, I found books on how to stop procrastination very helpful(there are a lot out there just for free on the internet!) Here is just one book I found useful and I hope you would too. It's easy to read and gets right to the point (IMHO) by Bhante Bodhidhamma entitled ENCOURAGEMENTS TOWARDS AWAKENING: $URL$ If so desired, I can give out more titles by obscure but wise teachers that might not be so well known by practitioners here. I like reading all these teachers because they each come at the practice and the Dharma from many different unique angles. I hope you find good answers to what your looking for and you keep on practicing :) -Metta 

Does he want to be a Buddha? He doesn't want and doesn't not want to be a Buddha. Will he get what he wants - forever ? Being a Buddha, Dave would want nothing. He gets what he wants(nothing) forever until the concept of time ceases in Parinibanna. Does it matter? It doesn't matter until someone makes it matter. Is nirvana - just whatever a Buddha wants? This question assumes that a Buddha would want something. 

The purpose is ideally for those who meditate were the extra food is more than what is appropriate. Specialists must claim what they claim for active people who use up substantial energy on defilements and don't meditate much. I could be wrong but it seems to me that often the majority of specialists, at least those whose religion is material science, are incorrect. They are biased by materialist views IMO. 

Edited from: It seems there are some great and unique meditation teachers out there that aren't as popular as some teachers, possibly because they shunned publicity, didn't allow teachings to be recorded, lived far from the world in hard to get to places and so on. . So the questions are: 1- What tends to be the differences between the more charismatic or popular teachers and the less known but master teachers? 2-What hard to find master teachers of Buddhist meditation are out there and what is there approach to teaching? Thank you :) It seems there are some great and unique meditation teachers out there that aren't as popular as some teachers, possibly because they shunned publicity, didn't allow teachings to be recorded, lived far from the world in hard to get to places and so on. . So the questions are: 1- What tends to be the differences between the more charismatic or popular teachers and the less known but master teachers? 2-What hard to find master teachers of Buddhist meditation are out there and what is there approach to teaching? Thank you :) 

Eating meat is bad karma. So what if it's an intellectual or conceptual argument? When buying meat, you don't have volition to kill but you have volition to eat the flesh of an animal killed for you the end consumer. If you were a monk you would be breaking the monastic code. Are the first five precepts not conceptual, as well? Conceptual reality is a reality too :) 

What do you think it is that is making you fall? I could only speculate. I ask myself this question all the time. Your problem sounds similar to a problem I am having. I practice continuously but intermittently and only a very tiny bit here and there throughout each day in whatever position I happen to be in. I can't seem to get myself to sit down and practice even though I have plenty of time to so. It appears that I am able to see more and more subtly even with such little practice. I usually try to meditate on my desires or vedana, aiming to resolve this tiny practice problem . I have a feeling like all I have to do is remove a twig and this boulder of intense practice will run me over. That sounds scary but that is probably why the twig is there because I fear the boulder of intense practice for some reason. I recently saw that I probably am not taking silla seriously enough and that is probably causing me a lack of concentration on some level. Also I ponder my effort and what it could be that I am taking for granted. Maybe something in here will help your situation. Good luck :) 

The terror is likely caused by the clinging to wrong view of the self. Who was the unknown species? Why did it look so strange? Was it because you, like everybody, already greatly cling to an idea of what you are and this new mindful approach to experiencing what you are, can show you something that is real but alien to your normal way of experiencing yourself? So if I understand what you are saying, the terror happens because you have the wrong idea or wrong view that you are dying or being wiped from existence when really it is just a different way of perceiving reality. These kinds of experiences are common with insight practice. Sounds like your practice is going in the right direction towards dropping the wrong view of self. Remember that nothing is permanent like these terrorizing experiences. 

You could attain stream entry at any moment for seemingly no reason. Perhaps "self inquiry" would be something you could get into? People who practice insight often have great and wonderful meditation experiences and this is a sign they could be on the wrong track so to speak. Another meditator, can't seem to get stablized and the practice causes great suffering. This is often a meditator on the right track. So, maybe you are practicing more correctly than you think. 

-For monks, having to be bald helps weed out those who are too committed to sensual desire and are not ready to be a monastic. -Having no hair is one less thing to cling to. -Being bald means less parasites and less potential harm to the parasites. -No hair is easier to handle and clean. -Being bald can help one identity with Buddhism and other Buddhists or truth seekers. 

You are certainly not alone. Sounds like what you describe is a situation I have been in many times. In order to find more balance, I would stay sitting still and try to remember that I could just be with the tension, fuzzy lack of clarity, confusion, anger, desire for the practice to go my way and whatever else arises. Usually this would lead to a better practice session. This problem is mainly about unbalanced faculties. A good teacher can help yogis balance the faculties. A good teacher can be a wonderful help when yogis are tangled up like this. 

Are you trying to practice Samadhi? How I practice, Samadhi plays only a supportive role. When I started practicing Mahasi dry Satipatthana I was practicing Samadhi by accident(I hear that this is a common thing with beginners of this kind of practice). I was not focusing on the actual moment by moment sensation of the breath. I was focusing on my own moment by moment "guess" of what the breath actually was. I would picture the breath in my mind or I would focus on the noting word "rising, falling" or "in, out" in some way but none of these things were an actual reality happening moment by moment. I was feeling great peace but I wasn't practicing the way I intended to practice. At some point I started just watching the sensation of the breath as it happened and I stopped experiencing so much peace during this practice but this is the way to "see things as they are" and gain wisdom but I still got to practice Metta. When I practice Metta, I feel great peace and joy. The mindfulness gained from seeing things as they are allows me to know when to have metta or compassion for myself. This is just what I have experienced. I hope it helps.