Much of the answer depends upon what you are doing for the company, what your boss thinks, general perceptions of your work performance, etc. I worked within the IT industry as a consultant where much of my job functions required after-hours systems and network changes. In this regard, working late was seen as a necessity. As well, many programmers that stay late can also be seen as focusing on code as much as any programmer that came in early. This, of course, does not apply everywhere. Any perception has to be tempered with performance. Being a highly effective member of any team I was assigned to, after-all, this is why I was hired as a consultant, any perception of time was outweighed by effectiveness. For example, coming in late and working late could easily be seen as a reward to the environment. The are many studies of how the brain works and people can often be put into different camps. For example, we obviously know about the A type personalities. However, what seems to get little respect is that some people perform better in the morning and others later at night. I happen to be one that is sharper and more effective in the evening hours. For example, I am a far more effective and efficient coder at night often working till 6am. Some people who are early risers, often cannot understand why others are not early risers and can become judgmental as a result. I experienced one direct report that appreciated after-hour work, however, could not understand not coming in at 6am like he did. It was completely beyond his understanding. However, this direct report would leave fairly early and could not see that his presence was needed during business hours and that the company suffered as a result. The number of hours where the direct report could be effective to the company was actually short in light of the global demand. Add to this, for some, the commute would be impossible. For example, in the area where I lived, for some locations, the commute was at least 1.5 hours for a 30 mile commute and that leaving early only made things worse. In this regard, making the effort to come in early only resulted in wasted time with no gain. Be that as it may, I have always made myself available on-site, on-line, by phone, by e-mail, or other means fairly early in the morning. At one location, I would login from home and respond to e-mails, check systems, and solve problems before leaving for work. For me, it was always about the work, the company, what I had to do to ensure the best interest of the company, etc. Given that, no-one, I mean no-one could criticize my work ethic or how I managed time. For example, one fix that would normally have taken 30 minutes took much longer because the environment was poorly managed and the failed employee fired. I came in on a Sunday afternoon, outside of the SLA (service level agreement) hours, began the repair that took 36 hours due to previous bad backups. The repair required a full rebuild of the system from the ground up and porting of data with layering in portions of backups that succeeded. In the end, many employees were able to get back to work much faster than they would have otherwise given the SLA adding value back to the organization. I was in on time the next morning and filled out the rest of the week as normal. That level of service goes very far to alleviate any negative perception. And that is the rub. While people will prefer early versus late and may be judgmental in the process, this can be offset by commitment, effectiveness, and honest efforts to accommodate the needs of the company. 

I hate to tell you, this is not a unique problem. Even when you are somebody's boss, this can happen. The suggestion to get your manager involved is a solid recommendation. However, to say you are powerless is a bit of a stretch. You have at least two tools in your box. 1] Anytime someone can blow you off, they will. Remember that! So what do you do? Do a walk about. Pick a time each week that suits you best (vary the day and time each week) and walk around to each of the developers and begin asking questions. Be cordial. Say hello. Introduce yourself. Explain your problem and how they can help with a smile. Say Thank You. Be as pleasant and gentle as possible, but be firm that you need your questions answered. If not now, it will be later. Make it clear, you are not there to make their life harder. If after lunch is better then fine. After lunch it is. If they continue to blow you off, simply explain that management will likely be asking questions and that you would rather say that ?? is extremely helpful instead of not particularly helpful. Two other tricks that help is to talk softly in a natural tone so that no-one else can really hear. You learn much more that way. Also, if you are talking to them, get as low or lower than they are. I have squatted on my heals to make this happen. Smile. Be friendly. After a while, you may be surprised that they begin e-mailing details as they go along. They know what is at stake for you and them and now you are a member of the team. This may take a few weeks to really begin working well. As long as they understand this is not a one-off behavior, they will relent. 2] If you are unable to do a walk about, then another great tool is accountability. I hate to be a pain in the *** (PIA), but sometimes, this is your only option, however, it should not be your first option. If you are e-mailing, cc your boss. Ask for a reply-all. If they do not reply-all, forward any response to your boss with a cc back to the individual. File everything forever. Same with your boss. Soon, everyone will begin to realize that there is accountability and that not responding is career suicide. Certainly, you have at least documented why you are having trouble doing your job. You can explain this to your boss. Explain that you are billing hours that are unproductive and that you prefer this was not the case. This is a good option anyway, certainly for CMMI, ISO, and other reasons, however, I prefer option 1 the best. I found that both options work well. It takes weeks for it all to begin working well. However, with option 1, you are setting yourself up for unbelievable success. I used this technique when taking over failed projects for a global telecom that had the eye of the CEO/Chairman of the Board. The more I used option 1, the more people realized that I was doing them a favor and the amount of cooperation I got was staggering. In fact, I had more of an impact than their own bosses who loved me because I made them look good too without management really understanding why. Everyone wins. 

I had a similar (sorta) experience that is rather funny. So forgive me as I tell you a story before the answer. I worked as a consultant to a global organization that everyone will recognize. For that reason, I will not mention it. Within this organization, a consultant is not a contractor. Consultants are held with very high esteem and afforded all of the privileges the organization affords all upper management including having teams of employees below them. We worked on a unique system that allowed communications and advanced tools for governments and our users where Kings, Presidents, Ambassadors, and anyone with the highest positions in country governments around the entire globe. This was a secure communication channel and handled very sensitive data. It comprised of systems and applications that required skill sets that normally one person would not have. Indeed, with only one person holding these skills world-wide and not within our group, we began training a new employee with these skills. The only person with the skills identified worked on another system within the organization where he was very busy. He often worked late and his skills and work was outstanding. His manager was replaced with someone without adequate skills to understand the system they were in charge of. It was the new managers assumption that the work required half of the hours currently expended and that the only person with the skill set ready to do the work, was indeed incompetent. Nothing was further from the truth. The new manager did not keep their opinion to themself and the one person with the skills began looking for another position with the belief that his days within the organization was limited. This, sadly, was a fact. The new manager placed an ad in the Washington Post for the skill set required without giving out any identifying information as to the company which was the norm in those days. It ended up the one being fired applied for his own job. I told him what he had done to his embarrassment. The person being fired was a friend of mine. My group often collaborated on technical solutions between the two systems prior to the arrival of the new manager. And so I had an idea. [insert evil grin] I hired my friend into my group secretly to begin immediately upon his termination. This was a no-brainer since we could use the help and my friend was absolutely the best technical expert in the matter. I also proposed to the new manager that we contract my group for the set number of hours, part-time, to service the other systems requirements. When the contract between the two groups was signed, the new manager fired my friend who simply walked over to his new desk across the street. It gets worse. We never specified how we were going to satisfy the new contract. [insert another evil grin] The employee to do the work was the same employee who had always done the work. You guessed it. While my friend changed desks, his work did not change, it was only part-time. The rest of the time he worked on our system. I am a stinker! Why did I tell you this story? Besides that it is funny, the new manager was rather poor. No question. But what was important was that I could trust telling my friend what was going on. Why? Because he knew that I had his back. He also knew that I would not betray him. I also knew he would not betray my trust. I could trust him completely. He epitomized the terms gentleman and professional. If you can trust your friend absolutely not to betray your trust, then telling him could be an option. He could simply be a gentleman and go through what is often a painful experience with grace and honor. Telling him can also smooth the way to a friendship that lasts. My friend and I remained friends and eventually we both found other things to do. The trust we built lasted well beyond the experience through many years. Sometimes trust and honor are what is most important. If you have it, spend it. But spend it wisely. 

One thing not mentioned that can apply in the U.S. and may elsewhere is one of liability. Be careful to stick to verifiable facts as much as you can. Do not offer an opinion. Be clear in your communications so that there cannot be any confusion or misunderstanding. Be kind. Assume the best. Do no harm. Be brief. Do not elaborate. How someone perceives your letter is their business. Do write a letter as it is gracious and the right thing to do for those who are requesting; the company and not Bob. It is not their fault for the confusion. It is a good policy not to put them in the middle. Do what you can to be as gentle as you can be. Put as much thought into your letter as you can for the sake of everyone. Remember this is a reflection of you as much as Bob. When satisfied, then let go of the matter and let the chips fall where they may. 

There can be quite a bit of debate over a the personal question regarding the shirt and the appropriateness of the question. Indeed, people will argue over whether a personal question is appropriate at all. I believe that personal questions can have value in the interview if done right. I will not make any arguments in that regard. I will leave it to you to decide where the line is drawn. Instead, I will give you an example by doing what I do best. Telling a story. I have been a consultant for many years and have been interviewed countless times as well as conducted many interviews. I personally believe that work is work and any personal life shall not enter into it. However, for team cohesion, some level of personality analysis should always be considered. Even then, some diversity in thought is appreciated and valuable. It is a fuzzy area. As well, there will be times, regardless of how hard we avoid it, that personality will enter the picture. We were conducting quite a few interviews and most of the candidates fell somewhat flat, however, with so many interviews, a few showed to be outstanding. One young, small, rather shy girl came to us with outstanding credentials who we hired. A month later, she admitted that she did not think we would hire her and that the interview was extremely difficult. This surprised me. We made the decision that she was the most qualified within the first 5 minutes and the remaining questions were mostly to evaluate how to place her skills within the team. Still, the final decision was not made till the very end. We did discover something that put making a final decision to rest immediately. We asked what her favorite hobby was. Here is this timid, mousy, little girl describing her addiction to sea diving. As it turned out, she was world class accomplished. Huh? Such a small creature has such nerve and bravery? Diving is not easy. I was a diver in the Navy. I should know. And yet she would outclass me. Her boldness in her hobby told us very quickly that she would fit in with us boys. She would be the only girl within a group of divers, submariners, sky divers, ex Military, hunters, surfers, athletes, etc. She was an outstanding hire. More to the point, she learned quickly how to stand her own ground amongst such strong personalities. She was quickly received and appreciated. As well, she was promoted several times and given great authority and responsibility. The adage you cannot judge a book by the cover comes to mind. If we had not asked the personal question, we never would have known more than what we could see and she might not have been hired. Who knows for sure? What I do know for sure is that we were all blown away and did not want to miss out on the opportunity to work with her. She did not hit the lobby floor before we began calling to say she was hired. (We were on the second floor.) So yes a personal question or two if properly couched can have a real benefit and may even be one of the greatest things you have ever done. I remember this hire most fondly. It was my last and greatest interview.