It kind-of does matter (not because anyone else gets to decide what you should do, but because you may decide to reschedule); if you can afford to cancel your personal appointment, offer to do so (preferably notifying your manager that you will take your time off, later). If you cannot reschedule/cancel your time (or simply do not want to), point it out ("I'm sorry but I cannot be in office this afternoon - I had notified X of this yesterday through email and he said it was OK"). 

You can't. What you can (and definitely shoud do) is make a written risk assessment and make sure your bosses read it. In it, describe the security risks, what (reasonable/affordable) actions can be taken to mitigate each risk, and what is the cost of not taking said action. Example: 

Yes, it is probably true. That said, it is also a red herring: Agreeing on your salary should not be done between yourself and their fair formula, but depending on other things (job responsibility, experience, market conditions etc); if the salary you need is not within their margins, they either have to go above their margins, or you could/should leave. 

If the deadline was something you committed to without external pressure, the best way is probably to state you overcommitted, learned from it and will commit to less on your next deadline. If the deadline was established by your manager/boss (without taking your input into account) then you should raise a couple of alarms and point out most of the problem appears from overtime itself: "I work beyond normal hours quite regularly (often continue at home after dinner) " - as a client I wouldn't want a product/service that is done on "after-hours work quality". The fact you have to do overtime on your project is a sign of poor management/planning. "occasionally I finish working on something but don't "Send" or finish [...] because I get too tired" - typically, work when you are exhausted is exceptionally lacking in quality. When I did overtime (I am a consultant now, so it doesn't happen anymore), I used to have situations when I would work on a problem for an entire evening (4hrs+ after work), then give up, come back the next morning and solve the same problem in 10 minutes. 

First of all, take the Transformers: Revenge of the Fallen DVD away from him. He's not John Malkovich, and unless your company is Google, Facebook, or Apple, IT people aren't going to be falling all over themselves to work there. There are far better ways to gauge how candidates handle stress, especially in the IT industry. As some of the comments have said, I'd walk out on that interview. What that HR person is doing isn't about "stress," I don't even think it's being "bad cop," it's being, simply put, a confrontational jackass and liar. Even if you feel that language is too strong, consider the fact that a large percentage of the people working in IT (especially development roles and whatnot) tend to be introverts, "Type B" people, and, in general, those that prefer to avoid confrontation, and may not even do all that well at all dealing with people like your HR manager, but are otherwise very good at their jobs. By doing the things your HR manager recommends, you immediately alienate these people, and to everyone else that doesn't think just like this HR manager, you send the message that this is a potentially hostile work environment. Gauging how someone handles stress is relatively easy in the IT industry - bring them in for a gauntlet day after they've passed enough interviews that you're seriously considering offering them a job. This gauntlet day would vary, depending on the job, but, for example, if it were for a developer, you'd give them a "code day," where you have a rather simple project and you give them a working day to do it. At the end of the day, you see not only how they tackled the project, but what they did throughout the day (how they reacted to things, etc). If they're tech support, you can give them broken computers to fix to see how they handle that. Basically, let them do something resembling the job (but not any real tasks, or you start getting into ethics territory again). Also, don't forget that the interview, itself, is stressful, and you can glean a lot of information about the person from the interview, without resorting to underhanded tactics. A lot of people are good at acting, of course, so it won't reveal the same things or as much as a code day will, but it can still tell you a lot. Remember: An interview is just as much about convincing a candidate to work there as it is about the candidate convincing you that they should work there. What I mean here is that interviews aren't one-sided. You, as a company, are looking to fill a position. You want someone who can do the job well. You interview people because their resumes looked good. If they're really as good as they seem, then you will have competition for them. That means, when you've decided on a candidate that you're considering hiring, you have to convince them that they want to work for you. And that goes beyond the job description, into company culture, and first impressions. With that in mind, what message, then, does your HR manager's behavior send to the candidates? 

This is/was your mistake. A manager is used to delegating. If you give an answer that sound so ... positive, most managers will consider they asked you to "handle the problem" and you said "yes". It wouldn't surprise me if you spoke with him again and he will go "you said you'd cancel". It is probable that if you try to back out now, you will appear as unprofessional (if the manager thought he can rely on your presence after your conversation). Basically, you're better off in this situation, going to work on that day. 

This will push a possible employer to offer you (or similar), if you are leaving because you dislike your current position, and if they think you are content in your current position, but they want to convince you to change anyway. When an employer states a figure first (i.e., they mention a figure first), it is the opposite: they expect you to ask for . Normally, in any (future) salary negotiation, the party that specifies a figure first, is at a disadvantage. 

You are not asking for more than your equal peers. Just because the company considers you in a pool of equally qualified people, doesn't mean their evaluation is correct (simply present the same arguments you would present if their fair formula was not there). 

Even not taking the above into account, it's not uncommon for companies to account for at least one night hotel stay. Many companies will do that even for people they're just interviewing. At least one night stay is not only not an unreasonable request, but should have been built in to begin with and should be expected, especially in a circumstance like that. As a general rule of thumb - if you're expecting the person to be on the clock in a day for more than what'd you'd normally expect out of an employee, you probably need a hotel. Two nights (one before, one after) is also not uncommon, but can go either way in a short trip like this, especially if the travel time is reasonable. That would probably depend more on the individual circumstance. Is the flight crossing time zones? How intensive or complex is the training? How intensive is the employee's usual work? If the employee is a high-level knowledge worker, the training is intensive or complex (or otherwise needs a high level of retention to successfully take home), and/or the trip crosses time zones, then you may want to try for the second night. A refreshed employee is going to retain what s/he learned better, and is going to be more productive when s/he's back at work than one who's exhausted by other things. The second night isn't an unreasonable request, but doesn't necessarily need pushed too hard for. It might also be good to ask the employee if they're okay with flying back the same night. Barring getting the second night, it might be a good courtesy for you to extend to the employee the option to only work in the afternoon following the training, allowing the employee to get adequate rest. Such a courtesy can result in a more productive employee, due to their trust in you to treat them like an adult and a human being (morale boost!), and due to being able to get some extra rest. Having a butt in a chair from 9am to 5pm does not equal productivity. 

If you didn't write it down, you haven't taken a decision about it before. This means that everybody will (maybe) remember something of it and have an opinion - not a business decision (because the decision wasn't formalized / written down). 

Context switching is costly. If you have a schedule that pushes you to switch focus between very different types of work, this can be (at the very least) exhausting; Usually, it is the equivalent of being distracted all the time. Consider: 

The important parts: write it down while it's fresh, share it with involved people, store it (in such a way that it is indexable/findable easy). If there is big controversy in a decision (half the team wants it one way and half another way) then also write down a note on the controversy and what was decided. 

It is not rude. Regarding professionalism, this depends a lot on the position, your responsibilities and the project you are working on. In some cases it may be OK (or even expected), in some it may be unprofessional. 

When you have work-related tasks that you cannot do because of other work-related tasks, notify your manager. It is his job to ensure your tasks do not conflict with each other (i.e. "manage" your tasks). This means, if you have two (or more) managers asking for your time, have them fight it out between themselves. When the second request comes in, tell the manager you will be able to get to it only after he confirms with your first manager (and lets you know), or after he tells you the responsibility for the first task not getting done, will be his. 

Maternity leave is a benefit not unlike other paid time off. Therefore, they shouldn't be able to expect it back if you've used it, unless it was written into a contract. The Family Medical Leave Act (assuming you're in the US) makes it illegal for them to fire you for taking the leave, which is probably why they're trying to coerce you into leaving. Your company's behavior (is it really the whole company, or just certain managers?) could constitute a hostile work environment. If your company is large enough, talk to your HR department, ethic committee, or Open Door line (the anonymous help line that larger companies often have) about the situation. They can probably handle the managers, regardless of whether you decide to stay or leave. If you are worried about the company retaliating, see if you have any law schools around you. Some have legal clinics, where they provide certain services for free, if you're willing to have a senior-level student head the case (generally under the guidance of a barred lawyer, but the student does the legwork). I've personally had good experience with this path when I needed it, and sometimes, just knowing that you have the backing of legal council can make the company think twice about playing the lawyer game, not to mention that it equips you with someone who knows the laws in your local area. If nothing else, it's probably worth talking to them to see if there is anything the company might use to try to strong-arm you (and, if they do have a "return maternity leave pay" clause, whether it's actually kosher in your area). It never hurts to know your rights.