Thus, it's highly unlikely you'll suffer any ill effects from food exposed to the metal of your can. 

Overall this sounds like just another scare story by people who fear technology (and possibly anything they don't understand). 

So no, a simple test of scratching glass won't identify a synthetic diamond from a natural one. In fact the synthetic may well scratch things the natural one can't scratch! 

Ergo, the only conclusion I can draw from what data I have and know from past study of such systems (a lot of it from printed books) is that no such ballistic missile with the capabilities implied exists in the US arsenal, and that any launch of such if it existed would have been very rapidly detected and responded to by the Russians and possibly others. 

First you have to figure out what cans are made of. There's many metals used, and then there's alloys of those metals. Tin (or rather tin plated steel alloy), and aluminium seem the most common. $URL$ 

sexual reproduction would exclude the possibility (as there'd be no way to impregnate them prenatally, obviously, unless you want to have offspring impregnated by their own fathers by encapsulting some of their semen into their bodies during gestation), so you should limit your search to those creatures reproducing a-sexually. The closest I could find quickly was the budding of jellyfish, but that's not really the same. Here a single polyp splits into multiple young jellyfish over time. This is asexual reproduction of a polyp which is itself the result of sexual reproduction. Nice description (with a diagram) on wikipedia: $URL$ More info confirming this on $URL$ $URL$ $URL$ 

Per mile driven, are motorcycle riders more likely to die, more likely to get in an accident, or more likely to get in a severe accident, than the average driver of a four-wheel car? Wikipedia's Motorcycle safety: Accident rates article starts with, 

The exemption from the ordinance is because they are now a "religious corporation". The ordinance applies to secular businesses: 

I can't find the original quote online; the existence of this definition is also alleged by a New York Times editor, who wrote here, 

An ACLU report © 2014 titled War Comes Home -- The Excessive Militarization of American Policing says that in their statistical study of 800 SWAT deployments conducted by 20 law enforcement agencies during the years 2011-2012, 62% were for drug searches (including marijuana). 

Given how much the dose varied at its peak I expect that even "partial infilling" will have made an orders-of-magnitude difference to the 'peak' exposure levels. 

I can't vouch for its fidelity to the original A photo of this sentence can be found on page 271 of the First edition on Gallica. 

I suspect it's also possible to come up with some counter-examples: for example, that nobody gets "really good" at writing chinese in anything like 20 hours. 

They're both correct. Consider for example Victory for Forests: Disney Stands Up for Endangered Forests and Animals (from November 2012) which says, 

... (blue objects such as for example steel, and that first bit about the British is presumably about woad). The use of caeruleum is attributed to Caesar, Virgil, Ovid, Cicero, and Pliny, i.e. classical and not just medieval Latin. 

Non-smokers are obviously not addicted to cigarettes. As non-smokers smoker 0 cigarettes a day, and 0 is less than 3, there's some truth to the assertion. 

As to it being an Israeli missile, Yahoo news shows a map of one being fired over what looks like the Adriatic and dated 03 September. So not from Spain at all (and the timing might also be wrong, I don't know the supposed launch date from the Libyan claim). The Jeruzalem post confirms and details what was launched and tested, but doesn't mention the capabilities (range, speed, etc.) of the missile. This article lists the size and has a decent photograph of the Sparrow ballistc missile decoy, which from the looks of it doesn't seem like it has anything near 4000km range (and the map shown by Yahoo seems to indicate more like several hundred km). Even if you don't believe any of those sources, you might be more inclined to believe Al Jazeera, not exactly a friend of Israel, who don't question the launch. A major problem finding any data on this vehicle is the fact that its name is identical to an old and very common US air to air missile, so any search comes up with thousands of hits about that one (and in fact many news stories about the 03 September launch mistakenly include photographs of that one). 

That said, this report $URL$ suggests even secondhand smoke can cause nicotine addiction, one symptom of smoking addiction. $URL$ possibly has more information, don't have time now to browse through the entire site. 

Some conspiracy-theorists claim that he must have been Mughal, in order to have been appointed Kotwal. I don't find that argument convincing (not necessarily true), for example because Wikipedia says of Bahadur Shah II, 

And PCBS, DDE, DDT, and TCDD-EQ in two species of albatross on Sand Island, Midway Atoll, North Pacific Ocean 

Note that "death" is not the only potential complication which results from measles: there's also a also risk of non-fatal pneumonia, encephalitis, ocular complications (keratitis, corneal scarring, blindness), and malnutrition. In summary, the numbers in the graph are true but the answer depends on what you mean by "under control": i.e. before vaccines were introduced, the disease was still pandemic, but they'd learned how to treat everyone who became ill, such that with enough medical care they could keep most people from actually dying of the disease. 

The following articles suggest that dinosaurs breathed efficiently, like birds do still: which allowed them to cope with low oxygen levels that killed off other species. Note that some birds are able to breathe and fly at 20,000 feet, where the oxygen is lower (less than half sea-level pressure). 

The first one is apparently real. This site and this site claim it's from a specific (Belgian) ad agency. 

The first of the lethal bombings listed in the OP has a Wikipedia article, Church Street bombing (20 May 1983), which says, 

To test that theory, you would need to look into the Moghul records (and/or find evidence for the existence of Lakshmi Narayan Nehru). 

Page 41 of the referenced study/document does claim that, per its projections/algorithms, Sweden's HDI will drop, from 0.949 to 0.906 (e.g. to 45th place). 45th place is relatively low-ish (for comparison, currently Portugal is in about 45th place) but not "third world" ... the absolute HDI is still above 0.9 ... part of the reason why it's projected to be relatively low is that HDI of other countries are expected to rise. My initial answer was as follows: The document talks about how it calculates but doesn't explain it well/clearly enough for me to understand. The document doesn't include the actual calculations for Sweden, only the result of the calculations. However I think I understand it now, as follows. The start of the document says, 

$URL$ This could well be the origin of this myth, however the poisoning could happen with sealed as well as opened cans. Now, with the scare about BPA poisoning, the internal coating/liner of modern cans is blamed by some for all kinds of scary diseases as well, but as mentioned in other questions there is no real scientific evidence to back up the claims that BPA is toxic in the concentrations found in those linings except maybe for infants. For example a recent US government study indicates that: 

Just a smithering of links from all sides of the political spectrum. Some more alarmist than others, but all agree on one thing: it's a massive attempted powergrab to establish total UN control over all aspects of human existence, and total social and economical restructuring around a deindustrialised society. Whether there's some "secret society" to which those who push for it belong is of course not answered or even mentioned, as such would be impossible to prove anyway (after all, if it were known to exist and those people known to be members it'd hardly be a secret society). 

I've been unable to find anything that would suggest a phone that's connected to a charger produces more "radiation" than one that isn't so hooked up. At MOST a phone that's hooked up would be unlikely to have battery saver functions activated, functions that when turned on can do things like lower the power settings for Bluetooth and WiFi, and disable GPS reception, which could count as "producing less radiation". Of course a phone that's being charged while turned on would produce more radiation that one that's turned off, but that's irrespective of whether the phone that's turned off is being charged or not so not a possible explanation for the urban legend either. 

The allegation that cruelty happens, and is not reported by the workers involved, finds some support in articles like this one. However Anti-Whistleblower Bills Hide Factory-Farming Abuses from the Public suggests that anti-whistleblower ("ag-gag") bills have been introduced but not passed; so apparently it is still legal (per the First Amendment which allows journalists to report) to produce videos like the one you cited in the OP. Conclusion This story from today's news (from Canada) seems to me typical of other articles I read while researching this answer: 'Horrific' conditions seen in egg industry are 'unacceptable': Egg Farmers of Canada. In my opinion, the following is a summary of what's happening: 

I don't know what Mandela's own views, intentions, or actions were re. a hypothetical future guerrilla war, civil war, and/or invasion of South Africa by foreign armies. In summary the evidence suggests that Mandela's actions and intentions were not "non-violent", but he was not a killer. In his own defence, he wrote, 

In July 2014 the CBC reported, Vapourizing marijuana is gaining momentum as a safer alternative to smoking it, says a Canadian doctor. ... One vapourizer is currently approved by Health Canada ... The device costs roughly $600. 

However this slightly later article by CNN dated August 11, 2014 (Updated 1746 GMT), quotes a close (but not identical) source, i.e. this time a "spokesman" from the Iraqi human rights ministry rather than the minister himself, as saying, 

The same story is told in Coeur d'Alene Says Hitching Post Is Exempt From Gay Rights Law, which says, 

A size of 2000 might count as a city -- for example most of the cities in England were about that size of population, in the 14th century.