As I recall, we were taught in Latin that "b" was pronounced like "v", but in class we always said "b" anyway. For example, "liber" was pronounced LEE-ber. Now, in Welsh the word for book is "llyfr" which is pronounced "liffer" and is the same word, so this would suggest that the ancient Romans pronounced liber the same way, liffer. Is that true, or was it pronounced libber or lee-ber? Or were different pronounciations used randomly by some Romans and not others? 

In this excerpt from the online version of RIM we see raised half brackets around "ri-ik-DI-DINGIR" in the first line, around the "EN" in the second line, and around "sur" in the third line. The same kind of notation is found in the printed version. What does this notation mean? What book describes these notations? I have read the paper volumes of RIM and they do not explain the notation in the book. It seems kind of strange that RIM should use a notation and not explain it. Is there a particular volume of RIM that explains how they use notation? (Note that in the preface to the books it says that "Further technical details of the system of transcription is given in the Editorial Manual", but nowhere can I find this so-called 'editorial manual'.) 

I heard about an Indian woman (possibly Hindu) with a given name of Sati the other day. Checking the internet, this site confirmed that Sati is an Indian female name. Is the name "Sati" related to the name of the Hindu goddess Sati who self-immolated, or is it just a coincidence (the name's only two syllables long, so it seems plausible)? 

I've heard of the Mongolian vowel separator from programmers, who regard it as an interesting quirk in Unicode. When I google for it, most of the hits are from those revelling in its geekiness. But as someone dabbling a bit in Mongolian, I'd like to know: What is it used for? 

In transcriptions of the Akkadian language, there are frequently superscript prefixes. For example, in the transcription of Amarna Tablet #16: 

Originally, the word "tea" was pronounced "tay", which would suggest that a simple "e" is short (pronounced "eh") and by adding the "a", it becomes long "ay". However, we also have the diphthong "ae", often found in Latin words which seems to be pronounced the same way, "ay", like a long A. So, is this just two different diphthongs that happen to be pronounced the same way coincidentally, one coming from English and the other from Latin, or is there a subtle difference in pronunciation between the two? 

Recently, I learnt that the literal meaning of the main written Japanese form for dolphin, "海豚", is "sea" and "pig". The Japanese person mentioning that noted that he didn't know for sure why that was the case. At first I thought it was because dolphin meat was similar to pork, but then I looked further into it. 海豚 is also used in Chinese. Meanwhile, the English word "porpoise", which comes from Medieval Latin via French, is based on a compound of pig and fish. In addition, the Welsh for "porpoise" is based on sea pig and sea sow. Online Etymology Dictionary mentions that Latin had "porculus marinus", with the theory that its snout looked like that of a pig. The Wikipedia article Marine mammals as food mentions that in Peru, dolphin meat is referred to as "sea pork". I came across the fact that the German for guinea pig is "sea pig", but I'm not looking into that. Why are some sea mammals called "sea pigs", especially in Chinese/Japanese? Failing that, has there been any cases of sea mammals being called "sea pigs", where it is known that the speakers of that language don't eat sea mammal meat? 

I am trying to figure out why it is that Babylonian (and Assyrian) king names do not match their Akkadian transcription. For example, in the one known inscription for Nabonassar, which is written in Akkadian, his name is given as "AG-URU-ir", but it is translated as "Nabu-nasir". How is the translator (Grant Frame?) obtaining Nabu-nasir from AG-URU-ir? This same phenomena is true not just for kings, but lesser officials as well. For example, in the same inscription, the viceroy of Babylon is named as AG-GIN-NUMUN and this is translated as Nabu-mukin-zeri. I would guess this is supposed to be the same name in a different language? In other words the cuneiform symbols have different soundings depending on the language. So, AG=Nabu, URU=nas, GIN=mukin, etc. What is the explanation? 

Some languages change what writing system they use. For example, Old English used to use Anglo-Saxon runes but eventually used the Latin alphabet, and Mongolian in Mongolia uses the Mongolian Cyrillic alphabet (while in China they still use the Traditional Mongolian alphabet). Likewise, some languages used to not have any writing at all. Does the change in writing system change the language, such as how words are pronounced? 

The specific claim that "Eskimos have X words for snow" is heavily disputed. However, is the general concept that certain cultures' languages often have a large number of words for things that are important in that culture valid? Examples of this I recently encountered include Lonely Planet's guidebook on Mongolia saying that Mongolian has a large number of words for horse skin colour compared to English (IIRC), and a claim on the BBC that Japanese has a larger vocabulary for apologizing than English (The many ways to say sorry in Japanese) 

I know how to pronounce Ypres in both French and English, but what about the pronounciations in Flemish, Belgian, Dutch and German? How is it pronounced all six ways? 

Here there are prefixes such as "matu" and "ilu". What is the meaning of the prefixes? If they represent characters in the actual cuneiform text, why are they not rendered the same as the other characters? Also, as long as we are on the topic, what does the notation mean (found twice in the transcription above)? Note that this transcription is from Die Amarna Tafeln by Knudtzon, one of the standard works of historical Assyriology. 

In English, most loanwords from Japanese are pronounced similarly to the Japanese word. It isn't an exact match, for example with "karaoke" the pronunciation of the second "a" differs between English and Japanese, but it's fairly similar. Likewise, many languages that are unrelated to English, but are not from East Asia, have a similar pronunciation as the Japanese word. For example, according to Wiktionary, the Hebrew word for origami is אוֹרִיגָמִי (origami). (I don't know whether Hebrew got the word from English, or directly from Japanese) It seems that the pronunciation of the Chinese translation of words that, in English, are loanwords from Japanese, is radically different from the pronunciation of the word in Japanese. I don't speak Chinese, but it meant that when I was speaking in English with Taiwanese people who were native speakers of Chinese but reasonably fluent in English, they didn't understand some Japanese loanwords I used. I'm finding it a little hard to find good examples, but "origami" seems to be one. None of the Chinese translations of origami seem to have a similar pronunciation to the Japanese word. (I could be mistaken though - maybe the pronunciations of the Chinese words "摺紙", "折紙", "折纸", "折紙藝術", and "折纸艺术" are the closest thing you could have to pronouncing the syllables of "origami" in the Chinese language) Is this the case? If so, why? Is it because Chinese speakers take the written form of the Japanese word, turn it into a written Chinese word, and then pronounce the word the way they would pronounce a native Chinese word that was written the way it was written? Alternatively, are words that are Japanese loanwords in English derived from Japanese words that are ultimately derived from Chinese words, and it's the Japanese word that's "different" in pronunciation, not the Chinese word? In addition, in which languages is the pronunciation of words that are loanwords in English greatly different from the pronunciation in Japanese? For example, does this happen in Korean?