Apparently he stuck to the old name despite accepting Polish rule over the town. This change or the resistance to it might be politically enforced or not. Quite often it seems less than a statement to such end but rather benign (Stettino). More surprising seems that a location with this history and geography apparently did not have a name in the 'other' language, like Köln/Cologne, Danzig/Gdansk, Brünn/Brno, Eger/Cheb, Lemberg/Lwiw/Lvov/Lwów), Dresden/Drežďany/Drážďany/Drezno)… Name changes were not totally unheard of for German cities either (Long list on Wikipedia, though not all 'pure' name changes). From a more international perspective, List of city name changes can provide a glimpse into how common renaming was and is. A very close matching example in time and intention from a non-totalitarian country is a city that changed its name in 1893/4 as a tribute to Marshal Floriano Peixoto from Desterro to Florianpolis. 

A valid premise for research is that "Murat" is a word/name of Turkish/Arabic origin, therefor Joachim Murat may have a family name of similar decent. One problem not accounted for is that this might be a false premise, since it was apparently left unchecked whether "murat" might be actually something inherently French. And Murat is actually found several times in France as a toponym or hydronym: 

As many smokers might know, this herb will sooth the need to cough. A need that it itself contributes to. Short time effects in a habituated individual are the opposite of its long term effects. Believing in a effect you can experience yourself is not difficult. When this herb was "discovered" by the Europeans they quickly inquired into all of its properties. Being a sacred plant to the Americans ("Indians") used in many healing rituals, this knowledge traveled back, and was adopted. Tobacco was a true wonder drug, capable od soothing everything, curing everything. Although the Americans thought of its mode of action in much more spiritual ways, the Europaens were much more mechanistic in their understanding. 

There are only two realistic options to protect ears from the noise of gunfire: keep away from guns, or don't use them. 

More on that shift in: Gerald D. Nash: "The American West Transformed: The Impact of the Second World War", Universy of Nebraska Press, 1990. 

Regarding Cuba especially: Castro was not firmly communist from the start. Only after the revolution against Batista and his failed attempt to secure good relations with the US and aid from the US he turned to his second best option: the Soviet Union. Monroe doctrine aside the US tried very hard to get rid of him, even invaded the Bay of Pigs to make a small regime change in their interests favour. So, there was another very practical reason at hand. Not for the Soviet Union, but for Cuba. They begged the Soviets for missiles to prevent further US mingling with their country. As seen after the Cuban missile crisis was over, it worked both ways. 

But that changed starting with Caesar's campaign in Gaul and was quite professionalised by the time of Trajan. The second paragraph quoted in the question is quite misleading, as they at least mixed up AD and BC abbreviations, correctly noted in the question. Apollo the healer and Aesculapius were well introduced within Rome by then. And they were imported officially, by the state itself. More serious is that the article seems to amalgamate anachronistically the non-existant duality of physical and spiritual healing, which were often found together on one and the same continuum, despite what progressivist apologetes of Hippokrates – "Father of Modern (non-spiritual) Medicine" – would like to believe. Providing a public facility for spiritual healing was one form of "medical facility". (Cf. Hortsmannshoff: "'Did the god learn medicine?' Asclepius and Temple Medicine in Aelius Aristides' Sacred Tales" p 325-342.) 

One of the weaknesses or difficulties in how this question is phrased is its insistence on Western Europe in the seventies while trying to focus on Austria and Switzerland as well. The problem there is that both countries were not members of the European Economic Community in the 1970s resulting in basically bilateral agreements and treatise for every neighbour of Switzerland and Austria to be considered mandatorily. 

The oldest lens suitable for this purpose and still "somewhat in working oder" seems to be the Nimrud Lens: which is only 3000 years young. Although it is duly noted that: 

Nevertheless, the really crucial total data for status quo ante that was available, in principle, was twisted into ignoreance, to please a certain man: 

That needs some differentiation: "What were the laws on suicide in the Third Reich?" is easier to answer than "Was it illegal to kill yourself? What about self-maiming, like blinding yourself?" since you have to differentiate that in terms of situation. If any Jew killed himself, that was quite welcome by the regime. If a frontline soldier maimed himself he was punished for cowardice. In their urge for racial purity of the Volkskörper (nation's body) criminals, Jews, disabled, everything and everyone unwanted was (in)officially encouraged to commit suicide. Only maiming oneself was seen as adding an additional burden to the Volkskörper (aka the taxpayer?). Able bodied Aryans, however, are a completely different story. They had a body of their own, but it didn't belong to them anymore. It was now part of the Volkskörper or Volksgemeinschaft. Suicide would mean to rob the Volksgemeinschaft and was therefor illegal. If anyone wanted to die, not belonging to the unwanted category, his only option in nazi theory was to do so killing Russians and the like. Suicide-by-enemy or suicide attacks were sometimes officially encouraged. One example was the German variant of kamikaze, the Sonderkommando Elbe or Leonidas Squadron. But that was not really codified in law during the nazi reign. It was however enforced in courts, since nazi law and nazi rule were not always concerned with adhering to the concept of positive law, but increasingly on gesundes Volksempfinden (~ "healthy feeling [~common sense] of the people"). The following are some excerpts: 

And this can be detailed even further by looking at the physical properties of the materials employed at the time. Done so surrounding Ch. 6: A Quest for Wisdom: The 6th-century Mosaics of Hagia Sophia and Late Antique Aesthetics; in : Chris Entwistle and Liz James (Eds): "New Light on Old Glass: Recent Research on Byzantine Mosaics and Glass", British Museum: London, 2013. 

Another reason for the "practice of shooting long" is mentioned slightly earlier in the text, Xen. Anab. 3.3.15: