Transport to where? Into the empty void of space? Thats certain death. habitable planets are a rarity, and you have even said that help is 12 light-hours away. That means there simply isn't anything in transporter range. The only option would be to transport the crew from where they are currently standing into the escape pods. However, the escape pods are a last resort. The ship is already failing. power could go out any moment due to the damaged core.The batlle with the pirates has damaged a lot of systems. transporters are an intricate piece of technology, the slightest malfunction can be fatal. Its a little bit like elevators and fires. you don#t use an elevator when the building is on fire because it might already be compromised. You don't use the transporters for the same reason - the are no longer safe to use, and running on foot to the nearest escape pod is the safest solution. Another problem is throughput. While it might be possible to transport a few people at a time, transporters might simply not be able to mass-transport several hundred people at once from all over the ship. Furthermore, your assumption of panicking and chaos might be wrong. The crew of a spaceship is likely well trained and has regular safety exercises in order to ensure an orderly and timely evacuation. 

You would have absolutely no seasons whatsoever, and thus - depending on the output of your star - either a lush evergreen jungle or a desert, or anything in between, but no changing environment that has different behavior depending on seasons. Also, lack of moonlight being reflected means pitch dark nights, which would influence predators. Better night vision is necessary, while other species might prefer to stay in sheltered locations during the night. Fire (or another light source) will be very important for an intelligent species that does not have night vision. Sun dials as clocks will not be possible, so time has to be kept track of in another way. Similarly, animals need to have some kind of "sixth sense" to tell time and to go to shelter in time. How they do that without any apparent way to tell the time? No idea, honestly. Plantlife would probably develop differently, since trees will now completely block the light. So no plants underneath trees anymore (with a rising/setting sun, those get at least some sunlight, if the sun is fixed, they do not). For an intelligent species, navigation would be difficult without a way to tell cardinal directions by watching the sun. There will be lots of small but noticeable differences, listing them all would prove futile. 

Based on that, you could have a minor planet made of ice, 260 km in diameter, and consisting entirely of water, I think, with a surface layer of organic ionic fluids or a scum of organics in solid form floating on the surface. That could last for billions of years. That makes it about the same size as 88 Thisbe 

Assuming you mean a liquid ocean of water which beings sufficiently adapted could potentially swim all the way through, it would have to be small because water when compressed enough becomes ice - or else - to have a hot core, which it might have soon after formation, or be tidally heated. So, first, the easiest case, if you don’t need it to have enough gravity to hold an atmosphere, I don’t see why not. Basically you want a large comet, in an orbit which keeps it permanently liquid. We could create such a world artificially in our solar system with mega engineering by diverting a comet into just the right orbit around the Sun. However, unless we add something extra to the picture, it wouldn’t last long. The problem is that water evaporates rapidly in a vacuum. And to have enough gravity to stop that happening With surface temperature of 273.15 K and using the equation for mass loss of liquid water in a vacuum of (pe/7.2) * squrt (M/T) kg / m2 / sec (equation 3.26 - compare calculation results here: Modern Vacuum Physics) where M is the molar mass, T is the temperature in kelvin, pe is the vapour pressure, which for water at 0 C (273.15 K) is 611.3Pa, (Vapour pressure of water at 0 C), M = 0.018 kg, gives (611.3/7.2) * sqrt(0.018/295) = 0.663 kg / m2 / sec. So you lose about 57 meters a day thickness of liquid water exposed to a vacuum, or about 20.9 kilometers of water per year. The rate of loss goes up if the temperature increases and is 2.495 kg / m2 /sec at 295 k, or 22 C. That’s 215.6 meters per day and 78.6 km per year. So, a liquid water comet would not last for long. That is unless you get a constant influx of other comets bringing more water to it. What if the object is large enough to retain liquid water for long periods of time?That’s only possible if it has at least enough gravity to retain a significant amount of atmosphere, even if the atmosphere is just water vapour, or oxygen (after dissociation of the water by radiation). ~But then - it will surely have a solid ice core. In that case, if the water is also salty, it might well have a “club sandwich” type pattern of alternating layers of ice and water as suggested for Ganymede, of various types of ice, with some of them “snowing upwards” [] Ganymede׳s internal structure including thermodynamics of magnesium sulfate oceans in contact with ice But even Ganymede is not large enough to retain an atmosphere to protect the surface layer of water. Its diameter is 5,268 km so if brought close enough to the Sun to have a permanently liquid surface layer, it would vanish completely in 67 years. It could build up a temporary atmosphere though as the water evaporated. It’s gravity is similar to the Moon’s. Can we terraform the Moon? If yes, how difficult is it and is it possible with the current technology? So using a calculation from that answer, if you hit it with a comet 164 km in diameter you’d have enough material for an atmosphere which would last for 10,000 years. Since the volume goes up as the cube, that means with a similar pressure atmosphere, a moon the size of Ganymede could last for 10,000*(5,268/164)^3 = 331 million years before evaporating completely if it built up an Earth pressure atmosphere. And the atmosphere would consist of water vapour and oxygen, so might well be breathable too, especially if you can somehow introduce some nitrogen as a buffer gas. But that’s still no good if you want the core to be liquid all the way through. There is another solution though. If you are willing to do it artificially, you could cover the entire surface of a small comet with a low density liquid which also has a low evaporation pressure. Indeed, comets are rich in organics anyway, so if you could bring a comet to just the right distance from the Sun, not too far, not too close, then as it melted, it would develop a layer of scum like that. And that might well be habitable too, with organics and an oxygen rich ocean too, due to similar processes to the ones that make Europa’s ocean oxygen rich. Organics with a high evaporation rate would disappear leaving only those with a low evaporation rate, and perhaps solid layers as well. So if you are okay with your planet being a tiny comet sized object, and your water can be a bit “dirty” with organics, which means it can also support life, I’d say yes, it does seem possible. Europa’s ocean may be as much as 100 km thick, with a surface layer 10 - 30 km thick. 

A few days. Without supporting infrastructure, the city is immediately without electricity and -- more importantly -- water. Food will last for days, maybe even weeks. Being without electricity isn't a problem for survival, but being without water is. There aren't many sources of water in a city. Even if the city has a river, getting water to the households will be difficult. Compared to the number of inhabitants and the area a metropolis typically covers, having access to a big river does almost nothing. Having more, but smaller rivers would be more ebneficial. The ancient Rome had the river Tiber flowing through it. In modern standards, it wasn't a metropolis. But they still needed an intricte system of aqueducts (who got the water from the "nearby" mountains), springs and public beths to get water to everyone. It is considered one of the major achievements of the time. Modern systems all work with electricity. Without pumps running, the water pressure in the pipes will drop immediately. People will start riots immediately. Stores will be raided for supplies. Those won't last long. After a few days, people either start dying from lack of water or leave the city. Since there isn't anything left in the wilderness, there will be plenty of sources of fresh, uncontaminated water. So, a mass exodus paired with a lot of deaths will leave the city almost empty. There will be only a handfull of people who can gather enough water from roofs etc. left. But it will be a ghost town, nothing coming even close to 50%. Metroplis are the most densely populated areas on the world and at the same time the most hostile in terms of survival. Lots of concrete, and not much opportunities to get fresh water or grow food, except for filtering rainfall from rooftops and using public parks. 

Does the axis of rotation change with it? Because if the axis of rotation stays fixed wrt. to the sun, then you'd have one half of the planet bathed in sunlight for half a year, and the other half in complete darkness for half a year. Pretty hostile. If the axis of rotation also changes, not much would be different. The sun is almost completely a perfect sphere (one of the most perfect spheres we have yet found in nature), so I suspect that radiation emitted is quite uniform. many features of the sun are equally found at the poles and at the equator (e.g. coronal holes). But our ability to reach other planets would be drastically dimished, because plane changes are very, very expensive. You have to spend $\Delta v = v_0 \cdot sin \left( \frac \theta 2 \right)$ m/s just to change the plane. In case of the earth, the mean orbital speed is ~30km/s, so you would need another 21km/s delta-v for the plane change. This is pretty prohibitive (say goodbye to space travel to anything else then the moon). And you'd have to explain how that came to be, since conservation of angular momentum dictates that all bodies should (roughly) orbit in the same plane. So such a solar system could only evolve if the planet got pulled there by another big source of gravity, e.g. a big rogue planet passing through. I sadly don't have good information on the suns radiation from the poles. But the suns magnetosphere does not seem to be much of a concern for your planet. A much greater concern would be the stability of the orbit. Jupiter and the other bodies perturb the earths orbit, but since we are in the same plane, the system is quite stable for the forseeable (million of years) future. but with Earth being heavily inclined, I could imagine the system to be a lot less stable. Maybe you plug it into Universe Sandbox or similar see the results. 

Vesta, Ceres and the Moon to scale at 20 km per px I’m just using the figures for Europa and the depth of its subsurface ocean, which is kept liquid by tidal heating, and assuming the situation is similar - so this is just a rough estimate as it would depend on what you have by way of an energy source to keep your planet or moon warm. With just surface heating, surely the center would cool down eventually. Tidal heating could be a way to keep your planet liquid just as for Europa, so if you make it so that it orbits a hot Jupiter - those are planets like Jupiter that end up in orbits close to their sun, and they may well have liquid water moons. Another solution, without the layer of ionic liquids or similar, is to have a constant influx of comets to replenish the water. I can imagine some scenarios where that could work, e.g. soon after formation of a solar system. It also might work for a while later on in a white dwarf star with material brought into it through destruction of its Oort cloud and perturbing effects of an extra planet, see Our Solar System Could Lose One Or More Of Its Gas Giants Billions Of Years In The Future - and that would also help keep it hot. In a situation like that maybe even quite a large minor planet would stay hot enough to stay liquid all the way through. But the tidal heating + surface thin layer seems the easiest solution to me. So, in short, I think this scenario could actually exist in nature, if you don’t mind having an ocean rich in organics, covered with a thin layer of organics, and make it a moon orbiting a gas giant rather than a planet on its own. This is just a rough estimate. Would be interesting if someone was to do a paper on it - has anyone? Would a liquid water world the size of Vesta or even Ceres be possible, with tidal heating to keep it warm? Can a hot Jupiter have a moon of pure ice? (I don’t see why not if it formed far enough away from its host star originally, but would be interesting to know how likely that is). This is a copy of my quora answer to Is a planet entirely made of only liquid possible? 

Whatever suits your needs. The job is dangerous. If the rewards are high enough, people will do that job. This can go either way. High one-off payments (high bounties on the monsters, for examples) will motivate risky behavior. everyone hopes to slay enough monsters to get enough saving so that he/she can retire. This opens possibilities for broke ex-hunters who have spent all their savings. Or you provide other benefits. maybe the guilds have insurances and pay their members. If the insurance is good, then its just a job like every other, even if riskier. 

Their society would have evolved drastically different then ours. Its highly likely that people would trade with these years. Religious cults practicing child sacrifices for the greater good of their great leaders. Maybe people would even straight out produce children to sell them. This is something hard to get rid of, because even if you make it illegal, a black market will emerge. People wanting to buy those years will get them, no matter what they need to do. Furthermore, it might be beneficial to have a regulated market where everyone can buy the years he wants. Getting the years of the killed means that you give murder a whole new - very attractive - incentive. Murder is no longer petty, it is good for your own health. Who wouldn't be tempted by the prospect of living forever if only he killed someone every now and then? Its basically the premise of every moral struggle in vampire stories, e.g. TVD et al.. That means a regulated market will be needed to keep murder rates down. If you can prolong your life at an affordable price, without much hassle, then its much better to do so instead of going on an unsanctioned killing-spree. The market will need to be affordable enough so that most people can buy the years they need or want. Maybe its even subsidized, so that even the financially weak aren't tempted by murder. Otherwise people will start to "steal" these years by simply killing random people. In such a society, the conviction of a murder is only a good to be sold. Maybe there is a tombola. Or an auction. Or a raflle, or any other kind of give-away. Someone has to produce all those years for the market anyways, so this is an excellent opportunity to boost numbers. Some people will inevitably be very, very old.