Those are all the things that many people skip over when figuring out what to do. Either they already know what program that someone else set up they want to use, or they just jump into training. You'll notice that I didn't touch on exercise balance just yet, but I will get to it. An example of a good approach for beginner to early advanced trainees would be the following: 

According to the "Practical Programming for Weight Training" book we have some common rep ranges that cause different adaptations: 

You mentioned that you currently do a lot of isolation exercises, and I assume you are doing those for aesthetic or bodybuilding purposes. What I don't know is whether this new program is an even replacement for the amount of work you've been doing or whether it's an increase or decrease in the overall amount of work. My guess is the gym trainer is a personal trainer at the gym you go to. If you are paying him for his services, I would be more demanding in keeping focused on the type of work you want to do. If you are not paying him for his advice, then you are free to disregard it. My recommendations? 

The short and pithy answer to your question is "the same way you lose fat even if you aren't fit". What this boils down to getting your food and exercise on a plan that will work for you. There's a couple ways to approach it: 

You should be able to get bigger and increase your body weight in a way that still looks good. The same structure can be used to lose weight--but in that case you should probably take 10 days and keep the carbs at or below 30g, and on rest days keep the carbs as low as 30g. 

Short of getting coached directly, the best tool for the job is taking video. There are a number of digital video recorders that have at least an hour of video available on the device. When you are training by yourself, you want a video recorder that can stable enough for you to stand up and trust that it won't fall over while you are lifting. You may need a mini tripod if that's going to be difficult. 

Just start at the lightest setting on the leg press and leg curl machines. Glute bridges should be done body weight only. If you can't do them just yet, work on what you can until you build up enough strength for the glute bridges. If you can, hold at the top for a second on the glute bridges. Same with the incline and curls--start light and build up. If you hit all 3x5, you can add 5 lbs. If not, just stay at that weight until you can. The reason for starting at the lightest settings or weight is to build up momentum. There's probably a lot of stabilizer muscles that haven't really been used as much, so the lighter weight is going to target them first. The more muscle you have in your legs and glutes the easier it is to stand. Build from there When you feel like it's possible, you'll be making some alterations to the basic plan: 

There are several things that affect a woman during this time, but as pertains to working out or training you can expect: 

I'm assuming by the list of things you are eating that it is something similar to the Atkins diet (if it's not that diet). If that's correct, the goal is to go into ketosis, which requires that you have no more than 40g of carbs per day. During the initial transition your body will be screaming for carbs. Give yourself lettuce to fill the stomach, and drink plenty of water. You will need more water to keep your kidneys happy during the diet. The first 3-4 days are the roughest, and then it gets a lot easier. This advice is from my own weight loss journey. 

The hormonal profile between men and women are different, and the effect they have on the body is profound. 

Remember that size is a result of the volume of work you put your muscles through. You should aim to get stronger, so that you have the ability to increase your volume. 

Strength Training Here your options are a bit more open, particularly since you are going to be supported in some capacity. If the disability is strictly in the lower body, I recommend the use of machines for exercising the legs. While I love exercises like squats and deadlifts, those aren't going to work for you. (You might be able to do sumo deadlifts, but I'd wait a bit before you attempt them). If your upper body is not afflicted by the amyoplasia, then I would attempt to use free weights while in a seated or laying position. 

So based on the description of where you are, my guess is that you are in solid maintenance. You won't lose fat or gain it assuming all things remain the same. For things to change, you will have to make adjustments. You are probably consuming at the bottom end of whats needed for your body. Increasing a little may not hurt you. Just be careful what you increase your Calories with. It's not a license for adding donuts to your daily diet. 

If you are holding the medicine ball in front of you, what you are doing is a form of goblet squat. A goblet squat is very good for your body, and provides a good core component to the squat as well. The important components of any squat are: 

I would recommend routinely doing the Diesel Crew shoulder rehab protocol and the associated shoulder warmup. The rehab protocol is good as both prehab and rehab for a shoulder that is causing pain due to muscle imbalances. There are good exercises in the protocol that address the external rotation, as well as many other uses you're probably not thinking about right now. The main article that has a link to both the rehab protocol and the 2 minute warmup is found on DieselCrew's HowTo: Shoulder Rehab page. This will help address long term shoulder health, as well as your more immediate concerns. Simple direct exercises that address the problem are: 

The fact you've been pushing a beginner's 5x5 program for just over a year attests to your fortitude. So please understand that beginner programs are designed for just one thing: to take advantage of your beginner gains. What's happening is that you are increasing the weight faster than your body can recover. It's inevitable that you will reach that point on a beginner 5x5 program. My suggestion to you is: 

Everything else is simply things to help you get better at the exercise. There are many conflicting opinions as to wide vs. narrow stance, sitting back vs. just going down. I have my (very strong) opinions on the matter, but the bottom line is that you have to find out what works best for you. My biggest objection to knee travel and "sitting back": By worrying about where your knees are, the usual way people compensate is sticking their butts back. That causes the lifter to have to lean forward farther than they normally would to compensate. The end result is that they can't hit depth and they make an already difficult lift even more difficult. Not everyone is built the same, so not everyone should squat the same. The way my hips are built, I can't assume the super wide stance that a number of people advocate. I've found that having my feet roughly shoulder width apart works well for me. My knees do travel slightly forward of my toes, and I'm able to squat 450 lbs for multiple reps like that. Paused Squats: I'm a huge fan of paused squats, particularly if you are still trying to feel your way through the squat. 

Understand what Creatine Monohydrate (the most researched, and validated form of supplemental Creatine) is and does. 

The important aspect is that your average daily intake is about where your recommended calories are. Another important aspect is where your calories are coming from. If you have very little protein, your body will rob Peter to pay Paul. As your muscles and organs shrink to repair worn out cells, you will eventually run into health implications. This of course reduces your metabolism (fewer overall cells to take care of), which will increase your proportion of fat to muscle. As long as you keep at least 1g of protein per kilogram of lean body weight, you will avoid that situation (calorie counts for the day aside). This is independent of whether you do high/low carbs, etc. 

Assuming your diet is an athlete's diet (meat, eggs, fruit, vegetables, oats, brown rice, black beans) most of the time, you may not need supplementation at all. There are exceptions, but this will help you decide what you need for yourself. Supplements that should be in every athlete's diet There's a short list of supplements every athlete should use, plus a couple that are recommended. 

In short, week 3 is 5 lbs heavier than week 2. Week 2 is 10-20lbs heavier than week 1. On Week four you rest and then test your new max on Friday. I've been running this for bench and rows, and while I'm not aiming for size it is increasing. The back can handle being hammered, and in some cases it needs it. 

I'll be honest, training in the cold is not fun. Keep the duration short and focused, but get everything done. 5/3/1 will probably be about 1 hour in the garage, 45 minutes if you really compress things. Minimizing rest times will help your conditioning, so you may not have to do anything specific for that. 

This bit of advice also works for bench press. To further activate your chest, concentrate on tensing the pectoral muscles while you are at the top for a second each rep. Dealing with Tendinitis Tendinitis is a warning that either there is something wrong with your form, or that you are not exercising the antagonist muscles enough. For example, if you are doing lots of push ups which train your triceps, but not doing any type of rows/pull ups/flexed arm hangs to strengthen your biceps. If you are sticking with body weight exercises, you can do body weight rows by laying on the ground and pulling yourself up to either a bar or a table. You could even use a broom handle across two chairs. By your description, you may be dealing with both a form problem and unbalanced training. Balancing your training is easy. Just add the antagonist work to what you are doing. Initially, you will want to do more antagonist work than the push ups, but eventually you'll want to do equal volume on them. The form is more challenging. 

It may take as long as 6 weeks to get back to normal. You can train around this overuse injury, meaning you will have to stick to exercises that don't make it worse. 

I hate to tell you this, but you're going to have to lay off of squats and deadlifts for about 4 weeks. Use these exercises instead: 

There is no reason not to do them on the same day. The key is to not overdo the load. In short no more than 5 sets of 5 reps on squats and 1 set of 5 reps on the deadlift. BTW, deadlift is probably the best exercise to improve your grip. My background is strength training, so my answer may not exactly be what you are looking for. Essentially for strength gains squats and deadlifts are excellent exercises. My program alternates two full body workouts with a day of rest in between. Squats are done every session. The upper body swaps between bench press and overhead press. The other exercise swaps between barbell rows and deadlifts (both get the back muscles). Incorporating squats and deadlifts into a split routine is very tricky precisely because they hit so many areas on your body. 

Rather than keep hitting a brick wall, sometimes you just need to try something different. The progression that really helped my press see some consistent gains was the Wendler 5/3/1 progression. 

And when you can't get that 5x3, you'll drop the weight to where you changed from 3x8 to 5x5 and add volume: 

I see it happen all too often, and I even used to do it myself. Raising your shoulders off the bench in the name of "full lockout" puts extra stress on your shoulder joint that is unhealthy. It also robs power from the bench press by loosing that all important upper back tightness. Your shoulders should remain in that neutral position that you started in when you were lowering the barbell to your chest. 

The problem you are running into is one of context. The answer to the problem depends on what's causing the progress to stall. Neither answer is inherently wrong, nor is either answer more correct. For a better answer to your question, I have to introduce the concept of periodization. 

Based on that information, heavy lifting and sprinting is not an option. Probably some of the better options might include yoga or pilates. Do keep a regular dialog with your doctor, as kidney issues are serious. If they tell you to slow down, stop, or change what you are going, listen to them. 

Assuming you are getting your daily requirement of protein throughout the day, the biggest need your body has after exercise is carbohydrates. Post exercise is the safest and most useful time to eat carbs. The majority of the energy is put into your muscle, which aids recovery. The problem is that you need to find a carb source that won't affect your sleep. Now is not the time to get that super spicy deep fried chimichanga. You definitely want to avoid anything that is likely to give you heartburn. Also, you don't want something that will turn to liquid and wake you up at 3:00am with an urge to urinate. That rules out frozen treats like ice cream and most shakes (protein or otherwise). You know your body best, so try different things to figure out what works best for you. It can be useful to save the vast majority your daily allotment of carbs to post training. This ensures you don't overeat for the day, and it addresses the recovery issue nicely. 

You do not hit your maximum heart rate. Once the test is done, the software will supply some cardio work to help you improve your overall health--but you will notice that the max heart rate is well under your physical max. You will not gain anything by going over that heart rate. The idea and purpose of the zone training is to help you understand your current cardiovascular health and how to improve your performance. Personally, my aerobic base is pretty high, which is good news. However, my anaerobic threshold is pretty low. As a result the cardio plan I'm on is going to help increase the distance between them. It's been about 3 weeks, and I've already noticed my zones starting to shift. I've since had a proper cardio test with a cardiologist. The test process was different, but they were checking how much stress my heart could take (not for fitness, but because it was prescribed by my general practitioner). The test was done when I started to feel light headed, and my heart rate went much higher than the prescribed maximum heart rate from the zone tests. I still didn't reach my maximum heart rate, which would require going until I passed out. Take note that only a few hard core athletes ever get tested to find their true maximum heart rate. That bit of info is from the trainer who did the zone test. He told me, and the advice is sound, that if I ever wanted to do that I should see a cardiologist. Considering the stress test I had with the cardiologist, I don't want to really find the MAX heart rate. It's going to change every year anyway.