Assuming that the magical world doesn't have entirely different physical sciences - Get a solar-powered e-book reader, download as many gigabytes of science, engineering and medical text books as you can cram in. Include starter texts as well as intermediate and advanced texts. Might be worth looking up some older texts and history of technology books so that you have some idea of how to transition from their current state of technology to your current technological level too. If you're willing to share it about carry as many additional readers as you can manage. 

The question states that "their warriors are significantly more skilled since they could share fighting experience. I estimated that one of them could potentially kill 2.7 of mine.". However in battle I'm not sure that would actually work to their advantage. One battle has joined, a psychic range of 100 meters will mean that hundreds or possibly thousands of fellow psychics are all fighting at the same time and all sharing their own feelings and emotions. That mix of rage and fear, and many emotions in-between, will be enormously distracting. Once the forces are engaged in melee combat, each man is effectively fighting one or maybe two men in front of him. To do that well takes concentration and awareness. Having hundreds of other peoples emotions washing over you (especially if they're wounded or dying) is not the sort of thing that aids concentration. Fear is a very powerful, deep-rooted emotion. There's the very real risk that a localised panic, caused by a unit being overrun or surrounded, spreads quickly across the whole army. Suddenly, the psychics could find their whole army being routed simply because of a handful of men being overwhelmed. 

In Egyptian records we are told that the Hebrews from Exodus were publicly recorded as being driven into the sea and drowned. Other reports were that they died in the desert. Nevertheless, when this civilization of 2nd generation refugees starts prowling the borders of the land bridge between Babylon and Egypt, it would appear to onlookers on all sides that the dead had come back to life to swallow the region. It helps foster this belief if the invaders are slaughtering everyone, taking no prisoners, and taking no treasure (leaving it behind to rot) - seemingly these people are motivated only by a hunger to kill and destroy. Give the enemy a scary supernatural patron 

You might cheat about flowing fluid by saying the osmotic system used by plants is allowable. Technically, that is flowing fluid still. If that is allowable there would be some osmotic path through the whole body. Could be from the stomach out to the skin. Or could be something like the vascular system. Like stillsuits from Dune, or the plantar cushions of horses, the motion of your organism could be the pump that gives the vascular system extra pressure to carry nutrients effectively. It would mean that, like sharks, your animal needs to move constantly to stay alive. I'm not sure how you would do it if you insisted on no transport by fluid. 

Gravity effects all things equally, and the further you are from the center of pull the more gentle and evenly distributed is the pull. So, a supermassive black hole will move the whole star system - where you are asking to move planets individually. You might be able to get away with a tiny black hole. Bear with me because this is weird - once matter goes past a critical density (about the mass of one hundred thousand super carriers squeezed into the volume of a raindrop) it has a sufficiently curved gravity to be called a black hole. As people were concerned about the possibility of tiny black holes being created by CERN, nothing rules out super dense, but not very massive, material from existing in the universe. A meteor shower of this stuff would cause a localized effect, nudging a planet it is passing nearby by while leaving the star unaffected. 

While being hit by a scorpion shower might have a "what the..?" effect on those on the receiving end, I'm doubtful that it would be a battle winner in anything but very contrived circumstances. 

A scorpion wouldn't be very aerodynamic and so a thrown scorpion would have limited range (especially compared to a longbow or crossbow). Even if you employed a mechanical device to aid launching (sling, scorpion ballista, etc), it's not going to have the same range as an arrow or crossbow bolt. So you're going to lose in a ranged weapons exchange. Using too much force in the throw could kill the scorpion rendering it useless (espcially if it hit a shield or armor). Docile scorpions (re: easier to tame) that are less likely to sting their handlers would also be less likely to sting their intended targets. Even more aggressive scorpions would not necessarily choose to sting the person they were thrown at but might just flee instead. To be effective battlefield weapons the scorpion venom would need to be fatal (or at least incapacitating) fairly rapidly. If it takes several hours or days to take effect, the battle may be lost before it happens. Since the scorpions are effectively a "use it and lose it" weapon, there would need to be hundreds (if not thousands) of them available for each battle. Finally, a thrown scorpion wouldn't really be like a "handgrenade", which could kill/incapacitate multiple targets at once. It would actually be less effective than a poisoned arrow (which would be easier to handle, have greater range and could kill even without the poison taking effect). 

It doesn't help also if the enemy has one set of laws for their own people - and jealously guard membership into the community - and a different set of laws for strangers passing through. Publishing clearly that a foreigner traveling through the land did so without protection from murder, theft, fraud, or any other form of abuse would do a good job of keeping the region isolated from the rest of the world. 

This is the plot of 'Neuromancer'. The security A.I. and the hacker A.I. were... wait, spoilers. The discipline of information security is about reducing the threat surface area. Think about it like actual surface area: limit the number of ways the outside can reach the inside. Information security specialists also perform their own periodic penetration testing, trying to identify weaknesses. It is well-known that people are the most often abused weak point, and penetration testing includes people. Additionally, information security includes imagining that someone does break in and mitigating how much damage can be done by an intruder: this includes encrypting data in transit, encrypting data on the raw disk, encrypting specific files (like layers of armor), multiple accounts with limited (the concept is called 'least privilege' and involves only having access to systems for which you have a demonstrated need-to-know) and non-overlapping privilege, and protecting accounts by only allowing logins from specific locations (like Sensitive Compartmented Information Facilities (SCIFs)) or only at specific locations, and not necessarily making every part of the system available from every other part of the system. "Erasing" a hack involves deleting or editing logs or records that recorded the attack. While the attack is ongoing, every activity on all machines is being recorded (as ridiculous as that may seem). These logs are being monitored constantly by algorithms and by people. If an intrusion is detected, the response depends on the attack vector -- if someone is trying to attack the account, disable the account; if someone is taking advantage of a computer, revoke it's trust certificates (essentially detaching the a previously trusted computer from the network); shut down the app; or, if required, shut down the whole system - some security environments include virtual machines (VMs) that are intended to be disposable in the event they appear compromised or infected, only to be rebuilt from a trusted repository - in fact, disposable VMs are one of the security concepts behind apps on cellphones. The hacker, as others stated, is looking to exploit any vulnerabilities. It could physically steal disks and work on decrypting the data. It could also exploit zero-day exploits: gaping flaws in the software environment that no one knows about yet. These may or may not avoid logging, because it's taking advantage of a gap between components. 

But operant conditioning is such a basic form of behaviour that even insects can do it. Humans without it would indeed struggle to survive let alone develop technology. Instead, I think a better definition would be that hypotheticals requires abstract reasoning, the sort that requires formal education for most people to attain. We have good examples from real life of how these people think; they are very uncomfortable with dealing in pure hypotheticals and have very concrete reasoning. The Soviet psychologist Alexander Luria once interviewed Russian peasants about 100 years ago, giving them the kind of abstract reasoning questions typical in IQ tests, this is how it went: 

Worldbuilding is hard work, as we all know. When you want to write a story, or use a setting for a game, or just as inspiration for some creation (art, music), there is a strong incentive to reuse an existing world, or heavily derive from it. The world building has been done for you - the logic holes filled, the possibilities mapped and explored, the implications accounted for. I don't need to prove this, just look at all the fanfics out there. However, if you do this with a well-known franchise, you infringe on intellectual rights, which limits how you can distribute or use your derived creation. Similar to how open source and free culture licenses allow software and art to be reused and derived, are there any free (as in libre) world settings that are available for use? To limit the scope a bit, let's go for a typical, near-future science fiction setting: lasers, spaceships, aliens etc. A good world setting would contain a bit more information than a standalone story; this is necessary for other authors/creators to extend and derive. It may contain the following: 

Move Data to Data Files Map You could read the map from a flat file. The map could be ascii art, where special characters represent connections ('=' for two way, '-' for one way) and other characters (a-z,A-Z,0-9) map to defined regions. You could page maps based on 'chapters' of your story. Triggers It didn't look like you have any triggers, but that was only part of the world. You could add triggers and actions to the room, so that when the character enters a room the trigger fires, presenting a message or checking for a special item in inventory. Plot, Story Room definitions, triggers, and custom text can be done in separate flat files. Quests You could also add a list of quests that could be applied to the character (maybe applied from triggers). 

IQ was once measured as intellectual age compared to actual age. Although the measurement is deprecated, it's a very helpful way to visualize questions about intelligence. Using that measurement and your proposed cut in half, your new typical high school graduate would be as developed as a first grader for old humanity. Your forty year old peak earner, at the top of his professional mastery in new humanity would be as developed as an undergrad in old humanity. There are recent studies that some animals, dogs in particular, are as smart as old human children. I'm not sure what it might be like if we weren't the most intelligent creatures on the planet.