In the aftermath of the destruction of World War I, the social and political institutions can longer be trusted to hold society together. Instead, rather than unification, we have separation and multiplicity. We have an epistemology that jumps from image to image, each time only seeing a part of the whole. The whole has been destroyed. Consider this line amidst the plethora of allusions and annotations. The meaning of The Waste Land relies on other texts and other writers. Its meaning is fractured insofar as it is not self-contained; it is allusive. In that sense "heap of broken images" is an apt description for the poetic effort Eliot is making in this work. It evokes Eliot's essay "Traditional and the Individual Talent." In it, Eliot writes, 

About a year ago I discovered Twin Peaks on Netflix, and I am currently enjoying every moment of season 3. I've really come to appreciate the subtleties and nuances of David Lynch's style of storytelling. While I want to dive further into his cinematic canon (which would be a question for a different SE community), I am curious about influences on his work from a literary perspective. Has David Lynch ever identified specific literary influences -- works and/or writers -- that have shaped the way he tells stories? It doesn't necessarily have to be an influence on Twin Peaks in particular, but that would be a bonus. 

The narrator Charles, as an architecture painter, travelled Latin America for two years in search of inspiration. He didn't particularly seek to keep in touch with his homeland, and the letters he received sounded so remote to him. In this part, I could not grasp what "the facts about themselves" means. Also, in order to know what "themselves" is, I looked up "fellow travelers" and found the related information on the Wikipedia, and assumed that they were communist sympathizers, but I could not be sure about that either. I would very much appreciate your help. 

I am reading The Great Gatsby, and came to be curious as to what "the protecting canvas unrolled from Gatsby’s grave" means in the following sentences: 

I am reading The Great Gatsby, and came to be curious as to the meaning of "ramifications" and "by which" in these sentences: 

The narrator Nick is telling how Gatsby first came into being. Before he became Gatsby, he was named James Gatz; but when he met Dan Cody, who would start him in business and leave him inheritance, he decided to change his name to Jay Gatsby. When he met Gatsby, Dan Cody was soft-minded and was liable to be swayed by women. In this part, I could not understand what "ramifications" and "by which" meant. Are the ramifications some flaws in his character derived from his soft-mindedness? Or the negative results, or rumors, caused by the fact that Ella Kaye pushed him out to the sea? And I would also like to know what "by which" means. Does that mean Ella Kaye played Madame de Maintenon by the none too savory ramifications? If it is the case, what does "by" mean here? Did she use, or took the advantage of, the ramifications? I would very much appreciate your help. 

The problem of book deserts is well documented and very serious indeed, so any mass movement aiming to tackle the issue needs to be appreciated for trying to make a difference towards improving low-income people's access to books and literacy. I am Indian and have no direct experience of this initiative, but was intrigued to read a good many articles about Little Free Libraries including on Wikipedia after first learning of the movement thanks to your question right here today. I shall be glad to provide more references when I get more time, but it seems to me the important aspect that is maybe not explicitly mentioned in the question, answer or comments is that the vast majority of the book-sharing initiative here is being taken up by individual volunteers who are convinced by the original concept and greatly motivated to start book sharing and community building around that little library on their lawn. Of course 'Little Free Library' the non-profit company is providing concept, guidance, affiliation and also selling the kits to make the little libraries, but individual book lovers seem to be deciding where to put them up and what books to fill them with, also how to interact with the community. Individuals living in various places are most of the affiliates, and this movement therefore seems to be not necessarily a vast, centralised, pre-planned, heavily funded and company-regulated project to provide free books to the underprivileged, where the non-profit company decides policy and placement, and so has greater control over the outcomes, but rather an earnest attempt by many like-minded people to inculcate a love of reading in those who have not been reading much to begin with. Not necessarily because they are poor, either. I suggest that for this very reason it is not easy to assess the impact of this recent movement from the specific perspective of your question -- was providing free books to the poor even the fundamental intention of many of those book-lovers who built those libraries? I think getting more people to care more about reading was likely a more immediate motivation -- but the huge number of affiliated little libraries is itself testament to its global popularity. According to the same Wikipedia article, 

For my answer, I'm going to build off my previous assertion (found here) that the narrator of this poem is "one who is living in the tension of faith and disbelief" and that the "I" stands for a spiritual doubter in the midst and aftermath of war. Alongside the context of war, night and day become another dichotomy in the poem to reflect a violent struggle. We have good v. evil, life v. death, war v. peace, faith v. doubt, and now night v. day. In the first line "night crushed out the day." Night starts out the poem on the winning side, which is indicative of the tone the whole poem will take. A force of evil, of darkness, has triumphed over good, over the light. Given the spiritual struggles contained herein, I think it's appropriate to see Genesis echoed here. It's not "Let there be light" and "God saw that it was good." Instead, Owen begins the poem with the inverse of Genesis and gives us an image of darkness winning in a battle against light. The violent triumph that the phrase "crushed out" connotes is essential to how Owen establishes mood here immediately. Night then becomes a time of "stillness," a time that is the absence of life or human presence. It is a void: "no ghost woke" and "never one fared back to [him] or spoke." Again in Genesis the void, the chaos, is prior to light existing; here we are back in that dark void. In a sense Owen is inverting the order of Genesis. By having night triumph over day, he can effectively subvert traditional Judeo-Christian concepts of lightness and darkness (or at least call them into question) and further underscore the spiritual doubt of the speaker. We might traditionally expect that with the coming of a new day at dawn, light would again be victorious, life would appear, and all doubts would dissipate. That is not what Owen presents. Instead, dawn is "indefinite" and "unshapen." This is quite a contrast to night crushing out day. Here dawn seems battered, "vacant." There is no triumphant "Let there be light" proclamation. The dawn is weak and "sad as half-lit minds," possibly like the minds that still believe that good will defeat evil. What then we arrive at in the final stanza is a conclusion that the forces of death and darkness have defeated those of goodness and light. The consequence of war is the inversion of the moral order of Christianity. Good is not the victor; instead, night reigns, having weakened the forces of light. 

Reading The Great Gatsby, I encountered these sentences and came to be curious as to what "our identity with this country" means in this context: 

The young Gatsby found his humble family background unsatisfactory; that was why he began to imagine himself as somebody different, divine. Thus he started to reach for a higher goal in his life, such as earning a huge amount of money or winning Daisy's love. But I could not understand especially what "the service of" meant. Does it mean that he provided such beauty? Or that he believed in such beauty? And since "His Father's business" has some Biblical undertone in it, I would like to know whether the boldfaced phrase also has such a tone in it. I am not much knowledgeable when it comes to the Bible, so I would like to know whether there is some description that Jesus serviced some beauty, just like Gatsby, because I think that could give me some hint as to what was indeed "a vast, vulgar, and meretricious beauty." I would very much appreciate your help. 

This is masterful on Doyle's part: he is giving himself incredible freedom to take any number of footholds he would like with each new story. It is important to keep in mind that this was only the fifth Sherlock Holmes story published in The Strand Magazine. Consequently, there's still plenty of world-building for Doyle to do through Watson. That opening sentence gives Doyle an 8-year span to draw from, which more importantly means that he doesn't have to obey any sort of chronology. By giving examples in the following paragraphs of some of these cases, Doyle lets himself explore ideas of cases/stories yet to be told/written. Maybe the case in question was a half-baked idea that never made it beyond a couple sentences. Regardless, it certainly furthers the characterization of Holmes of detective and of Watson as narrator. With just a couple paragraphs, Doyle gives Watson great authority as an expert on Holmes (ostensibly) and extends the limits which future stories can explore. He is writing himself into a place of greater freedom rather than constraint. The second purpose (i.e. the "buy-me" theory) is one that takes more of a Marxist approach (as in Marxist literary criticism): Doyle wants his stories to sell. In serialized format there needs to be some sort of enticement to keep coming back to the same characters. When teaching these stories, I used an analogy with my students to present-day TV: we frequently see cold opens that hook us to an episode and get teasers for future weeks at the end of an episode. Serialization in literary form uses similar techniques. I see this opening as both an enticing "cold open" to keep reading this particular story and a hint at things to come in future stories. This small example of a case as yet unexplored brings us into the world of Sherlock Holmes and creates possibilities for where it might go, leading readers to want to keep reading and keep buying. Your asking this question and my answering it are enduring proof of its success. Even 120+ years later, readers still come back to these relatively mundane, unexplored details. We care about these things, and I have to believe Doyle's original audience did as well. This to me is just one of many examples of Doyle's brilliant creation of the world of Sherlock Holmes. 

In this part, Daisy, her husband Tom, her lover Gatsby, her relative Nick, her friend Jordan came to the suite parlor in the Plaza Hotel to have some cold drink on the stifling day. The room became the battlefield between her husband and her lover, when each began to claim that it was him that Daisy loved. Tom had made some small "investigation" regarding Gatsby's past, and revealed the information during the argument that he earned his money through not very honorable routes. At this astounding information, Daisy felt her love toward Gatsby fail. Seeing the two already crumbling, Tom generously allowed Gatsby to drive her home. I find the last sentence especially difficult to understand. How could they have been "snapped out"? And I could not grasp what "accidental" means here either—does it mean that their encounter was reduced to a merely accidental one, not a destined one? And what does it indicate that they have become "isolated" and "like ghosts"? I would very much appreciate your help. 

The narrator Nick moved into West Egg, and determined to read many books on banking and securities, as well as literary works, in order to become the "well-rounded man." In this part, I could not understand especially what "limited" means. Does it indicate that the well-rounded men have limited knowledge compared to other specialists? Or does it indicate that the well-rounded men are so rare compared to other specialists? And I also could not grasp how the concept that the well-rounded man was limited leads to the epigram that life is more successfully viewed from a single window. I think the well-rounded man has many windows, for he knows about everything albeit shallowly, so I couldn't see the connection here. Or, is the author being ironic here, saying that the well-rounded man is a failure because he has so many windows from which he looks out at life? In short, I would like to know how the well-rounded men are "limited" and how the concept of being a well-rounded man is connected to looking at life from a single window. I would very much appreciate your help. 

That is exactly where we are in the first section of this opus: in the midst of burying the dead, tracing meaning back through the work of other artists and finding meaning in the broken images of humanity. This constitutes what the artist can know. 

I find it amusing that it is immediately described as a "vague category," hence the need for this question. In my brief research I kept coming back to Huxley, which might also explain the n-gram results and which supports some of what you found in your research. I can't think of much else that fits this definition. I once checked out (but never actually read) a book by Owen Barfield, a lesser-known Inkling, called Worlds Apart that probably is also a novel of ideas. Nothing else comes to mind. The problem with these terms arises when "novel with ideas" comes to mean "novel of ideas" and thus anything philosophical in literature, which includes a lot of famous literature, comes to mean the latter. Case in point, this list on Good Reads of novels of ideas starts with 1984, a novel that does anything but fit Cuddon's definition. This maybe hits at the crux of the problem: the textbook definition does not align with the popular usage of the term. In sum, the pedantic literary critic (which I have no shame in admitting to being) sees "novel of ideas" as a classification with limited scope and few examples. The general public, it would seem, conflates "philosophical novel," an incredibly broad category, with "novel of ideas." 

The fact that the concept has been adopted in Colombia, Greece and parts of Africa and and Asia tells me that the real impact of this idea may eventually be felt more in developing countries, within communities hungry for literacy and reading opportunities. In developing parts of the world, book-sharing on the Little Free Library model makes sense because access to reading is not a priority and public library systems are underdeveloped. The idea has potential there, is what I mean, although a lot of work will need to be done by the local communities themselves, to build and sustain these valuable social projects. It is debatable whether such a collection of individual initiatives, even so numerous and popular as this, can really benefit the poorest people, or whether reading can even be grown without addressing the huge problem of poverty, as pointed out in the earlier answer and comments, but while the library profession may be divided about the impact and value of the Little Free Library movement, I read that a list of honors that librarians have bestowed on Little Free Library include Library Journal’s Movers and Shakers Award (2013), the National Book Foundation’s Innovations in Reading Prize (2013), and a Library of Congress Best Practices Award (2015). So maybe it is time to take the project into the inner-city areas to benefit the impoverished and thus embattled urban communities, as suggested in @Joshua Engel's thoughtful comment? I leave you for now with this extract from the same detailed article that provided the information about the above list of awards: 

From spending a little time teaching and studying parts of the Sherlock Holmes canon, I conjecture that there is a two-fold purpose at work here: 

Doyle is beginning to establish an expansive universe in which he can situate his Sherlock Holmes stories. Doyle is enticing readers to buy future issues of The Strand Magazine in which he will continue the creation of said universe. 

To say anything definitive about The Waste Land is challenging; indeed, this work seems to evade interpretation with each new line and stanza. With many interpretations carry with them some merit, I contend that the line "heap of broken images" is meant to evoke something broader about modernist art: this line is a metatextual reference to the poem itself and its underlying epistemology. Eliot writes, "[Y]ou know only / A heap of broken images." I want to focus on that word "know." Eliot is calling into question that which we can know in this waste land. The mirror that we used to be able to hold up to reality is broken; the self is fractured. There is no unifying epistemology, or, in post-modern terms, meta-narrative. Everything is a broken image. Reading the poem in this light, one can realize that what Eliot is presenting us with broken images of a broken world. Moreover, in A Genealogy of Modernism: A study of English literary doctrine 1908-1922, Michael Levenson argues,