Now when a bullet is fired the air pushes back and smashes the bullet then solidifies into a small ball which falls to the ground. You might even have it decay in some days or weeks back into the first element so the supply in the atmosphere stays more or less constant. You probably have to invent a couple exotic chemical elements to make this work. 

Their atomic nuclei are unstable enough to be smashed together (nuclear fusion) if they impact other molecules in the air at velocities that a bullet pushing the air can cause. Make the energy released enough to smash the bullet. The new element produced by the nuclear transmutation is solid and strong enough to mostly contain the released energy (so that the energy release is localized and doesn't eg destroy the entire town). 

If I understand the question correctly, you're wondering how to label the effects on human mentation of manifestations by Cthulhu and Its ilk. Insofar as Lovecraft himself is consistent about this -- and he is certainly never systematic-- the poles of the effect seem to lie between sanity-blasting destruction and a kind of semi-effective denial. This leads me to suggest something like "destructive rationalization" as a general term. In Lovecraft's fiction, it is usually the imaginative, educated, intelligent observer, normally one with an aesthetic affinity for experimental and avant-garde fine arts, who risks full sanity destruction. This is because such a person, in Lovecraft's world, is able to understand with some clarity even phenomena that range well beyond apparent possibility. By contrast, the "lower" sort of person -- less educated, intelligent, cultured, sophisticated, (white), etc. -- can always use superstition and raw stupidity to blur away what he or she perceives. Faced with anything less than a full-on manifestation by Cthulhu -- say, some Deep Ones or the like -- all too soon this person's mind bends the perceptions. "Wall, they wuz this fish thang, real ugly-like, an I guess I don't keer to see another." This person may find that social support from like-minded persons, alcohol, and a total lack of intellectual or aesthetic stimuli will lead eventually to a full resolution and recovery, apart from the odd hideous nightmares. In essence, the difference is whether one is capable of rationalizations that actually distort and destroy the remembered stimuli. Byakhee becomes giant bat thing becomes tall tale, as it were. The intelligent, sensitive, cultured white male, however, cannot do this. Indeed, he actually roams mentally beyond the stimuli, seeking to account for them, and realizes just how impossible such an account might be. Thus it is not so much what a Deep One looks like as what its very existence implies that is ultimately so sanity-blasting. So I suggest "destructive rationalization." Note that there are, I believe, Freudian terms for this kind of memory-encysting, in which the trauma is sublimated and expelled from the mind, but I don't recall his work thoroughly enough to remember whether he discusses permanent suppression of this kind as possible. But his terminology would certainly be the place to look for something more authoritative. 

Government control of all food. Without sufficient food an additional child cannot be kept alive. If every person goes to a government controlled distribution point every time they need food, the government has precise control over how much each person receives. If you want sufficient food for a new child you have to request it. If your child wasn't approved they won't give you food for them. Perhaps they would instead take the child and raise them as a ward of the state. If this pattern has been long established it may be culturally ingrained. People teach their children this is how it works. Everyone knows that if you try to have children without government approval they will be taken. If the past circumstances that alarmed the Elders included severe reduction of the places on the planet that will grow food, the government might have easily taken control of all of these areas. Perhaps the staple food isn't even grown at all but instead is a synthetic production. 

Objective 1: Housing aircraft. Adjust the train dimensions so that a single plane can fit nicely on every car of the train. Obligatory crude paint drawing: 

Terrain shown as green, landing strip parts shown in red and telescopic legs shown in blue. Once the plane has landed it can roll back or forth on the strips segments to navigate to a segment which is linked to an empty car which does not currently house a plane. After which the strips disconnect and the plane gets spatula'd onto the car platform. 

In the history of magical or occult thinking, one finds that things are rarely taken as themselves: they tend to be in relation to other things. When we say "correspondences," this is really what we mean -- a correspondence is properly a relationship between two things that is embedded in a larger system or web of such relationships. Thus object A is like object B because both share property C that is considered to be a quality, aspect, effect, or sign (or all of these) of principle D. As a result, the real question here is about classification. While it is true that Nature herself does not classify Australian and European plants together, that's because Nature herself does not classify anything. We do, as observers, on certain more or less defined or formal bases. For example, we classify some plants as "grasses," and there are complex and serious reasons for doing so, much debated and so forth across the last couple of centuries. Under that system, there are "grasses" in both Europe and Australia. Either those plants are or are not "really" connected in terms of your magical correspondence system, which leads to a deeper matter. It appears, from the description of power level allowing looser correspondences, that correspondence classification is an intersection between the magician-subject and the natural-objective phenomenon. This means that there is some way in which things are or are not "really" linked, at an underlying, natural, non-cultural sort of level. And there is also some way in which that kind of linkage is actually forged, created, signified -- in a word, made -- by the human observing subject. If this is correct, then there is no absolute sense in which two things do or do not correspond: it's a matter of interpretation and knowledge. In which case, to resolve the difficulty within a fantastical world of your creation, you may need to come up with a formal conception of "natural correspondence," i.e., that type of relation that preexists within nature just because, and which is in some fashion a prerequisite for magical manipulation. 

Objective 2: Launching aircraft. I believe we need to take a page from the soviet rocket launcher truck "Katyusha". And by that I mean we raise the the train car pad at an angle so the trajectory of the plane is to rise above the train, and then extend the platform to provide a long enough runway, which we then can secure to the ground by telescopic legs reaching down and adjusting height as necessary given any terrain. You can even temporarily detach it from the train if necessary. (Each car could have an ability to operate as an independent transporter for a limited time.) Another crude drawing: 

The question specifies a number of important facts, and many of the answers here have challenged those facts' potential accuracy. I'll try, conversely, to accept the limitations proposed and see if that's helpful. The strictures, as I understand them, are as follows: 

The classic mythological model here is what Mircea Eliade and others called a deus otiosus. In essence, this is a god who has removed himself from the everyday lives and ritual practices of his worshipers. In terms of religion and myth, the pattern -- well attested in east Africa, the ancient Near East, and sporadically elsewhere -- tends to involve a senior creator-god, an "all-father" like Odin or Zeus, plus a pantheon of lesser divinities with relatively particular areas of interest and influence. The creator creates the world and all in it, sometimes with help of the others, and sometimes simply by creating those lesser divinities as helpers -- or both. Having done this work, the creator essentially lays down the rules for how humanity should relate to each other and to the gods... and then goes back to wherever he actually lives (the sky, the mountaintop, etc.). From the worshippers' point of view, this means that ritual life is divided into practices that address lesser gods within their spheres of interest. Thus women seeking help with childbirth or pregnancy, or men seeking help with hunting, address their prayers and rites to the goddess of fertility or the god of the hunt, respectively. On certain unusual occasions, principally annual rites of especially awesome dimensions, the senior priesthood (or sometimes an otherwise "secret" priesthood) addresses collective sacrifices to the creator, more or less thanking him for all he has done to make life possible and ordered, for creating the lesser gods, and so forth. Every now and then, however, really bad things happen, such as a long-extended drought, or a plague, or something like that. The prayers addressed to the lesser gods don't seem to be solving the problem. At this point, the senior priests and the community at large come out to beg for the intercession of the creator. Think of it like a bureaucracy: you don't go to the CEO when your computer doesn't work, you call IT; when the whole company is collapsing, it's the CEO who is (supposed to be) responsible. Now the question here simply reverses the perspective on this not-uncommon pattern, asking why the gods behave in this fashion. In addition, it posits that all the gods have receded, not just the creator. To address this, I would begin with the previously-described deus otiosus pattern, and think about the stories people tell. The question isn't why gods actually do this or that, but rather what people say about such matters. Even in a fantasy world where the gods may manifest directly, they're not especially likely to explain themselves. Why should they? What I think is lacking from the question is consideration that there may be fundamental disagreement about the gods' actions. If we take the situation you've described, I can see various cults that account for the situation differently: 

Forgive me science if this is too absurd. Disperse into the atmosphere molecules with 2 characteristics: 

A planet composed mostly of gems and precious metals Given the right composition this could effectively be a harsh "desert planet" very difficult to survive. Astronomers have theorized about planets made largely of diamond. To explain observations of some planets oceans of liquid diamond have been proposed. An exoplanet whose clouds are composed of corundum has been observed (sapphire and ruby are variants of corundum). The asteroid Eros seems to contain more precious metals than ever excavated in history. Other asteroids contain an abundance of precious metals. Scenario: A spacefaring civilization is dying. They identify a distant planet as their only hope. It contains the elements for life in extremely scarce quantities. The natural composition is high in gems: solid, liquid, and atmospheric. Several asteroid collisions in the past have brought massive amounts of precious metals to the surface. They dispatch a fleet of lifeboats in a last ditch effort to survive. The travelers arrive centuries later. Their home planet is long dead. They land and establish colonies. Life is a struggle every day due to bleak natural conditions. The gems and metals that dominate their terrain have virtually no value; they're as common as dirt on the planet they left behind. No one wants them in trade because they can simply walk out their door and pick them up. Bleak. Dystopian. Gems and precious metals cannot be traded for anything of substantial value. 

DISCLAIMER: I'm not an engineer so take everything I say on a conceptual base, because I can't back this up by facts to prove that it would work. Water carriers are wide and flat only because it's convenient for them to be that way given the nature of water. Attempting to adopt the same principles to land vehicles would probably be akin to an attempt to drive nails with a screwdriver (or vice-versa). You have the objective - to drive the object into the wall (house and launch/land aircraft). You have the condition - the nail (land). You are looking at the screwdriver (the seagoing aircraft carrier) like it's almost a solution to your problem which just needs some adjustments. Stop and think about it, sometimes you need to invent a hammer to do what a screwdriver shouldn't. Due to the nature of land not being flat, making something that is stiff will not work when bending pressure will happen, so we have to make something that is able to bend. Good news, there's a good example already available to us. In the real world this is solved nicely in the concept of trains. Think of trains as people-carriers, they house people, they launch people and they land people. Fortunately, as people, we can operate on land ourselves so the launching and landing is not that big of a problem for us, we can just exit and enter the train from the side of it. Although I'm going with the train model in this approach, any chained vehicular model should work. Let's look at the objectives we have and see if we can fit them with the train model. Objectives: