Dreams are just mental fabrications. In sleep, spiritually, changes of consciousness can occur due to changes in neurology. Whatever happened is just ordinary. Nothing to be infatuated with. 

Anusaya - underlying tendencies Asava - outflows; fermentations; cankers; eruptions Nivarana - internal hindrances Tanha & upakkilesa - external orientated craving & defilements that directly cause action 

In Buddhism, everything is forgivable. If a noble person is practising their realisation, there are no grounds for us to blame them since the noble person will not be harming us. If a noble person unintentionally harms us, they should ask for our forgiveness & we should forgive them. If we think a person that intentionally harms us is a "noble person", we are mistaken because a noble person cannot intentionally harm others, even out of good-will (e.g., to kill a murderer) because the eightfold path prohibits all violence for any reason. It is common for ordinary people to mistakenly believe practitioners of forms of black magic are noble people. That is why if a monk kills any human being for any reason, including mercy killing, they are expelled from the monastic order. AN 9.7 says: 

Buddhism is not about following set rules. Monks have 227 rules &, if you have ever lived with monks, you will notice certain monks trying to find loop holes to circumvent the rules (rather than live according to the spirit, purpose & essence of the rules). The matter of right liveihood is something you must decide for yourself according to your spiritual conscience. While the scriptures list 5 kinds of wrong livelihood (trading in weapons, human beings, meat, intoxicants & poisons), there are many other jobs you may chose not to do due to their lack of ethicalness. If you personally find fault in GM foods, best you not work in that industry. 

If your grandfather dies, you must think about his good karma and you must make merits & dedications for him. The scriptures state: 

Although it occurred before I found Buddhism & meditation, when I gave up gross sensual pleasures, I still relied on more wholesome sensual pleasures, such as more wholesome music & a very wholesome physical activity (body surfing). Therefore, using more wholesome sensual pleasures can help in giving up more unwholesome sensual pleasures. 

MN 12, SN 14.15, etc, say the difference among people occur due to the 'elements' ('dhatu'), just as the modern science of nature (genetics) vs nurture. AN 3.61 states present life experience is not due to past kamma. There is no evidence the Buddha spoke MN 135, considering its views are only found in two suttas. Also, MN 135 refers to worldly conditions rather than to happiness & suffering, which the other kamma teachings are about. Also, the worldly conditions in MN 135 are found in many other suttas as states of mind, such as spiritual beauty, spiritual wealth, etc. Also, if MN 135 referred to physical conditions, it is obviously false, since the most wealthy people in the world have acquired their wealthy via very evil means. It is ridiculous to say the Rockefellers, Rothschilds, Bush Family, George Soros, etc, are wealthy due to past good kamma. Rational people understand the wealthy families of the world often gained their wealth via colonialism, exploitation, murder & evil. Many of the most wealthy people & families in the world engage in wrong livelihood. Regardless, MN 135 is not the Dhamma. It is a sutta spoken to a non-Buddhist Brahman student and anyone who takes it seriously cannot, imo, be considered a noble Buddhist. 

I doubt mindfulness reaches its "peak" in the 4th jhana because the mindfulness of a 100% enlightened mind (Arahant) would be superior to the mindfulness of the 4th jhana of a 75% enlightened Non-Returner. I would assume what occurs in the 4th jhana is mindfulness is the most "settled" & "unchallenged" it has been since the start of meditation because the pre-jhana hindrances & the 1st & 2nd jhana rapture that challenge the mind to lose mindfulness have been overcome. In the 1st jhana, rapture "tempts" to mind to attach to & become infatuated with it and mindfulness must work in a very subtle manner to ensure the mind does not attach to & become infatuated with the rapture of the 1st jhana. Therefore, in the 4th jhana, the mindfulness is pure & untroubled. It can completely rest, knowing its work has been perfectly done. I would suggest this is what is meant by the statement "mindfulness reaches its peak in the 4th jhana". In the 4th jhana, mindfulness stands on the dais & has won the gold medal due to defeating all of its competitors & foes. 

In Buddhist meditation, the primary meditation object is 'letting go' (vossagga). The other things (breathing, feelings, etc) are just side-effects or 'signs'. For stream-enterers, letting-go (or little Nibbana) is the meditation object. 

I would recommend learning & practising meditation in a group, that has a competent teacher or monk, so you can learn to become fluent in the basics of meditation. As for your panic attack, it sounds like your mind was focusing more & more on the space, thus lengthening the gap of the space & shorting the duration of the breathing. Therefore, not only did your mind lose a soothing, comforting & calming sense object (the breathing) but also found itself in a state of 'emptiness' ('diminishing ego') that it could not cope with; thus fear or panic arose; which is similar to a fear of 'death' people commonly feel. Ultimately, correctly practised Buddhism meditation should 1st develop a strong foundation of calm, which gives the mind refuge & strength to develop more profound insights. Where as "space between breathing" (emptiness) meditation is taught by ambitious teachers who foolishly believe they will enlighten students more quickly. The real Buddhist meditation path is something gradual & natural and based on giving up desire (craving) & positive & negative judgments (rather than based on exercises designed to eliminate the 'ego' or 'self' prematurely; when the mind is not yet ready or spiritually mature enough). 

Citta is the emotional mind-heart. When defilement of greed, hatred & delusion cease, the citta is pure, luminous & liberated (as explained in the Pabhassara Sutta). 

These views are not "understanding". In Buddhism, the word "understanding" means to know according to verified observed reality. These views are in accordance to your "ideas"or "views" rather than according to "understanding". 

It is important to recognise the mind is always aware or conscious of some object. So when dishes are washed with a silent craving-free mindful mind, awareness of what is going on (such as the warmth of the water, the smell of the detergent, the sound of the water and sounds all around) will still occur. There is no need to make a special effort to be aware of these things. The only effort that needs to be done with right mindfulness is keeping the mind free from greed, hatred & delusion. 

For thousands of years, women have been forced to serve as concubines, mistresses, prostitutes & sex slaves for men. This has probably not occurred because men intrinsically want to oppress women. It probably occurs because men are generally so ignorant, so blind & so heartless that they cannot see the intrinsic harm of the sexual exploitation. Sexual fantasies are similar. In sexual fantasies, the man views his actions towards the woman that is the object of the fantasy is intrinsically harmless, when it is not. Sexual fantasies are misogynistic sexual objectification. Since the sexual revolution of the 1960s, much harm has come to women. For example, the 2nd wave feminism that arose concurrent to the sexual revolution promoted complete sexual liberalism for women. However, due to the consequences of this, the 3rd wave of feminism became divided over the sexual liberalism promoted by 2nd wave feminism. 

Again, this principle is found in DN 31, which states the monk teaches the lay person only after the lay person has shown faith: 

No. The purpose of sati is not to remember you are walking. The purpose of sati is to remember to walk with wisdom or to do chores with wisdom. For example, in a monastery, everyone must do chores. The chores are done with the wisdom that defilements lead to suffering therefore to do chores without defilements. 

The Buddha taught there are two kinds of desire: (1) Ignorant desire (tanha): which seeks unwholesome & harmful things; (2) Wise desire (samma sankappa; chanda iddhipada): which seeks wholesome & beneficial things. The Buddha praised worldly achievements such as having a good reputation, good friends and vocational skill & learning. Refer to Maha-mangala Sutta & Sigalovada Sutta. The Buddha taught you will succeed at what you want to achieve if you have four qualities, which are: (1) love & devotion (chanda); (2) energy & persistence (viriya); (3) mental focus (citta); & (4) analytical investigation (vimansa). 

'Eternalism' does not mean 'permanence' & 'nihilism' does not mean impermanence. Instead, both Eternalism & Nihilism are forms of 'self-view'. 'Eternalism' is the belief "I" will exist after death. 'Nihilism' is the belief "I" will cease at death. This link called 'Held by Views' may help: $URL$ You may also read the Brahmajāla Sutta (if you enjoy reading), which defines these words clearly. 

Seeing things (pajānāti) is the terrority of wisdom (panna indriya), similar to seeing the signs, traffic, bends, dangers & safety in a road while driving a motor car in the rain. Concentration is the mind undistracted & clear; similar to the clear windscreen of a car in the rain. Mindfulness remembers to keep the mind undistracted & clear; similar to the windscreen wipers of a car constantly moving back & forth, keeping water off the windscreen of a motor car in the rain. Mindfulness does not engage in 'seeing things'. The word 'sati' ('mindfulness') means 'to remember'; 'to bring to & keep in mind' (refer to MN 117). The false idea that mindfulness 'perceives', 'sees' or is 'bare awareness' is possibly the greatest error in Buddhism, made by many notable mass-market 'teachers', including Ajahn Brahm, Henepola Gunaratana, Bhikkhu Yutadhammo & Joseph Goldstein. Ajahn Jayasaro provides a correct explanation of mindfulness in this short video. 

If the breathing (2nd link) feels (4th link) agitated, this agitation is due to ignorance (1st link). If distracting thoughts (2nd link - vaci sankhara) and perceptions & feelings (2nd link - citta sankhara) arise in the mind, these are produced from ignorance (1st link). When the drives or moods of the five hindrances (sensual desire, ill-will, sloth, restlessness, remorse, doubt, fear) spontaneously flow out (asava) of the mind, this outflow of hindrances is the 1st link (ignorance). When the nama (4th link) generates intention (4th link) to calm or remove the distracting thoughts (2nd link) & hindrances (1st link), this intention & application of wisdom is the 4th link (nama). When the nama perceives (4th link) the ignorant thoughts & perceptions arising at the 2nd link, the right perception (4th link) of the wrong perceptions (2nd link) is mindfulness & clear-comprehension (4th link) 

All the above. However, this is very advanced as I suggested. In summary, the Buddha did not teach the Goenka method & the Goenka method is an extreme interpretation of what the Buddha taught in Satipatthana. Start with noticing the breathing flowing in & out of & moving in the body. Instead of rigid focus on the rise & fall the abdomen, maintain a more open relaxed awareness. 

The term "mindfulness" (sati) does not mean 'non-thinking'. It means to 'remember' or 'keep in mind' (the factors of the eightfold path). Mindfulness does not exclusively apply to the (non-judgmental) observation practise in the 7th factor of the eightfold path. If right thinking (2nd factor of eightfold path) is practised, this is also an application of right mindfulness in Buddhism. A (complex) quote below about how right mindfulness also applies to right thinking: 

The eighteen mental examinations (manopavicārāti) - AN 3.61 The six sets of six (chachakka) ayatana - MN 148 

Idha, bhikkhave, ariyasāvako, vossaggārammaṇaṁ karitvā, labhati samādhiṁ Here, monks, a noble disciple, having relinquished sense objects, attains concentration, Ānandajoti Bhikkhu 

Despite Joseph possibly often having secular audiences, sampajañña does not relate to haggling for goods in the marketplace, which simply requires 'worldly shrewdness'. When people are walking towards me on a narrow path, I generally always yield & let the other pass since I am generally walking without a particular craving (unless there is an inherent danger that must be decided on, such as when walking on a narrow path near a cliff). Similarly, sampajañña would generally not be used stare-down contests because using sampajañña to apply the 8 fold path results in abandoning hostility & egoism. 

The Four Noble Truths are absolutely true & cannot be disproven as false. Therefore, it is pointless to argue they are false. This said, Buddhism does not encourage the dogmatic attachment to spoken truth but totally exhorts the truth must be verified by each wise person prior to belief. In summary, the Four Noble Truths state: 

The 'meditator' is 'nama-rupa' (4th link). 'Nama' is defined as 'feeling, perception, intention, internal contact & attention' and also includes mental functions such as 'mindfulness', 'effort', etc. 'Rupa' is the physical body. The breathing is 'kaya sankkara' (2nd link). When the breathing arises into awareness, this is consciousness (3rd link). When the breathing is 'felt' & 'perceived' as 'long', 'short', 'smooth', 'rough', 'calming', 'agitated', etc, this feeling & perceiving is 'nama' (4th link). When the mind drifts away from the object of meditation (breathing) and then makes the decision to return to the breathing, this wholesome intention is 'nama' (4th link). When the mind sustains attention (4th link) on the breathing (2nd link), this is nama (4th link). Knowing the breathing & nama is consciousness (3rd link). You must meditate continuously on the method described above until you can clearly distinguish between the 2nd, 3rd & 4th links & their role. 

There are probably many suggestions to this question. One suggestion is to reflect on (think about) what benefit & what harm will come from impulsive fleeing into passion? Will impulsive passion really help yourself? Will it really help the other person involved in the impulsive passion? Or will it create more hurt, more confusion, more regret? Is it really something you really want to do? Buddhist practises about wise reflection are described in MN 61 and MN 19. 

Painful feelings (dukkha vedana) Unsatisfactory characteristic (dukkha lakkhana) of impermanent things Suffering of attachment to or taking the five aggregates as one's own (pañcupādānakkhandhā dukkhā). 

There are many scriptures where the Buddha talks to Brahmans and the word 'nama-rupa' retains its Brahmanistic meaning as 'name-form'. This causes confusion to most Buddhists & scholars, who incorrectly translate nama-rupa as 'name-form' in all contexts. When the Buddha teaches Buddhists, the translation is 'mentality-materiality'. When the Buddha teaches Brahmans, the translation is 'name-form'. 

Doing a quick search, the Pali word 'sanantana' appears to be found rarely in the Pali suttas. Apart from being used in references to the Vedic (pre-Hindu) teachings about 'Brahma' & 'Eternal Youth' in DN 19, a quick search finds 'sanantana' used in only two Buddhist phrases, as follows: 

Note: That 'attachment is dukkha' is an ultimate truth because every experience of suffering is bound up in attachment. 

Yes, concentrate on the sensation of the breath and nothing else. This will develop samadhi & but also vipassana because the breath is impermanent. While samadhi is developed, seeing clearly the impermanence (appearance, disappearance, appearance, disappearance) of each breath is vipassana. Thus the primary goal is to develop samadhi but a side effect can be vipassana. 

If you wish to talk by phone, my email is dhammadhatu@bigpond.com Or there are monks willing to chat, such as Ajahn Brahm's monastery between 6 & 7pm Perth time (08) 9525 2420 or Ajahn Jag is cool: Daily 8.30 am - 10.30 am and 6 pm - 6.45 pm (03) 5424 1812 

As for the perception of the 'illusion of perceptions', if this was actually seen clearly, desires & attachments would end because, in reality, the mind only desires & attaches with concrete (solid) self-belief to concrete (solid) objects . It is one thing for a cognitive scientist to create concrete ideas & theories about the illusion of perception, which may not end the desires & attachments of the scientist. It is another thing to actually see the illusion of perception meditatively, which will certainly end desires & attachments. 

The path is lead by right view, which is wisdom. Each hindrance is the drive/motivation to do harm or enslave. Therefore, to advance on the path, it is ideal that wisdom investigate each hindrance & examine why its motive is harmful &/or enslaving. If the mind is not a slave to hindrances, to enter sotapanna the mind must have the selflessness to 'let go'. Sotapanna will not be entered with force or will power. It will be entered by dropping ego & self. For some people who are very ethical or harmless, dropping the self can be difficult because it can be like 'dying' existentially. Therefore, a good way to advance on the path is to focus on being a harmless & unselfish person and to also abide regularly in solitude so existential fear can be overcome. For example, if you live in society, you can find somewhere, like some bushland or empty beach, to meditate alone a few nights a week.