I would go with doing the bench press in a squat rack. Set the pins at the right height, even if you fail you won't get crushed by the bar. 

I just came across this article on lateral dominance. Apparently the right leg in most people is more coordinated (this shouldn't be of surprise to most people) but the surprising bit is that the left leg is stronger for most people. 

If you can sustain a workout at the same volume and intensity every day, then it's not too much, and you'll be able to maintain your strength at the level necessary to perform that workout (any excess strength will eventually start to dwindle however). If you're having to reduce the weight on certain days, your target workout intensity and volume is exceeding your capacity to be able to do it every day, and you're heading towards overtraining and a burnout if you keep it up. At least one rest day with no exercise should be inserted between each workout, if not two or three, or six. Depending on the intensity and duration of your workout, and your recovery ability, you might take 2-3 days simply to get back to the strength level you were at before, and the next 1-3 days your muscles are actually getting stronger. So 3-6 rest days is optimal for a high intensity workout. Keep adding rest days until at the very least you can perform each workout at the same intensity and volume. Ideally, however, you can incrementally increase the intensity (weights used) over time. Maybe not each workout, but certainly once every 3 or 4 workouts you should be able to go up 1kg (that's a conservative estimate, especially starting at lower weights you should be able to do a lot more). If your gains are still pretty slow, then decreasing volume (number of sets, and number of reps in a set) is also advisable, to aid in recovery. If you really want to do more frequent workouts, ie only one rest day between workouts, then cutting back to maximum 2 sets (ideally 1), and maximum 6 reps per set is the other way to go about it. 

It might not be just any one cause, but on some days multiple things lining up to cause trouble. That could also be why you're not able to notice any trends. If any one of those things isn't really enough make it harder on you, it might look like one day you had a miserable night and had problems with your routine, and the next time you had problems you slept very well. 

Gymnastics is a great start for parkour training, if cost is prohibitive, I believe Barstarzz have some members in NYC. They're not parkour, but they do calisthenics with whatever is available, and that would serve you well for doing parkour. From everything I've seen, everyone in Barstarzz is are very friendly, and they're big on helping everyone regardless of age or physical ability. I'd be quite surprised if parkour groups weren't similarly friendly, but I don't know anything about them specifically. 

You can cut back on the soreness you feel by lowering the reps you're doing per set (and of course increasing the weight). Low reps with high weights still promote strength gains without fatiguing the muscles as much. 

I looked into that on Wikipedia, article here. Basically the risk would be retinal detachment (which is really, really, bad), for which myopia and doing the valsalva maneuver would be risk factors. Given that I would suggest focusing more on gradually increasing the weight you can lift, and aiming for lower weights - if you can still breathe normally while going up and down (or down and up depending on the exercise), you haven't done the valsalva maneuver, so there wouldn't be any greater risk of retinal detachment than your everyday activities. I would also recommend against pushing yourself to the point where you can barely finish your set - such as in lifting for high endurance. You would want to make sure that your last rep of every exercises is in as perfect form as your first rep. Don't expect to be able to lift as heavy weights, or as many reps as someone else who's lifting for the same length of time as you. 

Never thought I'd hear BJJ described as high intensity. For BJJ specifically, look around for another club that has a more relaxed and safety focused atmosphere, and you could do it at 90 years old. If you're training in a club where the meatheads think BJJ and MMA are the same thing, and consider it more of a fight club than somewhere to train, even if you're 25 you're going to get hurt. 

Definitely take some time to rest, minimum one straight day between workouts, maybe more. Exercising with slightly sore muscles is fine, but your muscles should not be so sore that you can't move normally. 

You can raise your heart rate lifting heavy weights. For most people, their bodies are heavy weights, so bar calisthenics could be a good option - it keeps you off your feet most of the time but really works the rest of your body. I know it's not what most people think of when they say cardio, but exercise works your heart, anything you do that takes effort will be good for you. 

It is actually better to take it slowly. Recovery is the most important part of gaining strength. With most workout routines that people follow, decreasing the number of sets, decreasing the number of reps per set, decreasing the number of exercises (unless you're just doing 3-4) and increasing the number of rest days between workouts will improve results. Now this doesn't mean you actually have to take it easy. An extensive workout really isn't the best, but an intensive one still can be very good. You increase the intensity by upping the weights. This is taken to the extreme by only doing a single set of an exercise at a weight you can do no more than 10 reps with (6 reps if you have the capacity to do small increments of weight increase, going up to 10 is sometimes necessary if the smallest jump you can make is 10lbs). Depending on the exercise and whether you have a spotter, you'll cheat on the last rep to get it up when you can't do it properly anymore (you've trained to concentric failure), hold the weight up as long as you can (you've trained to isometric failure) and then lower it as slowly as you can (you've trained to eccentric failure). With other exercises rather than cheating to get up you'll just hold the weight at your sticking point for as long as possible, and then slowly lower back down. It isn't really necessary to go for isometric and concentric failure as well, but it will give you some faster gains without having to scale anything else back. 

I find doing the motions with no weights at all is actually challenging. I usually find at a certain point there's a click where the downward force of the weight is enough to actually force me to use the right form. Now given that a bar without weights is 45lbs, it's probably more accurate to describe it as doing the form without weight plates, rather than doing the form without weights entirely. With dumbbells specifically, you could use them to practice deadlifts as you would do them with a trap/hex/shrug bar. Naturally you'd have to place them on a box that puts them at the right height. The deadlift is the exercise I found I had the least difficulty getting with good form right off the bat using minimal weight (possibly because lifting a dead weight off the ground is something I've been doing almost all my life). Otherwise putting a broom stick, or some other stick on the boxes, getting it right against your shins could work, although you'd probably want to off centre it so the broom part doesn't unbalance the stick. The press should also work well, particularly since it is not unlike stretching your arms up above your head. Also, like the deadlift, it's a motion you've likely done quite often to put something on a high shelf. The dumbbells wouldn't work quite so well as a barbell substitute as it's pretty hard to hold them the way you should hold a barbell in front of your chest for the press.