No, a sticker on its own proves nothing: there's nothing to stop you walking down the street, putting a sticker on the nicest bike you see and claiming that it was stolen from you. However, a sticker would suggest that the claim the bike was yours isn't completely ridiculous, especially if the sticker obviously wasn't put on the bike two minutes ago. It would provide some indication that the bike you'd found was potentially your stolen bike, rather than just another bike with the same brand and colour. But to actually prove the bike was yours, you'd need more evidence such as purchase receipts or information about the bike that you'd provided to your insurer. Of course, a thief would be likely to remove the sticker. 

I bought a power meter. I understand that you should do an FTP test to work out your threshold. But until I have time to do this, could I take a reasonable guess from a recent 35 mile road race? These are the graphs from Strava, for the estimated distribution, it says average 230W. Is this a good starting point? Or should I go higher or lower, or should I ignore the graphs because Strave is just trying to guess it from speed/hr. 

Without more details, your question can't really be answered. However, as others have pointed out, metal that is bent and unbent does become weaker – this is known as work-hardening and it's the reason that pieces of metal or plastic break if you repeatedly bend them back and forth. However, your rack was made in the first place by bending pieces of metal, so there's no reason to assume that bending and unbending once would be fatal. Your rack is probably weaker than it was before. Most racks seem to be designed to carry 20–25kg (45–55lbs), which is certainly a lot more than I carry on mine. If you only use your rack to carry weights well below its design limit, you'll probably be fine; if you use it for carrying heavy loads or medium loads on rough terrain, it would be safest to replace it. 

Small edit: If I had to summarise the question to be a bit more objective, it is this: do all cable adjusters for the front derailleur cable have issues with slippage due to the lower cable tensions, or are the Jagwire Rocket adjusters just unusually bad at keeping their position? Do either inline or cable stop adjusters generally perform better than the other option? 

If we use the Sheldon Brown Gear Calculator set to metres development (although any other unit will work adequately), we see that the range for a 39-53 x 34-11 system is 2.5 to 10.4 metres developed per crank revolution, yielding an overall range of 416%. The widest range options from various companies are the Shimano Alfine 11 hub, which has a range of 409% - essentially the same - and the Rolhoff Speedhub 500/14, which has a quoted 526% range. Compare to a Sturmey-Archer AW three-speed hub, with an overall ratio of 178% based on its stated ratios of 1.33, 1.00 and 0.75. 

Then pack everything up & go home drinking a protein shake thing that I make. I also have the option to go the gym during the day, which I have been doing just to do a bit of stretching and mainly use the foam rollers. So, as a vegetarian, what would be a good plan of what to eat and at what times in order to deliver myself to the start line as full of energy as possible? Races are all about 35 miles. 

Currently, I have Shimano Tiagra 4600 series brifters on my bike, and the barrel adjuster on the front derailleur cable slips when the shifter/derailleur is in the smallest chainring position, when the cable is at its slackest. The adjusters appear to be Jagwire Rocket adjusters (see photo), and the cause of the slipping seems to be that the notches on the screw part and base are somewhat different in size and don't engage well enough to prevent the adjuster turning due to road vibration. I could fix the problem with the existing adjusters by either filing out the notches on the fixed barrel to be slightly larger, or possibly using a mild threadlocker. However, I don't feel that these are good solutions to what appears to be a design flaw with the adjusters (which came with my bike from the factory). I have a number of questions as to the best fix for this. Should I use the cable adjuster designed by Shimano , subassembly (4) on the ST-4600 exploded view, which contains an alternative baseplate to place on the shifter itself that provides the indexing and retention of the adjustment. Alternatively, should I use an inline cable adjuster like the Shimano SM-CA70 (see spread 11/page 20 on the 24 MB 2013 Shimano Spares catalogue). I know that these are intended for brifters with under-tape gear cable routing, but are they higher quality than the adjuster that would be built into the Tiagra shifters? Another option would be adjusters that fit into the downtube cable stops, but my frame (Cannondale Synapse Alloy) has somewhat unusual non-threaded ones mounted on the sides of the head tube, and I fear that the stops being mounted so far forward on the bike would pose an issue with sharp bends for the cable exiting the adjuster if the bars were turned a large angle. 

According to the Edge 1000 PDF manual download, there is a data field called Time to Next which should give you what you want. The manual says this gives you: 

Big speedplay fan here, the cleats have two little screws on them. The spring mechanism that clips you into the pedal is housed inside the cleat, and the two little screws form an area that constrain a 'needle' on this spring. The spring is circular so that it clips onto the pedal, and the positioning of the screws dictates how much you can move your heel in/out on the pedal. If you set them up so that your heels clear the chainstays, you an have a quite wide float angle with very secure engagement. 

It sounds like you over-exerted yourself and "bonked" – your body ran out of sugar so you fainted. In that case, you reduce the risk by eating more while you ride* and by listening to your body more and backing off when it's getting too much. It may also be blood-pressure related: people with low blood pressure are (as I understand it) more susceptible to fainting. Since you're on blood pressure medication, you should talk to your doctor. I don't think bike fit is really a contributor but, of course, improving that would make you a happier, more comfortable cyclist so you should do something about it even if it doesn't help the problem you most want to fix. 

I think that in answering this question, it's important to understand that the differences in bottom brackets themselves is partly due to the cranks that match said bottom bracket 'doing more of the work', so the crank and BB need to be seen as a system for the whole picture. One-piece cranks ("Ashtabula") In this system, the crankarms are a single piece of metal bent into a "Z" shape, with threading on parts of the spindle section of the crank (the part that goes through the frame). Bearing cups are pressed into the frame, then the crankarms are inserted through in one piece. bearings go between the frame cups and cones that thread onto the crank spindle. The Park Tool One-Piece Bottom Bracket service page has lots of nice pictures that might help figure out how things go together. Three-piece cranks These cranksets consist of a left and a right crankarm, which both attach onto a spindle which is part of the bottom bracket. Usually these BBs will thread into the frame, with the majority of the assembly being one piece that threads into the drive- (right-hand) side of the frame, and then a (usually plastic in the case of Shimano bottom brackets) supporting piece will thread into the non-drive-side to take some of the load off the drive-side threads. Examples of spindle systems for three-piece cranks are square-taper (both ISO and JIS standards), Shimano Octalink splined and ISIS splined. These BB standards all thread into the frame. The crankarms usually attach to the spindle via a bolt that threads into the end of the spindle. Two-piece cranks In recent years, most higher-end cranksets have switched to a construction where the spindle and drive-side crank/spider assembly are integrated into a single unit. This means that the bottom bracket no longer needs to have a spindle, and is now essentially a pair of bearings that support the crank spindle. The variation in where these bearings are placed, their size, and how they are mounted in the frame causes the wide range of modern bottom brackets. Narrow-diameter spindles (≈ 24 mm) Shimano's Hollowtech II and FSA's MegaExo both use a spindle diameter of 24 mm, and are most commonly used with external bearing BB's that thread into the frame, such as the SM-BB70 you mention. SRAM's GXP system uses a 24 mm spindle on the drive size which narrows to 22 mm on the non-drive side, which they say avoids having to adjust the axial loading ('preload') on the bearings during installation. Large diameter spindles (30 mm) In the search for lighter and stiffer cranks, the diameter of the spindle was increased to 30 mm from the previous 24 mm. However, the cartridge bearings for a 30 mm spindle have an outer diameter that is too large to be attached with threaded external bearing cups, so most new systems moved to 'press-fit' BBs. There are a number of standards, the first of which was Cannondale's BB30, where the cartridge bearings are pressed directly into a machined bottom bracket shell in the frame. However, because the manufacturing tolerances required to achieve a good fit for the bearings in a BB30 system are very tight (and therefore expensive to manufacture), other manufacturers switched to PF30, which uses the same cranksets as BB30 but rather than pressing the bearings directly into the frame, plastic bearing cups are pressed in first, and then the bearings are pressed into the cups. Mixtures Very recently, FSA have introduced their BB386EVO cranks, which have the same diameter spindle as BB30/PF30 cranks, but the spindle is wider. The wider spindle means that FSA can offer a BSA threaded frame to 30 mm crank bottom bracket, but that the crank can still fit to BB30/PF30 just by adding spacers to the spindle to make up for the narrower BB width of those standards. There are also standards, which I do not know as much about, which concern press-fit bearings sized to accept 24 mm cranks, including "Shimano press-fit" (colloquially BB86 or BB92), and Trek's BB90, which uses slip-fit bearings like an integrated headset, as opposed to bearings that must be pressed in with force. Campagnolo Campagnolo produce three types of cranksets at the moment. Power Torque is their name for a two-piece crank similar to Shimano Hollowtech, however the bearings are not part of the bottom bracket, instead they are pre-installed on the crank spindle before it is inserted into the frame. They also produce Over-Torque, which is a 30 mm spindle design compatible with BSA threaded frames and most press-fit systems, and Ultra Torque which splits the spindle in two at its midpoint. (Apologies for the lack of detail in the Campy section.) 

You don't say where in the world you are, so it's not clear what the traffic regulations are. I'm in the UK, so I'll assume UK-like regulations – bicycles are allowed to use the vehicle lanes even when there's a cycle lane and bicycles are basically supposed to act like cars. First, regardless of regulations, you've missed option 3, which is to slow down to a speed where the cycle lane is usable. You don't say exactly what the problems with the cycle lane are but, unless they're so dangerous that the highway authority needs to have fixed them yesterday, you should be able to slow down for them. By approaching what you know to be bad sections of the cycle lane at speed, you are severely limiting your options. Second, you mention motorists being surprised when you enter their lane. In jurisdictions that I'm familiar with, signalling a turn means "I intend to manoeuvre when it is safe to do so." In particular, it does not mean "Please make space for me – I'm gonna turn!" If you are signalling, it would be nice for somebody to make space for you, but that is not an obligation and a car rapidly braking from its 40mph to your 20mph is asking to be rear-ended. If your lane change is causing surprise, it suggests that your manoeuvre wasn't safe and that you were using your signal as a request for space rather than a notification of intent. After all, if there had been enough space for you in that lane (i.e., a long enough gap in the traffic), motorists wouldn't have had to react to your presence at all. 

I have a CAAD12 disc which I'd like to fit SRAM Force 22 hydraulic to. I've been a bit enthusiastic buying things without really researching all the pitfalls of the different bits and bobs that go into disc brakes and compatibility thereof. So, it turns out that the CAAD12 fork is post mount, but my calipers are flat mount. Is there an adapter to fit a flat mount caliper to a post mount fork? 

I have a carbon framed bike with a press fit BB. Recently the non-drive side bearing disintegrated, and having the Park tool to remove/install the cups I thought I'd be good to go. The drive side cups popped out no problem, but the non-drive one had frozen solid in the way that aluminium seatposts can in carbon frames. Despite hammering it like all bezoomny, to the point where bits of metal were breaking off the inside of the shell where the tool rests against, it would not budge. In the end I got a dremel and very very carefully cut through the remaining bearing shell and then the BB cup, and it still took some pretty good whacks with a hammer against a wooden drift for it to finally give up. So, get the right tool, or take it to an LBS/mechanic who does. Its surprising how easy the cups can pop out when done properly. Failing that, and as a total last resort, you can cut them out with a steady hand.