It's actually not an issue because "history is written by the victors", who often use their dominance to codify the evil of the vanquished. The vanquished may have been evil, but evil is a relative concept based on social mores, (despite what deolators would assert), and so, even engaging in acts that would be considered evil, it's a safe bet that most of the actors did not consider such actions evil. But the depiction of the vanquished as evil is in no way universal. Certainly this was not the case in the Iliad of Homer. In the Iliad, the Trojans are not presented as evil. Conversely, they are depicted as noble adversaries, with the subversive element that their dignity is greater than that of the Greeks, certainly Agamemnon, Menelaus and Odysseus. It's not insignificant that the epic ends with the line "And thus was the funeral of Hector, breaker of horses." Hector unquestionably possessed the greatest dignity of all of the heroes of the epic, Greek or Trojan. He neither instigated the war nor desired it, but must fight in it regardless. He is blameless and esteemed, and makes the greatest sacrifice for his country. I'd say that books where the bad guys are evil is a type of shorthand, a technique that allows the author not to have fully explicate their point of view in simplistic narrative. Another way to contextualize this is per the advice of skilled actors in portraying villains, and may be condensed into: 

You may want to look a the New Sun trilogy by Gene Wolfe. It's an extraordinary feat of worldbuilding (Wolfe is regarded as the "scifi writers' writer", a term of profound respect for his vision and execution.) In this series, the world is so old, the ages of history are marked by the exhaustion of different resources, such as iron. 

Plot twist: the star system IS the intelligent civilization. The starship captain finally made it! After years of training, her first FTL flight had been a success. The approach was perfect, landing textbook and her disembarkment catchphrase worthy of Neil Armstrong himself. The last thing to do was to use the hydraulic ram to ensure the Comms Pole / Earth Flag wouldn't get dislodged after they left. She primed the Pole into the guide tube, powered on the ram and flicked the switch- Kranthos-5, youngest of the planet people jolted as a sudden itch broke out on its surface. Young and rash at 200 million years old, Kranthos volcanoed out a jet of lava to remove the offending sensation. "Strange, it didn't feel like an asteroid." ... Differences in scale make communication difficult. When was the last time you had a meaningful conversation with a cold virus? Edit: Oh you changed the scope of the question while I was writing this :( 

Let's go by a basic sound principle: higher-frequency sounds are absorbed quicker than low frequency sounds. For stealthy purposes, this means that someone in the next room is less likely to hear a squeak as opposed to a burp, volumes being equal. This is also beneficial for our spy as it means that the echoes from their high-pitched emission are more localised to close-by objects - they don't get as much cross-talk from further objects. Bats use ultrasound for echo location; I believe recorded cases of human echo location also uses high-pitched clicks. Now, is a high-pitched click appropriate for a spy? Probably not. But what were common in the middle ages? Rats. Lots of rats. And rats use high-pitched sounds themselves. A spy sneaking around and making squeaking rat sounds would probably be safely ignored - unless they had broken into the kitchen! 

I'd strongly urge you to look to Game Theory, minimax, and the rational strategy as opposed to the superrational strategy. Nash proves that cooperative behavior is mathematically optimal by analyzing minimax equilibria. In normal Prisoner's Dilemma, the rational strategy is to defect, to guarantee minimal downside, but the result, if the other agent also rationally defects, is less benefit for both participants. The superrational strategy, where both players cooperate, leads to the maximum benefit. (This is problematic in un-iterated Dilemma, but it's easy to prove that persistent defection in iterated Dilemma with a superrational agent is irrational.) Financialists don't like Nash and his ideas because it undermines the license they have to wreak havoc on the economy by pursuing self-interested goals with no concern for the fallout. Financialists, which is to say people who make their money by speculating, have more incentive to exploit Pareto Efficiency, which is gain that requires making someone else worse off, because the markets are filled with optimists (otherwise known as "marks") with less information and resources than the financialists, who can often drive the market. Pareto Improvement, under which a party or parties may benefit without making someone else worse off, is the ideal for for a society that values humanity, and produces maximum benefit for that society. The best part is, this position is not subjective, but arises out of the mathematical analysis of equilibria in the framework of Game Theory. 

The purpose is not to get hydrogen or helium, but heavy metals, which are only produced in stellar cores. This was a feature of the astonishing Quantum Thief Trilogy written by real-life mathematical physicist Hannu Rajaneimi. In Rajaneimi's book, it required only a the technology of a post-singularity civilization, still restricted to our own solar system. (The idea is that the mechanics are well within the bounds of a civilization approaching Type II on the Kardashev scale. 

Actually, you dont need THAT much to politically and economically collapse a nation with a single nuclear device. Take, for example, Manhattan during peak hours. How many people are there during that time, in a lethal range of a 40kt warhead? 1.5 million inhabitants alone (2010 census), and probably more if you include people that come to work there. Its also an important economical center of the US. Striking such point will generate millions of casualties that need rescue/care/support. Consider the effect that WTC had, where there were - comparably - very little immediate casualties. Add to that the fact, that you will be totally unable to provide even basic relief/support/health care to affected people. How many burn victims you will have? Several hundred thousands, very probably more. How many hospital beds does US have that can support the scale of injury that will be prevalent? Not enough. Can you provide transport ability / logistics to transport the casualties? You cannot. Not enough ambulances, and time. Not to mention area denial during first 2-3 days due to radiological effects. Social and political backslash would be enormous enough, not to mention any economic effects. Really, you do not need a prompt decapitating strike against whole of government for country to collapse into chaos. 

I'd go with an entirely different approach. Use orbital flight mechanics to your advantage, and use your targets kinetic energy to your advantage. First, some facts on orbital movement: 1) You will not change your flight direction easily without expending very large amounts of your delta V budget (i.e. fuel / engine burn time) in the process. Especially not rapidly. 2) You are not stationary. Ever. In fact, you are going mach 25+ on just initial reentry, LEO speed is even higher, and higher orbits will need even more. 3) your path is predictable, unless you are stealthy. Which you are not, because you are hot against space background, even if you limit radar signature. Now, considering that your target is moving at orbital velocity, on known trajectory. Lets place a steel/titanium net of thick cables on his path. A net that is 500-1000 meters wide each side. Moving at orbital velocity. On his orbit. In the opposite direction. With limited maneuverability and sensors, so they cant get away that easily (unless fully commiting to either leave orbit, by expending his dV budget, or deorbitting altogether) edit: for better effect, make it unfold a little time before predicted time on target, and have a compact, easy to hide missile form before that. For even better effect, launch several on different, tailored trajectories , of which some are designed to intersect possible favourable escape routes. Now, we wait. 

Well the way that we know about dark matter is by the gravitational effects it has. This is then a place to start generating our communication system. We are using our current levels of technology. OK, great. We can currently send things into space. We can also currently detect local levels of gravitation - . Taking these two facts, and using some our own dontaskium (similar to alien's handwavium but light instead of dark) to generate the appropriate governmental and public support and funding for our venture, we do this: 

NO What is the appeal of your MMORPG - do you know this or can you find out e.g. do XY testing on popularity of limiting this behaviour? Are people drawn to the realism, and does this include the capacity for cruelty and genuine response? If so, then from the business perspective you can't do this: granting AIs human rights makes such behaviour illegal, which your MMORPG can't support. You also can't remove the behaviour, as people will not want to play. The question comes down to a matter of public perspective: "consciousness" is not as hardly delineated as we like to believe - but we do like to believe it is. If you release public statements saying that you understand people's concerns, but that these NPCs are art not people: much like a painting or statue that may inspire high emotion in people, they are designed as conduits for our own internal feelings, but not actually alive. More philosophical thoughts on "human rights" in virtual contexts (you can use this in your press release if you want) - humans are not simply a sentient mind, they are a physical body whose form, abilities and weaknesses shapes our physical minds in every single thing we do. We cannot simply be copied, backed up, reverted to a previous version, have memories deleted, etc - our physical form is integral to making our personalities, desires, phobias, mind-states, rationalities and irrationalities what they are. Being "human" is not only self-awareness (or the appearance there-of) - it is the unique interaction between our bodies and brain and the environment and evolutionary history that has lead us to our survival. Virtual minds, sentient or otherwise, could be simulated to have these feelings - but in the same way that I cannot eat the picture of food on my PC screen (still lamenting this after 20 years of internet), simulation is an inherently different process than "human experience". Note that I am not saying better, worse or other value judgements - just different, and that "human rights" are not applicable. 

The pull will be dependant on the star's mass, not density. As for gathering fuel, you'd need to work out heat protection first, and radiological protection second - any star is, after all, a thermonuclear reactor, technically speaking. Thus you get a large amount of ionizing radiation output, especially up close (as radiation exposure scales up/down with distance. Our sun (and any other star too, for that matter...) could very well kill us with radiation if we got too close without shielding) 

Both RTGs, and ny kind of reactor is not realistic by far. RTGs, while light and not having many moving parts, are not radiologically safe to be around. Unless you understand "being around" as deploying it and having a no-go zone 200 meters wide around it, until it stops working by itself. While it is somewhat-useable on an unmanned space probe, or an automatic weather station in a polar area, its not feasible for any real use with people around. Reactors are a step above that. They need heavy shielding around them (the pressure vessel alone will NOT cut it enough), they need support infrastructure (turbines, steam dehumidifiers, 2 or 3 (VERY) high pressure coolant loops (of which first one is deadly to be around just like that, due to radiological hazard, and they need large amounts of water (all nuclear plants, sans literally ONE, in the worlds, have either a river, lake, or similar water source nearby). Furthermore, fuel. You cant just put a natural uranium ore or unenriched natural uranium into an RTG or reactor. Reactor grade fuel means 3-5% enrichment (you need an enrichment plant for that). This is the easy fuel. RTG's do not work on uranium - they use plutonium (highly purified, too! RTG plutonium fuel pellets relase realy obscene amounts of heat due to its high isotope purity and high activity), which is not found in nature unles you breed it (for which process, in turn, you need a specialised breeder reactor, and enrichment plant). All of which are high level of complexity, highly dangerous (radiation, chemicals used) heavy industries. 

What about putting an edge and a hilt on one of these babies: Folding bike locks are designed to not break, so you are looking at something less flimsy than hollow telescoping swords. You could put in stoppers at each of the joints (I don't know what they're called, the ones where it locks into places and you push a button to release it) to lock each section at 180°. If this was well-oiled, a quick flick would fold each section out until it locked, leaving you with a nice sword that isn't hollow - the weak points are the joints/stoppers, so over-engineering them would be a good plan. Edit: forgot to say: Yes it's going to be at an angle. Yes you have to deal with it. If your segments are thin, it shouldn't be too big a deal. 

Let's speed up this process The receiver should probably be used to guide the creation of the transmitter. You have a tri-state here, so I'm going to suggest: Forget about money for now. That will come later. Instead, get to poring through your research books to find the approach that works. Don't even bother reading papers. Go to a list of physics articles, and devise a scheme to map time-of-day to paper. If this isn't "normal" physics, then you should instead make an exhaustive list of the ways you are thinking of making the transmitter. We are going to use the time of data transmission as a hack to get more information, along with the bit value itself. It sounds like you are going to be able to have very high temporal precision with your data-sending, so let's give ourselves a 1-minute window. Now you have a mapping from time to "ways-to-proceed-to-make-the-transmitter". Your future-self already knows how to make the transmitter, and will have the mapping saved from his past (your present), so all you need is something to monitor the receiver and note the exact time (to the minute, or whatever temporal precision is appropriate) that the device receives the data transmission. Look this up in your map, think about it for a while, have the "Eureka" moment, then go off and build a transmitter (and another receiver). Now you can go to the casino. (Don't forget some day down to line to send a transmission back to the past to allow this all to happen!) But what if the specific breakthrough needed to make the transmitter has not yet been invented, by you or another? Well then we need to refine our process. We can send a 0 or a 1. Let's make the plan: Send a 0 if the breakthrough is from the map you created. Otherwise, send a 1 if the breakthrough is in a publication (book, article, news story, whatever) from that day - i.e., if you receive a 1, it's time to go to every physics journal, every news outlet, every book publishers, and find what was published today. Then again, have a think for a while, have your "Eureka" moment, build a transmitter (and another receiver), now go to the casino and make money. You can, of course, speed up the process by adding more receivers - adding one more receiver increases the number of items you can map to each minute from 1 to 4 (binary). Having three receivers, your map increases to 16, four receivers gives 32 items, etc. Depending on how many items you have to sift through and how fine-grained you need your guidance to be (and how patient you are), you can spend the money accordingly.