From Niagra Cycle What do you like about them? The fact that the pads uses inserts? or just think they look fancy? 

Up until 1952 serial numbers we printed on the Bottom bracket shell, after 1952 they moved them to the rear dropout until 1971 when they were again moved, this time to the head tube beneath the oval badge. Being on the cusp of years i would check both the BB shell and the rear drop out. This information can be found in an informational bulletin released by Schwinn here. I doubt you will do to much damage with a wire brush, as long as there is not good paint on the frame, which will be scratched from a wire brush. You may also consider using a rust eliminator such as CLR (Calcium Lime and Rust), it could be sprayed on with a spritzer style bottle and rinsed off with alcohol or water. Light brushing along with this may be enough to make out serial numbers. Once you find it This web site may help you decipher it's model as well as date of production. 

I assume I read this correctly that you want to replace the fork and wheel making the front a 27.5" and the rear will remain a 26" If this is correct I don't think their would be any real benefit. There were several companies in the past that did similar things and don't any longer the 69er comes to mind which was a 26" in the back and a 29 in the front. Rollover will improve for the front tire yes, but more than likely with the different geometry you will likely be putting more weight on the front wheel which will nullify any roll over gains. Also climbing will become significantly more challenging. It will also track through corners differently. I would recommend sticking with the same size wheels. I don't think you will see an significant gains in doing so, or any gains for that matter. If anything I would recommend a fork of the same size with more travel if that's what your worried about. Your legs and body are the most important suspension though. 

I personally like the saddlebag or backpack option. I keep all my tools and extras in my hydration bag. BUT... You could use removable ties and attach it to you seatpost assuming its a small enough pump. Niteize makes a product called gear ties in an assortment of sizes that are basically industrial twist ties, rubber coated thick wire that holds quite well. The website info can be seen here They look something like this: 

I read the following, from their website as having the option to either lock them in place and use them as a fixed cleat, or use them with up to 15ยบ of adjustable float, which considering many are only about 7ยบ seems like a lot. 

Image from SheldonBrown.com More from Sheldon: Rim Sizing Tire Sizing Reading through those links will tell you how to determine the BSD of the wheel and in turn tell you what size tire you need. It may be a Japanese or European size that i am not overly familiar with so i don't want to guess on your behalf, just thought it may help to provide some resources and data. You should look for a number in a format XX-254 on the tire, where the XX would be the width in millimeters and the 254 is the ISO diameter in mm, for example 50-254 would a 14" tire that is approximately 2" wide. If i were to guess though it will be a 14" tire, if it is a 14 x 1.5 it should have a marking of 38-254 somewhere. They have a ISO of 254mm which translates to 10" which looks to be about the size of the wheel in the image. Purely a guess though, i would take further measurements to be sure. 

It won't present any immediate danger, however it became untrue for a reason. If the spoke tension has changed more than likely it will get worse over time and riding it while out of true will most certainly expedite that process. Other spokes will lose their tension and could possibly break resulting in a higher repair bill, or possible injury. You will not immediately damage the wheel or rim but continuing to ride on it will only make it worse. It will also put stress on other aspects of the bike as well and your braking - if rim brake, will likely be slighty less effective. All of these would be after a while though, so while there is no immediate danger it will get worse the more you ride. Hitting a curb with poorly tensioned spokes could cause one to "pop" 

Quite a few different bikes there, but seeing as it is based in london, i assume you will be using the bike in mostly urban and city landscapes. My personal opinion would be to go with one of the many "Hybrid" bikes listed. Like one of the flat bar road bikes. If you go full road bike, you will be in "attack" position the entire tire and i imagine you would be more comfortable in an upright position where you can take in the scenery as well. One thing to look into is what sort of insurance or theft policies are there? Parts of London could be a sketchy place to leave a bike so i would be sure you know the rules and liabilities involved with renting someone's bike. Also would be smart to inquire about repair services or rules if you were to get a flat or other issues. Next, as others have mentioned, match whatever bike you choose with the type and length of riding you intend to do. A cruiser may be super comfortable for short jaunts around the block, but if you plan to put a lot of miles in, the comfort will loose it's bonus to expending extra effort. Also, i would avoid an older model being new to bikes. You will likely want a full range of gears and easy to use simple components like trigger shifters. 

As far as I know all Claris brakes are rim brakes, so yes you would need to buy the brakes independently. Road disc brakes are still relatively newish. Or at least have only recently started to gain traction in the market. I believe Shimano recently released the new version of the 105 line that uses a disc brake. You could look at going that route for the brake but.. Compatibility will come into play with the brifters (brake & shifter) as the Claris is made for 8 speed and the higher levels that include a disc brake will more than likely be 9/10 or 11sp, but it is doable with some creativity or use of other brands/models. If my memory serves me you could use the ST-R500 from Shimano with a mechanical disc, its an 8sp. Personally I don't see a need for disc brakes on a road bike as cantis are tried and true but that's just my opinion. Also STI in shimano terms stands for Shimano Total Integration , a fancy name for the brake lever and shifter in one unit.. aka a brifter 

I had in interesting question today that got me thinking. Are there any brake pads that are marketed specifically to be able to switch between alloy training rims and carbon race rims? As in switch wheelsets but using the same pads. Generally i would think this is a bad idea as an alloy material that made it's way into the pad could then utterly destroy a carbon brake track. Then i saw this on competitivecyclist.com 

Do you mean the ride will take place from May to September or happen sometime in between those months? A good place to start would be at your local bike shops, hang out, get to know people in the scene so to speak. Join some local weekly group rides which are done by most bike shops and make some friends. You may also ask the local shops if they have somewhere they would let you hang a flyer or set a stack of them by the register. A couple shops by me have a cork board they will let you hang business cards or flyers on for example. The issue here is a ride of that magnitude is not just a weekend kind of thing, people will need to make plans ahead of time, take off work, pontentially buy touring gear or any number of other things. Cross country trips take careful planning and execution. In my opinion one of the best routes will to be to ride with as many people ahead of time so you can to ask around for people that would be interested and get to know the locals that are into this sort of thing. You could also join your local cycling groups on Facebook and start spreading the word and gauging interest through them. One more option would be to take out a classified through either an advocacy group, online, or in a local newspaper if you want to go really old school. With today's technology Facebook may be one of the easier ways to begin. Meet some people interested and take a couple group rides with them before hand to see if you mesh. 

Unfortunately it will not work due to the cassette spacing, even using an 12 speed shifter and derailleur, it will not shift correctly due to the increased space of the 11sp cassette which has 3.8mm between cogs while the 12sp cassette has 3.65mm between cogs. 

There are a couple products that already exist for doing what you describe. Although i think you could also probably use a tube like you said, however if dirt did get in, the tube might keep it pressed against the stanchion which could result in scratches. The tube may also balloon when the fork was compressed due to the non-breathable nature of a tube. The first that comes to mind of existing products is the Lizard Skins Fork Boot, they also make them for rear suspension as well which i have used. I have not used the Fork Boots but i have been happy with every other Lizard Skin product i have used. They are a breathable neoprene material but protect the stanchions. Image below