Anti-gravity. Creating anti-gravity materials is not within known science but I don't think that's what you are going for anyway. Just have the alchemists on your world create a metal that falls upwards. It would have normal momentum but negative gravitational mass. The top half of the airships are plated with that metal and the bottom half with normal metal. The result is self-stabilizing neutral buoyancy in air. We have no way to create negative mass at the moment but so far as science can tell at the moment there is no reason it cannot exist so have fun with it. :) 

There is no known natural system that could concentrate a material to the point that even the majority of the mass of a planet is one unstable element. 

I think you are over-thinking this. There is no need for a complicated reason, it would have happened simply because there was a niche and they moved into it. Perhaps the tree climbers live on fruit and were able to get to it better than other animals. Similarly the pack hunters evolved to hunt similar prey to wolves for a similar reason. Over time they would get better at doing the thing they were most successful at, this would be especially true if there were no competing species. So for example lets say your basic 9tf was able to climb, but not well, and pack hunt but not well. A disease wipes out the squirrel species in the area, leaving that space open. At the same time some 9tf find that pack hunting is a very efficient way to get calories. Various species would start following those two paths, with one growing lighter and better at climbing while the other grows stronger and better at hunting. 

Larger objects may generate enough rotational energy not to collapse (so for example some of the stars of the galaxy would survive) but essentially yes you are right. Anything in orbit collapses on top of whatever it is orbiting. The results are pretty catastrophic for, well everything. The only good news is that the collapsing may well trigger supernovas enough to trigger a new wave of star formation. 

Yes, theoretically. But not by any amount that could be measured. The mass of earth and the orbital velocity around the sun is so huge that any conceivable weapon would give it such a tiny nudge you would never notice. Remember that to change the orbit you need to launch something away at escape velocity. Firing a gun into the air won't do it, you need to be launching projectiles at 11.2km/s and then somehow stopping the air from slowing them down. Now compare the mass of that projectile to the mass of the earth and you see the problem. Even something like an enormous explosion that splits the planet in two (which we couldn't generate anyway) won't change the orbit unless substantial amounts of the planet are launched at a speed above escape velocity. The two halves of the planet would just continue in the same orbit rotating around each other and either join back together or form into a binary. 

I've got a slightly different take on this. Think of quantum physics and the observer effects. Quantum states that only "collapse" once observed. From the point of view of our universe all the demons are in a quantum state of possibility, a quantum state where they may or may not exist. By solving the right theoretical mathematics and visualizing it in your mind you are actually collapsing the wave-form of that demon and allowing it to come into physical form. 

The Gobi Desert is over 1000 meters above sea level, so a 75 meter rise would not directly affect it. The rise would affect the Caspian sea and the area around it but that is a huge distance away. To the east even a 75 meter rise does not have a huge effect, Beijing is now by the sea and big chunks of China are flooded but they are also still a long way away. So the likely answer is that it may get a little wetter or a little smaller or both - but there are unlikely to be huge changes. These things are always unpredictable though as the increased water areas may then lead to changes in the weather patterns in the area which may then go on to itself have huge and unexpected consequences. 

One reason that would immediately cause everyone to want one of these machines is if they were able to reduce aging effects. It would most likely need to go one step beyond DNA modification and be able to tamper with enzymes, telomeres, etc but by doing so it could well roll back your body clock or at least reduce the effects of aging. 

The simple answer is, no. Not on earth-like planets anyway. Escape velocity of earth is 11.2km/s. But we're not in a vacuum, you have a huge amount of atmospheric drag as you rise. You should read this article: $URL$ 

They both differ from conventional weapons in that they use electromagnetism to propel the projectile rather than using an explosive charge. Both of them need incredible amounts of energy, which is why they are not practical in an infantry weapon at the moment. The gun barrel and mechanisms do not need to be massively heavy, the problem is supplying the power. The advantages of rail guns is that they are much simpler to build and operate than a coil gun. They are also more powerful as they have a direct contact between the projectile and the rails while the coil gun has a gap between them. The advantage of a coil gun though is that the coils can be insulated from the outside world more easily, which could well make them more reliable in the long run. It will be harder for external conditions to interfere with the coils and the coils will take less wear and tear in use. Rail gun rails in particular are subject to a lot of wear even from normal use. 

There is no reason that a currency couldn't span across multiple planets or even star systems. The key thing that makes currency work is trust, people have to be willing to trust that what you just gave them is genuine, and that they can then trade it on in exchange for further goods and services. So long as that problem is solved then even a galactic currency would be viable. Even in the case of major communication time lags a decentralized currency could still work. In fact even if the civilization that created the currency completely collapsed the currency may still be in effect so long as they recognize the value of the currency (and assuming it was in a form that survived the collapse). What you need to remember is that money is just a way to give abstract tokens value. It means I as a programmer can go buy food from someone without needing to find a programming job they need doing. I program for someone who needs programming in exchange for money, which I then go exchange for food. They can then exchange that money on for further services that they need. Because everyone involved agrees to pretend the money has value the whole system works. Decentralized currency The Roman Empire's currency worked just fine even when it took weeks to cross the empire. They even had the concepts of credit, loans, banks and even their own bail-out due to a financial collapse. The important thing is that you can prove that what you have is worth what you say it is worth, in the past that was done by using rare elements (gold for example) but in the future that could be done using other means. Our cash now is accepted in circulation despite the amount of counterfeit money constantly made by fraudsters. So long as the protections in the currency are strong enough to keep most people mostly honest it works. A purely virtual currency like bitcoin would be a problem as it needs to record each transaction with the network, but maybe that too can be overcome by some breakthrough in the future. 

There is one big question here. Do the people inside the city accept their fate and sit tight or do they try to escape? Unless they felt like they had a real chance to survive by staying the urge to flee would be overwhelming. You can expect massive crowds all fleeing the city by whatever means they can. Road blocks would be overwhelmed, people would be trekking cross-country and flooding out of the city using every means they can. In that situation it would be virtually impossible to quarantine the city. You have millions of people all desperate to get out. Even if you convinced troops to use deadly force and placed them in a ring around the city you would have to get them in position extremely fast and you would have a lot of trouble convincing them to fire on fleeing civilians. 

This all comes down to the mechanics of the forcefield. Does it allow the heat from the lava to pass through and be carried away by air convection on the inside? If it does then the lava will cool and solidify. If it doesn't then it will not. It really is that simple - and without knowing the behavior of the forcefield there is no way for us to guess. Note that Lava in contact with the ground does cool as well (although less so), you tend to get cooling all around the stream with the center staying hotter. 

This would be survivable for a small number of humans with not much more technology than we currently have. You'd need to go down, far enough under the planet to get insulation and maybe geothermal heating. Use geothermal energy and/or fission reactors to provide light and grow plants in massive underground hydroponics chambers. The good news is that actually there are plenty of resources available, if oxygen is running low just send some robots up, scoop some up that will by lying on the surface, bring it inside, and melt it. Life would be hard, cramped, and poor. Space and energy would both be at a premium. It would also be vulnerable, one earthquake could end everything. It would provide a seed from which to expand out slowly and where further scientific advances could be made though. We could survive for thousands, maybe even millions, of years this way before the earth's core lost all its heat. We wouldn't be the only survivors either as the deep oceans, especially near hydrothermal vents, would remain viable for a long time. 

The only theory I've been able to come up with is processing power. The human brain is still an incredibly compact source of just that. It would also explain wiring them up together in a network and why not to just use cows or bacteria. The brain needs to live and be stimulated in order to be effective so they created the virtual universe to do just that. However they introduced the concept of something called sleep and forced us to go unconscious for 1/3rd of the time. While sleeping dreams are actually our brains being hooked into the network and providing massive parallel processing power for the machines. 

Keep in mind that archaeology can learn as much by what is missing as by what is present. In the UK we have a stone-age village from thousands of years ago that has been recreated by analyzing the holes in the ground that the huts and their support posts made. These houses were made completely from wood but the evidence lay preserved in the ground until archeologists found it. It's unlikely that absolutely everything would be completely bio-degradable, and even if it was that process itself would leave evidence. As soon as you lay out things in organized ways those patterns become visible and are preserved in the ground for a surprising length of time. 

You would need something fundamentally different to human society and biology, most likely a completely alien life-form. For example the "Motiles" from Peter F. Hamilton's Pandora's Star. They do not really have any individual existence so live the sort of permanent work efficiency lifestyle you describe. Any individual needs goals, human goals will include joy, pleasure, happiness. Some time to relax and sleep. You would need to make some fundamental changes to those drives in order to change that. For example if you were much more selfless and thought only about your descendants then you might be driven to do everything you can to give them advantages. 

It's a combined mating display and defense/camouflage mechanism. Lets say the cats can go one better than just glowing all the time and actually have some control over it. This could be achieved by having both glowing and non-glowing fur and extending or retracting one type by preference to the other. This gives them control over their glow. The mating display aspect is obvious. The displays are used to lure and impress mates. For defense when startled or threatened the cat would immediately start to glow, with the glows being patterned to suggest larger size and emphasize claws and teeth etc. This would allow them to scare off other predators and help claim territory. For camouflage during the day the glowing fur and normal fur can be used in a similar way to stripes to break up the shape of the cat and help it blend into the environment or at least not look like a cat. This would be done by only revealing some glowing fur at a time and doing so in odd patterns. 

The other answers are correct in that solid light is not possible, however keep in mind that something similar to that and called that might be possible. For example what if there were particles in the air that normally just act as a gas. When hit by a laser they clump together and form a solid platform. By shining a grid of lasers to form a hologram in the right location you get a platform made by light even though it's not made of light. Those platforms would need to be supported somehow and there would be a lot of handwavium involved in the material they are made from but something along those lines is not inconceivable. 

The easiest way to do this is to introduce sterilizing chemicals into the water supply. Rich people or people in the know could stick to bottled water for a while but the rest of the population would get sterilized. The problem with this method is that it requires a fair amount of infrastructure and co-operation from different people who would be able to blow the whistle. It would also only affect one country unless other countries joined in, which again would make the conspiracy harder to keep quiet. A more technological answer would be to genetically engineer a virus that looks and acts like the flu, but sterilizes anyone that it infects. Spread that virus from multiple hotspots around the globe (for example major hub airports) and it would infect most of the population. Vaccinations can be arranged ahead of time and given to anyone you wish to spare. One big problem with these ideas though is that while sterilization seems more humane on the surface since you are not actually killing anyone - the long term effects would be drastic. If the population drops too much too fast then the rapidly aging population would have no-one to support them. The results would be a lot of old people starving or freezing to death with hardly anyone to look after them or keep the infrastructure running. 

There are two ways this could go down. One is dystopian, one is utopian. In the dystopian version the number of low paid jobs reduce and unemployment rises. As supply oversteps demand wages start dropping even further and employment rights get eroded. Eventually you end up with a small group of wealthy people who own assets/factories/robots/etc and a huge mass of unemployed poor left to starve or subsist on benefits and charity. This is not stable and so will still transition to the Utopian future you envision (or end in extinction) but very few of those transitions will be pretty. We're talking either a bloody revolution or a massacre of the poor with the survivors inheriting whatever remains. In the utopian version something like a Basic Income or Reverse Taxation system is introduced, gradually people are provided more and more resources "for free". This allows them to live and prosper and will generally lead to people working fewer hours so there is less dependency on and pressure for jobs. Working hours decrease, living standards increase, and entire sections of society are lifted out of poverty and get the opportunities to start businesses or pursue the arts, or whatever else. Which will happen? Well that's impossible to say right now. As the worldbuilder, take your pick. :)