It is 2057 and a manned mission to Europa has been comissioned in the prospect of further exploring the ecosystem and energy signatures of Europa. Unlike the implied unnmanned probe, this mission logistically has to be able to do the following: 

This is somewhat vaguely related to a old question of mine involving a alien species who spend three thousand years developing a post singularity spaceship armada in the mantle of a lava planet (Industrious). I try being realistic. So realistic that I figured that might somehow not work as planned. My logic at the time was so sound too! "Can't hide in space because of heat signature? Well, let's find some extremely hot place and hide in it where looking for heat signatures is impossible and no one will look anyways". Turns out trying to make a massive underground base in a lava planet has lots of problems. Problems that you can only throw so much technology at. So I wonder. Where in the galaxy is a safe place to hide from some genocidal spaceship entities who wanna kill everyone? And I mean anywhere in the galaxy. Empty space is not a option, too easy to be seen. Cold planets I presume would be useless because of the lack of heat. However, where in the Milky Way galaxy is a safe place to hide from swarms of genocidal aliens that kill anything they detect on sight while building a giant space fleet? -Will a lava planets work? -What about a hot jupiter? -What about near the galactic center? -Are globular or open clusters good or do they come with problems like being too much of landmarks? -Do red dwarfs or brown dwarfs hide things well enough or are they too cold to hide heat signatures? Technological limits are very few here, but hyper-spatial options aren't available. FTL speeds are around 10-20 Ly per day. Wormholes would require moving to other star systems if used. 

Go ranged. The ol' slingshot and rocks would be a decent weapon, capable of injuring any part of the body from afar without having to burden the user with too much weight and entangling their own wings and limbs with longer or unwieldy weapons. If the opponent is lightly armored (can't be very heavy since the winged human would not even be able to fly", then you would need to just need to hit their wings to make them fall or "stagger" them. You can even use short bows if this makes more sense in your world, then you can have poisoned tipped arrows and such. For the occasional melee fighting, use a "tari" or what they call "chicken knives" used on illegal cockfights. Basically a sharp hooked blade attached at the back of the ankles to to slashing attacks and since its on the legs, you can also use your arms to punch, slash, stab or any use other martial art or weapon you can think of. Makes for an interesting fighting style. 

How can a population or civilization develop empathy to the point where they feel another beings emotion if they are only a few feet away regardless of species and even if they are familiar with the emotion or not. The only limitation is that they cannot broadcast emotions, just receive them. The level of empathy ability I am looking at is above what humans have today. More in line with strong telekinesis or telepathic abilities. 

While intelligent detrivores are not impossible, it may be improbable. One way I can think of to support your idea is to have the plant life or the fauna or both, excrete waste products that are actually highly beneficial to your detrivores and chemically alters their intelligence and consciousness over time to improve and expand it. Like magic mushrooms but increases your IQ, EQ etc. Hope this gives you a germ of an idea on how to proceed. 

Splashed with water Exposed to the heat Touched by a human or stabbed by one (in the latter case- do they bleed or does their blood boil away?) 

Recently i've read Worldbuilding by Stephen Gillett and one thing that struck me was that for one reason of another many of the alien worlds lacked the resources needed for metallurgy. However, the book also mentioned how crystals would be common on at least a couple of these worlds which made me start thinking. Could a advanced species develop on a acidic world (even with less energy available) that instead of using metals, uses crystals, clays some other material in the place of iron/copper and has to advance on very different lines from humans with their steel and silicon chips or those other aliens with their calcium rich bioships and moldy circuitry? Crystals and clays according to the book would be in abundance on the acidic worlds (which is a generalization- the author goes through nitrogen-oxygen worlds, worlds with chlorine rich atmospheres where plastics instead of cellulose is used for wood and sulfur rich worlds, all of these worlds he concludes would lack in iron/copper. Therefore leaving any civilization that develops on a acidic world with chlorine or sulfur all over the place 'In the stone age'. I am skeptical of this simply because is metallurgy really the end-all be-all to even consider technological civilizations? It seems like it is on Earth, but that's more or less because metals are attainable and iron is easily available. But on another world where that's not the case could some other technological base exist and could it still be possible to make a advanced civilization through some alternative form of conductors? Crystals and clays to my knowledge both have diverse applications, but is it possible for them to fill similiarish technological niches seen in the modern world at least in the fields of automation of labor and/or computing? 

You can also explore the possibility of increased gravity. Creatures from a world with a high gravity would be either become smaller or larger. See this Reddit ($URL$ It really depends on how you want the outcome to be. If the stronger/higher gravity was not sudden then life would evolve to fit the environment and that would include denser bones, probably larger lungs and multiple hearts to support the body, muscle density becomes higher and would make creatures larger. I've read a few books I think it was Pip and Flynx by Alan Dean Foster (don't quote me on this) where one of his species was large and strong due to living in a higher gravity world. 

You can use terrain to your advantage. A gorge with a width opening on the enemy side narrowing down to a small opening will help to make the waves manageable. If its a flat plain, a fall back, ranged strategy might work if the plain is big enough. Couple this with area attack weapons such as mortar, bombs, mines etc. Air support (not sure what your tech level is) would also be good as they can soften up and even wipe out waves without having the ground troops go into it. Mortar, artillery etc. basically keep your distance. If your tech level permits it, then automated weapons towers could work even better and they can fire off pulses of electricity, streams of fire, or plasma etc. 

You could have underwater trains. Think hyperloop and such. Since your world is covered in water you cna have underwater dome stations and maybe cities as well that juts out to the ocean surface. Makes for an interesting social hierarchy as well but that's outside of your question so yeah maybe toy around with the idea for underwater trains. 

So it sounds kinda like what you want is events that can be rigged. Races are an easy, obvious one. Maybe fire spitting can be an event based on distance or accuracy. I feel like taking a dive on accuracy wouldn't be too hard. I'd imagine dragons would want wrestling as an event. While I don't think dragons would have a judge scoring system to result in a time, I could imagine there being rules in place to prevent things gettig too wild: No biting or clawing or fire blowing - something competitive, but it can give an opportunity for the two to show sportsmanship I guess. 

I write centaurs as wild barbarians that love fighting - especially with weakling, little humans. So let's say our centaur and hero are fighting in an open, little, dirt circle in the middle of the a village. Neither of them have weapons or armor or magic spells - all they have is their fists and hooves. They several paces away. And let's assume the human half of the centaur is as strong as a football player (because I don't know how strong a centaur would actually be). How would our hero be able to win the fight? What would he have to do? 

What came to the stop of my head is a team of cowboys set up an ambush. One guy on the town's fastest steed gets the dragon's attention and the dragon flies above, giving chase. The other team of gunslingers hide ahead with their biggest rifles and shotguns to all take shots at the dragon's soft gut as he get near. "It might not kill him right away, but ain't no thing on Earth gonna take all these holes and just get up and go home." 

Ok maybe not mechs, but exosuits. Powered limbs, pressurized suit, armored protection, comms, manueveraibility via jets placed on the feet and back. The suit would have to be large though so a 1.8 meter person would probably bulk to about 2.5 to 3 meters or so (rough estimate based on eyeballing existing spacesuits). They'd be armed with grappling hooks they can throw, mini-rockets (careful of that recoil) and maybe a knife or two for close combat. Not sure how much damage they can do to a medium to heavy armored station, base or craft though since arming themselves with heavy missiles might be too cumbersome and problematic given space's physics. Mines and explosives though may be feasible. Anyway, point is, you can use exosuits and they can look more mecha if you want and if they have specialized roles then you can alter their look and feel too. 

Quad or more legged mechs could be used to climb up terrain that is difficult for normal or heavy off road vehicles, specially if carrying a large artillery gun or cannon. Weakness is that once a leg is shot off, speed and mobility will be reduced increasingly by the number of legs destroyed. As another option, you could have wheels attached to the legs so they gain the same speed and mobility as wheeled tanks and these can switch out to climbing legs so that they can embed themselves much better in mountain or cliff-sides. Think along the lines of climbing axes or spikes. Also if say a quad legged mech gets one or two legs destroyed, they can theoretically still move about with the wheels attached to their legs and if you are up to it, maybe put in some wheels on the under-carriage. This way you get the best of both worlds? 

As someone who likes working monster characters, I thought about this before. What I would do is not make their scales so super invincible. Maybe they'd be highly resistant to sharp weapons but blunt weapons that don't try penetrating could be way better than swords. Maaaaaybe a big enough battle axe could pierce through. I could see someone getting enough force out of it to break the scales. Then there's the obvious weakness of the underside not having those protective scales. Well you were saying that magic does exist in this scenario. I don't see how a dragon could defend against anything magical. I imagine if I were a dragon, then breathing fire would be real tiring. Could you imagine how winded you'd be fighting and blowing at the same time? I tried running and singing before - seriously exhausting. 

I assume that centaurs have the best combination of horse and human organs. Someone was saying that they might have horse-sized human organs too but that's a different story. But if this is what we're gonna assume, then I see no reason they couldn't eat meat AND vegetation with "human" stomachs. I think centaurs would be omnivores. It'd make sense thinking survival-wise. When they obviously need a whole lot of food/water, it'd be a little stupid for them to pick either or. Hunting game like deer could mean a whole lot of meat, but gathering could go with it to fill them up and provide better nutrition. I guess a centaur could live off of plants alone if he's some Chiron hippie-like centaur and doesn't feel much like hunting. 

They could manufacture agricultural items such as plows and digging tools. It does not need fuel to work which they need. They can do repairs as well. Basically fulfilling the roles of blacksmiths. This of course depends on the overall technological capabilities of the surrounding communities that trade with them. They can also do assembly of machinery given the specs are available or in the overseer's memory/database. Additionally they can trade information in manufacturing and calculations as well such as how deep to dig a well given certain parameters etc. This could prove more valuable than tools. 

Just to throw this in there, maybe when you activate the magic, it creates tendrils of magic energy or use existing materials like vines (think druidic or necromantic magic) to support and make the bones move like a puppet on strings. 

You could use sub-atomic particles or maybe neutrinos and tachyons as alternatives to light. There are a couple of studies that's how they travel at the speed of light and you may want to check if this is a bit more reliable or easier to implement than beaming light from one system to another. Or if you want to really bend it out of current scientific abilities, you can have tiny space/time wormholes that are stable enough for your data packets to go through from one solar system to another. That would be fast. 

This will only work on a cloudless, sun intensive world (maybe a desert environment). Might give you some other ideas so here it goes. Build a long corridor with collapsed hinged floors. Rig a way for light from the sun to close the floors up so people can walk through them, but near the middle or end of the corridor before a closed and locked door, a pressure plate or a sensor, however you wish to rig it, will trigger some mechanics to align mirrors and concentrate the sun rays into that long corridor. Effectively burning anyone in it. You'd have to make sure the concentration is high enough to actually burn people in seconds, as well as make sure the mechanism specially the mirrors are well protected so thieves or archaeologists can't just break them. During the night, the floors drop so nobody can go near and its a long and wide enough corridor that its very hard to spider climb the walls. Still there may be ways to circumvent the trap such as putting up artificial lights at night or slowly building a makeshift floor at night.