I have dealt with this exact same injury (on the left side). I stopped doing all squats and dead-lifts for 2 month and waited for it to be back to 100%. Berin answer is spot on from my experience. During the 2 month hiatuses I focused on chest supported rowing, (non-chest supported rowing like bent rows caused a similar pain to squatting) LAT pulls, chin up, and more abdominal work. I used the 2 month to focus on my overhead lifts and made more gains in the 2 month than the previous 6. 

Chirstopher’s answer is great. I will just add a couple of my thoughts. Something that might be holding you back are muscle groups other than your shoulders and triceps. Core strength – is your core strong enough that that you don’t shake or wiggle around when overhead pressing. Back strength –a common muscle imbalance that I see in lifters is that the pressing (bench / overhead) is much stronger than there pulling (rows, pull-up, chin ups.) This can be caused by the muscle imbalances inherent in all new lifters and the over emphasis on the pressing exercises. This will limit your ability to control the weight when it is over your head. 

I do not think you should drop the weights down and “focusing on really opening my hips up.” As long as you are not bowing the knees in to much I believe that this is somewhat of a natural progression once someone move beyond being a novice and really has to grind and work for every pound. Bowing the knees in slightly help you get out of the hole (the bottom of the squat.) This video was made by one of the strongest people on the plant and he talks about the very issue that this question is in regards to. $URL$ 

Thinking about what proportion of food you should be eating is fine tuning. How to gain weight? Put butter on everything and fast food. I find consuming simple sugars (soda or tang or juice) will help me keep my appetite up. The real problem is your lack of appetite. Are you hungry a couple hour or so after you work out? If you are not you might not be lifting heavy enough. Is stress killing your appetite? You need to not be stressed. 

Strength training will improve your cardio fitness above no training at all, but it won't be very good compared to actual cardio training. In order to improve your cardio fitness you need to push your pulmonary/cardiovascular system past its comfort zone just like you push your muscular/skeletal system to improve your strength. The problem with strength training is that you do not sustain higher heart rates for very long periods of time (during the lifting) and allow too much rest in between while you allow your muscle to recover. You can convince yourself of that by wearing a heart rate monitor during training. You'll probably discover that your average rate during a session is not very high and that your rate only spikes for very short periods during lifts. To really improve your cardio fitness you need to sustain high heart rate for reasonable periods of time. HIIT is a good way to maximize the return of any time spent doing cardio work. Keep in mind that cardio work might require you to adjust your diet a bit to ensure you replenish your glycogen levels adequately. 

If the cable machine you use more than one pulley wheel, then your not lifting the full weight (see Wikipedia). Unless you manage to get the cable almost vertical, you are not displacing the weight as much on a cable machine and so not producing the same amount of work (see more wikipedia). Don't forget to count the weight of the bar on the Smith machine! 

The galaxy gear actually links to your phone and can't do much without it (certainly not GPS), so it's not going to solve your problem with carrying your phone around. I believe the MIO alpha strapless monitor might be the sort of thing you are looking for ... there a review of it here. But that still won't give you GPS. GPS watches are rather pricey and ugly. 

It all comes down to the speed at which your body can process the sugar. Simple sugars make it into you blood stream very quickly and so you should avoid them unless you are exercising while consuming them ... or else they will have to be converted to glycogen, or even fat. Complex carbs take a lot more work/time to be processed and released as simple sugar into the bloodstream, and so provide your body with energy without the spike you mentioned. There's definitely been a degree of overcompensation against carbs in recent years after a lot of anti-fat rhetoric. I think bundling complex carbs together with added refined sugars in the "bad for you" category is a similar mistake to the "All fats are unhealthy" of the past. Here is the NHS advice on carbs: $URL$ 

The foundation of any good diet to make “gains” (build muscle mass) is high quality complex carbohydrates. I.E. oatmeal, sweat potatoes, yams, pumpkins, squash, brown rice, rice. Notice a starch that I left out? Corn. Corn in an unprocessed form is virtual indigestible by humans. Dymatize Elite Mass High-protein muscle gainer primary carbohydrate source is Maltodextrin. *“Maltodextrin can be enzymatically derived from any starch. In the US, this starch is usually corn” This product’s Supplement Facts list 75g of Total Carbohydrate 8g as Sugars. Maltodextrin a heavily processed corn product that while technical not a sugar it is processed very similar to sugar. *“Maltodextrin is easily digestible, being absorbed as rapidly as glucose”. Taking Dymatize Elite Mass High-protein muscle gainer before your work out is going to cause a sharp insulin response during your work out which is not what you want. This product is meant to be taken after a workout not before. To answer your question about “what else should I consume to maximize my gains?” 

Welcome back to Leg workouts. Especially among former athletes and former lifters who take some time off it is extremely easy to overdo your first few (leg) workouts. After about 10 workouts you will notice that this post workout suffering will be much more manageable. Some ideas Hot and Cold Tubs right after a workout will help out greatly Prescription and Over the Counter drugs may help in the short term. 

Are you truly injured? If you are get better and then get back to lifting. Otherwise. Should I reset my weights for a month? No, not if you are following the plan in starting strength. I have read starting strength and it says nothing about a novice lifter de-loading for a month to practice your form. If you are only 2 month into a progressive overload regimented and you are not getting stronger every work out you need to look at your sleep, food, and hydration. If you get your 3x5 on the bench press at 115lb what weight are you doing next session? 120lb or 125lb. That would be a huge jump. In starting strength they would advocate moving up by 2lb. Does your gym have 1lb weights? Use them. If not wedge some 1lb dumbbells that the aerobic classes use under the clips or go to Walmart and buy 2 1lb dumbbells and bring them to the gym with you. Don’t get ahead of yourself. Putting 5lb on your lifts a month is good progress.