Here we see the price we pay for refusing to take mysticism seriously. We are then left with a collection of narratives about ourselves and our world none of which have a solid foundation in established fact. The problem you highlight is caused by the height and depth of the walls that scholastic philosophers have built around the Academy to prevent the rest of philosophy from getting in and freeing the minds of the prisoners. The result is a lot of nonsense about not being able to distinguish between fact and fantasy and utter confusion as to what the facts are. Philosophers holding views along the lines of Rorty and Butler never have any sound knowledge of philosophy outside the Academy. Yes, we create narratives, (heterophenomenology and all that jazz), but this may as well be called ignorance. If we establish the facts we do not need to create narratives. But this means transcending our theory-laden senses so is not something than can be achieved by empiricism alone. Accordingly,and little ironically, science's insistence that all knowledge is empirical causes post-modernism and all this talk of a 'post-truth' world. As individual thinkers we do not need to limit ourselves in this way for it is just a methodology for the physical sciences, but the walls of the university philosophy department are well-built and many people conclude they cannot be scaled. Inside is confusion and uncertainty, outside is where the good stuff is to be found. And yes, you guessed, I do have an axe to grind. I believe that we are being badly misled by Rorty and his peers. They are not doing the job they are paid to do. Note that these philosophers never claim to understand philosophy. Nobody who sees themselves as part of this 'Rational' or 'Western' philosophy-club ever understands philosophy and it seems to be a condition of membership. We should not let them fool us with all their clever word-spinning. Creating a better world will require understanding our true situation, not having a vote on what is true. 

I feel you have hit on an vitally important intellectual issue. What you seem to be saying is that legitimate opposites must be both contradictory and complementary. Another way of saying this is that for two things to be different in some way they must be identical in some way. Our intellect requires opposites in order to function and it cannot function properly if we are sloppy in the way we create these opposites. We often are sloppy in philosophy, with predictable results. Aristotle is crystal clear about what constitutes a legitimate dialectic contradiction or contradictory-pair of statements but is largely ignored by philosophers and this does a lot of damage. For instance, it is common to see people arguing between freewill and determinism or between idealism and materialism as if these are dialectical opposites one of which must be true and the other false. This is not at all how Aristotle uses logic and it breaks the rules. A contradiction must be A/not-A, and not A/B. In the case of A/B both theses may be true or false. You might like CWA Whittaker's book on Aristotle's 'De Interpretatione'. He explains a lot of this with great clarity. As you say, for two things to be opposite they must belong in the same category. This becomes a major issue in metaphysics, where we have to reduce all these opposites for a fundamental theory. It cannot be done within the usual 'Western' way of thinking because thought requires opposites.Thus this way of thinking becomes stuck at Something-Nothing, Mind-Matter, Internalism-Externalism, and so forth and never moves forward. I'd say you have hit on the reason. Kant and Hegel would be immediately relevant here, along with Bradley, Spencer Brown and Nagarjuna. They all spend a lot of time explaining opposites and methods for reducing them. A rather garbled answer I'm afraid. Time is short. But it's a question that deserves a lot of thought and which sheds a lot of light on philosophy and the way we think. 

This is a interesting question. I've never heard anyone arguing from QM to God, or nobody with a strong conviction and a sound knowledge of QM and theology. I'm not sure how such an argument could be made. But there is plenty of literature arguing from QM to a religious standpoint. This is because, as the early QM pioneers noticed, QM is consistent with the Perennial philosophy. For a general survey of their views there is Ken Wilbur's Quantum Questions. Three other writers come to mind. Bernardo Kastrup, who has worked at Cern, is making waves writing about Idealism from as scientific perspective. Also there is Ulrich Mohrhoff, who has written a student text-book called The World According to Quantum Mechanics - Why the Laws of Physics Make Sense After All. He endorses Schrodinger's view that the metaphysics of the Indian Upanishads is correct. The book is mostly maths but he makes the connection clear. Note though that using QM as an argument for the Upanishadic view is not at all the same thing as using it to support commonplace theism. These two religious views are chalk and cheese. I see no reason why randomness or indeterminism should undermine the exoteric or objective idea of God but it does not bode well for Him, while QM seems to many people to be more or less a proof of the the Upanishadic view and the nondualistic idealism of advaita Vedanta. If you can handle the maths then Ulrich Mohrhoff would be worth following up. If not, then Ken Wilbur's collection of quotations from physicists is non-technical and an easy way in to the issues. 

"I wonder how B-theorists can claim time is not absolute, given the physicality of events and existence. The claim is that physicality and existence are not absolute. This claim must accompany the claim that time is not absolute if either is to be coherent. Then we have to start thinking in terms of Manifest/unManifest rather than Existence/nonExistence. "Without time, movement cannot take place, as there is no distinction from being in one location or another. Without time there is no velocity or acceleration, no change, just eternal stasis." Exactly! Here we have Parmenides unchanging reality. If time is not absolute then neither is change or motion. Hence doctrines that deny the true reality of time must agree with the Buddhist or Perennial proposition that nothing really exists or ever really happens. This is not a denial of the evidence of our sense but an explanation for it. We know that our usual idea of time is paradoxical, (cf McTaggert, Weyl, Zeno et al), and the reason would be that it is a mistake to reify it. It ceases to be paradoxical when we cease to reify it. Time and space must be reduced for a fundamental theory so in metaphysics we have no choice but to say goodbye to time and space. Kant saw this and many others. The view is considered 'mystical' since it is endorsed by the mystics. If we could prove the metaphysical existence of time we could falsify the Perennial philosophy. As it is we cannot make sense of time when we reify it, which is surely telling. 

I have nothing useful to say about the thought-experiments but have one comment. You say... "Perhaps ignorance is a painful part of the existence we may have trouble dealing with therefore we create very well developed fantasies (sometimes comforting sometimes not) called religions which provide us with meaning and purpose." There is another and more popular idea. This is that we do live in a fake world and that ignorance is necessary to its functioning. The idea would be that if we could see the everyday mundane world as is really is we would see its unreality. Thus the mystics regularly claim both that the this world is unreal (in a particular sense) and that they (and you) are God in a state of forgetfulness. God would draw down a veil of ignorance in order that existence can seem real to to Him while He is on his holidays enjoying being a human being. Without this deception existence (as opposed to reality) could not occur. Thus religion at its best would be an attempt to know and face Reality, not to escape from it. Regrettably religion is no always at its best so your point is a fair one. Still, I feel the phenomenon you discuss is more immediately relevant to the ongoing lack of progress in institutional philosophy and the muddle that is modern metaphysics than religion. For literature on this topic the teachings of mysticism seem unmissable. You might like to check out the philosophy of the Upanishads, which explains God's Veil as the power of 'Maya' and advises us how to escape from its deceptive clutches. Here 'God' would be the God of Schrodinger, who endorsed the Upanishadic view, and not the God of Monotheism. 

Science, religion, speculative philosophy and spirituality can easily be reconciled. I see no problem at all. You just have to take the best of each and ignore the rest. If you take good science (ignore the philosophical/religious speculations of scientists) and good philosophy (ignore philosophers who don't understand it) and good religion (ignore the dogmatic and speculative religions) and good spirituality (ignore the lunatic fringe) then they fit together perfectly neatly and in harmony. Where they do not fit together is when people ignore the facts and depend on guesswork. Then the trouble starts. Explaining how they fit together is a big job and maybe too much for an answer here. In a better world our education system would deal with this while we are school. You are optimistic about the way they can be integrated but (I would say) unnecessarily pessimistic about our ability to work out and understand that they do. The problem is Russell's 'Western' philosophy which leaves us free to hold almost any philosophical view, most of which are inconsistent with religion and spirituality and even common sense. But I won't start ranting. Francis Bradley points out that the two views most obstructive to an understanding of the world are Materialism and commonplace Christianity. These he calls 'dogmatic superstitions'. The reconciliation you seek would require that we abandon both. It would be when we arrive at the correct view that all the different areas of knowledge fall into place, and not before.