It is only moral (in the sense of being correct or doing the 'right thing') to obey God's law, insofar as we can understand it. And in fact that is historically the presumed basis for practically every successful civilization's laws pertaining to government and economics. 

Ironically, there are basically at least two diametrically opposed ways one may view the problem of immigration: 

The author then explains how priesthoods are sanctioned by governments as the two arms of power function together. Religious ideas are also used by governments to manipulate and control economy through production, distribution, and consumption. Religion and Culture: an Introduction to Anthropology of Religion, by Annemarie de Waal Malefijt, c.1968, pps. 305-28 (Religion and Government; Religion and Economic Organization). (See also, The Rise of The First Reich: Germany in the Tenth Century (Major Issues in History), c.1969.) by Boyd H. Hill But basing human laws on universal morals is futile without knowledge of God. Many people don't know enough about God to accept its existence, in the first place. And those who do (or pretend to) have widely diverse views and theories, motivations and intents, regarding the true nature of God. Even the most dedicated, pure-hearted saints can only strive for a little clearer understanding of it. So that is why all are immoral sinners (law-breakers). It is impossible to be law abiding enough to avoid that predicament. And genuine saintly types are always the first to admit the fact. So, to answer the question: No, it is not "moral to obey the law." It is only moral to obey God's law, because God is the origin of universal morality. 

The common sense understanding of action is causal, i.e. action is some change between being in condition A to being in condition B. The two static conditions of being allow people to differentiate distinct kinds of change, the being that embeds the change seemingly giving the change an intelligible structure and stable identity. Can this definition be done away with or is it essential to understanding what is meant by 'action'? If there is a sense of action that isn't already embedded in static being how can this action be referred to or talked about philosophically? 

Coherentism, in its various iterations, generally works off of the suggestion that a large enough circle in reasoning avoids being a vicious circularity. I think that whatever is meant by 'vicious' by the coherentist is radically different than what is meant by most philosophers however. The whole problem with circularity in explanation is that it relies on what requires explanation as an explanation. The problem can be better seen if justification is seen in terms of human motivation for belief. For a person unconvinced about a proposition, they require proper motivation for belief that will not be satisfied until they have a reason that they take doesn't require further justification. The coherentist tries to claim that a large enough circle satisfies the conditions of justification, but this seems terribly exclusive of justification when taken in terms of motivation. How would a coherentist reply to this objection? 

What is defined as something. So for example the question, What is love? may be rephrased as a statement: "Something is love" or "Love is something". Therefore "what is" may be restated as, "something is". what is = something is = is something All three of the above statements may also be posed as questions. Something / (some thing) is defined as, "a thing not definitely known, understood, or identified; a thing undetermined; a thing unspecified". Therefore, "What is X?" means: "An unknown thing is X." or X = X [Webster's New 20th Century Dictionary, unabridged, c1959] 

Doing or deed; and 2. a display of affected behavior : pretense ; examples: put on an act that deceived nobody. His friendly concern was just an act. 

$URL$ ARISTOTLE'S ETHICS TABLE OF VIRTUES AND VICES (linked above) provides a handy reference guide for identifying virtue in various spheres of experience, including that of social conduct, which lists "friendliness" as the key ingredient for a virtuous relationship. However, limiting social behavior to "friendliness", while recommendable as a general rule, isn't quite enough for maintaining lasting friendships with people whose company you really enjoy. Or for general diplomacy, either. To form real friendships of virtue, or have virtuous friends -- you must practice impeccable virtue in all spheres of being, feeling and action. In other words, you must be virtuous. Being virtuous involves excluding vice from your life. It involves spending more time in quiet, solitary contemplation. 

If knowledge is entirely self-constructed, self-normed or self-given, how is it that the human person experiences such things as surprise, fear, annoyance, compulsion, error and ignorance? By self-construction I mean it is the person's (or persons') activity that creates its own knowledge; in short, the whole gist of human self-legislation that is found in any idealist thinker. If there is an element of receptivity, as of the individual receiving input from society, then I contend that this violates true self-legislation, and opens up the door for other receptivity (why limit legislation simply to other people, aka society, when our experience informs us of other things?). While we can be surprised by our own creations they bear a sense of familiarity that the idealist would be hard pressed to compare in the same light to genuine surprise. That is, to me at least, why we consider some things as our own creation while not considering other things to be our own creation. There are countless other phenomena that the idealist seems in a tight spot to account for (including compulsion, annoyance, anger, contrariety, disagreement, humility, etc.). Don't all of these phenomenological experiences, which include a sense of becoming and change that is not capable of being brought out solely by what is already known or given by the self, indicate that the human person has interactions with a reality that is not yet known but capable of being known? How else can a genuine change from ignorance to knowledge be possible if there isn't the introduction of something new that subsists outside the knowledge that currently exists? The change from ignorance to knowledge requires not only the production of new knowledge but the normative and proper circumstances under which such new knowledge is produced. The only circumstances that the idealist contends can influence human knowledge is that which is already immanent and implicitly present in the human person. That is, if I'm not mistaken, the whole gist of self-legislation. 

~ Kindness is defined as the quality of being friendly, generous, and considerate. ~ Aristotle said that friendliness is a virtue. ~ Virtue is defined as behavior showing high moral standards. ~ To be means to equal in meaning. With the given facts, logically: "It is always moral to be kind." Because if you are kind, then you are moral. Now, ~To act has two different meanings, relevant to the question: 

I see it as someone who has been a casual student of Zen Buddhism for most of my life, hence: The way to be enlightened / to wake up from a zombie-like state -- is to pay attention to your own situation and not allow yourself to become distracted / to become obsessed with unimportant things. Enlightenment isn't something that can be learned by interviewing / questioning / following -- an enlightened master. The only way to enlighten yourself, is to be enlightened -- to be your own master. You have to take the helm of your own ship. Had the disciple been his own master rather than submissively following another man around, he wouldn't have allowed himself to become so easily tangled up in a simple gate. 

If regarded as a true statement, the suggestion is that virtue and vice are mutually exclusive, leading to the conclusion that virtuous relationships are free of vice. 

See also: Fiction In conclusion, as most philosophers are aware of the fact that truthfulness is also considered a virtue (along with kindness), so it should be apparent to most of you that a pretense of kindness is not true kindness, and therefore is not moral.