It may be psychological but i think you can deliver more force to the pedals with a backpack. F=MA. Backpacks are better if you jump a lot of kerbs or carry sensitive stuff like hard drives or soft fruit. That said, I have had a pair of ortlieb panniers for over 10years and think they are great, still waterproof after much abuse . Any system that gets the weight low is best. I also have a well loved BOB trailer that has towed ridiculous amounts of shopping, hardware, other bikes and a chainsaw. Like many thongs in life no single solution the best option all the time. If you can justify buying one less car then you justify buying just about any bike related gear. You can even defer gym membership, grocery shopping was one of my biggest workouts when i lived on top of a 15% hill. 

The faster you are going at impact the further the door will throw you laterally. I recently saw the aftermath of a dooring, a lady was going down a hill and collected a door, she broke her collar bone and was being medically treated where she stopped, in the wheel path of the adjacent traffic lane, very lucky not to be hit by a following vehicle. It takes most people about 2seconds to perceive a hazard and start to react. A head check, braking and swerving take extra time and distance. Treat this is your safety buffer. Choose a road position to limit buffer incursions from forward and side hazards, claim the lane early to be predictable to following vehicles. Try to reduce multiple threats to single threats. Preparation also includes a good choice of protective clothing (gloves, closed shoes, helmet, stormtrooper armour). If the worst does happen this will help minimise injury and shock, the less dazed and confused you are the faster you can get out of the way of that approaching bus. 

New chain is the right length? The new chain should have the same number of links as the old chain. Did you line up old and new chain (allowing for wear so the line-up will be asymmetrical!) and put on new chain with the same number of links? I used this recently: $URL$ OFTEN rear derailleur can get a bit twisted or bent. You were riding in the forest and chain snapped. Might you have bumped something? :-) Especially your rear derailleur is exposed to bashing off things when mountain-biking. Check does your rear derailleur cog line up correctly with your rear cogs? Applying some gentle brute force in the right place on the rear derailleur can help. This is very good: $URL$ Check something in your drive chain. I got a notch in my front derailleur which chews and snaps chain! So check front and back drive-train. Is your back wheel aligned correctly also? 

I'm afraid I think the other answers on here don't have it right. It's unlikely to be your rear cassette which is the problem. Your problem is most likely to be with your chain and rear derailleur. Happily not expensive just can be a bit tricky to fix. Three things to check: 

I'd say get any cheap thumb shifter. Much easier to operate than grip+twist shifter. Click down is very easy. Shift up requires a firm push with the thumb. My daughter when learning to shift gears had a big problem. She's a tough cookie but more delicate hands than average and the twist shifts were just too stiff. You don't notice this with big strong adult hands. We replaced her twist shift with cheap thumb shift and it made a huge difference. Also make sure gear cable is well oiled and moves smoothly and derailleurs cleaned and oiled for smooth operation. 

According to SRAM's website, the Predictive steering hubs use a "dedicated interface for the RS-1 fork". The hub/dropout interface is toothed, to lock the dropout and hub into place and prevent twisting. Boost 110: 

As to measuring belt tension, the tool is your best option. If you own the bike, then you should own the tool. Without it, however, place an S-bent spoke or similar wire in a hook over the center of the top of the belt. Add weight to the bottom hook. 10 pounds is the spec. Yes, this is a lot of weight for a bent spoke. Be creative. Or buy the tool. Place a ruler next to the belt, at the point of the weight's pull. Write down the measurement. Remove the weight. Measure again, in the same place. Subtract the first measurement from the second measurement. The difference should be between 5 and 12 millimeters. 10 millimeters is ideal. The alignment is dependent on the type of dropout. EDIT 1: The image below is a new tool from Gates, called the Eco Tension Tester, which does exactly as described above, in a more professional manner. Perhaps it will help describe the intent of the method I described. 

I like the Castelli Rosso Corsa 6. they are thin, light feeling, durable, and generally have good graphic style. Graphics are always personal taste, of course. They are a 6cm ankle. Just high enough to be certain they will not slip down, but not tall socks. They also come in a 10cm height. Socks, in the end, are just socks, but every detail matters. I prefer the white, with black accents. Our club socks are also a custom version of this sock. It is very popular here. 

If your bike is set up with a proper fit to your body, and your pedal's cleat position is set up for your body, soreness in your knees like you describe is not normal. Whether the discomfort you are experiencing is simply muscle soreness, as in "I exercised heavily and my body noticed" or whether it requires corrective action, is harder to decide. If the discomfort is only after heavy exercise, like 40+ km rides in a headwind, I'd be inclined to say its because the pedals are new to you, and you're building the muscle you need to use them, as your body adapts to pulling up, not just pushing down on the pedal. However, if this continues to be an issue for more than a few weeks, consider having a bike fit done which includes cleat positioning. Also, if you are not riding off road, and you have purchased mountain bike style SPDs, rather than the road version, consider getting the larger and more supportive version. Unfortunately, this would usually also require new shoes, but many riders report cramps, hot spots, and muscle soreness when riding longer, uninterrupted distances on MTB clipless pedal designs. 

It's over politically-correct to say "you cannot do it" or "you have to ask permission". I find that it's not really that possible to chat / ask permission. I don't think it is rude. Most cyclists do not mind. You might exchange a word if you stop at traffic lights. Depending on relative speed and road situation common sense (ahum sometimes not that common maybe but not all that uncommon either!) is a good guide. There's a long steady uphill section on my commute home mostly with mixed on-road and shared foot/cycle path. I often find I'm riding at the same pace as other cyclists so drafting happens somewhat naturally. I don't find that taking turns happens at all much. On SAFETY(some of the common sense): you have to be HYPER-aware of what is coming up in front as well as road situation all around/behind (as usual!). You cannot draft right on wheel expecting signals as in road racing. It is an informal arrangement! When drafting like this I try to be of safety BENEFIT to the cyclist in front. You can back off frequently and give space as the cyclist in front encounters hazards, move to the side to look in front and behind, signal to front and behind and look after both yourself and others. I generally have flashing lights on and I have a bell :-) and I find riding as a pair like this is better for safety against car traffic. Also, I don't know is this just Dublin, Ireland, but many cyclists don't have(illegal here) or use bells. I find the tinkle of a bell + voice from well back mostly gives enough warning to pedestrians/dog walkers/other hazards(:-)). Warning enough that multiple cyclists can pass in a friendly way as opposed to all coming to a grumpy slow halt or blazing past close by in a dangerous manner. I find I might be the only one sometimes in group of 4/5 that will offer a tinkle! 

Both seatposts you mention use an air spring, with a hydraulic release. There is no maximum weight listed for either one. They are designed to use your body weight to drop the saddle when the remote lever is pressed, and to use an air spring to return it to full height the next time it is pressed. You need to be off the seat when the lever is pressed to return the seat to its normal position, regardless of your body weight. In addition, I'm a big dude, and I have no issues with mine that are weight based. I wouldn't be worried about it. The Rock Shox Reverb is a solid unit, and the crank brothers design looks to be as well, although I've only ridden the Reverb. The one issue I've seen is that the remote levers are exposed, and sensitive to impact. I've damaged mine by resting the bike on the handlebar to cha nge a flat, even done carefully. Bright side is, parts are cheap and easy to find, and the bleed process is easy. I do recommend the Reverb. 

Of course, as with any exercise, stretching is worthwhile. Mostly a few slow warm up laps around a short course, or taking it a bit easy the first few trips out, as you get used to riding a bike again. Mostly, try riding 2 or 3 days a week, with a rest day between, until you get fit enough to ride comfortably. 

While it can be related to the damper, if 2 new dampers have not fixed the issue, as you describe, it is likely related to the SPECIALIZED BRAIN mechanism in the fork. Take it to a Specialized dealer. They will repair or replace it. And should do so at no cost or minimal cost.