To demonstrate the problem: let's say I'm trying to examine the properties of a watershed - a HUC8 or HUC12 - and want to see stream gauge data for it. To find stream gauge data, I'd go to the USGS Water Resources site and hone in on the area of the watershed of interest - the issue is that many gauges have a Hydrologic Unit listed on the gauge's Summary Information page that is different from the drainage area listed on that same page and from the watershed delineation one would get if starting with a DEM and the gauge's coordinates in GIS. That brings me back to my question in bold above - any guidance or clarification on finding paired USGS stream gauges and HUC's that are drainage areas (since not all hydrologic units represent actual watersheds that can be gauged) ? 

I'm trying to better understand the Hydrological Unit Code (HUC) system of the United States. I understand the basic hierarchy of it (HUC4, 6, 8, 12) and watersheds/drainage areas. Here's what I want to clarify: A group of HUC8s can be within a single HUC6, because each HUC8 ultimately drains to the pour point of their parent HUC6. What separates one HUC8 from another HUC8 downstream of it, both within the same parent Hydrologic Unit? I suspect the answer isn't the natural drainage area, because the downstream HUC8 would contain the upstream HUC8 in its natural drainage area - that's based on me thinking that as you shift the discharge point you're examining further downstream, the drainage area you're examining increases. The most concise, relevant explanation I've come across is from the USEPA's EnviroAtlas Data Fact Sheet on the subject: 

I'll preface this with the truth and hope it doesn't disqualify the question but rather give context: after reading Journey to the Center of the Earth by Jules Verne, I am amazed at the prospect of venturing into volcanic conduits to explore the interior of the Earth. How deep do lava conduits go, why don't they go deeper, and what kinds of formations or environments exist at their terminus? I am not new to Earth science but am pretty new to in-depth geology (pun intended) and volcanology. From what I can tell, the type of lava cave which goes the deepest is referred to as a lava tube. Apparently these tubes can be fairly long (e.g. a tube from Mauna Loa goes 50km before terminating[?] at the ocean!) but not very deep (Wikipedia on lava tubes lists a mere 15m!) Why do these tubes not go far deeper? The deepest conduit from surface to inner Earth is apparently the Kola Superdeep Borehole which terminates at ~12km deep upon reaching higher-than-expected temperatures. I think of magma - liquefied hot rock erupting out of volcanoes - as coming from even deeper than that depth. Therefore, why doesn't lava tubes or other volcanic conduit continue to such deep depths? Do they, but it is too difficult to explore? Do they during eruptions, but soon after cool and fill with solidified rock or eventually collapse and thereby fill with rock? As noted I'm new but interested to the subject, so any info to help me understand the processes and environment involved in this interface between inner Earth and the surface would be much appreciated. 

There already exists at least one method that attempts to use electromagnetic precursors to earthquakes; it actually tries to detect electrical currents running up through active faults, explained by the piezoelectric phenomenon. Search for Varotsos if you want, perhaps there are other approaches as well. Even though the device has a very long "antenna" (ie it tries to avoid noise which usually has shorter wavelengths) it has had some false positives (power lines may produce signals as well, they are long and signals may be of low frequency. Personally I would never focus on short wavelengths such as TV frequencies. Varotsos correctly focused on low frequencies (there is a practical limit to the size of the "antenna", I think it is some 50-100 meters long). So in short, no, TV disturbances will never become a valid earthquake precursor. Too many false positives would ruin it. Keep in mind that in the aforementioned approach, the first signal comes perhaps 4 months before the earthquake and further signals and seismic data are used in order to further narrow the time window, which right now is in the order of days to weeks. However the location and depth are pretty inaccurate (100 km radius or more) while the magnitude may be almost 1 unit lower (the most recent "success" had a magnitude 0.8 lower but it was a doublet). Currently there is an active "prediction" for an earthquake 100 km around Athens, of magnitude near 6. If it is to come true, it should happen until June or early July, but there are dozens of capable faults within the radius so it is practically useless at this point. 

I guess that it is possible. As mentioned by others, on top of static stress triggering, which is the effect of an earthquake in its vicinity (typically up to 2-3 rupture lengths away), another way by which an earthquake can trigger others is by dynamic stress triggering, which may have effects farther away but are hard to identify and measure. So far, the only earthquake that seems to have demonstrated how dynamic triggering over long distances can take place is the 2012 Indian Ocean earthquakes. This earthquake had an unusual combination of characteristics: it was a very large strike-slip earthquake, it took place in oceanic crust (which allows surface waves to travel longer) and had a very large concentrated burst of Mw 8.4 - 8.5 with large slip over limited distance (I do not post sources since there are at least 3 apparently good studies with very different results, for example one study says that slip exceeded 80m locally (!)). These characteristics suggest that this earthquake was very efficient at radiating energy through the crust rather than towards the interior or through very fragmented crust. So, what this earthquake showed, is that it is possible to speed up significant earthquakes (earthquakes that were almost ready to happen, but they were sped up up to 90 days). Still, it is only one case, the mechanism is not well understood, we are not sure why this earthquake seemed to have caused this phenomenon while other earthquakes with higher magnitudes did not show the same effects. Concluding, while static stress triggering has only a fairly local effect, dynamic stress triggering may have a wider effect but we only have detected one such case, which could very well have been a coincidence or due to an unusual mechanism. So the answer to your question seems to be yes, but with doubts and in any case for very special earthquakes. 

I would contend that the fact that the location is a desert has little to nothing to do in most cases to the existence of fossils at the location. Most of the fossils in the location, at least the ones that make most headlines like major dinosaur deposits, were left there millions of years ago. The fact that a location today is a desert has no indication of what the climate, or even where on the globe that location was 50 or 100 million years ago. Do not forget about plate tectonics and climate change. One can go to places like the Judith Basin in Montana, a relatively harsh area of North American Bad Lands, desert or near desert like conditions with cold winters and find fields of fossils from animals that are believed to have lived in tropic marshes of in oceans, because at the time those animals lived, what is now Montana was not inland, and was not at a Northern location. Millions of years ago it was an undersea plate, thus it has layers of limestone made from ancient single cell sea creatures and sometimes larger objects that were entrapped and preserved as larger fossils. At other times, those plates rose from the sea floor and homed some of the large creatures, like T-Rex that lived, thrived and sometimes survive as fossils. Later, that plate move and ended up inland, in what is not North America. Glaciers, wind, and water may have stripped off many layers of deposits and left exposed or close to exposed the layers of interest to fossil hunters. Desert regions tend to be subjected to this type of erosion and exposure making such finds easier. If those same fossils were in and area such as a rich planes area with plentiful plant growth and never subjected to glacial scouring, they could be, and may very well be, right below your feet but under many layers of soil and decaying vegetation, river sediment and other deposits rendering them out of sight and out of reach. 

What you are observing is called anecdotal weather observations. I will address it in a number of points, none of which many people will agree with, but so be it. 2-3 years is weather, not climate. Climate is measured in millennia, not days. Historical averages are measured, well historically, which for most locations in the US is 50-300 years. During those years, methods of measurement have changed, so historical numbers may also have glitches in them, such as the the highest US temperature ever recorded is still in dispute because of how it was measured. But historical averages are calculated from all of those years, ones with droughts, unseasonable cold fronts, and so on. Warming patterns which are the basis for global warming studies are based on looking at all this data, plus many years of indirect data from ice cores, tree rings, sediment deposits, and many other sources, not from 2 years of personal study. It is routine to have years that are outside of the average, that is what averages are. It is also human nature to amplify the variation and see extremes. I did not go that far back, and I used only one source, but I looked at a little recent recorded data for Clearwater. I took daily numbers and went with variations to the daily average temp for that date. For Aug 2017, there are 8 days available thus, and the daily lows have been recorded as +17 degrees to average, or +2.15 degrees. For 2016 back to 2013 you get +27, -2, +24 and +7 for Aug, or as an average daily difference about +0.87, -0.06, +0.77 and +0.23 with a average for the 4+ years of +0.38 to average. Only the partial month for 2017 exceeds 1 degree variance to average. July numbers are, starting with 2017, 41, 37, -29, 13, -31 or in daily variations +1.32, +1.19, -0.94, +0.42, -1.00 for a 5 year average of +0.20. Although the last two July's have exceeded the plus one degree variance, two of the prior three were almost the opposite. That is weather and normal variation. To get to climate numbers requires looking at those patterns over centuries, not over a couple years. Trust me, I am not refuting global warming. I am however refuting using such anecdotal observations as a bases for the claims. Weather patterns work in cycles, and before climate change claims can be made the cycles must be accounted for. When a location has an especially hot day, or month and references are made to global warming, it make that side of the argument look silly. When a blizzard occurs, there is a record low, or an seemingly especially cold day, and the deniers point and chant global warming and laugh, they may also feel they scored points, but under statistical analysis they look silly as well. I do not claim the above to be a statistical analysis. I also did not cherry pick data, I simply only had time or willingness to do a quick 5 years. That was more than enough to see yearly variations and demonstrate that a perceived variation of 4-5 degrees is actually 1, and 1 degree is still within typical yearly variation. To make a real claim requires a pattern of trending real variation in a continuing upward direction and that require rigorous and systematic data collection and analysis. 

It can happen but not like you may guess. I believe you have seen rupture maps for large earthquakes, such as the 2011 Japan earthquake. In that earthquake, a foreshock of 7.3 took place at the perimeter of the area of largest slip during the main earthquake. This could be interpreted like this (using the asperity model): the foreshock hit at the "slopes" of the asperity but failed to "climb" up immediately; aftershocks were slowly migrating towards the "top" of the asperity, then the main shock happened. Furthermore, once the whole fault was activated, slip at the shallowest parts went beyond charts (40, 50, even 80m of slip were reported locally). The main (deep) asperity had the fewest aftershocks (it slipped completely and without restraints), but there were enough of them in the shallowest parts of the fault. This is probably because the shallower slip was not due to an asperity but rather due to diffused slip of unconsolidated sediments (the "bookshelf" model was used, plus there were aftershocks that appeared to actually... pull back the pieces closer to their original locations). Anyways let's focus on the deeper asperity. An earthquake can take place at the "slopes" of a large asperity but fail to rupture towards the "top" It can however rupture towards the perimeter and achieve respectable sizes. Then another earthquake can take place nearby, but still low at the "slopes". Finally an earthquake can climb over the top and force even the previously ruptured areas to re-rupture. All 3 earthquakes can very well have epicenters pretty close to one another (such as the two eastern Nepal aftershocks recently). It seems that the 1960 huge Valdivia earthquake demonstrated this behavior but I have yet to find a good, detailed, open-access study on it. Concerning Fred's answer, unfortunately Bilham (he mentions Jones and Molnar, 1986) (search for "preceded") says that 10% of strong earthquakes in the history of Himalaya have been preceded by strong shocks. Other sources support Fred's answer, but I would choose to believe Bilham. Concerning the "lots of aftershocks" notice that the author of the question pointed, for a given earthquake with a normal aftershock sequence it is expected that its strongest aftershock is 1.2 magnitude smaller than the mainshock. For this case, this would yield 6.6. In fact, the strongest ones were the 7.3, an 6.7 and a 6.6, so yes this is anomalous, but the empirical 1.2 value I mentioned is a bit smaller for Himalayas. Still, an 7.3 is anomalously large but before that time we had no reason to suspect an anomalous aftershock sequence (to my knowledge of course, I searched for b-values but did not find anything during the first days of aftershock activity).