I would NOT give notice until the bonus is in your bank account (and cleared). Even if you've been given a letter that states your bonus and the paydate. I had a coworker miss out on a fairly sizable bonus because he put in his notice between being notified of it and it being deposited with direct deposit. While this may not be the most professional if 2 weeks is required, if you want to guarantee the bonus I would suggest waiting until after it is in your bank account, then give a late notice stating your last day is the end of the month due to a pending move. Make it a professional resignation notice otherwise, and it should be reasonable. Since you already have another job lined up, there is not really much they can do overall besides send you on your way. 

You can post your code up on a public repository using a free GitHub account. However that should be supplementary to presenting it on a resume. You probably have limited if any work experience in programming so you should use a Projects section on your resume. The restaurant system would be one project. Use about 4 bullet points to describe what you did and the technologies you used, and shows more than just listing a url or the code. Such as: 

I've been freelancing for a former colleague of mine who has started a new business. I've known the colleague about 4 years professionally, and he reached out to me to join his business as an employee. The new company is made of mostly ex-colleagues of his so far. He has given me a full time offer contingent on the business reaching its next funding goal, likely in 1-2 months. The problem is the salary offer is about 15-25% lower than my previous job, depending on if I ignore the bonus factor. My previous salary was generous overall. I'm curious how I might negotiate this to a more reasonable number? At the very least I'd like not to take a paycut from my previous base salary. I've seen that the company is doing well so far, and the next funding will solidify it, so I don't think they are hurting for cash. The unique factor seems to be that he specifically sought me out for the position based on my unique skillset to offer within the new company, I'm the lead. I've got 10 years experience in what I do, and have created similar things to what they want in past, with lots of transferable knowledge/tools. I plan to use the next 2 months to deliver amazing results, such that he wouldn't want anyone else for the role. No one better, and no one new either. What is the best approach at getting the 15-25% more I expect? I feel like if I just stated the minimal 15% higher, it would be compromised down to somewhere lower. And if I stated "I was thinking 15-25% higher than this number", 15% is the best that would be possible. If I went high at 25% more, it might be considered absurd. At the same time, I'm interested in continuing this role, so he may know I'm not going to walk away from the low offer. I've been interviewing elsewhere with no offers yet, perhaps I play-up other company's interest? 

Recently I was conducting a job search and working with a recruiter I know, who submits my resume+credentials to various companies we discuss. Some of these companies are small, such that I'd never discover them on my own, and the recruiter is a useful connecting agent. Other companies are larger, well known names that I could likely have gone to their website and applied quite easily. They probably get enough interest as well that they aren't hurting for candidates. For these well known companies, what is the value of the company working with recruiter referred candidates instead of just candidates without one? I'm thinking that the recruiter candidate obviously comes with an extra initial cost to hire (upwards of 10-15% of a year's salary?), and thus the independents would be cheaper to review. From my perspective, I wonder if going into an application with a recruiter becomes a hindrance, in that I'll need to be that much better a candidate to justify the extra expense. Is this a fair assumption, or do company hiring budgets expect recruiter fees? 

I don't think it is wise for me to blindly say "yes" to a job offer, and potentially close myself off to other, better job opportunities which may arise between now and graduation. The drive is about 2 hours every day, so I'd ideally like to find something closer to home. I'm not necessarily looking to relocate right away after college. 

I am a rising Computer Science senior who will be finishing an internship at a software company at the end of this week. From what I understand, if this company is happy with the performance of a particular intern, it is customary for them to offer the intern a full time job, upon graduation, during or shortly after the exit interview. I have been very happy at this company, as I have learned very much, and have found this internship to be very rewarding. I could certainly see myself enjoying the opportunity to come back to this job after I graduate. I am looking for a balanced way to respond to such an invitation, since I have two thoughts: 

I am currently a senior in college in the job hunting phase. I have a rather significant online presence with an upcoming website, LinkedIn profile, StackOverflow Careers profile, etc... I also have an (shameless plug) impressive resume which almost always attracts attention whenever I distribute it. However, in an effort to always improve, is writing a Wikipedia article on myself a good idea, should someone look up my name? Would that be a good place to elaborate on details, awards, background, etc... which I would not normally put on a resume? Since Wikipedia is an online encyclopedia, basically, people would more likely go there to actually read about me. This is not quite the same on a resume where real estate is precious, and on a profile website where less words and more pictures are what people expect. I understand the wiki-style editing of any entry on Wikipedia is open for anyone to edit, so that is something to consider. Thank you for your time. 

I am a senior in college and I've just landed a very coveted job interview with a well known company. I shared those details to paint a picture of how careful I want to be when handling this situation. I have been through the first interview with no problem, and it was during that interview that I scheduled when my second interview will take place. That was 3 weeks ago, and my second interview is in 1.5 weeks. The company was very clear about their desire to work with my schedule, since they are well versed with working with and hiring college seniors, given their tight schedules. This is the kind of interview which requires a lot of brushing-up of skills I already know in order to succeed. If I only prepare a little or not at all, I'm guaranteed to not do well. However, I had a very major academic project which came up, and is due the day before the interview. Given the large scale of this project, no matter how much I have worked, or will work on it, I can't both complete the project and put in the appropriate amount of brush-up time into the interview. The project's due-date is non-negotiable. The following week is very open for me and will provide the necessary time I will need to polish up my skills. I'm considering asking my recruiter if the interview could be moved to the following week. Given the situation, should I consider asking to reschedule this interview, and if so, how should I do it? I know my recruiter will not need the details of why, but do I risk coming into the interview not fully prepared or, perhaps, look as though I can't manage my time effectively? After all, this project did appear between now and the time we last spoke. What are your recommendations? Thank you. P.S.: If the name of the company would help anyone target their answers, I will edit my question to include it. 

If one receives a job offer, should the vacation time be explicitly stated and exact? I received one such for an early employee for a very small and new startup, where the offer received mentioned "participation in company vacation plan when established". The general informal vacation policy currently seems to be take what you need within-reason, get your work done, etc. People just post it to a calendar, etc. The informality is not a big deal, and I do not expect needing extensive vacation. However, I'd be more worried about not taking any, leaving the company potentially, and them not needing to pay out any unused vacation time because it wasn't stated. Should I push for exact vacation numbers even before they've established the policy? The pros would be payout-requirements, and firmness, the cons might be less stated time than the informal policy allows for. 

Given an open office layout with low-barrier cubicles setup in rows and a management assigned seating plan, how reasonable is it to request a seating change? The seating was assigned during a recent floorplan changing, and we're loosely clustered by team with our manager as well. About 30% of the seats are empty. My seat is one of the smaller desks clustered right in the center of the floorplan. I feel distracted and socially-anxious, since the seating is so close together and I'm surrounded on all sides. I frequently am led to take walks or breaks to the pantry room to relax and find a little "space". There are a few seats empty nearby closer to the periphery, but my manager dismissed any seating changes, not someone that questions norms. HR defers to managers on these issues. It felt a little bit like elementary school assigned-seating than a place of respected, professional adults. Recently I moved my computer 3 seats over to an empty desk near the wall while working late one evening. It was admittedly a sly move, but the original seat was very uncomfortable, and I faced no help on request. My manager was annoyed the next morning, and we left it that way in stalemate. How reasonable is changing assigned seating when requested? What should be done in the face of refusal, and how could I have better handled this without turning it into a major issue? 

I've got about 15 years experience in software engineering with a great deal of experience working with a variety of companies. I've worked with startups especially in the past 6 years, and recently have encountered something odd in salary talks when engaging a new company. These are new small startups with 5-7 ppl, usually 2 cofounders and about 4 dev capacity people. They are well funded at this point usually. What I've encountered is these cofounders assume all tech people on the team will be paid the same salary. This might work if everyone has the same experience or role but often I'm sought because of my experience and ability to deliver and then assumed to be paid the same generic rate as someone 10 years my junior professionally. Or, the founders think they are being generous but fair by not paying anyone more or negotiating one or another. That they are supporting a flat and equal structure of peers. The founders are often young themselves so may not understand how pay often rises with experience. This is not the case with larger startups usually once their hiring process becomes more formalized and isn't just one guys assumption. And obviously bigger companies have this worked out. How can I work with these situations and explain that experience is often reflected in salary and paying 15yrs experience the same as 5 isn't always assumed or might be negligent to the more experienced candidate.