I work at a call center. Each day we are assigned new calling pools and it sort of is possible to actually run out of work once the pool becomes exhausted. Usually we can find ways to “prolong” the work such as calling back people we couldn’t get a hold of, or leave messages. But today we completely ran out of work. The manager told us to clean the office area. Two things 1) the office didn’t need cleaning and we didn’t really know where things were to go so we haphazardly wasted time e.g. wipe down the computer keyboards, arrange magazines in alphabetical order etc. 2) I am really really bad at cleaning, especially when I’m just told to do a “general tidy up”, my eyes don’t perceive mess. This was only a temporary job as the work is limited. I’m afraid tomorrow is going to be even worse and we’re just going to make a mess so we can clean it up again and I really don’t like this. Do I have to stay? What are my options? I will be quitting soon but would like a good reference. Aside: my personal philosophy is people should get paid for getting something done, and not just sitting at their desk at a certain time. The company/management seems to have the mindset “you need to be at your desk between 12-5”. I find it frustrating as there are a lot of things I can be doing than sitting at a desk wasting time. 

My first proper job as a developer was very similar. I was the developer and had to wear a lot of different hats. Nobody is going to view you negatively for that, it will be seen by a lot of employers as a positive. However, you say: 

I've been there myself, having missed work as a result of mental health issues. The important thing to realize is that it is very difficult for people who have no experience with psychiatric disorders (either not having experienced them themselves or through a family member) to empathize with those who do. To them it just looks like laziness/slovenliness etc and how can you expect them to tell the difference? Now that you're feeling better, the best thing for you to do is to work hard and kick ass at whatever it is that you do. Being able to overlook remarks such as this is a sign of good mental health. 

Do you use any enterprise chat applications such as Hipchat or Slack? On a project I am working on, we have a standup channel on Slack (used Hipchat in the past) in which, after each days standup, we summarize what we are going to be working on that day (basically typing out what we said in the standup). You could implement something like this, and have every member of your team including your boss do this as part of their routine. This way you know your boss is reading everybodys messages every day, and if you summarize incorrectly he can tell you at the time. Then a week later, if your boss claims you were working on something not asked for you can point to your entry from a week ago, and ask why this wasn't raised with you at the time. I prefer this to email as it's more casual, easier to work into a routine and generally feels more natural. 

This is a problem that afflicts organizations large and small, global and local, public and private sector. Organizations fail to put adequate resources into a solution, and then are surprised that results are a reflection of the effort put into the solution. In recent years, some of this has been driven by economics--with work in short supply, demand more of the workers. However, the problem precedes the 2008 Meltdown. You say that you have mentioned the issue on many occasions. At what level and to whom have you mentioned it? Immediate supervisor, one up, the owner herself? I ask because it's possible the person to whom you mentioned it might not have passed it along any higher up. As such, the owner may believe all is well, even though there is a breakdown in communication at some level in the organization. You say the behavior was not like that before. Before what? Was there an approximate date when things changed? Was there some kind of shakeup in the organization? Did the owner lose a spouse, a parent, undergo a divorce, etc., that you know of? Clearly you've noticed the change, but what happened or was happening at or around the time of the change? Is there is a process in place that is not being adhered to, and which most would agree if you drew conspicuous attention to said process that yes that is our process and yes we are supposed to follow that? If yes, then start there with that process. If you attempt to boil the ocean, you will fail and frustrate both yourself and those around you. Go to your immediate supervisor, and focus in on this one issue. Attempt to resolve it and get more universal compliance. If you succeed, look for another such issue you believe you can fight and win. After several successful fights, you will then have some intellectual ammunition to put on the table pointing to larger issues in the org that need to be addressed. As a back up plan, pick up a copy of "Death March" by Ed Yourdon for some perspective. The 2nd Edition was published in 2003, and a 3rd Edition is planned for May 2016. You can find it used on Amazon for $6 including shipping, but hit up the local library and you can probably get it free. Death March Projects are a fact of life, and this book can be something of a survival guide to them--assuming the Project is survivable. Look at the four types of Death March Project--Mission Impossible, USMC, Kamikaze, and Suicide. If it's Mission Impossible, then it's survivable. If it's USMC, then it's survivable, but you may be miserable. If it's Kamikaze or Suicide, get out. One final bit of advice from Yourdon. It is easier to find another organization that matches your values than it is to change the values of an organization. 

I would consider the possibility that somebody who hits the same button 25 times maybe isn't having a great experience, either with their computer or your software. Maybe they think that your software has frozen, maybe their computer is running slowly or playing up, maybe their kayboard/mouse is having issues, maybe they are just having a really bad day and take their frustration out on your software. Either way, if that is the case, and a picture of you shows up along with some silly meme, it's not going to end well for you! 

I worked with an individual like this in a previous job, let's call him Simon M. While Simon initially wanted the same salary as the programmers etc, despite not having the same skillset, our employer at the time was able to appease him by appealing to his ego and giving him two big monitors. I imagine the same thing may work in your situation as well, ie offer alternative perks instead of a higher salary. 

That's a red flag right there. It implies that while the office is busy, things are either too distracting for you to be able to focus or you have more work than you can handle, so you need to stay late to get things done. This suggests that management aren't doing a good enough job at either managing your workload or providing a productive working environment. Regardless of whether or not this is actually true, this is how it would look to me, and I would draw conclusions about the competency of your managers as a result. Besides, surely there are better ways to be spending your free time? Go to the gym? Meetups? The pub? 

I’m getting my degree in computer science and have tested out several different positions in companies through the co-op program. It’s been my observation that I like support or help desk related work. Things I like about it are - Interacting with people - Variety of tasks and challenges - High volume and sometimes high pressure - Get to see results of my work I’m good at it (according to myself and performance reviews) Correct me if I’m wrong, but many of these things don’t apply to other technical roles (such as developers). The problem is help desk is pretty low level (I’m only doing it now as a part time gig). The pay is low and it’s generally seen as an entry level position. I told this to my co-op advisor and he said I could become a help desk manager. Question. Is it wrong to be concerned that a position you enjoy is not suitable for the long term as it’s a dead end? The old adage “to do what you like and not worry about money” seems like an over simplification. Are there other more advance positions like help desk? I know IT may have some of these features but I’ve had experience where IT just receives a few tickets a day to deploy a new VM through vSphere and this was really boring. 

I would leave this for the boss to handle. If you want to send an Email just to this person, copying only your boss, that seems OK. However, as you may already know, politics is attached to everything, including Email. As such, only you will know best as to what the boss would want you to do. Your boss is the only person you should be focused on in this matter. WWYBD - What Would Your Boss Do WWYBS - What Would Your Boss Say WWYBWYTD - What Would Your Boss Want You To Do WWYBWYTS - What Would Your Boss Want You To Say If you don't know answers to these--and you're best equipped to know these answers--then do nothing and wait for boss to return so that the two of you can discuss it. 

In the United States, the issue of exempt versus non-exempt is determined by the Fair Labor Standards Act and is administered by the US Department of Labor. To complicate the issue further, some states have wage and hour laws, which may add more requirements than the FLSA. Non-exempt employees are entitled to overtime pay whereas exempt employees are not. Whether a non-exempt employee is paid an hourly rate or an annual salary rate, if they work overtime there will still be a calculation to determine their hourly overtime rate. Under some contractual obligations, there can be conditions where even exempt employees are paid an overtime rate (e.g. working a Holiday). There are any number of what ifs as to why a company would salary a non-exempt employee. A negotiated contract may stipulate that everyone is salaried, which could make payroll easier if they are paid say twice a month rather than every two weeks. Being an IT guy, I'll throw out a what if that I've lived with more than once. It's entirely possible the company has an ancient, 30+ year old, ramshackle, Mainframe COBOL, "ERP Solution" (and I use that term loosely) which requires an annual salary to be entered for EVERYONE, exempt or non-exempt. 

Don't do this either. If you are really that curious, just bring it up in your second interview. You clearly gave enough correct answers that they want to interview you again. If you were giving those answers of the top of your head, it isn't that surprising that you wouldn't remember what the questions actually were. If somebody asked you where a particular street was on your way to work this morning, and you instantly knew the answer, you would be hard pressed a day or so later to remember that street. I think the same principle applies here. If, in the course of an interview, you are asked about something which you know really well, it's not unreasonable to think that you will go into autopilot and not really think about your answer, but still give the correct answer, and it wouldn't be a memorable event later on. 

Every developer thinks that every project they inherit is a buggy mess, it's a natural reaction, and I understand the instinct to want to refactor everything to be the way you think it should be. However, if the code already there is working and serving its purpose, and the business needs new features added, then you should focus on adding the new features. It doesn't mean you can't refactor as you go. As you add the new features, you are probably going to work with the already existing code, and when you do, tidy it up and add tests, and make sure that the new code is covered by tests also. Brownfield development (ie. working with and improving existing crappy codebases) is a skill in and of itself, and you can't just rewrite every codebase in this category you encounter. You are much more valuable as a developer if, instead of just finding a new job, you actually make the effort to work with and improve the codebase you have. 

I have been looking for a job and had been applying through recruiters and independently. Today I was contacted by a recruiter who said I have a phone interview tomorrow, and another company emailed me asking when I’m available for a phone interview tomorrow too. I also have my normal job tomorrow in the evening/night. Also I just got a message from my landlord saying the washer and dryer are being replaced tomorrow. I’m feeling a bit overwhelmed, is there anything I can do? Is it normal to be given less than 24 hours notice for an interview? I had applied for these jobs several weeks ago and have been applying for others one’s since, so I haven’t been thinking of the one’s I have interviews with tomorrow. Considering I had applied for the job several weeks ago, it wasn't at the top of my mind and I needed the chance to re-read the job description and brush up on the company vision etc. 

and there's no further details. I'm also unclear if this is a paid or volunteer position; or a one time thing or a part time job or a full time job etc. I know these people are nontechnical and want someone to help them with their computers, but it's hard to be able to say if I can do the job without knowing what the job is. How should I proceed? I can't think of the words to ask them what they actually want. They didn't have a job posting (that I saw), I was put in touch with them through email, by networking.