Since, in comments, you are asking specifically about the software industry - again, it depends on the company. The more corporate the company, the more would emoticons be seen as unprofessional (so, Microsoft, Oracle and such). This may also be the case with smaller companies - say those that deal with the finance industry. If you are joining a small gaming studio, or a startup and they have a culture of "fun" (this is rather subjective), then they may not mind emoticons, though I don't think anyone would see them as adding anything. 

Two weeks is two weeks - 14 days from the date on the notice. These are not business days. So - if you give it on Monday the 2nd, the end date is Monday the 16th. In regards to morning or evening - it doesn't matter. What matter is what the actual letter says (ie. I am giving my two weeks notice starting on date - my last day will be two weeks later). Planned vacation days/holidays are something you need to discuss with HR and you manager. You may be able to take them or may be required to work them in order to ensure a clean hand off of your responsibilities. 

That's a question to ask your manager - not us. In general, using company resources for activities that are not helping the company is frowned upon - doesn't matter that they are not for profit. If you can see these activities as something that is helping you gain skill and making you more valuable to the company, that would be a good way to approach your manager about getting permission to expend time one these activities during working hours and using company resources. I would suggest finding other activities that would benefit the company if these personal projects do not fit the bill - things like learning in order to get certifications or projects that will benefit the company directly. 

One observation - you mention you've worked "18" hours in a day. Assuming that's not a typo for "8" ! ... that doesn't gel with you being a good programmer. No good programmer works more than 30, 35 hours a week, it's like songwriting or poetry, not ditch digging. (If, for some reason, I faced something that would take "1000 hours!" so, 50x 20 weeks, I'd just ... take a week or two to write some automation or something that erased the issue. That's software.) On many crack teams anyone who works a long day is just let go, because their head is in the wrong place for software. Software is the prime example of where "sheer laziness and brilliance must overcome Work" :) Summary! 

...for those who worked in print advertising. For those who did TV spots, this is a (physical, not metaphorical) showreel. 

Understand that "negotiating salary" - in any context whatsoever - simply shares an identity with "you can walk away". If you can't walk away, you can't negotiate. (At all, in any way.) If you can walk away, use the language "I would want $X for the position." (Regarding the fact that the recruiter said sentences like "they don't negotiate", just treat it as an interesting set of sounds :) ) The only tip you need on the language per se, "I would want $X for the position," is that you never ever, in any way, explain yourself, add reasons, "argument" or anything else. Just state what you want. If you don't get it, walk away. Be super polite and "minimalist" as it were. Be very mentally prepared that when/if the recruiter comes back to you with "Sorry, they wouldn't go for it" the response has to be at hand for you, something like "Understood! Thanks for your involvement, cheers". 

You are obsessing over the small things, when there are larger issues at hand. The phrasing hardly matters, so long as you are polite about it. The problem with asking is that the answer might be "no" - if that's not an outcome you can live with, don't ask, but say it as if it has already been approved "I am taking my time off between x and y". But the above is skirting the larger issue - the company culture that "taking time off is 'stealing time from the company.'". This is non-sense. Time-off is something that helps employees recharge and relax and return to work with renewed energy. Not having any time off is counter productive to the company. If the culture is such that you feel this is frowned upon, I would say you should seriously consider your future there. 

If you get an offer and don't seriously consider it, they are unlikely to help you out when you really do want such help. This is not a good idea. 

Yes, you should. The thing to do is split the period into the different roles and how long you were doing each. 

Yes, it is a good idea, but only if you keep it to general terms and don't tell the recruiter the name of their competitor (or give them enough detail to find out). Why a good idea? It is a great bargaining chip - they are no longer exclusive to you and have more leverage for negotiation (with both offers / companies). You are in a position to compare the offers and ask either company to match certain of the terms of the contract of the other. Being in demand is a good thing and reflects well on you - for the hiring manager. Why not give identifying information? Because not all recruiters have scruples. I have heard of cases where the recruiter actively sabotaged the other offer (that wasn't by them) - it was in their interest to reduce the options to those that will end up giving them a commission. 

The age issue is totally irrelevant. The boss in question made this offhand comment .. "There's grown adults here making less than that." Again it's just an offhand comment - it means nothing. That person could have made any of a zillion offhand comments about how they don't want to pay you more. It's just negotiation. What you have to do now is learn to negotiate hard. It sounds like you're on your way to a successful life, so this is a fantastic opportunity to learn this lesson. And there's only one thing you need to know about negotiation. You have to be prepared to walk away. If so, you have all the power. Here's all the language you need: 

You are mixing-up two separate issues. "College work" is irrelevant, nobody cares about it. And your completely unrelated career ("teaching") is also of course irrelevant to your programming career. So this leaves you with X months of "paid programming experience". (It looks like X is about 12 to 18, correct?) Again - the fact that your 12-18 months of experience is contracting is a positive. It sounds like basically you're a ... 

There is a huge amount of work around for competent software engineers at the moment These days it is normal that software engineers move often. It is unremarkable. When you say bye to a boss, or conversely you let someone go - it's like having a cup of coffee. Nobody is annoyed or surprised. Of course, you never want to work on weapons. As someone has said in the comments, once you do one project on weapons, you're a "weapons person", you'll fall in to that field. Don't start. Military work has only moderate pay at best, just move on. 

What you are working on and the technologies you are currently using are certainly relevant to your CV and should definitely be on it. If you are further studying these technologies to improve your knowledge and understanding of them, you should indeed tell your manager about it, as it would make you more relevant to the current fashion in your workplace. As for the technologies that are not used in your current workplace - you need to ask yourself if these are valuable in other places - other potential employers. If the answer is yes, having them on your CV is a good idea. It will not hurt your prospects in your current work place either - it is better to show proficiency in more than one technology, it makes you more valuable. 

Hiring managers understand that if you have several offers, theirs might not be the one you chose. Keep your answer polite and explain that you have decided to pursue a different opportunity - don't feel that you have to go into detail as to why you chose a different position over the one they had. You can add that you will be happy to be considered for any future openings they have. In general, unless you are being rude or offer an explanation that they might not appreciate (one they might not like hearing), there is nothing specific to write that will put you in their black book. 

This is completely commonplace in software. (Remember that in general software is an absolute, total, debacle - the biggest mess in the entire sweep of human activity on the planet. As Steve Jobs pointed out, the overwhelming majority of folks who work in software are much less than 10% as useful as the handful of competent ones.) The two outcomes for the OP depend on the milieu at hand... 

The simple answer is of course not. I think the more important point at hand - seen in all the angry comments here :) ... If you "think" like that, your thinking is in the wrong place. All great innovators - every one - blame themselves, not others. If you're so good, just get on with innovating. Use this QA to draw a line under your past; never think like that again. Turn the arrow around, focus only on yourself and your own thoughts, and innovate away. 

BTW this may help you: I always suggest .. What would Richard Branson say? (You can substitute the national business-hero in your own country or culture. Let's say precisely this happened to Richard Branson (in the hypothetical, he's a young programmer.) What would he say to his colleague? 

It seems to me that, quite simply, you have about one year's experience actual programming computers, ie, being paid to program computers. Is this correct? (Please note that "math tutoring", or any other non-programming jobs, unfortunately are irrelevant: better to not even mention it when job-seeking.) Employers prefer if anything contract work over fulltime work. Contracting is tougher, makes you learn more, and makes you work harder. (That's assuming it's real, fully-paid professional contract work.) If you like, edit your question, and state exactly (in months) exactly how many months of paid programming experience you have. 

The term, as far as I know is - self learning. In your cover letter, or in the personal summary, you can post this as a skill - you have a couple of very good examples on this. 

After a while, if this person doesn't get the hint, since you no longer socialize, they will stop trying. I can't see how this could impact your professional career if you simply stop the social interactions with a former intern (current junior - I am assuming). 

How about trying to be open with everyone? How about trying to do things in such a way that the company gets the best results as possible - so it gives the best service to your clients? If you are indeed the coordinator and the person who gets these results to your clients (and are not shy about showing that this is what you do), chances are that such an approach will do good to your career. I would advise against having these fiefdoms and thinking about sharing and collaborating more with your colleagues - don't fall to the misconceptions of "if my colleague gets/does X, I am losing out". Consider that improving the organisation could very well mean more for everyone. 

There are certainly some moral and legal issues to consider (though you would have to consult a lawyer in order to get correct advice regarding the legality of what you are suggesting). On the assumption that this is illegal in your area (and I believe it is illegal in some states in the US), you may end up on the receiving end of a lawsuit (or two - civil and criminal). There are also moral implications to recording people without their knowledge. Consider how a prospective employer would react if they found out that the interview was recorded without their knowledge - at the least they would believe that you are paranoid and that this shows lack of judgement - so, chances are good that if discovered you wouldn't get the job. Recording people without their knowledge is immoral, in my opinion. People do not usually expect to be recorded, in particular not in a normal situation like an interview. Recording them without their consent or knowledge for the purpose of later using the recording to your advantage "against" them is simply the wrong headed. If you want to record the interview, you should ask the people involved if this is OK with them. Chances are good that they will not have a problem and you would still gain the protections you seek without any of the legal and moral liabilities. Several of your points can be addressed by using a pen and pad and recording the main points of the interview during the meeting. All of them, if the other parties are willing to sign your minutes. Of course, both acts of recording and getting minutes signed are highly unusual and will get you noticed - not in a good way. 

To repeat, you must perform the interruption "decisively and quickly". You should not stand there staring at the person for 5, 10, 30 seconds, "waiting to get a word in", when you are merely going to say "Let's talk when you can." You have to interrupt, "politely but decisively", let them know you want to talk about something, and then leave them alone. (To repeat, of course sometimes they will be able to talk then, and if so that's fine.) Note that the most typical human thing is the "submissive attention-getting hand wave", rough examples ... You don't "wait to do that", wasting more time and being more annoying. You just perhaps wait a breath until they look towards you, and then politely go for it, and explain "Can we talk sometime?" There's nothing worse than standing there staring at the person - an interruption is an interruption: when you have to interrupt (to make it known you want to talk at some point), you have to do interrupt "politely yet decisively". 

The workplace is not middle-school, you have to just completely cut off any nonsense like this. Personally I'd just instantly walk over and grab Complainer, Boss, Friend, and say: 

As my shrink says, "you can only be responsible for you". If some person at the organization begins talking about the issue - that's not you, that's them. It won't happen, but in that case just politely say "Ah. My new plans are completely settled from the 4th. Thanks." Same by email, or spoken. The closest you can get to being direct is the phrase: