First thing I would suspect is that you somehow installed the tube incorrectly, maybe twisted. Next, you may have installed the tube before the glue dried and failed to dust the patch with talc, causing it to stick to the inside of the tire. Or the tube may have been too small from the start, and the patches are keeping it from stretching enough to fill out the tire. 

Except in an emergency, don't use screwdrivers. Use plastic tire levers or a Quick Stick to remove ONE bead of the tire from the rim. Don't completely remove the tire. When you remove the tube, attempt to keep it "right side up" relative to the wheel laying on the ground/bench. This makes it easier for step 4. Over-inflate the tube (until it bulges up to about 50% fatter than normal) and then listen/feel for the leak. Holding your face near the tube often works well here. You will find the leak this way, without having to find a tub of water. Mark the leak somehow. Having found the leak, lay the tube (still "right side up") on top of the tire, with the stem aligned with the stem hole. Check the tire at the puncture point for either a piece of something still embedded in the tire or a tear/gash. If you lost track of which side is right-side-up, flip the tube over and check the other spot. Discard the tube if the puncture/hole is at or around the stem. Deflate the tube (if necessary). Clean the tube for an inch or two around the hole. First wipe with tissue or whatever (maybe moistened with spit), then use the sandpaper or whatever is supplied in the patch kit. Select a patch, and note how large it is. Apply a THIN layer of the rubber cement to the area around the hole, in a wide enough pattern to be larger than the patch. Let the cement dry for a few minutes, until it's lost its gloss. Apply the patch. Press the patch into place, using a tire lever or some such to rub back and forth over it. Let set another 5 minutes or so. Somewhat gingerly inflate the tube again and check for other leaks. Use chalk powder (ideal), dust from the roadside, or just a piece of tissue to cover the exposed glue so that it won't stick to the inside of the tube. Stick the tube inside the tire, work the stem into place in the rim, double-check that the tube is not twisted or kinked, and then put the bead of the tire back on the rim. Partially inflate (maybe 15 pounds) and roll the wheel on the ground back and forth for several feet, putting weight on the wheel, to help seat the bead. Fully inflate. 

That can't happen on a standard design rear derailer unless one of the jockey wheels (or some screws) falls out. Are both wheels there? Are there any missing screws? Otherwise you must have an oddball derailer. 

Yep, a chain tool, or "chain breaker". They come in a wide variety of shapes and sizes. You should note that a given width chain needs a specific chain tool, so the one you have may not work well with your chain. And never just get a chain tool and trust it to work (and be workable by you) without trying it first on some scrap chain of the appropriate size. In addition to being the wrong size or simply too "cute" to work (often the case with "multi-tool" versions), the punch pin can be worn/cracked to the point that it no longer cleanly presses the chain pin. 

If you have Presta valves then you need to unscrew that little knobbie thing on top until the knobbie is all the way unscrewed against the bump on the end of the shaft it rides on. With either Presta or Schrader you can have a problem with the pump if you do not press the pump chuck all the way onto the valve. Especially with Schrader there is a pin in the chuck that needs to depress a pin inside the valve to open it up. And sometimes you need to adjust the chuck by screwing the collar on the business end of the chuck on or off a turn or two, so that the chuck will go on and seat tightly. (When you're finished inflating a Presta valve, don't forget to turn the knobbie the other way, so that it helps hold the valve closed. Don't wrench it tight, but just get it snug.) 

It will be about equivalent to exposing it to maybe 4-10 times the rain standing still. And the higher the speed the worse the effect will be. The problem is that the forward motion will tend to drive rainwater into the bearings, and, to a lesser degree, into cables and frame members. But 4 hours is probably not long enough to be especially concerning, if the bike is well-maintained to begin with, and if it has a good chance to dry out afterwards (vs, say, being immediately locked away in a damp shed). I'm trying to think if there's any good reason to mount frontwards vs backwards, but can't think of any. Sideways would be worse, in addition to the obvious wind resistance problem. 

I have worked lube into "difficult" cables by unhooking one end, working a piece of "rubber" hose over the end (actually two pieces, a short piece of small diameter and a larger piece several inches long, one within the other). Put a small spiral hose clamp around this assembly. Use a bike stand with a rotating head to get the cable end pointing up, then spray lube into hose. You can generally wait for gravity to the work the lube into the cable, but if the hose is long enough you can grab the end and squeeze the lube into the cable with your fingers. (I should also note that, when confronted with a rusty cable, I will first give the cable a treatment with "oxalic acid" solution (available from paint stores as a type of "wood bleach"), trickling it into the cable the same way one would do the lube (but before any lube). This, to a degree, dissolves rust, will often free up a "frozen" cable, and makes "so-so" cables move much more smoothly. Of course, one should follow up with regular lube.) 

The main thing is that the Presta valve is thinner, and takes less of a bite out of the rim. This is quite important as the rims get narrower. Further, the Presta works better with hand pumps in that there's no spring that the pump needs to overcome to get air into the tire. Also, the Presta always has the fully-threaded body (which is possible with Schrader, but rare), so a nut can be used to hold the valve in place -- again, quite important with hand pumps. Never had a bike valve stem break on me, that I can recall. 

If there is any possibility of bike traffic, you should pull over sufficiently to allow others to pass with reasonable ease. If there is fairly heavy 2-way traffic you should pull over enough to allow two bikes to pass in opposite directions at the same time. Of course, to a degree it depends on how long you will be stopped. The longer you anticipate stopping the farther over you should pull. If you need to do significant adjustments of your bike you should attempt to get entirely out of the bike lane. 

In addition to brake wear there is the "slings and arrows of outrageous fortune" -- rocks, curbs, manhole covers, etc. Generally hitting an obstacle head-on doesn't damage the rim (much) but, eg, just catching the edge of a raised manhole cover can ding the rim edge pretty well. Plus, over time rough use can cause the spoke nipples to pull through the rim, and riding with broken spokes can distort the rim to where it becomes hard to true. But if you're not rough on the rim and keep it properly trued it can last a long time. I've generally gotten maybe 15,000 miles out of rims, and if they were replaced it was because I was relacing the wheels anyway and figured new rims wouldn't hurt. 

OK: Muscles (and the rest of the body) need energy. That energy can come from several sources -- both stored and swallowed. The blood and other body fluids contain enough blood sugar (glucose) to power the muscles for something like 15-30 minutes -- a relatively short time. After that blood sugar will begin to drop and the muscles must draw on other sources. Glycogen is the next line of defense. The body stores glycogen (effectively a form of starch) in the muscles and the liver. When the muscles can't get enough sugar from the blood they will draw down their glycogen stores. In addition, the liver will convert glycogen to sugar and release it into the blood stream. I'm a little fuzzier on how long the glycogen stores are good for, but probably a couple of hours (though the more one trains on long rides, the more the muscles will build up their glycogen stores). Next the muscles will begin to draw on fat and protein. The liver can convert these to sugar at a low level, but not fast enough to supply working muscles, so the muscles must burn them more or less directly. Burning fat and protein produces more metabolic byproducts than burning sugar or glycogen, and, in particular, burning protein (and to a lesser degree fat) produces a lot of ketones. Oddly, the heart burns ketones -- it's the only thing the heart can metabolize -- but exercising at a high rate with low sugar/glycogen produces a lot more ketones than the heart can burn, and more than the liver and kidneys can eliminate. The result is a state of ketosis, where the ketones become toxic and upset the body's entire balance, resulting in a major "bonk". (The feeling of this resembles dehydration or low salt, but, unlike with those, you don't "bounce back" when hydration and salt balance are restored -- it takes hours or days for the body to detox itself.) So basically you want to keep the body supplied with sugar (which can be ingested as sugar or starch that is converted to sugar by enzymes in the gut) and also maintain the body's electrolyte balance and overall hydration. Any way you do these is good, and probably the most critical issue is what works for you in terms of palatability and digestive comfort/function, while achieving these basic goals. You want stuff that will be pleasant to ingest while achieving roughly the correct balance of the basic nutrients (including water). Often your tastes will change over the hours, and, in particular, strongly flavored foods, which may taste good initially, will tend to be less palatable as the day wears on. Also, it's necessary to be wary of ingesting too much salt/electrolyte or even simple sugar at one time, as these draw water into the gut rather rapidly, and can really upset digestion when you're somewhat dehydrated. Note that you basically don't need protein or fat, at least not in any large quantities. A modest amount (eg, such as may be ingested in a snack containing peanuts) is fine, but there's no point in making an effort to include these, so long as you're getting some solid foods that contain modest amounts of them. Added: I should mention that I have experimented with eating things like sausage sticks and jerky sticks on long rides, for the variety, and I don't recommend it. What I found is that this sort of thing is too "heavy", and the combo of salt and fat doesn't sit well on your stomach when you're mildly dehydrated and don't have time to stop and digest. Potato chips are a better choice, if you want something with "mouth feel", and they provide needed potassium. 

Some tandems are set up with two sets of rim brake pads, so that both riders can brake independently. But the limiting factor here is heat dissipation -- both rims and disks can heat up with prolonged braking to the point where braking effectiveness is compromised, and doubling up on the pads only speeds this process. If you want maximal braking while minimizing the over-the-top risks of the front brake, and complexity is not an issue for you, consider the scheme I've suggested before: A front brake which is activated by the rear one. Basically, the rear caliper would be on a lever, so that, when activated, it would rotate with the wheel for a few inches. This motion of the rear caliper would then be transferred to the front brakes to activate them. So the front brakes would only be activated when the rear wheel has traction. If the front brake is too strong and the rear wheel begins to lift, then its traction is lost and the front brake is released. A sort anti-lock brake system. 

Mainly it doesn't matter. Usually two bikes are front-first (because it "just seems right"), but once you go beyond two bikes the directions alternate. True, if you don't have the bike properly fastened then, on a fork-mount carrier, it can blow loose a hair easier in the reverse orientation, but it can also come loose going around a curve or going over a bump, so you need to be sure it's well-fastened in all cases. Note that you may find, based on whether you're right-handed or left handed (or maybe you have a bad shoulder or such), that it's easier to lift the bike onto the roof one way vs the other. In that case it makes sense to have the bikes front-facing on one side and rear-facing on the other. OTOH, the shape of the vehicle, position of the doors, etc, may factor into your orientation decision. 

Keep in mind that this was the norm for derailers, pre-indexing. Indexing wasn't possible with the old style drivetrains because you needed to overshift slightly to force the chain to jump sprockets, especially when shifting to a larger sprocket. What changed was mainly the addition of what I call "ramps" on the sides of the sprockets. These catch the pins of the chain and lift it up onto the higher sprocket. Without this feature indexed shifting would be impossible. Thus, wear of either the chain pins or the "ramps" will cause poor shifting. Of course, there are also the other possible causes that Benedikt describes as well. 

That sequence is more or less correct, though different mechanics will likely do it differently. First off, if you haven't changed derailers (or adjusted the the one you have) then the low and high limits should be about correct. The front shifter has a spring that pulls the derailer cage in the direction of the small sprocket, so without the cable in place it will move that direction. Adjust the LOW limit to center the derailer cage over the low sprocket. In order to adjust the HIGH limit you need to have something (ie, the cable) pull the cage in that direction, so attach the cable. To get the cable about right, though, put the shifter on the lowest gear setting, screw in any barrel adjuster, and then stretch the cable tight and clamp (but do not cut the cable short yet). Then use the shifter to move the derailer to the high end and adjust the HIGH limit to center the cage over the large ring. Once you've got high and low set, and the cable attached, you adjust the barrel adjuster to center the cage over the middle ring when that's selected with the shifter. Then repeat the whole process to fine-tune it. And expect to need to tighten the barrel adjuster again in a few days as the cable stretches out. I'm skeptical that your setup lacks (and is intended to lack) barrel adjusters. They may have been incorporated in the old shifters and the new ones lack them, in which case you'd need to buy inline adjusters. Or the adjusters may be there but "hiding" -- on the derailer body, in one of the frame fittings for the cable, etc.