The consistency that underlies laws of thought or laws of nature has to have a cause. If you believe it is real, but do not accord it the possibility of being caused, instead imagining it must cause itself, you believe in an uncaused cause. Earlier in time, that would have listed you with Aquinas, and so on the side of the theists. Now the balance has swung the opposite directions, and atheists want to claim the middle ground is all theirs, equally by force majeure. But that does not make any more sense. The logic is twisted by the dichotomy, which is dismissed by ideas like pantheism or Brahmanism. Such positions have been the bases for religions, and not atheist religious philosophies like Buddhism, but real, straightforward religions. They are therefore not atheist in the normal sense of denying the possibility of the existence of the divine. If you include such forms, theism is not such an unscientific idea. Mathematicians in particular tend to believe there are conditions upon thought that transcend physics. For instance, if pressed, they tend to believe that large cardinals actually exist in some sense. But only if thought is material can one find atheism more logical than theism of some sort. If there is anything other than physics, or even if the laws of physics are based in something other than themselves, it is likely that that underlying thing constitutes something someone historically has occasionally considered divine. It may not lead to a personified deity that will do you favors. But that is not necessarily what various forms of theism have believed in. That is a meme (in the Dawkins/Dennett sense, not the silly Internet one) that infects theisms. Even the Christian God does not exist to respond to prayers or make you feel better, by any orthodox standard, He exists out of necessity, or out of his own choice (which is necessity). The underlying source of mathematics or physical predictability has the form of a god, giving order to the universe. And it is a single overarching such thing, so it is a God. Most of science and almost all of mathematics unconsciously worships this God, in never questioning why there is order to thought or order elsewhere in the universe, but thoroughly believing that it is so. 

One form this argument takes is that of $URL$ The notion of past and future bind up an immense quantity of information quite tightly. There is no good reason, given the tendency toward high entropy for so much information to obey so many rules. So, in some sense, a timeline that goes back forward or backward with great consistency for a long time becomes statistically unlikely. It is more likely that at a highly ordered appearance of a long past simply arose at random, and we proceeded from there. It is also unlikely that the rules of nature should remain so fixed and bind up so much entropy. So it is more likely that the consistencies upon which our reality depends will come apart almost immediately than that we will experience any extended future. 

I think the evidence that dogs mourn the death of other dogs is pretty clear. They can become obsessive about the slowly disappearing scent, follow trails left by those dogs, make arrangements to allow for their comfort, etc. The two clearest examples I have encountered lately: 1) After one of a pair of Bassett hounds belonging to my extended family died, the other would not sleep in a room that did not have a bed for the missing dog. If we did not bring the extra bed, he would go back and get one and bring it, up two flights of stairs, if necessary. (Considering how short Bassett's legs are, carrying large floppy things up stairs made for humans is quite a difficult task for one.) 2) I have just lost one of my own Retrievers, and when I walk the remaining dog, the walks are interrupted by long, obsessive tracking of trails left by the now-absent dog. You can tell this is focussed on that specific dog because, if the searching dog is left to pursue them, these searches often lead back to our own yard, to a specific spot, presumably one where the dead dog urinated, despite the fact we are surrounded by neighbor dogs. Also, when alive, the other dog ate first. Now the remaining dog will not eat brands of food that were served during that time. She waits for the nonexistent dog to eat first in exactly the same way she did when he was alive. This seems to imply an expectation that the absent dog is going to return, or that he can be found. It is hard to frame this as anything other than a real ontological belief in the existence of the dog, which is maintained contrary to mere evidence. 

If thoughts are not so much built up, but sifted out of an over-determined, self contradictory mass, we don't need to find the cause, we need to find the validation mechanism that decides which thoughts 'win' and become conscious. We have strong examples from perception that make us trust there would be such a mechanism, even if we cannot place it well in the brain. Daniel Dennett (in Consciousness, Explained) captures some aspects of how such a process might work, by giving a paper model of it. The same way, the brain does not have to contain colors, or even models of colors, just models of models of colors, in order for us to imagine a purple cow. The 'purple' does not have to be there, it just has to be the best model of what we want, for the model of models to judge the quality of it highest. And we are pretty sure that our experience does contain models of models, not only of real things, but of fake ones. We make models of models of things inside computers all the time. Take the game simulation of the physics of a pinball machine, for instance: There are no balls there. There is no physics there (which is a real model of how the balls would really act if they were real). But there is a simulation of the physics using simplified arithmetic and limited-precision numbers. So while a real thing, or a 'real model' of a thing may not be the something we can imagine being physical, we see something that would provide this function, in our own creations. Like a lot of direct idealism, all of this seems either highly presumptuous or outright circular. We know that things don't have to be as they appear, so reasoning from appearances is not wise, until you consider all the ways they may be side-effects of the process, instead. To me, an idealism that rejects physicalism has to account for all the flaws in your perception (without falling back on a physical model) the same way that a physicalism that rejects idealism has to develop convincing mechanisms for its success. Otherwise Occam's razor says we should choose the model they both need and reject the one that only the idealists need. Physicalists seem willing to do their part of the work here, most idealists do not seem willing to really address theirs. To my mind the closest anyone comes to explaining why in an idealist's world we would still not comprehend things properly by default is in studying neurosis. And idealist philosophy does not really take any form of psychodynamics seriously or see it as part of their enterprise. I am more interested in a more physically and sociologically modern version of Kant, which would harmonize both, but only after each side takes the other seriously. 

All the definitions listed (short of the 'absolute' pacifism noted by @Conifold) do all apply to various people who call themselves pacifists. A primary division is the question of whether pacifism is primarily about organized violence or whether it is about all violence. (As usual, I would suggest that deciding violence in defense of others is always bad is an entrenched anti-male bias that one should seriously consider bigoted.) One historical, minimal point of reference for some Quakers is George Fox's exhortation to '...live in the virtue of that life and power that takes away the occasion for all wars.' (The phrase 'life and power' is often replaced by 'light' in this quote.) It is not uncommon to argue that restricting mutual defense or adequate policing itself invites folks to attack one another more liberally, and therefore is not 'in that virtue'. To some degree, civil disorder causes wars, because at some point some neighbor (or global busybody) will invade to establish order and protect the weak. This often exists alongside explicitly anti-war behavior, like minimizing reportable income, on the deduction that we use or military far too liberally just because we have already paid for it and therefore our tax structure actively causes wars. At the extreme end of both of these positions, many clans of Rainbow People prepare to defend their sovereignty with guns, in order to continue to avoid using government-backed currency, which they do to further the cause of pacifism. 

From a kind of spooky psychoanalytic view, the thing that makes conversation interesting is 'intersubjectivity', the experience of part of you becoming part of another person temporarily and then coming back home to roost. Our primary way of shaping ourselves, from that perspective, is not 'work on the self' directly, but comes about by having the self vicariously experience life from other perspectives. I am largely a Montessorian, so my answer to 'why is X fun' is always either 'evolution' or 'personal development'. So what parts of having some conversations be more fun than others is evolutionarily or developmentally advantageous? In this theory, 'intersubjectivity' is just interactive version of 'projective subjectivity', which is what you enjoy in reading, which is easier to analyze, because you choose it more for yourself. So I will go there, instead. Enjoyment of reading does not seem to be about information, because reading stories is more interesting than reading informational texts most of the time, to the point where many informational texts are re-formed into stories to capture interest. Most people read fiction for characterization or for plot. So what makes a story more of a story and less of a stream of information is generally emotional or strategic alignment with the characters. It seems clear to me that enjoying strategic alignment with the characters is about appreciating leadership and competence. It feels good to be inside the head of a person making good choices, because it teaches us how to make good choices, and it makes us want to consort with the kinds of people who do so, which is good for us. It feels good to be inside the head of a person making poor choices, because we can enjoy our realization that we could make better ones, and that we could help. It is an odd form of altruism, and validates our competence. Enjoying emotional alignment validates the possibility of emotional alignment. We are always afraid of losing empathic connection with our broader circle of associations, for fear they will turn on us, or will not identify with us in crisis. By repeatedly experiencing empathy for people even farther removed from us, we allay that fear. At the same time we practice the skill of empathizing selectively, of knowing whom to align with, and whom to resist as a trap, a manipulator or an energy sink, which again, is good for us.