Kenneth Wilson was from India and he had a deep interest in mathematics till his death in 2013 $URL$ He has probed deeply into numbers and found ancient sources that attribute large numbers to the Bodhisatva's Link above has this paragraph. 

According to zen attitude: one could say there are no beings, and also everything is being, and neither are there no beings or everything is being. This is uncertainty. When one says something with certainty, there is only one side of the subject. The universe if 96% dark matter and energy of which we have no conceptual understanding except to know it exists. How can we speak of certainties. If we must have confession, I am guilty of trying to make things certain too often. None of what I said may be true. Or all of it. Or neither of these. Uncertainty is harder to live with than certainty. 

From what I read in several sources, the straightness of the back is not as important as the intention of the meditator. Here is where I was reading [CTRL F and insert "straight" in the search box] $URL$ 

I leave the rest of the answer, but you probably do not need to read it. The above really answers the question for me. One pathway that steers around bypassing is to meditate to experience your inner suffering without running from it or reacting to it. Meditation can be a highly elevated experience that is a tempting way to get out of suffering temporarily, but the human condition is suffering. By running from suffering, the shadow it casts is larger than life and it is constantly chasing us. If one could bypass this suffering would that really be a Buddhist practice or would it just be a clever self-deception that would fall at the first test? Here is a zen story that illustrates how a true practice and a contrived practice hold up under real life situations. "Tanzan and Ekido were once traveling together down a muddy road. A heavy rain was still falling. Coming around a bend, they met a lovely girl in a silk kimono and sash, unable to cross the intersection. "Come on, girl," said Tanzan at once. Lifting her in his arms, he carried her over the mud. Ekido did not speak again until that night when they reached a lodging temple. Then he no longer could restrain himself. "We monks don't go near females," he told Tanzan, "especially not young and lovely ones. It is dangerous. Why did you do that?" "I left the girl there," said Tanzan. "Are you still carrying her?"" There are many sources of this story. this one was found at $URL$ The point I see is that any self-deception will not stand against the realities of life. The intention of the practice may be a key factor. If the goal is self-enlightenment all the trickery of the self can hamper real awakening. If the goal is to dedicate all the results of your life and practice to helping all, then where can the tricky appearance of self get a foot hold? 

His self. Once the self is given, it is realised that nothing is ever given nor taken. Giving or taking are just mere concepts ... illusions ... not truth. It is within this realisation of the truth that liberation is achieved. But again ... Achieving or not achieving are just mere concepts ... illusions ... not truth. It is within this realisation of the truth that liberation is achieved. 

Yes the quote says correctly: when there is ignorance, there is potential for unwholesome kamma to be accumulated, thus giving rise to craving, clinging and becoming, which in turn conditions the accumulation of kamma in the future. 

When a being holds the view "the soul does not exist", that being, at the time of holding onto this view, must also hold the view "self exist". Why is that so? In order for the soul to not exist, a cognition of existence must not exist. Without cognition of existence, even if something/anything truly exists, nothing exists. Thus, for existence not to be cognized, a cognition of existence must not exist, and what else is a non existent cognition of existence then non existence of self itself? Thus, in order for the soul not to exist, there must be non existence of a self. That is why a being who holds the view "the soul does not exists", also holds the view "self does not exist". When a being holds the view "self does not exist", that being, at the time of holding onto this view, must also hold the view "self exists". Why is that so? In order for the self to not exist, there must be a cognition of non existence of the self. Thus, for non existence of the self to be cognized, a cognition of non existence of the self is needed, and what else is a cognition of non existence of a self then a kind of self itself? Thus, in order for the self not to exist, there must be a kind of self with a cognition of non existence of the self. That is why a being who holds the view "self does not exist", also holds the view "self exists". That is why a being who holds the view "the soul does not exist", also holds the view "self exists". 

So there may be others who revitalized Seon, but in many ways the traditional practices and texts of Seon remained unchanged over a long time. Of all 3 Seon, Zen and Chan, the Korean practice seems the most like a mono culture with a tendency to remaining close to traditions. Cited from: The Oga hae seorui (Commentaries of Five Masters on the Diamond Sutra) $URL$ 

No argument with any of the answers. Here is what might be called "barebones Buddhism" 1) follow the breath with awareness 2) have compassion and understanding for all beings including oneself 3) dedicate one's efforts and life for the benefit of all. There are ways to express that in Buddhist terms, but if you wanted to explain it to a child and hit the major points, that is enough. 

The following gives an in depth explanation of the Jhanas and how at higher levels Here is a very short excerpt from a long presentation $URL$ 

So the above citations begin to outline the differences between Zen, Chan and Seon. The question is did these different traditions radically change at a certain point in history like Zen in Japan under Suzuki. 

I am questioning myself and my practice of answering questions and was stopped by the following website. $URL$ 

Before I meditate first thing in the morning, I do stretching of legs and back for 10 minutes so sitting is more comfortable. When I sit use pillow so back is straight. Feel like string pulling on head upward and weight on tailbone gently pulling it straight down. After establishing breathing you can continue counting breath or do a ceremony. Here is one the Dalai Lama 

On the other hand, to claim that this process restarts after the complete annihilation of the physical body is again incorrect. This process doesn't magically restart after the complete annihilation of the physical body. Why it doesn't restart? 

Does samsara exist? Or does samsara not exists and it just looks to us that it exists, but in reality it is all the same "thing"? Here's the updated question, to make it clearer: UPDATE Nibanna is the cessation of all that is conditioned, i.e. samsara. As I understand it, when you attain Nibanna which is unconditioned, then you are out of samsara. Does this mean, that when you attain Nibanna, samsara: 

When your thought arises, it is thought entering your mind's sense door. This is then followed by sensations and/or feelings arising. Because you can't see the subtleties why this thought of yours is arising, you think that it is not according to the teachings. Putting too much attention on such subtle things as thoughts, sensations, feelings and what arises/comes first, etc. during meditation should be avoided, because most people's meditation skills are not high enough to see these subtle things and their order of appearance. Even if somebody has high meditation skills to see these subtleties, others who are not skilled in meditation could easily misinterpret such teachings and/or think that something is different in their minds, which is not. 

The verse speaks from the point of view of the bhikku, not from the point of view of Thera/teacher. If we were to apply this verse as you’re suggesting, then the Buddha would never have taught the Dhamma to people obviously inferior to him, or less developed than him. Or if we were to apply this verse as you’re suggesting, then the Buddha is contradicting himself. But he is not, which can be clearly seen by his actions - he thought the Dhamma, even to fools. 

Seon for the most parts goes through fewer changes then either of its "parents." Now Gihwa enters the scene after centuries of decline in Seon in Korea and tends to revitalize and refocus Seon. Here is a little of his biography. Gihwa (1376-1433) 

Halos seem to be an artistic symbol to depict light. There are not really halos on people except in paintings unless of course you can see auras. I do not see auras. Here is an explanation of the symbology of light and halos. $URL$ the actual depiction of the Buddha happened long after cessation and nirvana. Here is more on that. $URL$ To me a question that still tantalizes me, how can I experience the consciousness that Buddha experienced? I don't care about halos, or titles or attainments, I will forego all of those. Just give me that mind that was in Buddha. That is all I really want in this world or another. Just let me see with the illumined mind, the mind that has experienced cessation, the bodhisattva mind that will not cease suffering until all sentient beings experience release. That is enough for me. Thank you for your question. Whether answer helped I am uncertain. But I know what is dearest in the center of my being. 

It seems that one can enter the Bodhisattva way more easily than trying to attain the bhumis. Too much can be made of attaining, while not enough of serving others. I find the Dalai Lama's Book THE OPEN HEART to be a wonderful introduction to the Bodhisattva way. It is a book not only of words but pointing to action to free all sentient beings. If you want more info on bhumis you will find it in this article that even describes the bhumis as "hyperbolic". Perhaps that is a hint that we should stick more to basics and keep things simple. The Buddha gave us an example of a simple life. Some of those that followed tried to make it more complicated than it was. Remember the Flower Sermon. The Buddha holds up a flower and smiles. That is the whole sermon. $URL$ 

The point in living is to learn what is suffering, what is the cause of suffering, what is the end of suffering and what is the way leading to the end of suffering. 

The path is learning how to experience it. One of the prerequisite to experiencing it, is to accept we will be "no more" if we become enlightened. 

He searched for self in every corner of the universe and the mind, but he couldn't find a self. But this was not enough. He then looked very precisely how "self" is born. He understood what is self, what is its cause, and what is its cessation. By knowing self in this way, he removed its cause and self completely ceased to exist. What happened next was this: In the same way "Buddha" was just "Buddha" and was not "Buddha and his self", "Buddha" became just "Buddha" and not "Buddha and his self". By not becoming "Buddha and his self", Buddha became "Buddha". This is how he knew that self is just a fabrication and that there is really no self. He knew. 

By not knowing the truth a new being receives it and changes its body accordingly. What truth? EVERYTHING is just a dream ... an echo ... not truth. By not knowing the truth, volition arises and after it, everything else arises ... the mind, body and universe. 

Meditation is when you stop thinking. The purpose of meditation is to gain insight on the nature of reality (Who am I? Why I exist? Why everything exist? How it exists? What is suffering? Why is there suffering? What is happiness? etc.). While in meditation, by attentively observing that which arises, insight can be gained. You will most likely not gain supernatural powers by meditation. You will probably have experiences where it feels like you gained supernatural powers.