This is obsessive behavior: he's no longer in her life (so he doesn't know her whereabouts), but he still knows where she lives. It's even creepier in the next verse: 

That question is really the point. Viewed in the Heptapod fashion, there isn't really any meaning to the question of what it means to "always know" as distinct from "learning at some point". The comparison to Lagrangian mechanics is helpful. Does the photon "know" that it's taking the shortest path to some point under the water? Or does it make a "decision", instant by instant, "learning" that it should turn when it enters the water surface? The two are equivalent formulations, just viewed from different points of view. One point of view has all of history built in from the beginning; the other studies moment by moment. It's not really an apt way to view humanity. The thing that makes a human brain can't avoid its progressive approach to history. Being bound to a "now" is fundamental to how your brain works. To be free of it, you'd have to stop being "you". Everything would change. It wouldn't give you the ability to predict the future; "predicting the future" would be something that wouldn't make any sense to you because you'd have redefined your self as something for which future and past are one. It's probably not realistic to posit heptapods with brains that really work so much differently. (And if they were they'd be even less explicable.) But that's not really what the book is about. It's about grief and loss. How would you feel if you really could take the long term view: that every joyful birth was tempered with the grief of death, and vice versa? Can you get over loss by taking a different world-view? I wasn't entirely happy with the way that was lost in the film, treating the time sense as a magic power that could predict the future. It was perhaps necessary to add an element like that in transferring it to the medium of film, but the story is much more meditative. As with all good sci-fi, it's not really about aliens; it's about ourselves. 

In Jonathan Strange and Mr Norrell, the magician Norrell has cornered the market on magical books, which must have been a considerable expense. He also seems to have a considerable estate. How did he become so wealthy? I believe that the character's motivation is driven by the British peerage, in which titles and wealth go to people who have done important things, but inherited without evincing such merit. Norrell isn't a peer of any kind, and is ridiculed when the idea of giving him a title comes up. Wealth and title don't always go together, but there often seems to be a tension between the titled class and those who earned their wealth. So where did Norrell's wealth come from? 

The metric displayed in the chart is described by Google as 'interest' but it's more accurately described as the ratio of keyword search activity divided by total search activity on Google. The weekly values that result are rescaled by dividing the weekly values by the maximum value for the time series. This creates the spike in April 2011 equalling 100%. That said this little analysis isn't very satisfying in that it only goes back to 2004 and is quite narrow in its specification. GT offers little by way of an explanation for these spikes in 'interest.' A direct answer to your concern with the influence of Rand's book is a more complicated question that would have to include not just her book but the related influence of other libertarian or neo-liberal thinkers such as Friedrich Hayek, Milton Friedman, Alan Greenspan, and many more. In other words the answer to your second question is no, there are not yet any "high-quality studies on this topic," at least that I'm aware of. However, there are "high-quality" studies done on other areas and aspects of text mining that could be brought to bear in addressing your specific question. For instance, this paper by Rule, et al., Lexical shifts, substantive changes, and continuity in State of the Union discourse, 1790–2014 does a wonderful job of analyzing the themes of the Presidential State of the Union addresses going all the way back to George Washington. The graphics are beautiful. This is the kind of work that could be brought to bear in answering your query. $URL$ 

The answer to the question posed in your title is that there is not yet any standard way to measure 'influence.' The fact is that analyses of this type are a kind of wild, wild west where 'standard' methods have yet to develop. Studies of this kind are a variant of computational humanities where the focus is on algorithmic text mining of large, unstructured databases. In literary humanities, Franco Moretti pioneered the use of statistical tools for this purpose. Moretti's at Stanford and has a group focused on 'distant reading' or 'quantitative formalism'. These methods are spreading widely throughout the academic world with many 'classically' trained, close readers objecting to their dissemination. One quick way to get at least some insight into online usage of Atlas Shrugged is the Google Trends search tool. By querying the keyword 'Atlas Shrugged' for the US for the time span from 2004-2018, one can see that there was little interest in the book until April 2011, followed by a second spike in October 2012. 

Interesting question. Regarding your observation about the greater prevalence of concerns wrt homophobia in detective fiction vs other fiction genres, that seems like a bit of a stretch conclusion...maybe even premature. In other words, more cross-genre evidence is required in support of the claim. What's worth noting (as you've done) is that there has been a slow diffusion or evolution in US culture wrt dominant or majority attitudes towards homosexuality from 'the love that dare not speak its name' to its tolerance and acceptance in some segments of society. It may seem hard to understand today but when Chandler and Hammett were writing (the 30s) cultural prohibitions were such that it would have been considered avant garde just to broach the topic. One 'safe' way of doing this was to mention it while simultaneously expressing disgust or hatred for the preference. Tracking these attitudes back to 19th c England and Sherlock Holmes is more complicated but one good index of their times is the case of Oscar Wilde, the gay writer, playwright and Victorian contemporary of Conan Doyle, and his imprisonment for 'gross indecency with men' ($URL$ The thing to bear in mind is that such shifts in cultural attitudes are like pendulum swings. There may be tolerance wrt LBGT issues in the 'dominant' US culture today but that can change pretty quickly with a reimposition of repressive attitudes and hatred. 

Douglas Hofstadter wrote a wonderful meditation on translation, the book Le Ton Beau de Marot. It contains literally scores of translations of the same poem from French into English. Each translation preserves some aspects of the original: meter, rhyme, various aspects of tone, wordplay, vowels, consonants. Some are close, some are loose. Some are whimsical, some are serious. Each of them is the same poem; each of them is different from all others. There is no way to capture everything about a poem in translation. You can't even read the same poem twice: the "translation" from the page into your head will always vary a little. A great poem, I'd say, is one that will vary more between readings, making it evergreen. I don't think it's fair to say that translation "takes away" from the meaning of the poem. There was never any single "meaning" for it to detract from. A translation adds to it, creating a new poem which is somehow conceptually related, but the original remains right where it was. A poem -- indeed, any text -- is a dialogue between its author and its reader. The "meaning" of that dialogue is the change it produces in the reader. The author never really knows the reader's state to start with, and can't point to a unique transformation that they can be certain will take place. The author may have a variety of hopes for it, and the totality of those hopes are expressed in the text as you see it. Change a single letter and you get a different thing. Substitute a word for its "synonym" and you still get a different thing. That's why Tom Robbins had a character declare, “There are no such things as synonyms!" So in every translation, something is lost, and something is gained. That "something" could be anything, any aspect of language. You can hope to arrive at a similar effect that a native reader would have had upon reading the original, but even that native reader won't have a single "meaning" for the poem. So how close you come to achieving that effect is itself a new dialogue. 

Another example is the Nurse in Romeo and Juliet. There's great comic effect to be mined out of a large man playing the Nurse: just as the portrayal makes the man look un-masculine, the nurse looks un-feminine. And so when she makes coarse jokes ("Now, by my maidenhead -- at twelve years old."), the effect is enhanced. Falstaff, sneaking out dressed as a woman in Merry Wives is a similar gag. Now, this is a very careful comic balance for Shakespeare to walk, because he also played women in serious ways. He had not just great dramatic female roles like Cleopatra and Tamora, but great female comic characters for whom femininity is crucial. This is most visible in "cursed" characters like Beatrice in Much Ado or Kate in Shrew: the roles aren't funny if the audience doesn't fully accept them as attractively feminine. The audience would, of course, have been aware that these characters were portrayed by boys. Several of Shakespeare's greatest comic female characters dress as boys: Rosalind, Viola, Julia. Again, there's a delicate balance where the audience is being asked to accept that these are boys-playing-girls-dressed as boys. It worked only because the audience was fully imbued in the trope, and simply accepted it. I think of it as similar to the effect of intercutting in modern cinema: the world doesn't jump perspectives like that, but since you've been trained to accept that as the language of cinema, it doesn't give you even a moment's pause. It's not so much "suspension of disbelief" as genuine belief: that's the way this world works. Of course, they only believe it in the theater. They don't accept boys-dressed-as-girls in real life. Unless, of course, they're drunk. So the effect of using Bartholomew is to make the drunken guest seem more despicable, and thus funnier. It also helps that this keeps the prank as a "boy's club" moment. Women, especially young women, were usually portrayed as more refined in their sensibilities. Even low-born characters like Audrey in As You Like It (" I am not a slut, though I thank the gods I am foul") have some touch of propriety. Women do participate in pranks (like Mistress Quickly in Henry IV, part 1), but are usually less coarse about it. I'm certain Shakespeare could have written a woman into the scene without breaking the drunken-fraternity nature of the the prank, but it was certainly in character to make it an all-male moment. 

Writers, Borges seems to make the case, do not get to choose when they fight or when they don't fight political power, but much the opposite. 

According to Sartre himself, they could have refused. In the many time misquoted "L'enfer, c'est les autres" ("Hell is other people"), Sartre made it clear that he did not imply people would always torture each other, but rather, that flawed relationship would always push people to hell, as there was nothing more important to us that the view of others. Hence, the reason why the characters end up torturing each other would be that their relationships are flawed, at least according to the Comments on Huis Clos, 1964 that I reproduce here (translation is mine, if you find a more satisfactory one I would be please to edit it in). 

No he did not! The process can be traced back at least to Thomas Carlyle, who in Sartor Resartus (1833–34) publishes a summary and a critique, à la Borges, of the fictional book Clothes, Their Origin and Influence. Let's note that Thomas Carlyle pushed it even further than Borges, publishing the review in a magazine with no mention of its fictional nature! While book 1 is a comment mainly of (pseudo-)philosophical nature, the readers of Fraser's Magasine would find, in the begging of book 2, a fiction of what is deemed as a summary of Clothes, Their Origin and Influence. Even better: he knew he did not 

George Orwell, The principles of NewSpeak (appendix to 1984) (All emphasis not in the original texts) 

Luis Borges, Word Music and Translation, Lecture, Delivered February 28, 1968, cited in This Craft of Verse, Harvard University Press, 2000 

(Emphasis by myself) I believe this is strong, yet not compelling evidence towards Golding writing Simon an epileptic. 

Nigel Williams, a first-hand witness of Golding's life and work, stated in this 2012 Telegraph article: 

Note that has outlined by Beastly Gerbil, the protagonist is living through events based on Borges's on life: in his novel, the protagonist hits a recently painted door jamb, while in his autobiography, Borges hits a freshly painted open casement window. The reference to fresh paint seems to make no doubt of the biographical nature of the event. The many political and literary references that populate the story always had me believe that this story was about the implication of writers in politics. 

(George Orwell, 1984) It is made very clear early on in the book that under IngSoc, what you would call cultural/national background is despised and probably in way of disappearing. Newspeak would therefore not be adapted to languages that are already banned. Another possibility though, would be that Newspeak collected some local linguistic structures (Orwell says "formations"), as any language that becomes dominant after a transitional period. This is possible, but the following extract rules it out for the "purest" of Newspeak: before Newspeak became global, it was already purified of most English influences.