Actually, what you propose isn't too far different from what we had in our world. A well trained knight in full armour was able to take on 10 or 20 untrained peasants and emerge victorious. Not always of course, but it was possible. Mount him on a horse and it became even more likely. The differences you describe are ones of degree rather than absolutely game changing. Your elite units would become even more elite, your cannon fodder even more cannon fodder. If you had population to spare you would most likely want to be in a lot of constant low grade wars and skirmishes since from those your elite start to emerge, and then more training and equipment can be lavished onto those elites since they are where the true power lies. 

The highest population growth rate in the world at the moment is around 3% per year. This seems a reasonable starting point for you since you will have both negative and positive influences. This would give you a population after 100 years using a compound interest calculator of 38,437. In other words 11,000 is not just achievable but if anything low. This difference could easily be explained by the harshness of adjusting to the new environment though. 

There is a long and very informative GPU Gems article here talking about procedural terrain generation: $URL$ The details are too long to pull out into this answer but the root idea is that it combines different noise functions to dynamically and procedurally generate terrain like this: 

The solution is actually pretty simple, antifreeze and hibernation. There are already plenty of bacteria that can survive being frozen and then recover. Many plants have a life cycle where they grow during summer and then scatter seeds that last through winter. What you are describing here just needs an extension of this and life would have evolved to keep with it. The very early stages of life obviously won't have that developed, but that doesn't need to be a problem. Freezing is only harmful to cellular life because the ice crystals that form rupture the cell walls. Life on this planet though would evolve something to survive that. Either internal antifreeze, or elastic cell membranes, or something completely different. Something else to consider is that one of the likely initial locations for life to have formed is volcanic pools and they would remain defrosted even through the long night. As life develops and moves away from these locations it would have time to develop the survival mechanisms it needs. 

The simple answer is that if you want a permanent change then it is unlikely to happen overnight. There's a lot of inertia in the environment and it takes time for things like currents and suchlike to work. However there are three candidates that might give what you want, and all act in roughly the same way: 

Having the cape go into that shape is certainly possible, although you would need a substantial amount of electric power if you wanted it to be strong. Assuming you wanted to use the cape to fly (or even glide) though then you have a bigger problem. Or a smaller problem. The cape isn't big enough. Look at wing suits for example. The terminal velocity wearing a wing suit is still 110mph, you can fly around nicely but you certainly can't land. A hang glider or parachute needed to land at a more manageable and survivable speed is much larger than Batman's cape. 

We have already found exo-planets matching this criteria. For example HD_100777_b has a mass just slightly higher than Jupiter and orbits its star at the same distance from the sun that our earth does. (The star is a similar size to our sun but I didn't check the brightness so I don't know for sure if it's in the habitable zone). You can explore the known exo-planets using: $URL$ 

Orbit the new moon for a while, then most likely rain back down onto the surface over time. Orbit the earth in the same rough orbit as the moon, spreading out as they do so. Over time you would again expect the moon to pull them back into itself but this could take a lot longer. Achieve escape velocity from the earth's gravity well as well and go wondering around the solar system as a new asteroid. Hit the earths atmosphere and rain down on earth as meteorites. Depending on their size these will either burn up in the atmosphere or come down, causing potentially serious damage depending on their size and location. 

Sand and Glass are both made of silica, sufficient heat can convert sandy desert terrain into glass. From wikipedia: 

Plant an explosive device ahead of time at a location he is going to/under his car/etc. Use cameras to cover the location. Activate it remotely. So long as all the setup is done outside of his perception range then he has no extra defenses compared to any other target. 

They want weapons and warriors and tactics, so they don't want the war to end on earth as without the war they will get no more warriors. They sometimes let ceasefires happen to replenish the breeding stock of humans but always they will trigger another war and then take the strongest warriors from the side that would be victorious until the sides are balanced once more. 

What's more the pulses could then be matched to the resonant frequency of the buildings or land in that area. By doing this you cause a massive localized earthquake that only has a large effect in the target locations and is basically impossible to stop. The gravitational effects will pass through anything and so the only protection would be to have your own similar machines trying to disrupt the resonances. Of course we have no way to generate gravity waves at the moment but this is future tech :) 

Megalalodon grew to around 20 meters long and weighed around 100 metric tons. That's a lot of fish! However Titanic was 166 meters long and the hull was made from rolled steel from 2.5cm to 3.5cm thick. If it did a serious ramming attack on titanic it's entirely plausible that Megaladon would rupture the hull plates and cause a significant leak. However it would also do considerable injury to itself. Ramming your nose into solid steel hurts! Because of the Titanic's design a single hole would not suffice, there were multiple compartments in the ship and you would need to breach 5 of them. You would also need to breach them all strongly enough to overwhelm the pumps trying to take the water out. It's not realistic that even something as big as Megalodon could achieve that without first seriously injuring itself, especially since it would not know where the compartments were or even that it needed to breach them. 

By definition they have to have higher level tech just to be able to reach us in the first place! We can barely get unmanned probes to the outer solar system and that takes years. We've had a bare handful of humans walking on our own moon and even that was decades ago. None of us has ever walked on another planet. Any alien species able to reach us here has to be more advanced, in propulsion and life support if nothing else. For something set further in the future this doesn't always have to be the case, but certainly for any sort of "alien invasion" scenario it does. So to answer your original question - different life will always evolve and develop at different speeds. Look at how much we advanced in the past century compared to the millennia before. Imagine if the dinosaurs had developed tool using intelligence, they could have been flying to the stars millions of years ago. The more advanced and aggressive species will naturally spread further combined by the fact that a species less advanced than us cannot even reach us and the conclusion is pretty much pre-ordained. 

To echo the other answers, neither. It's entirely possible for warm or cold blooded creatures to have biological immortality. The thing is though that there is no evolutionary advantage to it. That may seem counter intuitive but consider that you need reproduction anyway to continue the species as otherwise you have no ways to increase your numbers or recover from disasters. That reproduction already works very effectively to reset the biological age and at the same time undo most environmental damage. If you lose an arm to accident or injury then your children are not born missing an arm. On the other hand building repair systems into an adult that are capable of regrowing an arm would be complicated (and potentially increase risks of cancer or infection and would certainly increase calorie requirements at a time where you are already going to struggle to acquire more calories due to the injury). Similarly healing without scarring would be possible, but is slower. It is not safe to take your time about sealing up a wound "in the wild". All of these factors mean that as far as our genetics are concerned we are already biologically immortal - through having children. There is no adaptive advantage to increasing our lifespans further than they already are. So creating an immortal is simple enough, you just need to be able to repair damage done to the body. Repair DNA, regrow limbs, heal scars, etc. The much harder thing to explain though is the evolutionary process that would make it worthwhile to develop that capability. 

While the dark side of a planet is very cold that's actually easier to deal with than heat. Space is an excellent insulator so the only heat losses are due to radiation into vacuum which are easily manageable. It's likely a base would be placed somewhere on the planet near the sunlit side though for two reasons. The first is that by picking the right location the external temperature can be appropriate for the base. The second is that solar power generation would be a tempting prospect and by being nearer to the sunlit surface it would be more practical to gather and use that solar energy. 

These would most likely be linked, with rapid temperature or pressure changes also changing the weather. I like your gas-giant solution for this. Passing into the shadow would cause rapid cooling for example. You could extend on it even further by having the gas giant orbiting on an eliptical orbit or even being part of a binary star system. Depending on the position of the stars and how they line up you could have wide swings in seasonal temperature. Gasses: 

It can't be done with a material, there is just nothing that does what you are looking for. Imagine a human wearing armor hit by an RPG. It doesn't matter how much the armor holds its shape, the shockwave and acceleration will kill you. What you need is some sort of reasonably cheap and efficient force-field generator that a person can wear. It would filter out poison gasses and stop incoming projectiles but would allow slower moving things to penetrate. To prevent remote controlled drones/seeker missiles/etc then maybe it would also be able to detect and neutralize those - basically nothing self-propelled or moving faster than X can penetrate the force shield. Melee weapons can now be used since they are swung slow enough to penetrate the shield but then used to stab or slice the person inside. In fact this was a concept used by the Dune novels and films. The special effects are very dated but here it is: $URL$ 

The first and most obvious requirement is that they would need light sensitivity, so vision is a must. Beyond that there are some differences between the way light and sound work, for example hearing is 360 degree coverage, if someone shouts behind you then you can still see it. Equally sound can be used for communication around corners or over hills. As a result light is actually quite weak to use as an early warning signal, so it is likely that there would be some auditory communication as well even if it's restricted to alarm and distress signals. One advantage of visual signalling is the available bandwidth, if you had a creature with the ability to change its skin dramatically and rapidly in various patterns and shapes then it could well be able to transmit information far faster and at longer ranges than speech. Multiple creatures could all be "speaking" in the same area at the same time without interference and conversations would not need people to wait for each person to finish. Instead even in a multi-way conversation each person could constantly talk all the time, so expect them to be better at multi-tasking and processing multiple information streams simultaneously than humans are. In general their visual processing would be superior to humans but their auditory processing would be weaker. Technology would take different routes from our own, as the telephone and radio would both be pointless. Early remote communication would most likely be something like the telegraph and writing could well be hieroglyphics designed to look like the skin patterns used to "speak". They may well develop independently mobile eyes so that they can watch people they are talking to at the same time as working. For example a conversation while sewing would require two eyes to watch the sewing process and another to watch the conversation. A group conversation may require either one eye on each person in the conversation or some sort of signal that causes everyone to switch attention to the person who is going to speak. 

If you want to rip a whole planet apart then it's very hard, the amount of energy required is immense. The simplest way would be to use tidal forces. Get something like a neutron star, black hole, or gas giant and bring that in close enough to the planet to be destroyed (inside the Roche Limit) so that tidal forces rip it apart. Theoretically some sort of sci-fi weapon "black hole generator" could do the same job, or just drop the black hole into the planet and let it eat it. That would leave a black hole rather than rubble though. Consider how much energy is involved in moving something like a gas giant or neutron star close to our planet and that should help you picture just how big what you are attempting here is. 

I'm adding a second answer as it's quite different to my other one now I've thought about this a bit more. Again it may not be the situation you were envisaging but it is a scenario that gives near-permanent warfare and which would be innately stable. I can envisage another situation where you could have endless war, although again it might not be quite the sort of war you had in mind. The reason wars end is because they are between nations, between collectives. Those collectives assimilate or destroy other collectives and then continue, with the larger ones gradually or rapidly absorbing the smaller ones into themselves. If instead states were a more transient thing, with no concept of the state itself existing but instead were personality cults, that would change things a lot. Someone rises up to lead a tribe, or nation. He or she forms alliances, conquers smaller tribes, rises to glory. But then when that leader dies the empire fragments, with each part of the fragment following one of that leaders children. Some or all of those fragments may be allied at first but over time that would fade away, while at the same time tribes that weren't followers of the original leader would also remain and possibly be growing in power itself. Even if one leader is succeeded by only one child and the empire stays together that child will have further children (or die and cause a different type of succession struggle). Eventually a child will come along incapable of leading and at that point the empire will fall apart. The key thing though is that the individual is the focus, not the organisation. People group together following a charismatic or powerful war leader, but when that leadership is gone the organisation he built falls apart again. 

The problem with transporting your own reaction mass is diminishing returns. In other words lets say you have a space ship that weighs 0.5 tonnes, and you carry a tonne of fuel. This will let you accelerate to X m/s. Now if you want to accelerate to 2X then you need to accelerate twice as much, so take twice as much fuel, right? Unfortunately not, because you also need to accelerate all the fuel. So in the first example the average weight of your ship over the duration of the flight was 1 tonne. In the second example if you double the amount of fuel the average weight is 1.5 tonnes. You do go further than X - but you go 2/1.5 which is 1.333. In other words you double the amount of fuel and actually only gain 33% more final acceleration. This is a massive over-simplification, and things like the ratio of fuel-mass to ship-mass make a big difference. It does show you though that it gets harder and harder to just add more fuel. This is why things like the EM Drive are such a big deal. If it works you don't need to carry reaction mass, and that is huge. You can work around this a little using things like a Hohmann transfer orbit and being content to spend a lot longer travelling at a lower speed rather than constantly accelerating, it's all tricky though and there is no straightforward solution.