I don't believe it would be right to call him a religious fanatic. His plays contain both pro- and anti-Christian elements, all of which seem to be more about playing into the sense of the times than any personal conviction. There are hints that he may have been a crypto-Catholic (as his father was accused of, the nature of the Ghost in Hamlet, and so on), but it would have been suicide to be a fanatical Catholic in Elizabeth's England. Rather, I'd say the treatment of Shylock is more a matter of the prevailing mores of his time. He was no more anti-semitic than most Englishmen, which is to say, pretty anti-semitic. Jews had been expelled from England in 1290, and would not be allowed back in until decades after Shakespeare's death. The Jew would have been a stock character, and Shakespeare was drawing on the same sources that inspired the evil Barabas. Shakespeare had a fondness for anti-heroes, like Macbeth and Richard III. He often gave them very sympathetic speeches, and any discussion of anti-semitism in Merchant must be tempered by the "Hath not a Jew hands..." speech. While Shylock is in many ways a stock greedy Jew ("My daughter! O my ducats! O my daughter! Fled with a Christian! O my Christian ducats!"), he has that one magnificent, deeply human speech. So in the end I think it's best to treat Shakespeare's characters, and Shakespeare, as simply human, both good and bad. Religion wasn't a huge deal to him: it figures in his plays in many ways, both serious and as a figure of fun... just like real human beings. His plays were rarely fables with morals. They're stories, of people, with no simple moral summary. 

The napkins, carpet and the smell of beeswax and soap contribute nothing effectual to the narrative apart from injecting an extra sense of realism. In terms of Russian literature, Tolstoy was know to use it in his novel The Death of Ivan Ilyitch (especially in Ilyitch's eventual anti-climactic death from a fall whilst hanging up curtains). 

So, many thought that Tess was additionally morally impure due to this event, due to the fact she did conceive Sorrow. Furthermore, there are also aspects of misogyny, as while Angel committed a consensual immoral act and Tess forgave him for it, when she confessed that she was violated as a young girl, an involuntary act in her case, he 'cannot' forgive her (reference) : 

There are four stresses to the line (resulting in a tetrameter) each with the stress on the first, not the following, syllable (resulting in trochaic meter). Iambic tetrameter is the reverse of trochaic tetrameter as the unstressed syllable comes before the stressed syllable. If it was iambic, the stresses would look like this: 

Here, the cornices distract Ilyitch during court sessions but do not create much impact in themselves apart from being realistic, since people do, after all, remember little unrelated details. Furthermore, the way his deterioration drags on is also reminiscent of the realism of Naturalism as the insignificant details seem to prioritise the content of the narrative. Overall, the whole story is about the realistic qualities of an ordinary man's inconsequential life and so Naturalism is a necessity in achieving this effect. Likewise, Anna Karenina also features Naturalistic descriptions: 

In context it's very easy to see that as simply callous, telling Mac to man up. But there's an undertone that says, "OK, maybe we screwed up, but it's finished and we can't fix that so there's no point in feeling guilty". That is the strongest presage of the mad scene: she does feel the guilt, just as she knew she would. It's reflected in her final line: 

Poets had been using it since at least Middle English, such as Geoffrey Chaucer in Canterbury Tales: 

The line is a bit of a pun. A "masque" is a masked ball, and in this case refers to the kind of music played at masques. The name actually has a somewhat convoluted history, originally referring to a masked drama in France, then to a stylized dance in Elizabethan England, and that use re-exported back to France. Despite the name a "bergamasque" is not a kind of masque. The name comes from Bergamo, a city in Italy. It refers to the kind of music there, based on a folk dance. That dance is thus Bergamo-esque (bergamasco in Italian, and bergamasque in French, giving rise to Bergamask in English). So "masques and bergamasques" puts together two styles of dance and music, both of which have Renaissance origins, even though the names are not actually related. 

"Waistcoat" here is metonymy for the person wearing the waistcoat. It is parallel to the "boiled shirts" who gather at the graveside in the previous line. (Boiled shirts are well-starched and stiff, like the kind you'd see in Downton Abbey.) Together, the two images present people who are, on the surface, very serious, but don't actually care about the occasion. The "waistcoat" doesn't seem to be a priest; priests wear robes. He could be an Anglican minister, but it's more likely to single out his collar. It's more likely that he's some grandee of the town, a businessman or rich person. I don't think he's a veteran of the war, or he'd be wearing a uniform. As to why that person is "leering"... I don't believe it's intended sexually, due to the lack of other sexual references in the poem, but rather in the more general sense of "unpleasant". I suspect that the unpleasantness is more in the way the the objects of the ceremony perceive it, rather than from actual ill intent. The poem is a series of uncomfortable images of the aftermath of war, and in particular the grief of widows who are being celebrated for their sacrifices. That ceremony feels false. The important people of the city are using it as a way to celebrate their importance: speeches are made, documents are signed, and if you're very lucky, that's all. It would be even worse if they actually thought or spoke about just how awful it is. I do think that "leering" is an odd choice here: the connotations are inherently sexual. The language hasn't changed that much since the poem was written, and I don't think its connotation is that different in the UK. (Even if it were, the poet is a professor of English, and should be careful about such implications regardless of his own dialect.) I can only imagine that it's intended to increase the sense of possessiveness and intrusion: this puffed-up poo-bah is using their grief as a prop. Perhaps I'm oversensitive to shy away from the sexual connotations, a bit like using "rape" for something merely unpleasant. 

In Chapter 10 of Dickens's Great Expectations, Pip goes to the pub to find Joe, as told by his sister. When he enters the pub, Joe and Mr. Wopsle are sitting at a table next to a mysterious man: 

Furthermore as an aside, Hardy hints his views on Tess' crime and punishment (and thus Victorian society's views) in this line at the very end of the book: 

(I would not count articles such as 'the' and 'a' as separating words) Is the 'f' sound in the words "fair" and "first" still classed as alliteration in conjunction with the alliteratory phrases "foam flew" and "furrow followed free"? Or are they too separate to be alliteration? If words between the alliteratory words is permitted, then how many? I have tried to research this but have been unsuccessful in finding a rule that clarifies whether or not several (let's say more than two) non-allitoratory words between alliteratory words 'takes away' the alliteration. 

Tess views herself as "good and simple" but not pure like her sister; she is the 'unblemished', 'unsullied' version of Tess: 

If you try to say the line with the stresses like this, it is really awkward. The trochaic tetrameter just fits better. (Using iambic stressing on the line would also only result in three stresses making it iambic trimeter.) It is in fact the same rhythm and stress pattern and meter, as the lines from Macbeth: 

The definition for spondees is: a metrical foot consisting of two long or stressed syllables, which the line is describing with "long and long". The second line is also separate from the first with a semicolon at the end of the first, so they are definitely unrelated. The real question is why is the second line not in spondees? I cannot find any explanations for this, apart from that the stressed 'o' sounds in the line act to emphasise the spondees in the next line. Also, in old copies of S. T. Coleridge's poems, where the lines are scanned, line 2 is sometimes left unscanned (along with the second part of the poem, which deviates away from describing meter and addresses his son), so maybe it is not meant to have a definite meter (sort does make a rhyming couplet with short so that could be the reason for this rogue line). Regardless of line 2, the line about trochees is definitely in catalectic trochaic meter. 

This is a not-so-subtle commentary on the engagement of Perdita and Florizel: she is the wilder stock, though he can also see her latent nobility. She refuses that kind of breeding, through the metaphor of the gillyvor (carnation). The rest is a commentary on age and time, "a sad tale best fit for winter". It starts with rosemary and rue, both familiar from Ophelia's own flower speech: rosemary for remembrance, and rue as a homonym for regret. This is a moment where the last kings are passing into age, while Perdita and Florizel are the bloom of youth. Seasonal tropes recur throughout the play, a meditation on the the cycle of growing up, having children, and growing old. 

Fowler's Dictionary considers "bemused" a pun on the name of Laurence Eusden, a notable poet and notable drunkard. So it sounds to me as if "bemused" here primarily means "drunk". While the term is etymologically related to "inspired by muses", it has meant (at least since the early 18th century) simply "confused". Pope was aware of the pun on "muse"; the Online Etymology Dictionary quotes that he 'punned on it as "devoted utterly to the Muses."' but I can't find a citation for that. 

The novel Possession contains some spot-on mimicry of several different writing styles, including lengthy poems by two fictional Victorian poets. The character of RH Ash in particular feels as if there is some model, or models, for him. He has a very distinct style and a distinct set of interests (including naturalism and Greek and Norse myths). Is he similar to Tennyson, or Browning, or some other real poet, or an amalgam? Or is he purely Byatt's creation? 

The finality of these sentences is crushing to the reader and really defines the tragedy of the novel. But there is no dénouement (or narrative closure) yet, nor the necessary catharsis (a key part of tragedy, the release of tension and anxiety) that this stage should induce. Yes, Tess is dead and that is somewhat a closure in itself, but there is no emotional closure; the short sentence "It was a black flag." is flat, emotionless and provides no release for the reader from the tragedy so Liza-Lu and Angel's union and subsequent reaction to Tess's death aimed to induce the necessary catharsis. Helena Michie's Sororophobia: Differences Among Women in Literature and Culture notes that the fulfillment of emotional satisfaction was essential to the Victorian reader and hence explains Liza-Lu's role: 

It is in trochaic tetrameter, because there are four trochees in the first line, as you highlighted in your copy (numbers indicate stress number): 

The presence of the quotation marks suggests Hardy's contempt of contemporary views on a situation like Tess'. They are unforgiving and condemn her without consideration of the crimes that the 'victim' (Alec) committed. The stress here is that he is criticising the same people who then criticised the subtitle of Tess of the d'Urbervilles. Secondly, Tess became an adulteress when she married Angel and then married Alec when Angel travels to Brazil, however she really thought he would never return, which makes it excusable in our eyes. But this adultery would have been shocking and inexcusable to the Victorians and would certainly have been classed as immoral. Thirdly, it was interpreted that, after Alec assaulted her, Tess lost what was called her 'physical purity' and hence Hardy came under fire for his subtitle of 'A Pure Woman (...)' since this contradicted the contemporary commonly accepted ideas of purity. (this article explains it well if you want to go into it.) I will paraphrase the basic idea: The Victorian idea was that 'purity' was lost in such a situation regardless whether consent was given. Virtue was synonimized with this 'purity' and hence Tess would not have been considered pure by many contemporary readers. In addition, there has been ambiguity over the scene in which Tess is violated by Alec (although it is usually decided that it was non-consensual - discussed in this question) there were obviously those who believed it to be a seduction and hence a fault and immorality on Tess' part. This was fueled by the commonly accepted belief at the time that (quoted from the thesis below): 

Douglas Hofstadter wrote a wonderful meditation on translation, the book Le Ton Beau de Marot. It contains literally scores of translations of the same poem from French into English. Each translation preserves some aspects of the original: meter, rhyme, various aspects of tone, wordplay, vowels, consonants. Some are close, some are loose. Some are whimsical, some are serious. Each of them is the same poem; each of them is different from all others. There is no way to capture everything about a poem in translation. You can't even read the same poem twice: the "translation" from the page into your head will always vary a little. A great poem, I'd say, is one that will vary more between readings, making it evergreen. I don't think it's fair to say that translation "takes away" from the meaning of the poem. There was never any single "meaning" for it to detract from. A translation adds to it, creating a new poem which is somehow conceptually related, but the original remains right where it was. A poem -- indeed, any text -- is a dialogue between its author and its reader. The "meaning" of that dialogue is the change it produces in the reader. The author never really knows the reader's state to start with, and can't point to a unique transformation that they can be certain will take place. The author may have a variety of hopes for it, and the totality of those hopes are expressed in the text as you see it. Change a single letter and you get a different thing. Substitute a word for its "synonym" and you still get a different thing. That's why Tom Robbins had a character declare, “There are no such things as synonyms!" So in every translation, something is lost, and something is gained. That "something" could be anything, any aspect of language. You can hope to arrive at a similar effect that a native reader would have had upon reading the original, but even that native reader won't have a single "meaning" for the poem. So how close you come to achieving that effect is itself a new dialogue. 

It is evident here that the overwhelmingly list-like details appear to be redundant, however it really does paint a solid realist picture of the presented scene. This page explains Tolstoy's tendencies to realism if you are specifically after his use of Naturalism/realism. 

Malvolio's constant reprimands to the other characters' drinking and feasting symbolises the Puritans' disapproving view on the twelfth night of Christmas' festivities and the other characters' treatment of him mirrors the Elizabethans' view of Puritanism; Yes, it could be seen as cruelty and the audience may sympathise with Malvolio, but this is mainly an individual decision. 

It was mainly due to the Victorian interpretations of several events and actions in the novel and subsequent comments from contemporary critics. Firstly, Tess committed murder when she killed Alec. Although the reader of course sympathises with Tess after all Alec did to her, it was still murder, and therefore immoral, in the eyes of Victorian law and hence Tess was heavily criticised for this act... and given the death penalty. Contemporary critic R. H. Hutton described Tess' actions thus: 

If it is Magwitch, he would not need to ask all of these questions since he had met Pip and knew his name as well as meeting Joe when he was captured in the marshes as a runaway convict, so I don't think it is him. The man also mentions this at the pub, when he is told Mr. Wopsle is the church clerk: 

I think what you are looking for is Literary Naturalism. This began as a reaction to the prevailing modes of surrealism and Romanticism of the period (late nineteenth-century) and was an off-shoot and more advanced form of realism. As such is it often called 'extreme' realism and is somewhat synonymous with the effects of realism; it depicts events and other objects as they are, often to the degree of being judged unnecessary. (As a side effect, determinism is usually (although not absolutely) associated with Naturalism, and uses pessimistic realism to determine an unchangeable outcome of a character's life, usually tragedy, which explains why many of Tolstoy's works do not end happily. This however is not about inconsequential details and acts on a much larger scale to the narrative.) This technique was primarily employed by Emile Zola and many American authors, including Edith Wharton in her novel The House of Mirth, which I will use here as an example for the technique, where she details everyday items inconsequentially: