Unlike many languages, the English infinitive has different forms, 4 for an intransitive verb (they don't have Passive forms), and 6 for a transitive one. English infinitives can change for voice (Active: to write, Passive: to be written), for aspect (Non-Continuous: to write, Continuous: to be writing), for perfectness (Non-Perfect: to write, Perfect: to have written), and there are Perfect-Continuous infinitives: to have been writing. So, you got it wrong, the infinitives can change after the grammar categories. 

During the transition from Proto-Germanic to Old High German the diphthong /au/ > /ô/ before /r/, /h/ and all dentals, otherwise /au/ > /ou/. Since in *raudaz and *daudaz the diphthong /au/ was before the dental /d/, /au/ > /ô/, in *hlaupaną it was before /p/, so this change didn't happen. The exact PG form the Latin caupō transformed into is unknown to me, anyway /au/ was not before a dental there, so Latin /au/ > OHG /ou/. Dutch has /oː/ in all the four words, because in its ancestor language Old Saxon aka Old Low German, the Proto-Germanic diphthong /au/ consistently developed into a long vowel /oː/. As for Swedish, I don't know Old Norse and the Scandinavian languages enough to comment competently on the vowel change they had, maybe someone else here can do that. 

Being a native speaker of Ukrainian which is very close to Slovak, and taking into account that the surnames like that (Баб'як [bab'jak], Бабяк [ba'bʲak]) are common in Ukraine too, I can explain the meaning of it. "Баба" means "woman", "бабка" means "dragonfly", so the surname is derived from one of those. $URL$ 

Since in the word Erdoğan this ğ is between the back vowels, the pronunciation of this name falls under the third case of the rule, that is it is not pronounced at all, it is just the transition from the rounded [o] to the unrounded [a] that sounds like [w] to you. 

No language is "more simple" than other languages. Old English had just 2 tenses, present and past, now there are 16 of them, future and future-in-the-past forms developed over the time, the continuous aspect appeared, the perfect appeared, so the verbal system acquired much more forms than it used to have. On the other hand, the nouns lost the gender and cases. It is always like that, if something is lost, some new features appear to compensate the loss. A good example of a language that gets more and more complicated over the course of time is Chinese. The Old Chinese had no parts of speech, no number, no tense, it was a monosyllabic isolating language. Now Chinese is developing in the direction of getting more complicated, its words are mostly two-syllable now, parts of speech appeared in it, tenses begin to appear, etc. And some languages can become more simple during some period, and then again get more complicated. Hindi is like that, first it lost all the cases which were in Sanskrit, but later it developed a new system of cases. 

There is the official site of the Siberian language, Сибирска вольгота, with its grammar, Russian-Siberian dictionary, and texts in that language. 

"ໜຽວ" is 1 syllable, "ຽ" /iːə/ is a typical Lao diphthong with falling sonority, and "ວ" is a consonant /w/, so this is a CVC-type syllable, /n/-/iːə/-/w/, /niːəw/. Note, that /w/ is allowed as the coda in Lao syllables (See A Grammar of Lao, p. 35, section "3.3 Final consonants." Lower on that page there is a list of Lao vowel phonemes and there are no triphthongs there). Also, /iːə/ is written as "ຽ" only before final consonants, in open syllables /iːə/ is written as ເ◌ຍ, that is another proof that ວ" is onsonant /w/ here. (See this paper, pp. 10-11) In the first word, the "ເ-ົາ" stands for a combination of a vowel + consonant, /aw/, so the two words have just one thing in common, they both end in /w/. However this /w/ is realised phonetically and acoustically in the coda, it is still the same phoneme as /w/ as the initial consonant. Transliterating this /aw/ as "ao" is just a convention. 

Infinitives are rather different in different languages, and some languages, like Bulgarian, don't have infinitives at all. In some languages infinitives have a special suffix and are easily recognized, e. g. in Russian the most typical infinitival suffix is -ть, like in писать 'to write', читать 'to read', etc. In English the infinitives are in most cases marked by the infinitival particle 'to' (to-infinitive), but sometimes they are not (bare infinitive), still the list of cases when they are not mark is pretty short. The English unmarked infinitives follow another verb. Here is the list of the verbs that are always followed by an unmarked infinitive, infinitives are marked in bold: 

There are many differences between the time adverbials (like yesterday) and "adverbials like always". Time adverbials are very much like place adverbials (home, there), both of them specify a particular location, in time or in space. Also, both of them are not very specific, we can substitute each of them with lots of synonyms, I can say "Last year I went to the sea." or I can say just the same by "Last summer I went to the sea." or by "Last August I went to the sea." or by "On August 10 I went to the sea." And the same goes about the place adverbials, on my sofa can be substituted by in my room or by at home. Note, none of those substitutions won't change practically anything. "Adverbials like always" are different. First, their number is limited, they are a closed group, while time and place adverbials are innumerable, they are an open group. Then, they have no synonyms, always looks very much similar to often, still the difference is obvious. These adverbs are very closely connected with verbs, they actually change the meaning of verbs, there is a huge difference between "John comes to us." and "John always comes to us.", the periodicity of the action is absolutely different in the two sentences, but if we take "John came to us last Tuesday." and "John came to us last Wednesday." there is no difference in the manner the action happened, only its location in time is different. It is this interconnection with verbs that makes it possible for them to occupy the place immediately before the predicate. 

It's an adverb, since it is used between the parts of the compound verbal predicate; since there is the adjective 'probable', and an adjective + the '-ly' suffix produces an adverb; and since it modifies the whole sentence and that is one of the functions of adverbs. The synonyms are: in all likelihood, in all probability, as likely as not, very likely, most likely, likely, as like as not, ten to one, doubtless, no doubt, all things considered, taking all things into consideration, all things being equal, possibly, perhaps, maybe, it may be, presumably, on the face of it, apparently. 

Since I have practically no knowledge of Spanish, I can answer only the English part. First of all, the English Perfect is not an aspect. The two English aspects are Continuous (progressive) and Non-Continuous (non-progressive). A verb form cannot have two aspects at the same time, but English has several Perfect Continuous tenses and several Perfect Non-Continuous ones, that is, English can combine Continuous/Non-Continuous aspect with Perfect/Non-Perfect, and that is evidence that Perfect/Non-Perfect is not an aspect, look at it as just another category, perfectness, which is not an aspect. Question 2. No. Some English verbs like sense perception ('see', 'hear', etc.) or likes/dislikes verbs ('love', 'hate', etc.) cannot be put into Continuous (progressive), so their Perfect forms can denote actions that are still in progress, e. g. 'I've loved you so much' which would correspond to the imperfective aspect, but at the same time that very sentence can denote an action/state that has already finished, and in this case it would correspond to the perfective aspect. Question 3. If by Future you mean Future Indefinite aka Future Simple, the answer is also No. Have a look, 'Will you come to me?' in some situations can imply just one visit (tonight) which corresponds to the perfective aspect, but in some other situations it can imply multiple visits (every day) which corresponds to the imperfective aspect. Question 4. Again No. That follows from the answers to questions 2 and 3, and also from the fact that the very idea of the perfective and imperfective aspects is totally irrelevant for the English grammar and it absolutely does not correlate with the English verb category of perfect/non-perfect. 

The Slavic k cannot correspond to the Germanic k due to the Grimm's law, Slavic kr corresponds to the Germanic hr, e. g.: Rus. krug 'circle' : Angl.-Sax. hring 'ring' Rus. krov' 'blood' : Old Isl. hrár 'raw' Rus. krasa 'beauty' : Old Isl. hróðr 'glory' The two words are not related. 

It's absolutely impossible to find out if the something is a language or not, if we don't have even a tiniest clue. If you're, say, John, and in some galaxy you find some stars situated so that they look like to make the the shape of the word "John", you can never know if it was intended or it was just a coincidence. We cannot know if the patterns on the Andean textiles are symbols of their ancient script, we cannot know, if the patterns of the sunspots are messages from an alien race... Without a clue or feedback nothing can be identified as a language, for languages can be immensely different. 

That is, every pair of the signs that are transliterated the same ways has separator in it. Unfortunately, I have no access to the 2014 3rd Edition, so if you (or somebody else) could post here a snapshot of that page, that would help answer your question in a more definite way, but still I am sure that is just a kind of a typography fault, for I doubt that the transliteration (I guess, that's the right term to be used here) of an Ancient Egyptian hieroglyph could change radically during the last 4 years. 

The only such language I know about is Pirahã, the indigenous language of the isolated Pirahã people of Amazonas, Brazil. It is minimalistic in many ways, having the least number of phonemes (only 11), lacking words for numbers and for colors. Daniel Everett, the greatest specialist on Pirahã who spent years living with the tribe, states Pirahã has the same word for mother and father: 

The direct address is not a part of the sentence and, as far as I know, it is not included into syntactic trees. Some languages like Sanskrit, Latin, Ukrainian, Georgian, etc. have a special Vocative case to mark the direct addresses, but since cases are needed to mark the syntactic function of NPs within a sentence, and the vocative expressions have no function like that, some linguists argue that it is not a case, it is just a special vocative form of the noun. The direct address has two main functions, to identify the party addressed (and to express one's attitude towards it, cf. 'Sir' vs. 'you bastard' as direct addresses) and to attract the attention of the addressee to what one says, in the latter case the direct address functions very much like interjections, e.g. 'hey!' 

It's only the second 'there' that names a place and it's only that second 'there' that will be translated into another language. 

Here you go. Note also, that all these six words differ only in the first consonant, so they can be used to form a minimal pair for any two of the six consonants you are interested in. The language is Georgian. 

In the old Slavic languages, the sound [o] could never follow the palatalized consonants (which in those times also included the hushing consonants Ш [ʃ], Ж [ʒ], Ч [tʃ], Щ [ʃtʲ], and also Ц [tsʲ]), since in the Proto-Slavic language [o] in this position had changed into [e]. In the 12th-16th centuries in the Russian language, the pronunciation of the stressed vowel sound denoted by the letter E changed (consonants before E were palatalized): the stressed sound [e] changed into [o] when before non-palatalized consonants and at the end of a word. This Е underwent no change before Ц (at the time when this law was active, Ц was still a palatalized consonant), and before some consonant clusters (первый, верх, женский - at the time when this law was active, the first consonant in those clusters was palatalized). Sometimes the sound [o] appeared between palatalized consonants, mostly by morphological analogy (о клёне [ə 'klʲonʲe] - similar to клён [klʲon], клёна [klʲonə], etc.; the verbs ending -ёте - similar to -ёт, -ём, the Instrumental case ending -ёю/-ёй - similar to -ою/-ой). The Church Slavonic language and the Church Slavonic borrowings in Russian were not subjected to this law, neither were the borrowings that came into the Russian language later. The sound represented by the letter yat', Ѣ, with rare exceptions, did not change into [o]. When this new [o] after the palatalized consonants appeared, there were no orthographic means to write it and to indicate the palatalization of the previous consonant, it was usually spelled as IO, sometimes as ЬО. In the last decade of the 18th century, the letter Ё was introduced, but until​ now, until the 21st century, the usage of this letter is not obligatory, if you wish, you can write it, if you wish, you can write E instead. This spelling inconsistency affected the pronunciation of some words, mostly personal and geographic names, and also some borrowed common nouns. For example, the original name of Leo Tolstoy was Лёв [lʲof], but since it almost always was written as Лeв, its wrong pronunciation as ​[lʲef] gradually became the dominating one. The opposite also often happened: the words where E should be written and [ʲe] should be pronounced, are mistakingly read with [ʲo], as if Ё is there: some mistakingly pronounce афёра instead of афера, or гренадёр instead of гренадер. The same happened with мушкетёр (from French 'mousquetier') and фуникулёр (from French 'funiculaire'), but here the originally wrong pronunciation is now considered to be standard. In the case of шофёр, the word comes from the French 'chauffeur' [ʃofœr], and the sounds [œ] and [ø] usually written as ö are often spelled as Ё in Russian, all the rules of using Ё in the foreign names and borrowings are very many and very complicated to enumerate them here.