We cannot say for sure what the exact reason was, unless Van Gaal goes out and specifies why he's put in Krul instead of the starting GK Cillessen. Here are some relevant facts tho: 

By dragging his defender down (in yellow), the winger opens up the zone (faded yellow), now unmarked, for his full back support (in blue). If caught unaware the defending full-back will be off balance, rush off to the advancing full back of the attacking team, leaving behind at least one unmarked player. Notice how the midfielders in the attacking team are also concentrated on one side of the pitch, dragging their defenders with them. They are still playable thus dangerous, but the real trick is the fact that the other wing is pretty much open. Essentially the player responsible for this to not happen is the outer midfielder who's in control of his zone, but doing no-good in terms of defense. Team-work is crucial for this type of schemes to work. The defending team has to communicate continuously to warn one another for such runs, and opened up areas. Likewise if the attacker is attempting to take runs, the defenders should be aware of if/when to switch responsibility for a player. Alternatively (for CBs) they might switch zones, in pursuit of an attacker. Regarding your other question: "Can you mix man-marking and zone-marking?" Well yes, zone marking works up until the attacker is in your face advancing towards the goal, then you'll need to stick with the opponent until the situation is resolved (shot is taken, ball is cleared etc..) Furthermore, if the attacking team is playing with a single forward, then the CBs might choose to employ a strategy where one of them play tight man-marking on the attacker, while the other plays more zonal. The motivation behind this could be, a better physical match between the defender and the attacker, or employing an older and experienced CB with a younger but athletic CB. I hope this makes some sense :) 

Zlatan Ibrahimovic recently had his 50 goals milestone (also a national record for Sweden) prior to with 100 appearance for the team. With 50 goals in 100 games he's averaging a goal in every second game which is as far as I can tell a great ratio, making him one of the most prominent strikers of modern football. Which brings me to my question, who is the "best" striker in football history, judging by the goals/appearances ratio? In order to avoid outliers with only a few caps, I chose to focus on veteran strikers who have played at least 25/50/100 games for their national team. 

Just because removing offside rule improve the entertainment value of the game in hockey doesn't mean that it would do the same football. Is the entertainment value of a sport the most important consideration? In other words, does football have a responsibility to be entertaining to the crowds? 

There are quite a few actually; practically every game between Turkey and Germany have had some player "upsetting" one side. Examples: 

I started playing squash again after several years of hiatus. It is great fun but one thing that really bothers me is that my old and faithful racket slips in my hand during some occasions. This is especially frustrating when serving the ball and under no stress whatsoever. I thought about having a small towel with me but it feels silly to run around the court with a towel and wipe of sweat after every second rally. I can imagine this being an issue that other people face as well. Is it simply a matter of getting a new grip or racket? 

I realized that I tend to play really bad returns or do mistakes when I get a high and/or slow ball from the opponent in the middle of a tight rally. I think it has to do with the fact that all of a sudden I get time to think on what I want to do with my hit, instead of playing by intuition and reflexes. That almost always ends in messing up my shot and giving away an easy point. How can I improve my game with on that aspect? 

It is worth noting that, according to FIBA rules, the player who's given the ball to throw in may not bounce (or drop) the ball inbounds and touch it again, before the ball is touched by another player. In other words if the ball slips out of the hands of the thrower, and bounces inbounds, it's fair game for the defender to take the ball and advance. (see Article 17, Statement 7) 

I guess weight and stability are two important factors. I haven't really figured out what works best for me but when I started with squash and decided to buy rackets, I bought two rackets; one light and "agile" and the other heavier but more "stable". The reason why I put agile and stable in quotation marks is that they are rather my interpretation of them. I enjoyed playing with the lighter racket in the beginning as it was easier to place the ball with it, but then I started shifting towards the heavier racket with which I felt I had much more power in my shots, only if I could put up with the extra effort. Bottom line, I don't have a precise answer for you. I would be interested to see a good answer to this question myself. But my best advice is to try out a couple of rackets. In the hall where I play, you can loan rackets and if you like a particular racket they subtract the loan fee from the price when you buy it. Might be worth checking if they have a similar deal where you live. With a bit of searching I found some more material on this question, here's an excerpt from one source 

I have to agree with @gbianchi's comment. If the field is narrow but rather long, you most likely won't be need a 4-man defensive line. As soon as I read your question, and looked at the first formation graph (which is awesome btw) I came to think of the games I've played with my team. I recall that we almost always ended up playing in a 2-3-1 formation: 2 CBs which are solid in their build and good in their passing, one midfielder who'll be the joker being practically everywhere he's needed, 2 wingers who're quick (especially when playing counter-attack) and good in dribbling, and finally one forward who's up for some roughing, challenging the defenders as much and as often as he can. This formation has the benefit of being very versatile; given some pressure from the opposition the central midfielder can fall back to triple the D-line, and you can play "wide" midfielders (3-2-1). Given an attacking situation, you can triple the offense instead putting the pressure on the opposition defense, while the central midfielder can have a free role, or picks up the cleared balls/takes the long shot. No matter which formation you end up using, it's good to keep in mind that modern football is going away from solid formations towards a more fluid teamplay. Essentially your backs will need to step up, while your CF will need to come to midfield to help out. In my experience the most valuable skill for a team in amateur leagues is to be able to handle pressure high up in the pitch. You should have a good strategy to get the ball out from defense without much fuss, and also keep a high pass completion ratio. The fact the field is narrow doesn't really mean much, other than you won't have to worry much about diagonal crosses. Short and quick passes between the CF and the left/right winger should be enough to distress the opposition. If not you can always try to sneak in the central midfielder behind the defenders with through passes from the wing, in that case however the other winger should be ready to fall back in case of a missed pass.