Immediately after the war a criminal offender against Americans would have had a hard time hiding with the Soviets on these principles. Factors like communication difficulties between the allies would still make it a viable idea to try it in the east. At the end of the timeframe given, its very likely that the increasingly – perceived or real – erratic behaviour on the Soviet side made it quite likely that a request for cooperation would be denied or just ignored. For question #2: I will not dare to speculate. But maybe some inspiration for day-to-day memoirs: Marcello La Speranza: "Wien 1945–1955. Zeitzeugen berichten" Ares: Graz, 2007. Barbara Stelzl-Marx: "Stalins Soldaten in Österreich" Böhlau: Wien, 2012. 

While this whole era – before the Third Samnite War (298 to 290 BC) – remains a bit in the dark for Rome itself, and data for this regarding its allies are even harder to come by, some of these are described en detail by a nice primary source: Polybius in Book IV (VI. The Roman Military System). Although he wrote at a later time, opinion goes that if his descriptions are reliable he has to describe a mixture of contemporary to his own recruitment patterns and older customs. The caveat: Some of the details, regarding the numbers, presented by Polybius are contradicting other sources, some are plainly impossible. Especially compared to the later Livy, whose dependence on Polybius makes for a very interesting comparison between the two when they differ. 

Conclusion Lacking complete surveys: it might be argued that indeed there was a time when there was one type of state sponsored health service unavailable to ordinary citizens within the walls of Rome. But there are certain limits to this conclusion: This only holds true for the hands-on military medicine in the imperial time, available only to those who where with the army. – All other types of medicine and care, private or public, seem to have been available to all classes most of the time, in principle. 'The state' being a problematic concept in itself, when applied to the Roman Republic or Empire, did provide direct and indirect sponsoring: temples, baths and markets (where healers practised), exempted doctors from duties like taxes and service, regardless where they served the public good (that is: health). Regarding state sponsoring: for example the public buildings of 'the state', the res publica, were largely funded by private benefactors, not the tax payers as modern readers might expect. It would therefore be quite peculiar to demand that rich benefactors paying into a public pool would count as contributing to "state-sponsored medical facilities" but patrons covering the costs for their family members and slaves would not. As shown above having access to a type of 'hospital' (in the modern sense implied in the Wikipedia article) does not say anything about the quality of care to expect there. Since the early forms were indeed with the military, and the military practitioners had horrendous track records before Caesar, being sent there was no advantage at all. The same holds true when the Empire began its steady decline in the 3rd century when it was again preferable to be treated at home or at least away from the camps and garrisons. Since this was specifically mentioned in the question: "the poor had to resort to spiritual aid". Not only was spiritual healing a perfectly accepted fine form of healing. This "last resort" holds also true for the rich in many cases when the doctors just couldn't do much more then to comfort the sick and maybe alleviate some symptoms. Much of the tradition of family and folk medicine from Roman times is lost now. In extant writings acknowledging their wisdom and successes we might conclude that the gaps between just waiting, using folk medicine and seeking a Greek professional might have been much smaller than we like to expect. 

Constantine indeed did cover his bases. He did so in the most traditional way imaginable for a pagan emperor. That does not include converting to Judaism. But it does include keeping the old faith (whether for himself, for the empire, or any combination thereof): 

This means it is always very dependent on your point of view to describe a certain practice or 'level of purity' as either sub-standard or excessive. Gibbon's 19th century verdicts about the virtues of cold bathing or swift showers when he would come to judge current American habits with long, hot showers are not difficult to imagine. One example to drive home the importance of context to contemporary observers is again found in a well known drama: 

I do not know your version of the codex. No reliability assessment from me. Looking for the Dresden Codex it is best to go to the source: Dresden. The Saxon State and University Library Dresden (SLUB) has the codex and it has digitised it: Der Dresdner Maya-Codex (direct link to codex / in English): 

In conclusion it looks as if "…were banned" is a quite contestable depiction of simplicity. Before answering "why" we need to ask when and where, or were they? 

Cursory netsearch brings up very common blips of history relating to the past evolution of reading aids or eyeglasses. There are some early Greek objects that have magnifying properties, although it is said they were apparently used just to decorate other objects. Ancient Egyptians have produced glass lenses that were once readily identified as reading aid lenses, but this theory is now largely discredited because the surviving objects are lenses – but not considered suitable as reading aids since they are too thick and of inferior material to be useable. (Source: Alfred Wiedemann: "Das alte Ägypten" In: W. Foy (Ed.): Kulturgeschichtliche Bibliothek (= I. Reihe: Ethnologische Bibliothek). Band 2. C. Winters, Heidelberg 1920, S. 412.) It seems indeed prudent to assume that at least the reading stones were in use much earlier than the 13th century and before the Arabs credited with inventing them did so. 

That should read as: largely due to military demands but not exclusively. Since not only active army soldiers, or sailors, were attracted, drawn or even pushed to the South and West. These comparatively small numbers required in turn civilian support for them, infrastructure, manufacturing, etc. Which means a relatively small number of soldiers quickly results in a much larger number of civilians seeking opportunities, for support and cluster effects in booming cities. 

His findings and terminology is explained in more detail in John Howland Rowe: "Stages and Periods in Archaeological Interpretation", Southwestern Journal of Anthropology 18, no. 1 (Spring, 1962): 40-54. DOI "Origins of the Incas" might be a slightly problematic concept here. The emerging Incas are only found in the very last period (within the terminology here: "horizon"), except for the small Kingdom of Cusco. So this system might be better described as a chronology based on the archaeological record for the region and the Incas' predecessors. Since you seem to look for a very short summary, the above links give you that: 

Entering the interpretive and speculative territory of reading the artist's mind: The minister of war is for most left leaning artists a bad guy, the year 1985 later bore proof, that this Charlie was not Mr Niceguy as in the biggest picture above. Since the French play on words with peace of the stars makes this confusing: equating SDI with Star Wars is also confusing in the first place: Reagan building weapon platforms in space, aka little Deathstars, since that would make the Soviet Union the Rebellion. Surely not the intention of the US journalists, or was it? Painting Hernu in Vader costume then makes even more sense, after Last Jedi was known. The quotes above do not make it perfectly clear, but the full reference will, that he, as many French, was against SDI, but mainly against a purely American SDI. The French wanted a piece of the action, even though the proposed ineptitude of really protecting anyone against communist missile attacks. Opposing US-SDI – as it was – was also motivated by the fear of falling technologically behind. Complaining against Star Wars publicly was only the passive public part of peace-loving in that scenario. Appeasing both your own public and the Soviets. An active countermeasure for the perceived potential of technological progress trickling down from anything "Space" was that US-SDI inspired the EUREKA programme led by France and Germany, which had a big supporter in Hernu. That would make Reagan the Emperor and Hernu the second Sith trying to depose his master, to rule the galaxy. But do not ask me to stretch this into who would then be Luke… 

Although the term "war" might be a bit grave in light of the numbers of casualties, it also features some proper apocalyptic actions: 

Germany went into the shape of borders it had after 1919 because the unchanged from before elites of Germany still aspired to a Great Reich (and after crushing the revolution and seperatist movements had the means to do so) – and Americans and British were able to restrain the French (and some other minor neighbours) from taking what they wanted. Sources: Michael S. Neiberg: "The Treaty of Versailles. A Concise History", Oxford University Press: Oxford, New York, 2017. Norman A. Graebner and Edward M. Bennett: "The Versailles Treaty and Its Legacy. The Failure of the Wilsonian Vision", Cambridge University Press: Cambridge, New York, 2011. Manfred F Boemeke, Gerald D. Feldman and Elisabeth Glaser : "Treaty of Versailles. A Reassessment After 75 Years", Cambridge University Press: Cambridge, New York, 1998. (Review) 

This process of alienating agency is in a sense justified. Insofar that relatively young Germans of today may still enjoy the profits from the effects of the war, but they did not commit the atrocities themselves. They may be called innocent. ("Profiteering" is in the sense that West Germany was after the war more poweful than before and that not in the least because it benefited from being an untouched "Raubgemeinschaft" (Cf. Aly below)) This process of alienating agency is in a sense not justified, insofar that to a certain extent it is the same fallacy as using the phrase "war broke out". As if it was a natural thing, an unstoppable catastrophe, with no-one in charge, nobody causing it, without actors, without people making decisions and then none of the people carrying out those decisions, whether forced to do so or with varying degrees of approval. It is about distancing one's own mind from the crimes and atrocities as far away as possible. Whether German or Austrian, American, French or English. Today, the word "Nazi" is much less a historical description but an insult. Just as it ever was for any real non-Nazi (and Adolf Hitler himself?). The NSDAP has ceased to exist, and there are Nazis and Neo-Nazis everywhere. In the context of the question here: "Nazi" did not replace "German" in general when the topic is Germany from 1933–1945. It has now often replaced the term "German" when the topic is touching agency and guilt. Either unintentionally benign or aiming at absolution on purpose. So with either term you end up with some form of not completely just imprecision. Calling all Germans from that time Nazis penalises the small number of resisting Germans, Antifas and the victims of persecutions, but it gives the right notion that the vast majority supported the war, the persecutions and doubled their guilt after the war when they insisted on personal innocence, clean conscience and "we didn't know" (not "…any better" but really a very wilful ignorance for everything that was plain to see.) –– Calling the most powerful axis member "the Nazis" underplays the fact that almost all Nazis were Aryan Germans and that the majority of all Germans went with flying colours and the greatest approval into the abyss of criminal cruelty and crimes against humanity.