Also, exactly circular orbits are likely to be rarer and less stable than slightly elliptical orbits, so I'd drop that requirement. 

If the parent planet is at the outer edge of the star's habitable zone then when the moon passed behind the planet the temperature will conceivably drop to life threatening levels. You only have to look at how cold it can get on Mars which can fall to -73°C Source which is certainly life threatening. While this is largely the function of Mars's thin atmosphere - an atmosphere somewhat thinner than Earth's but one that allows humans to live would still produce potentially life threatening cold nights/eclipses. The orbital period of the moon shouldn't be a problem. The orbits of the Galilean moons of Jupiter range from hours (for Io) to 7 days for Ganymede. So you can put your moon at whatever distance gives you the "correct" period of "night". There will probably be some warming due to the interaction with the magnetic field of the planet - look at the moons of Jupiter again for examples here - but you can easily say that this isn't enough to keep the moon warm enough. 

Well, the prevailing theory is that the Moon did form about 10 times closer than it currently is, after a giant collision between proto-Earth and a Mars-sized body. The Earth back then probably had 5-10 hour days, and the Moon was about 24,000 km away on formation. It has been moving apart due to tidal interactions, which have also slowed down the rotation of the Earth. Notable effects would be: 

The massive Golems are nearly impervious to harm. Thanks to the New Golem Army, the nascent Dutch Republic's castles and forts are now safe from harm. The century-long external threat has been finally and permanently put to rest, as the bones of our enemies are bleaching in the sun by our castle's walls. A decision has been recently made in the Staten-Generaal council that defense is to give way to offense. We will no longer be content to defend ourselves in our high castles, leaving the enemy to roam free, but instead, we will march out and take the fight to them, and bring them down for good. This brings up obvious problems. The strings of wind- and river-mills on our mighty rivers and polders are currently providing the power elektrik to galvanize our Golem troops. The question now is how do we handle this out in the field, far away from the castles and the galvanic stations? A young apprentice has suggested that given the frequent storms that batter the lands of our neighbors, we could power our army from the lightning strikes themselves. Would that be plausible with our rough copper wiring? How much energy could we harness from these bolts? 

There is a surprisingly exhaustive website called The Incredible Shrinking Man, which, by its own description 

Many problems can be eliminated by inventing a way to preserve human bodies in a low-energy state (and of course a way to restore them). This would enable to lower the mass of the payload (much less food, water and air required), allow for much longer travel times that in turn reduce fuel requirements and negate some psychological issues. I imagine the early settlers would only dream of crops, their sustenance would be algae that can be grown in simple vats by just exposing it to sunlight. Planting crops requires either suitable structures (huge, heavy, complex), soil reformation, irrigation systems, etc, or global climate engineering (considering we still can't do anything here on Earth, where we had lots of time, resources and manpower, I'd say terraforming Mars is pretty much impossible). 

Infantry and armor are separate divisions for a reason. A tank or a mech would never be able to effectively capture an objective unless it is sitting in the middle of a plain with strong surface. In cities, forests, deserts, shores, etc. the mobility provided by infantry cannot be replaced by the size, armor and firepower of mechs. Current trends in warfare eschew frontal conflicts in favor of asymmetrical warfare (Middle-East) and covert operations (Ukraine), in these situations mechs would mostly just be dead weight. They could however serve as mobile HQs, carrying supplies, officers, comm gear and other stuff that is good to have sometimes. This way the reduced speed (compared to wheeled, tracked or flying units) and the reduced mobility (compared to infantry) does not pose a problem, and the heavy firepower could come handy in case of an assault. The huge carrying capacity (What else would fill 250 tons, if the Battletech mechs max out at 135, and even they can lay waste to entire cities? Certainly no more weapons are required.) could be useful for repair facilities, medical bays, etc. This proposition would essentially turn mechs into walking bases, and in this view it would make sense to have a mobile (transport) and a stationary configuration, with the former offering the legs less protection but more mobility, and the latter anchoring the mech to the ground, sliding armor plates over the vulnerable leg joints and extending the big guns and sensors on arms, therefore making aiming and target acquisition easier. For references see the Transformers Trypticon and Metroplex, both have an "assault base" configuration. 

My initial answer suggests nothing more than a statistical likelihood. In a young universe supernovas were a lot more frequent. That makes it more likely that any particular world would be close enough to a supernova to risk being sterilized. It does not mean that all worlds in all galaxies were all constantly sterilized. Perhaps a few (or a lot) escaped unscathed. Earth life evolved in the oceans, as far as we can tell, the ground we call home was colonized far later. Water does provide significant shielding against radiation. However, it does not provide complete protection. Gamma radiation from supernovas has been proposed as the cause of the end Ordovician extinction, which resulted in the death of nearly 60% of the oceanic life on Earth. Moreover, once established, life can adapt. There are microorganisms on Earth with amazing resistance to radiation, such as Deinococcus radiodurans, which can survive not only radiation but also cold, dehydration, vacuum, and acid. As a final real-world consideration, one interpretation of the Fermi Paradox is that conditions were adverse to intelligent life until the recent past, so that we are alone as sentient beings in the galaxy. It is not the sole interpretation, of course. 

So, you could have walled cities that have most of their food production happening inside the city walls and a country side that is unable to support the attacking army then you have the motivation for storming the castle. You just have to come up with a convincing argument :) Things that spring to mind: 

This is for any degree of faster than light travel, it's just that the faster you go the more obvious the problems are. I don't think that you can avoid this, but for the sake of your story you might have to ignore it, but as long as you ignore it in a consistent way and make sure that you establish your "rules" of FTL before you rely on them as a plot point, you should be OK. I remember one episode of Star Trek: The Next Generation where they used a micro warp jump to create the illusion that a ship was in two places at the same time - the light from the original location still arriving at the enemy ship for a few seconds after the jump. Because it fitted with the already established parameters of the Star Trek warp drive (or at least didn't wildly contradict it) you felt that it was a logical outcome and one that would really happen, rather than actually highlighting the paradox at the heart of the problem. 

Admittedly, they used a complex system of knot-making called quipu for record keeping, and were technically still a stone-age civilization (albeit with goldsmithing), but had no difficulties in maintaining an almost totalitarian control over the lives of millions of subjects. There was a rich cultural heritage, and arts were flourishing. 

A solid-crust planet with a radius of 40,000 km? With an Oxygen-Hydrogen atmosphere? Oh my. Where do I start? We have to start from the basics. Planetary radius It might not seem like a lot, in space. We are, after all, used to millions and billions of km in the solar system and light-years in the galaxy. However, when it comes to planets, tens of thousands is a lot. Let's give your planet a good name, like Blobby. 

It's all about having a good grasp of your Time and Relative Dimension in Space (if only there were a good acronym for that, like TARDIS or something). Apparent time travel to the future of a physical location in space (faster than 1s/s we all manage by just sitting around) seems permitted under current physics at great energy expenditure costs (all you need to do is shift your $\vec{u}$ vector to be mostly in the physical dimensions rather than the time dimension relative to your starting inertial frame and back again while not dying horribly in the process), so that should be fine and easy, as long as you have galactic levels of energy lying about ready to be used, which you do, I'm sure. Time travel to the past, also known as FTL signalling, involves a complete breakdown of causality and appears strictly, inexorably, ineluctably, unforgivingly, inescapably forbidden by our understanding of physics. Which must mean, of course, that our understanding of physics in incomplete, because, as we all know, past-oriented time travel is too cool not to exist. Paradoxes be damned, who does not want to try and seduce their own 19-year old grandma, after all? Don't answer that. So let's assume an abundance of multiverses with thin walls. This means that when you go "back" (using the old negative mass-lined wormhole generator that looks deceptively like a blue police box on the street corner) you're really invading an alternate universe. No wonder the young version of grandma thought you're out of this world. You really, really are. 

The purpose of a siege is to starve out the defenders and you have already touched on a mechanism whereby a siege wouldn't be "cost effective": 

Treat the binary planets as a single planet with the combined mass of both and see if the planetary configuration is stable - which is probably only true over the length of time you're talking about if there are no external events to perturb any of the planets in your system. Our own solar system has probably only been stable for a few 100 million years or so - the last major impact on the Earth was 65 mya, but there wasn't one (that we know of) for quite a while before that. There have been impacts on other planets up to modern times. (Shoemaker-Levi on Jupiter for example). Unless your aliens remove all the asteroids and comets having a stable solar system over the length of time you're expecting would be virtually impossible. On a more basic level, will the binary pairs affect their neighbours enough to perturb their orbits just by existing? The Sun's habitable zone is estimated to be from just within the orbit of Venus to around the orbit of Ceres (source) so it sounds like you have enough space to play with here to have your three sets of planets where you want them. Are the binary pairs stable? Are they too close together to start off with? Given that the Moon is 384,400 km from the Earth and 1/6th of the size, 4.82 million km seems to be a little far apart. You are increasing the distance 12 fold so this will outweigh the 6 fold increase in mass. The planets might not be close enough to stay together over the long term. The planets will drift apart over time in the same way that the Moon is drifting away from the Earth, so you need them to be close enough together for the "lifetime" of your system. Also they are going to become tidally locked with each other so that they end up presenting one face to each other in the same way that the Moon always presents the same face to the Earth. 

If you're talking about living on the Sun, (leaving aside for a second the tremendous heat-disposal problems), you have to understand that the Sun doesn't actually have a surface. At the bottom of the photosphere the density is $10^{-9} g/cm^3$, a pretty good vacuum. The reason we see a cleanish circle around the sun is a mere optical illusion (the mathematical point where a photon travels the length equal to the 2R of the Sun before it gets absorbed) so there is no clear delineation of where the Sun ends and the photosphere begins. So any human construct (assuming the goal would not be to sink towards the center of the sun in seconds) would effectively have to be in orbit, even if that orbit is at an "altitude" of 0 km (with some extra oomph to overcome friction due to the intense solar wind). If it is in orbit, anyone on board will experience zero-G. 

That's tough. It's a huge question. Let's see, where to start? The era is actually relevant for several reasons. One is population size. The second is technology level, which matters mostly because it determines the cost and availability of newspapers, books, and communications networks that bring news from abroad and from different regions. Early Renaissance has the printing press and can easily have political pamphlets and newspapers as well. That's great for your democrats. Information must flow. First of all, you'll need a constitution. These are sets of rules that would be virtually unalterable, except by vast super-majorities of the population (at least 66%, and hopefully more). This is vital in order to guarantee things like due process, basic right to life, property rights etc. Thus, a constitution limits the amount of change (damage?) successive governments can effect. Your constitution has to specify the rules of the game. It is vital to have a separation of powers between the executive, legislative and judicial branches, and if possible to guarantee the independence of the Military and the Treasury/Mint. Let's go through the branches one at a time. Judiciary. This normally includes Judges and state Prosecutors. These guys must be free from political influence as much as possible to prevent the judicial branch for being used for personal or political vendettas. This is called the rule of law and is VERY IMPORTANT, possibly the single most important thing there is in a polity. They must assess the constitutionality of the acts of the legislature and the executive. While they have no enforcement power (that'd be the Executive), their words and pronouncements should carry a heavy moral authority. Presumably, your society already has judges and prosecutors. If they're not vampires, give them office for life or something. Executive They are responsible for actually doing stuff. So building roads, canals, aqueducts, schools, hospitals, reacting to natural disasters, going to war, directing the spies and agents abroad, negotiating important alliances and trade relations. Because of the nature of the decision-making process required (swift, decisive action is often required), this will be the most powerful branch, likely comprised of many departments/ministries but ultimately headed by a single person or a small committee. This will likely be the most prestigious branch. One way to reduce a bit the power of (and burden on) the executive is to delegate as much power as possible locally, to villages and groups of villages in the countryside, and wards and city neighborhoods in the Capital. In order to keep your Executive in check, you want to make their funding depend on the agreement of the Legislature, and their actions subject to review (and reversal) by the Judiciary. It is your choice whether you make direct elections for the executive body (I probably wouldn't, at first, to help avoid demagogues that are sure to prey on an unseasoned populace) or have the Legislature elect this person. The nomination can be based on popular signatures, nomination by the Legislature or by some body tasked specifically with this function. Legislature. These men and women represent the voice of the people. Here, you first have to decide who can vote. You can have one-person-one-vote rules, a weighted voting system (based of wealth, birth or professional/social status), limited universal voting (where only a subset of the population can vote, such as only males, but more usually also restricted on income), or restricted voting (where you have a limited set of electors, such as powerful nobles and sometimes rich merchants and industrialists who can vote). Second, you have to decide on how elections are to work. You can have individual districts (restricted geographically) or at-large voting (the whole country is a single district). In each district, you have to decide who wins. You can have US-style plurality systems (whoever wins the most votes wins), a threshold system (must have a certain number of votes in at-large systems or a percent of votes in multi-district, usually 50%). If multi-district, districts are often (not always, see US Senate) similar sizes and elected legislators usually have equal votes. In at-large systems, that's usually the case too, but nothing could stop you from making voting power equal to votes cast for them, up to a certain threshold, say 5-10% of total votes in the legislature. You can also have a lowest threshold for representation, and have all the wasted votes redistribute proportionally as extra voting power for the elected. Once you've sorted out electorate and elections, you have to decide structure of legislature (one chamber, two?), term lengths and term limits (if any). Do all the legislators need to get re-elected at the same time, or (like in the US Senate) 1/3 every 2 years? Treasury - To prevent debasement of the coinage, inflation and other bad things, there must be a degree of independence. Perhaps very long terms, or judicial protections from executive and legislative meddling? Military - This is the biggest worry. In history, most democracies and republics fall to military coups and demagogues. Often charismatic military leaders ARE demagogues (See Venezuela, Chavez). The military has lots of hard power (they can kill and kidnap people), so they can generally silence domestic opposition if they so choose to. A tradition of non-intervention in politics by the military is most helpful. It's doable though. Venice stayed coup-free for almost 500 years. You may also want to read this anti-coup primer. 

What exactly would an alien species do in order to maximize the yield of this facility? They are intricately familiar with human anatomy, know what is to be known about psychology, have vast resources at their disposal to create either huge buildings, precise machinery, hormones or medicines, etc. They don't care about the lives and values of humans any more than we do about the cows or carrots that we grow, harvest and finally consume. 

Bill could certainly employ many kinds of writing, starting with the obvious fluid inks, but barring that many small particles (sugar, salt, sand, flour) could be arranged to form legible words when given enough time and an undisturbed surface. This could also serve as conflict points in the plot, e.g. when Bill spends a whole day arranging an elaborately thought out message in flour on the dining table, but the intended recipient opens a window, causing a draft to destroy it all before seeing it. This could get him over the initial contact, but would be very burdensome for day to day communication, for which a purpose built device or another way would be needed. 

To give a sense of scale, see the tiny bright dot by the cloud in the right-hand corner? Not a smudge on your screen, that's the Moon. 

Easily. Male blobs/fetuses are fragile. Even in human female moms, under adverse conditions, a miscarriage is more likely with a male embryo than with a female one. 

Problem: You recall from your half-remembered education a few centuries back (and Vortana helpfully confirms) that Neanderthals do not speak Common. In fact, it's not clear that they speak at all. How do you communicate? Supplies: Zero-point powered Gamma-ray gun, a backpack with 20kg of dehydrated supplies, water purifying canister (1), Ssiws Army Knife° (1), rope (40 meters), self-setting tent (1), blanket (1), self-cleaning clothes (2 pairs), Vortana Digital Personal Assistant (1), flotation device (1), rescue beacon (lost), beach towel (1). 

Imagine an all-consuming swarm, spreading outward in all directions at 99.98% of the speed of light Well, it's hard to argue what will motivate people/sentiences hundreds or thousands of years into the future. For one, we can't even know if they'll be mostly flesh-based rather than digital. Nonetheless, we can make some back of the envelope calculations. To prevent disbelief with what's to follow, I'll start by pointing out that there's more economic activity happening in Slovenia today than there used to happen in the entire world 1000 years ago. The world economy is currently growing at 4%, and has been for about half a century. A more tepid 2% growth, sustained for a thousand years, would make our economy a mere 290 million times larger. That is to say, your average individual would have about as much income as the entire present United States at their disposal. A very naive projection of our present economy and growth forwards at the same 4% rate would suggest an economy about 57 million billion billion times larger in 1000 years time. I can't quite grok what i could do if I were 50 million billion billion times richer, but I bet I could do a lot. Keep in mind that the actual values might be (a lot) lower per capita (depends on population/sim growth relative to econ growth), but it's the overall civilizational capacity we're concerned with here really. Our (US) current energy intensity (amount of energy it takes to generate \$1 of output) is about 9000 kJ/\$. In the high growth scenario, and assuming absolutely no improvement in our energy intensity (in the real world energy intensity does improve over time), our civilization would require about 4e37 Joules to generate that huge GDP mentioned earlier. All well and good, except that's about 1000 years' worth of our Sun's total energy production. (With the more tepid 2%, we'd still be using only 0.1% of our Sun's energy output) So, now that we got these order of magnitude estimates done, we can answer your question in a more informed way. If our civilization will continue to grow at the rates of the past half-century (or faster) we will quickly reach the point where even building a Dyson sphere around the Sun will not provide enough energy. Unless some (currently unknown and unenvisioned) superior energy generation method is developed over the next thousand years, humanity's voracious energy requirements will eventually outstrip the capacity of the Earth and even that of the Solar system as a whole. For a civilization that consumes $4 \times 10^{37}$ Joules, the energy required to accelerate a 100 ton ship to 99.98% of c (and thus make interstellar voyages possible within a reasonable subjective time -- effective apparent velocity of 50c in the direction of travel) would require a pitiful $4.4 \times 10^{23}$ Joules, or a millionth of the energy used by the civilization every second. We could send out a thousand such probes each second, and use 0.1% of GDP. So yes, given the assumption of maintaining or exceeding current prevalent rates of growth, the civilizaton of our descendants (be they flesh or machine-based) will spread like a swarm of locusts across the galaxy, consuming raw materials at what to us would appear an apocalyptic rate.