Of course, putting much of my weight on my arm for a couple minutes at a time while moving around a lot probably strains my wrists, especially if my wrists are bent backwards like in the video. I often switch from holding the bar to not using it in the middle of a song. In order to avoid disrupting my combo while transitioning, I push myself off the bar with my arms so I get off of it as quickly as possible. I've noticed that this often hurts my wrists a little more intensely as I transition. Likewise, when I first grab the bar in the middle of a song, I usually try to grab it as quickly as possible and might be dropping all of my weight right onto my wrists during the transition. 

I saw a podiatrist, who said that I have unusually high arches. He suggested I look for even higher arch support inserts and to come back for custom orthotics if those don't help. I asked him about plantar fasciitis specifically. He described the pain that condition causes as a sharp, intense pain near the back of the foot that's most noticeable when you first wake up but goes away somewhat throughout the day. In contrast, my pain is a sharp ache in middle of the bottom of my foot, in the middle of my arch. So it looks like instead of having plantar fasciitis, I just don't have proper arch support. 

Shoes are a good place to start but the key is to find a goal and then look at a plan to meet that goal. A reasonably good goal for a beginner is to finish a 5k. There are myriad good plans for "couch to 5k" and they are all just a google search away. I would recommend looking at something like active.com or something similar. The key when you start is to remember that the hardest part of running can often be the first two minutes aka. getting out of the door and getting going. You should be running at a pace where you can hold a conversation but not too easily. 

As I said in the comments if p90x supports downloading the videos or watching them on youtube those are certainly options. Most gyms have open space for calisthenics or stretching that you can use and bluetooth headphones work well to listen without bothering others. If your goal is a general electronic substitute to an expensive personal trainer I tend to recommend several mobile apps that help you track pace and progress that give certain exercises, reps, and depending on the app resistance levels. I have personally used Nike Training Club and Freeletics but I know people who have used the Under Armour and Kayla apps to great effect. Regarding using your phone at the gym, I typically put it on the equipment I am using, on the floor nearby me, or depending on the exercise in my pocket. Many people listen to music on their phones as it is at the gym so this is unlikely to raise eyebrows. 

I recently started a programming job and have notice my shoulders have started to round. I try to sit with good posture but my posture breaks after a certain time and I don't notice it. I workout 5 times a week and follow a good workout plan (includes all compound lifts). Whats some good workout or stretches I can add to fix rounding shoulders? 

Losing too much weight quickly can be bad for you health, not going to list all the side effects, so its better to do a controlled weight loss. By your description its seems like you are skinny fat, and the only way to correct this is to lose weight. I would recommend adding weight training to your routine for a more aesthetic look. 

It all depends on your goals, but since your are skinny fat I would recommend eating less and losing weight first. 1) Start off by eating less and going to the gym. If you wish to build muscle, increase the amount of protein you eat. Since you are a beginner you should be able to burn fat and build muscle at the same time by eating less calories but increasing protein. 2) refer to 1 3) This depends on your goals, but like I said above you can gain muscle and lose fat at the same time if you haven't worked out before. 

I typically do the store generic complete post workout (with bcaas) which they do a sale on every so often ( buy one get one half off etc. Vitamin shoppe is in September) last time I bought it was about .02$/gram not on the level of beans but very complete quality protein. I would also check out Costco. Whenever I go in I check to see if they are doing a sale on protein and try to snap some up. Best price I have seen so far is $.30/serving of protein powder with bcaas. 

So I am not entirely sure I understand what you're asking. You may have over-trained initially which could lead to an increased recovery time. So typically what I would recommend would be that you make sure you have sufficient protein intake. I would also recommend stretching your core with something like yoga would help. I would highly recommend upward facing dog. If you don't have a place to take a class I would suggest either Nike Training Club or YouTube to find routines. 

Unfortunately there is no really clean answer to this and it will depend on your personal fitness levels and what type of activity you are naturally (genetically) inclined to. Some people are better sprinters and some people are better endurance runners. There isn't a solid answer as to what activity that will tire you out enough to make it difficult to work. One indicator you can use is coordination loss after activity. Are your hands steady once you arrive at your workplace? Do you feel that your balance is just as good? If either of those are true then it is unlikely that you are close to a point that the task of getting to work has any effect. The other way to look at it is that the journey to work is a warm-up to the activity once you get there. One routine that I did was to ride my bike 5 mi. (8 km) to the gym before work and then skip my warm-up when I got there. The ride was brisk but not 100% effort so it would get my muscles ready for that days lift. So I would take the ride/walk in at 60% and treat it as a warm-up. 

Green tea can help aid in weight loss, but the only way to actually lose weight is to stay in a CALORIC DEFICIT - so your body burns more energy than you give it through food. Basically as far as I know, green tea has the ability to burn more calories, so it helps you achieve the caloric deficit easily. As for drinking green tea 4 times a day. I would recommend drinking each cup at the same interval throughout the day for maximum benefits. 

There's no specific angle. Focus on what feels right for you. Since you feel your chest more when doing it at 90 degrees, try to keep it around that. 

Once again the most important thing is staying in a caloric deficit. There was an individual who only ate twinkies and donuts and still lost weight. Stop worrying too much about little things, just focus on eating healthy and not over eating. 

Every person is different in terms of how many calories they burn each day and how fast their metabolism is. 

If you wish to lose weight just eat less. Find out how many calories you need to maintain your current weight and just eat 250-500 calories less than that. If your main goal is to lose weight it doesn't really matter what you eat, but eating healthy is always better. As for dark chocolate I believe it suppresses your appetite, due to the amount of fibre it contains. So it basically helps you stay in a caloric deficit. 

Pushup and pullup workouts essentially cover all upper body muscle groups. When you are designing a workout plan the keys are looking for "pull" exercises and "push" exercises while incorporating core and legs. Push exercises work typically on your chest and tricep muscles and pull exercises work on the back and bicep muscles. Pullups and pushups have lots of variations that can provide isolation to different muscle groups. Here are pushup variations and here are some pullup variations. The advantages of weight training over are isolation and it can be a little faster but you can get similar results for bodyweight exercises. Either way whether weekend warrior or pro athlete bodyweight alone is still effective. There are plenty of testimonials you can look online to show that bodyweight exercise is effective. Just gonna throw out some personal experience here: I have had good luck with Nike Training Club and Freeletics. They both have bodyweight variations that are quite effective and cover all muscle groups. 

There are a million diet ideas out there but they all boil down to one thing: Burn more calories than you eat. One particular idea is the amish diet which is very high in carbs and ends up being nearly 6,000 calories a day and they have a 3% obesity rate because of all of the labor. My general recommendation would be to stop your cardio if you are feeling dizzy, lightheaded, or exhausted. These are your body's ways of telling you that you have not eaten/drank enough. In general unless you are reaching serious levels of exertion your body will not burn muscle. This is your body's last resort. I would generally say as long as you don't feel like you are shaking/seriously losing coordination keep playing sports and doing cardio particularly if you are doing one of the most important things: Having FUN. Also don't forget to get plenty of sleep and drink plenty of water. If you are feeling ill after working out while drinking and sleeping enough that would be a good sign to maybe eat more. 

Trust me, stay 250-300 above your maintenance level of calories and keep your protein high and you won't gain much fat. This way you will get bigger a lot quicker rather than sitting in a caloric deficit all the time. Also, when you first start working out you can easily build muscle and lose fat at the same time, something referred to as "beginner gains", but after you workout for longer than a year, the way to see more progress is to be above maintenance level in terms of calories. In terms of biceps not getting bigger, I think you should keep doing compound lifts while in a caloric surplus. Compound movements do help your arms get bigger, just keep increasing the weight as you get stronger. Also, including curls can help shape your arms. Lastly, there is a genetic factor that comes into play. Some people have better chest genetics and others have better arm genetics. So if your biceps are lacking and you have tried everything, it could be genetics. 

There is no way to change your genetic potential. If you wish to get bigger and stronger you should eat more (healthier is better, and protein is important) and workout. If you wish to lose weight you should workout and eat less. Its important to determine how many calories you need each day and then either increase or decrease them to reach your goal. With hard word and proper diet you can reach your genetic potential after 3-4 years of training. If you aren't satisfied with your genetics then steroids would be an option but I would not recommend that.