50km isn't that enormous of a distance - and especially for someone who does 18km twice a day. It sounds like your current pace would have you completing that in about three hours. I'd bring a snack or two if you're worried about being peckish, but unless you're going all-out for a personal record or you skip breakfast you should have no issues. Just keep turning the pedals, make sure you drink some water, and feel free to take a 5-minute stretch and snack break if you're feeling tired. 

Chris King hubs have two different axle designs, both unique to Chris King. The difference is in how bearing preload is set. The one-piece axle uses an adjusting clamp that lets you lock the axle into place against the bearing. The two-piece axle instead uses a doubly-threaded adjusting cone - once it is threaded correctly between the two, the two pieces of the axle tighten together to hold it in place. The only functional difference between the two otherwise is that the two-piece axle must be used with a skewer; the clamping force of the skewer is required to handle some forces across the axle. The one-piece axle can be used with the Chris King Fun Bolts instead of a skewer if preferred. The overall design is based around using a large-diameter aluminum axle which necessitates handling stresses differently from a more traditional hub and axle. 

You may be a bit out of luck with that price range if you hope to get the whole kit. The Gates belt, cog, and "chain"-ring retail online for over $200 by themselves. That said, there are some options if you are clever and dedicated. If you're able to find one of the old 90's mountain bikes with elevated chainstays you can use one of the expensive ($125-$150) eccentric bottom brackets that mount in a normal 68mm shell for tension. A 90's Nishiki should be fairly cheap, so you'd eke in just under your total price. It's also fair to say that your bike would be a unique build. Alternatively, if you have access to an affordable machinist, start with an inexpensive frame that has thick track-style dropouts. Modifying them into a variant of the old Spot-style dropouts should be relatively easy with a dremel, some taps, and a skilled hand. This avoids the significant cost of the S&S couplers used by most belt-drive modifications. Unfortunately, unless the frame was purpose-built for a belt, you're going to be stuck modifying it. There are few, if-any, belt-specific frames in the market now, which keeps prices high. The proper modifications either require an expensive S&S coupler or new dropouts, which are expensive to add aftermarket. 

In both cases, you can use a caliper to determine the dimensions precisely, but a simple measuring tape or ruler should be sufficient. 

The MLP-1 will definitely help you with master link disassembly. It's been much more useful for me than simple needlenose pliers. If your chain has enough slack for the SRAM-style masterlink to disengage (only a few mm) you should be able to remove it easily using this tool or a similar one. I'm doubtful that it will really help you with assembly, because if tension is high it'll be difficult for you to keep the loose ends of the chain lined up in the teeth of the jaws. An alternate technique you might try is only partially wrapping the chain around the top half of the chainring during reinstallation. Once the chain is joined, pedaling forward slowly should be able to pull it the rest of the way onto the chainring. Use caution to avoid binding. It's pretty much a given that trying to reinstall a chain while it is under tension is going to present more difficulty than not, so the best option might be to look at methods for optimizing rear wheel removal and cleaning the drivetrain while installed on the bicycle. 

One note is that the gearing is different, assuming they're still stock. The Specialized Langster London has a 42t chainring and 16t cog, the 2013 Langster has a 48t chanring and 17t cog. With 700x25 tires that means they are 69.6 and 74.6 gear inches respectively. What that means is that spinning at 100rpm, you're going ~22mph on the Langster and only ~20mph on the London. So it will feel slower when you're trying to go flat out. 

As you've surmised, optimizing a fixed gear for either uphill or downhill has its disadvantages. If you're going to be riding a fixed gear on the street, you're likely best off starting with a medium gear. 70" is pretty common, though you can go a bit higher if you're in a predominately flat region. For climbing, get used to bailing out from pedaling to walking when you lose your momentum. For descending, use a front brake to control your speed to a point where your cadence is still smooth and not throwing you all over the road. With experience and training you'll be able to climb steeper and further before you walk and descend faster without having to lean on the brake as much. If you want to work on those skills separately, consider a freewheel singlespeed bike, where you can dial in a lower climbing gear and still coast while descending. 

"Top swing" versus "bottom swing" is defined by the position of the derailleur cage in relation to the clamp. There are indeed two completely different versions of direct mounts: high direct mount is for bottom swing derailleurs (since the derailleur is below the clamp), and low direct mount is for top swing. The two versions are not compatible. Bottom swing is in general preferred unless there is a compelling reason to need the more compact size of a top swing; typically this is only the case on full-suspension bikes. This is not to be confused with "top pull" and "bottom pull", which only reflects the direction of the cable entering the derailleur - from above or below. Both top pull and bottom pull (as well as dual pull which supports either) mechanisms can be found in both types of derailleur mounts. 

Yes. The front brake provides basically all of the stopping power in a bicycle, and recent tests in Bicycle Quarterly show that, in emergency stops, the distraction of attempting to use the rear brake may even increase stopping distance. Maximum bicycle braking power is achieved just before the bicycle starts to pitch over, as the rear wheel lifts off the ground. Once that occurs, it's trivial to lock the rear wheel with a brake or by using your legs on a fixed gear. The main disadvantage of having a front brake only in extremely hilly situations is not being able to dissipate some of the thermal load of braking between both rims, so you risk overheating the front. 

You might simply go with a roof rack. It's like having a canoe on the roof - it overhangs in the front a bit but the rails will work just fine. I've loaded four bikes, including a tandem, on the roof of a Subaru Impreza. For the extreme example, check out this tandem rack on a Smart. You also might have a look at the underlying geometry issues of her single bike. Modern road bike handling isn't for everyone, and there are definitely more stable but still fast bicycles available. 

Any medium-profile or low-profile cantilever brakes should work on the Pugsley; so long as you're using the Large Marge rims the effective cantilever post to rim spacing should be basically the same as a normal bike. The default spacing for most cantilever bosses is 80mm for use with a ~25mm wide rim. On the Pugsley the bosses are spaced 120mm for a 65mm rim. The Shimano "link wire" style straddle cables will almost certainly be too short, For clearance, with whatever brake you use I'd plan on making it work with a high-quality yoke and a long straddle cable, as used on a wide-profile cantilever. You might even be most successful dialing in your own using a set of cable knarps. 

John Duggan wrote an excellent checklist for what to do after a bike/car crash. It sounds like you've already handled the first part pretty well, but here are the steps he advises: 

They're not really that short; compare them to the studs in studded car tires, for example. A tiny bit of metal gives you a huge amount of traction on ice. The real trick is that, unless you're purely riding on frozen lakebeds, you need studs small enough to deform into the tire when riding on pavement. In icy conditions I ride 37mm Nokian W240's, they fit just fine under my 65mm Cascadia 29er fenders. In snowy conditions, however, the snow can build up under the fender and make it difficult to ride. If you are planning on riding long distances in deep snow there are only a small number of options, chief among which are the the Surly Endomorph or Larry tires. At 3.5" wide and at low PSI there is no comparing with a smaller tire. Of course, you need a special bike and rims to run those beasts. 

Wool, particularly Merino wool, is tough to beat. It's partially hydrophilic, cooling you by wicking sweat away from the skin while also retaining warmth when wet. It's lightweight, soft, and has natural mild antibacterial and antifungal properties that reduce the amount of funky odors. The main downside compared to synthetic fabrics is probably cost, especially for cycling-specific apparel. 

Those pads do look ever-so slightly too high on the rim, the main danger being that any slight vertical eccentricity could result in the pad contacting the tire and causing a blowout. There are two main solutions: Firstly, you could use a round file and simply file out the bottom of the slot slightly to increase the clearance. This works best if you only need a very small amount of additional reach and are willing to accept permanently modifying your brakes. Secondly, you could buy a set of brakes with a longer reach. The Shimano 105mm calipers are 39-49mm reach; if you instead purchase some higher-quality dual pivot calipers that are 47-57mm reach you'd have plenty of room for adjustment and should be able to achieve equally good braking capability. 

Your options are fairly limited, nearly all bullhorn bars are sized for 23.8mm road brake levers, while mountain levers are sized for 22.2mm handlebars. There do appear to be some 22.2mm bullhorn bars listed on eBay currently, but your mileage may vary. You may also have luck finding some 22.2mm "north road" style bars that you can flip over or trekking bars with close to the right shape that you can cut down. Alternatively, a set of hydraulic brakes with suitably modifiable clamps. As far as better levers than just using your mountain levers, it's expected that drop-bar hydraulic levers are coming in the not-too-distant future due to disc brakes' recent legalization in UCI cyclocross. In the interim there are some pretty ugly hacks, basically involving running a set of cables from a cabled brake to an interim hydraulic lever. It's not elegant, to say the least. 

Over a 40-minute ride, you may not notice much. One older reference compares a then-standard 32-spoke 27" wheel to an aero rim with 28 bladed spokes, a high-end hub and an extra-lightweight tire. The estimated improvement over a one-hour time trial at 23mph was 44 seconds - an impressive improvement for racing, but not particularly meaningful for a commute. A more recent comparison by Rolf to the aerodynamic Mavic Ksyrium claims that their $2500 TT85 full-carbon disc wheelset saves 1 minute, 49 seconds over 40km. 

There are only a few measurements you need to be aware of when purchasing a new fork, particularly if you're avoiding suspension. If you don't need suspension, don't get it - it will only add cost and complexity, and a cheap suspension fork will be much worse than a rigid fork. The basic measurements you need to be aware of are: 

The best solution I've ever had for bonking is a cola. Full of pure sugary goodness and water plus caffeine. If seriously exhausted, five minutes off the bike lying down with your eyes closed can help you eke out more miles. The second best solution I've had is beer. Often times if I stop to have a beer or two I don't even mind that I'm not continuing to ride. 

Stay on the drive side of the bike and reach over to remove the non-drive-side pedal. Keep the bike upright. In this case, you turn your pedal wrench towards the back of the bike when removing both pedals and you turn it towards the front when installing them. Lead in with taking off the drive side pedal, and then reach over and do the same motion for the non-drive-side. You won't screw it up. 

It takes a little bit of bravery the first time, but you can easily apply some force and bend the front rack stays to reach down to the seatstay. The rack stays are designed to be bent, and doing so doesn't appreciably reduce the carrying capacity of the rack. The majority of the load is carried down the vertical portions of the rack to the dropouts, and the horizontal stays are purely there to prevent the rack from rotating forward or backwards - their effect on the load bearing capacity of the rack is negligible. Many constructeur bikes do away with those stays entirely, bolting the rack directly to the rear fender. 

The Brompton-listed set use a Busch & Muller lights - the IQ Cyo with the SON and one of the halogen lights with the Shimano. All of the B&M lights use the same front mounting bracket to the top of the fork crown, so it looks like any of them would work. Those brackets are also fairly easy to come by, and you could pretty easily modify any handlebar light to mount there as well - a piece of tubing and a bolt would be all it takes. Or you can buy the official B&M one. As far as recommendations, it really depends on your price sensitivity and how much lighting you need. I really like the IQ Cyo, but at over $100USD it's pricy. Of course, compared to the $200 EDelux, that's a bargain. 

Tapered head tubes are designed to work with tapered steerers, with the steerer designed to be used with a 1.5" headset at the bottom and 1 1/8" at the top. The primary advantages of a tapered headtube are to allow for the greater bearing surface and stiffness of a 1.5" steerer and lower bearing surface while reducing weight (slightly) and allowing the use of conventional 1 1/8" threadless stems. Reducing headset adapters exist that can be used to replace the lower bearing with one that is designed for a 1 1/8" steerer (such as this model from Hope), and Cane Creek makes a tapered headset that lets you use a tapered steerer in a straight headtube. 

The seat tube is split because it has rear suspension - the rear of the bike rotates around a pivot located just in front of the bottom bracket. Several early full-suspension bikes used a similar design for the rear pivot; this design was then knocked off by the lower-end manufacturers looking to cash in on the popularity of mountain bikes. It's extremely simple and gives the bike the expensive "full-suspension" look. Unfortunately it mostly just adds weight, pedal bob, and complexity to an already heavy turd of a bike. Most modern full-suspension bikes use more expensive rear linkages and advanced suspension designs, so this older design has almost entirely been relegated to department store bikes. 

The biggest factor in bike stopping distance is the mass transfer towards the front of the vehicle when braking. On an upright bicycle, the limiting factor in how hard you can brake is the point at which the front wheel goes from slowing you to simply throwing you over the handlebars. As you brake, your center of mass shifts forward, lifting the rear wheel. Shifting your weight backwards and down while you brake dramatically increases your braking capability. A human-powered vehicle with a lower center of gravity such as a recumbent trike or recumbent low-racer can also typically stop more quickly. A bicycle's braking limit is approximately 0.67g, while the limit for a typical passenger automobile is somewhere between 0.8g and 1.0g. Legal requirements in the US are even less stringent than these limits - typically a passenger automobile must be able to brake at 0.53g, while a bicycle is only required to demonstrate the ability to skid the rear wheel, providing at most 0.2g of braking capability! It's certainly the case that there are automobiles driving around with less braking capability than many bicycles. The factors you mention aren't really significant in the limiting case - friction is related to the normal force over the size of the contact patch, so larger surface area doesn't really help, and even if you did increase friction (sticky tires) you'd still hit pitchover before the front wheel skidded. The bike's weight is usually a tiny fraction of the total system weight. Disc brakes help in the average case since the discs typically have a better interface between the rotor and brake, but clamping a dry and clean rim brake can easily pitch a rider over the front wheel.