What we call a thing is generally associated with it's original, or even primary, function. As others have point out, a phone will always be a phone regardless of what other things it may do. The most basic feature of it is to make calls. Secondary features are playing games, browsing the web, keeping a calendar, etc. Interestingly, I overheard a conversation in which my 4 year old was telling my 3 year old that "telephones" don't exist anymore, they were replaced with "phones". He was very adamant that "they are NOT the same thing". This is as funny as it is true: we do tend to shorten names as time goes on, which can lead to future generations not really associating the "new" names with the "old" items. Also, many many things now include a computer inside. Or, at least, some type of processing capability. Washing machines, fans, even high end chairs can be fitted with a processor to make them more "intelligent". Although they include parts which could arguably be used for more general computations, these are specific implementations in order to support the original function. A desktop, laptop and tablet are all variations on the same thing. The form factor changed, but their function is to be a general computing device. Some are better at certain things than others, but they are all a general class of computing devices. Because of this, the name "computer" is unlikely to evolve in such a device regardless of form factor except, perhaps, to a shortened form. Maybe "comp" or "puter" or something along those lines. Now if someone can successfully replace the form factor such that it's only the interface that matters (ala Siri) then we could very well see an evolution of the term to something radically different. 

The Great Pyramid in Giza is roughly 91 million cubic feet in size. It is estimated to be around 4,600 years old and we still haven't fully mapped it out. So, taking into account the #3 and #4 requirements I'm going to estimate that the structure would have to be no bigger than the Great Pyramid. Which, obviously, is far far smaller than the moon currently is. The issue isn't in how fast a team of robots could go through and build a virtual map of the station. The issue would boil down to conflicts between political, religious and scientific entities. Some simply wouldn't want it explored as that might be seen as "desecrating" a holy site. So, those people would have to be appeased by going slow and being extremely careful in how results are published. The scientific community would have legions of people trying to build their careers on coming up with what everything from the smallest scratch means to what the rooms where even used for (hint: archaeologists default position is to always claim religious activities). Also, these people would want to be as sure as possible that each room they enter is left in the same state as absolutely possible so you can forget scanning a room, then moving onto the next one as quickly as possible. And god help them if they find writing of any sort anywhere. Politicians would want to ensure that their particular countries/states/etc would benefit from the exploration so it'd take a while to put together teams, assign them, replace them, etc. There would be work stoppages as discoveries are made and the benefits/conflicts from those discoveries are doled out. Finally, we have the ever evolving nature of the global political situation. As countries go to war or find themselves financially unsound, work would necessarily stop until those issues were resolved. Also you can pretty much guarantee that if the thing is of a sufficiently large size that one or more countries would be planting a flag on it and claiming total dominance.... Yeah, 100 years to explore an ancient structure isn't a whole lot of time. 

Personally, I find most of the existing time travel theories to be garbage. I don't think there can be a paradox. The simple reason is that time is relative. Let's say you have a personal time travelling device. You turn it on and are transported back to before you were born. For whatever reason you take an action that results in the death of your parents. Current theories would say that one of two things will happen. Either you have just created a new universe (I think this is cheating) or you cause a paradox and everything either blows up or resets (I think this is lazy thinking). My theory is that nothing happens to you. You, and whatever you have with you, still exists because your specific time reference hasn't changed. You'll still have your memories - after all those are just electrical impulses in your brain. You'll still be alive. However, the future will be at least somewhat different when you jump back. So, to answer the questions: 

Anyone can be killed; it's just a matter of the exit requirements. If the agent does not need to exit but can't be captured and/or interrogated then a murder/suicide would be the easiest way of accomplishing the goal. You would need someone that is fanatical enough for your cause to give their life for it and still well enough in control of their senses to complete the mission. The back story is apparently good enough that they made it past the obvious background and other security checks to get a job in the same facility as the target. So, as long as they don't spill the beans then your organization is covered. The next step is for your assassin to become friendly with the target. Friendly enough to get close to them in a private setting. The assassin shouldn't strike at the first opportunity but rather build a relationship over a couple weeks. The reason is that you want it to appear like some type of lover's quarrel and not a hit. So they get to know each other and, after a few weeks, the assassin goes "crazy" and kills the target using a blunt instrument. They'll want to start a verbal fight, then use a blunt instrument (maybe a bust) that hits the target on the head and kills them. Immediately afterwards the assassin would pretend to be overcome with emotion at the "accidental" killing and off themselves. Whatever method is chosen would have to be both fast and highly effective. The end. 

In Isaac Asimov's Second Foundation book he has a group meet in secret. At first they try to do things clandestinely, but Arkady Darrell, the daughter of one of the conspirators, chastises them and says that the absolute best way to keep a secret meeting secret is to do it completely in the open. Instead of sneaking around, closing window shades and using various tricks to defeat devices that might be listening in the best way was for the participants to have a real reason to see each other and to be completely open about it. People suspect things are going on when you act suspicious and try to be hidden. However, people won't look twice at a few people having lunch at a local restaurant. So, where would these people meet? In the open. You wouldn't even know they were planning the next steps of the world order because you'd think they were just talking about normal business. Probably at a normal business lunch, a convention or even just a Christmas party at someone's house - as long as there is a viable reason for them to be seen with each other. update I watched Quantum of Solace last night. The Quantum organization met in public at an opera. Each member was given a short wave radio ear bud that allowed them to communicate while watching the show. Of course, Bond managed to get an ear bud and listen in. 

Yes, absolutely. Consider that it's entirely possible the agent simply doesn't have access to all of the facts - and may not even know that some are missing. Bob and Mary are in the kitchen making dinner. Mary is cutting strips of meat with a rather large and very sharp knife. Bob takes a step towards Mary, she turns toward him, raises her hands and the knife edge lands in Bob's heart. We'll add another wrinkle: they've been arguing. Based on evidencial review by an Agent: Mary is determined to have killed Bob and therefore goes to jail. Now, let's get Mary out of jail with a bit of exculpatory evidence: Earlier in the day Steve performed work on the kitchen floor. The floor is such that the wood part is screwed into the subfloor. Steve failed to fully seat one of the screws. When Bob took a step towards Mary he had slightly stumbled. Mary had raised her hands to prevent Bob from bumping against her. In the immediate confusion, she still held the knife and it plunged into him with no malice on her part. If the Agent didn't know that Bob had tripped then Mary's guilt would seem open and shut. The Agent might not even be motivated to search for additional data because the information he had was quite clear. Even if the Agent wanted to search for additional data, finding out that a handyman failed to finish putting a screw in might not be recognizable as relevant. However, Mary would have the motivation to show that she never intended to hurt Bob. She would likely know that Bob had tripped and be able to point to the spot he tripped at. The story of the exposed screw might even save her. Moral of the Story: Having near perfect data about the actions of the participants might not be the whole story. You have to let the defense have a turn to present another viewpoint. 

GUIs change far too often and are based on what the particular manufacturer of that device thinks is the best GUI. From a tech perspective, policing possibly hundreds of manufacturers to provide a consistent GUI ranges from difficult to downright impossible. Each of the current OS manufacturers provide specifications on how applications are supposed to look and work in their environment yet most 3rd parties think they have a better way of presenting information and choices and go a different route. This only gets worse as manufacturers are allowed to patent particular looks or behaviors which essentially forces other manufacturers to come up with their own paradigm. ie: rounded corners, swipe right to open, tiles, etc. By going text based, you can install commands from the various manufacturers into the computer core while caring nothing for how their particular program looks or functions. The main thing here is just to provide parameter references that can easily be accessed - which is usually built into the programs themselves. 

Bans are a waste of time unless you can actually enforce it. The only possible way to enforce this is if there is a unique energy signature given off by the device that can be tracked by satellite. Further it would have to be detectable in such a way as to give any enforcement people plenty of time to get there and stop it. Obviously I don't think this is a possibility. Possible, likely even. This item doesn't make sense. If the past is locked then by definition the future would be too. 

Science has absolutely nothing at all to do with the answer. It's a question of resources. If you need to capture an objective intact, then you send in regular troops. If you don't then you destroy it while you are as far away from it as you can be. Today's wars often start with pinpointed strikes launched from sufficiently far away that the enemy can't counter them; only to be followed up later with pacification of the populace with "boots on the ground." In cases where that pacification isn't necessary, then the boots never hit the ground. There's a reason the phrase "Nuke it from orbit. It's the only way to be sure." is a thing. Close combat to take over land or equipment that can be bent to your side's purpose may make sense, as long as the value of the land or equipment exceeds the costs of the potential losses in taking it. If not, then the fall back is simply to deny it to the enemy and, therefore, hitting it from far away. If the technology is sufficiently alien then there might not be a reason to grab more than a couple ships or space stations for research purposes. If the alient planets aren't fit for human habitation, or necessary for human needs, then there won't be a reason to capture them. the tldr; is that there has to be an actual reason for them to get up close and personal. Otherwise you're just spinning a "because I said so" story. 

I just wanted list a few projects that exist and pertain to this question. LAGEOS - A series of scientific research satellites which use lasers to measure the planet's shape. LAGEOS-1 is predicted to reenter the atmosphere in 8.4 million years and contains a plaque designed for review by future humanity. It was launched in May of 1974. Memory of Mankind project - Has an estimated lifespan of 100,000 years. They are storing information on inscribed stone tablets and storing them in a salt mine in Austria. Rosetta Project - It's goal is to preserve around 13,000 pages of information in each of 1,500 languages on a disk made of nickel. The disk can be read with a microscope and is contained within a 4 inch spherical container. One of these disks is on the Rosetta spacecraft that was launched in March of 2004; although it's mission ends in 2015. KEO space time capsule - Has experienced several delays and has not been launched yet. Estimated to launch in 2015. It's purpose is to reenter the Earth's atmosphere in 50,000 years. It will apparently carry around 24 billion pages of messages on a DVD with symbolic instructions for how to build a reader. It will also contain a drop of human blood and samples of air, sea water and earth encased in diamond.