Speech by definition is not violence; nevertheless, non-violent speech can cause great harm. Defamation, disparagement, verbal abuse are classic examples. A skilled abuser can unhinge the intended target by uttering just a few seemingly harmless words. Cousin Bette casually spoke a few words, as a consequence Adeline developed a nervous convulsion and quivered for the rest of her life. Nevertheless, experience has shown that the harms caused by censorship is far more greater than those caused malignant speech. The Great Chinese Famine, which starved millions to death and stunted the growth of hundreds of millions more, was the direct result of silencing opposing views. Snakes do not cause great harm to humans as they used to do, not because snakes have ascended to higher moral plane; it was human knowledge of snakes that mitigated this evil. Some humans are venomous snakes; most humans are snakes at various moments. Thanks to moralists, most of what we know about humans are what they should be, not what they really are, as a consequence of which malignant speech can still wreak havoc. If school children were taught the truth about human nature the same way animals and plants were introduced, it is possible that humans can tolerate absolute freedom of speech without letting the malignant part cause too much harm. As this moment, I think using speech to counter speech is fair game. 

Sea urchins can kill off kelp forest if left unchecked. It was meat-eating sea otters who restored the forests, where other critters can have a place to live. Goats are capable of turning grasslands into deserts. It was meat-eating wolfs who checked the goats' number and kept alive the grassland, where other critters can live. When the Mongols were strong, farmers could not ravage the earth. There is nothing inherently morally superior in a vegetarian, and experience does not support this connection either. India, for example, probably has the worst environmental record of the whole world despite being mostly vegetarian. 

A society where everyone earns his own keep is not so different from the one in which each man hunts his own food. There will be no leisure, no civilization, no progress, no great art, no great science, no great philosophy because everyone is purposeful, and everything is done with a profit in sight. Unfortunately, the ultimate source of creativity is blind impulse. Civilization was created by the leisured class: in the west they were slave owners; in the east, they were plain old parasites (or eating guests). The slave owners mused for pure pleasure; the parasites pondered for their masters, and thus was more or less purposeful. As it turned out, those who mused for pure pleasure created the greatest civilization. A society where everyone is on the fringe of survival is a very nasty one. People will lie and cheat, will hit high and low and stab both in the front and in the back because it is their lives that is at stake. To have a sense of what it feels like to live in such a society, try to think of some insecure corporate employees who treat workplace as a survivor reality show: they strike low, and they strike first, always. Nevertheless, social Darwinism has never ceased to be in operation, as a consequence of which Greek intellectual giants were thoroughly exterminated from the gene pool; this explains why Byzantine, with all the books and scholars, had remained stagnant for a thousand years. Since I do not believe all men are equal, I do wish people with certain traits could have been more prolific, not on account of their ability to earn a living, but in virtue of their contribution to civilization. Da Vinci is one, Galileo is another, and the likes of their parents and great parents all have my best wishes. As of today, social Darwinism has been very cruel to this class. 

The brain is inferred from sensations (mostly visual). Where do our sensations take place? The brain. But the brain is inferred from our sensations...core dump. 

None. If that alien race has only the sense of smell, they will not tell one pebble from another if the pebbles all smell the same. 

No, we cannot do away with a priori postulates. Please take note that we call them postulates, not truths. Empirical science relies on the principle of induction by simple enumeration, but the principle itself is simply assumed. It cannot be proved empirically. Bertrand Russell suggested that "the postulates required to validate scientific method may be reduced to five." They are: 

The notion of thing is a mental construct. Where one thing ends and another thing begins depends entirely on the mind. E.g, when we say a soccer team has 11 members, we implicitly assume everyone knows the qualifying property of a member so that no one counts limbs as members. All that we can know about a thing is that it is the causal origin of a bundle of qualities, each of which can be known by acquaintance. There is reason to believe that a thing also has qualities which can never been known by us. 2.1. When we speak of things, we are actually speaking of bundles of qualities. 2.2. When we compare things, we are comparing two bundles that already have many common qualities - i.e., we are comparing two members of the same class which has a defining quality. For example, when we compare two soccer players, we are comparing two bundles each of which posses the common quality which we call "is a human." When we ask "if two things are identical," what we really mean is whether two qualities we are currently acquainted with belong to the same bundle. For example, you saw a stranger who walked on Lake Tahoe, and months later you saw a person walked on Lake Michegan, and you wonder if the strangers you saw in separate locations were the self-same person - in other words, whether the quality of "walked on lake Tahoe" and the quality of "walked on Lake Michigan" belong to one and the same bundle of qualities. Now you know these two persons apparent have one unusual common property, i.e. "can walk on water"; the next thing you do is to recall more details about these two encounters and see if there are more qualities in common - the more qualities they have in common, the more likely these two persons apparent are self-same. 3.1 When we say x and y are the same thing, we mean x and y denote the same thing. When we speak of things, we either use proper names or descriptions. 

Just make yourself comfortable. Generally speaking, people raised in health, happiness and security are overall affectionate and have ambitions higher than such basic needs as food, money, social status, etc. The more you know, the less you will judge because people generally will not curse the fig tree when they realize that the time of figs is not yet. Learn everything you can get your hands on with the aim of having pleasures: art, history, literature, music, science, technology and foreign languages are all sources of immense pleasures. Exercising these skills later in life are extremely rewarding when food and sex begin to lose savour. Keep in mind that some highly intelligent people have very odd immune systems, and their brains tend to be very sensitive. If you don't like some people or stuff for no apparent reason, don't blame yourself too much; it might be just that your immune system is trying to protect you. 

Yes, it is wrong to deduce determinism from logic, because logic is a branch of deductive reasoning, and "deduction tells you what follows from your premises, but does not tell you whether your premises are true."* Determinism is a scientific conclusion. It is based on such empirical observations as opium will have certain effects on behaviour, and "constitution" is hard to say when one is drunk. All scientific conclusions are tentative, subject to revision based on new evidence. Edit: There is no such thing as logical law; there are only premises. *Russell, Bertrand. The Art of Philosophizing. New York: Philosophical Library: 1968 

Scientific method is used in everyday decision-making without peer review. A person from cold climate tends to think ants harmless until he is bitten in the South; the first time he responded with disbelief; the second time he learned a lesson; next he will be extremely careful when walking on grass barefooted. An average person from Southern United States tends to think people harmless until he is duped in the pacific north-west; the first time he responded with disbelief; the second time he learned a lesson; after that he will approach people with caution. 

Disclaimer: the best way to understand Russell is to find answers in Russell's own work because no one writes better English than Russell himself. The following is a clumsy attempt on my part. All praise goes to Russell; all errors, if there are any, are mine. If P implies Q, then Q is said to be a logically necessary consequence of P. Logic is the art of saying the same thing by different ways. If someone tells you to show up at 8:00am, and you ask "can I show up at 7:45am?", he will answer:" what did I say?" That is why Russell said: 

If A implies B, then not B implies not A. If the human will transcends physical law, then alcohol does not impair speech; alcohol impairs speech, therefore, the human will does not transcend physical law. 

When one uses nickels to calibrate a digital scale, he assumes five nickels together weigh 25 grams. The question that follows is this: what kind of instrument can guarantee the precision and accuracy of a nickel's weight? Eventually, he will trace the standard of a gram to the IPK, then he discovers that the definition of a gram depends on temperature, length, atmospheric pressure and the purity of water. Next he hopes that those instruments that guarantee the precision and accuracy of T, L, P do not use components that are weight sensitive, and the definitions of T, L, P standard units do not depend on weight. If a theory cannot stand on its own feet, it has no right to talk about other theories. Gödel used numbering to gauge PM without first explaining what numbers are. Gödel was a platonist, W&R were not; that was why Russell said that he and Gödel "never arrived at common premises from which to argue."(See Autobiography) PM stands on its own feet. Although it was not intended to be a theory about other theories, you can use it to gauge other theories whenever it is applicable. In 2016, in this world of formalists, PM is very applicable. 

"Bob believes ϕ(x)" is an intensional function of ϕ(x), e.g., "Bob believes x is a man" does not imply "Bob believes x is a featherless biped." It is possible that Bob believes P, knows P==Q, and aware of modus ponens, but, for emotional reasons, he cannot bring himself to believe Q even after he utters "therefore Q." Bertrand Russell may call Bob a psychological monstrosity, but logic cannot stave off this form of illness. In other words, whether Bob believes Q or not depends only whether or not there is such a fact as Bob believes Q. 

Here is how the philosophical minds work: First, they discovered that some sentences are neither true nor false but meaningless. Then they pointed out that the root of the problem is that the range of significance is not clearly defined. Then they began to speculate the boundaries of the range of significance. Finally, they worked out a theory that clearly bars some terms from entering into the range of significance but says little about what constitutes significance: the Theory of Types judges "Socrates is a man is a man" as nonsensical but says nothing about whether "quadrupliciy is a man" is false or meaningless. Stopping short of being precise is typical of philosophical work: when one does not know the precise distinction between bald and not bald, he can work out a theory that says, give a square inch of scalp, less than 5 hair on it definitely constitutes baldness, more than 200 is definitely not bald. Significance is more fundamental than the theory of types. In mathematics, the range of significance is part of the definition of a function and is clearly defined; in the ordinary language the range of significance should have been clearly defined but, at its current stage, it is not. The Theory of Types partially addressed this problem, and, by classifying arguments in terms of types, greatly extended the realm of mathematics, which is certain and precise, into the former domain of philosophy, which was mostly speculative. 

Good question, but there is no logical fallacy involved. The sentence is capable of being true or false, not in virtue of logic, but in virtue of facts. And, with the best of intention and without neat-picking, I tend to think it is very likely to be true - if you have not wondered why a certain beautiful woman goes out with a certain ugly man who is not only unattractive but also repugnant, you are not old enough. Setting aside edge cases for the moment, let's consider the following statements: 

5.3.2.3 x is an instance of each of the qualities x possesses; k is the abstraction of all the qualities x possesses. Let x and y denote things; if the thing denoted by y possesses every quality possessed by the thing denoted by x, we say x and y denote the self-same thing. I.e., IF (φ).φ!(x) ⇒ φ!(y) THEN x = y, where (φ) means for all φ. 6.1 It seems necessary to use ⇔ (iff) in the place of ⇒, but this is not the case because if (φ).φ(x) ⇒ φ(y), then ~φ(x) ⇒ ~ φ(y), where (φ) means for all φ. 

**Russell, Bertrand. The Art of Philosophizing. New York: Philosophical Library: 1968 **Russell, Bertrand. Human Knowledge, Its Scope and Limits. New York: Simon and Schuster, 1948 ***Russell, Bertrand. Autobiography. Longdon and New York: George Allen & Unwin, 1967. 

Human beings are not equal. When we say Joe is equal to Smith, we mean Smith has all the qualities Joe has - this is obviously false when Joe and Smith are two. In energy and intelligence, in character and appearance, in desires and ambitions, in ability and achievement and, most important of all, in the expansiveness of feelings, no one is equal to anyone else. This is an empirical fact. The truth is, between men and apes, there is no such a thing as an impassable gulf. The Greeks, even in their most democratic period, believed in proportions; they believed that one's sphere of influence should be proportional to his abilities. Most people actually understand this when it comes to their own health - they wisely consult physicians instead of laymen - but when it comes to state affairs, everyone believes he is equal to everyone else as a physician of the state. The US constitution is fundamentally flawed. The disastrous effect of carrying this faulty axiom to its logical conclusions is beginning to show. As a matter of fact, Americans don't need to look far to foretell their future: the world's largest democracy is only decades ahead of the US, and the US is catching up at an amazing speed. 

In order to prove A implies G, most people needs tiny intermediate steps in order to "see" the validity of this implication; a small number of people, on the other hand, can directly "see" this implication from A to G. It follows that there is no halting problem involved. I do not know exactly what this sense of mathematics is, but I wonder if there are papers on this subject. 

Analogy is one of Bertrand Russell's five postulates that validate scientific method. It states that "the behavior of other people is in many ways analogous to our own, and we suppose that it must have analogous causes." This is the postulate that the belief in the minds of others requires. (Source: Russell bertrand. _Human, Knowlege, Its scope and limits. New york: simmon and schuster, 1948) Like all Russell's philosophical scrutiny, such a postulate only exposes doubt. On one occasion, Russell admitted that it would have been far easier for him to grow intimate with a cat or a dog or a horse than with one of the half-nomads he saw on the sand bank of the Volga. In another writing, Russell suggests that "perhaps one could stretch the comprehensiveness that constitutes wisdom to include not only intellect but also feelings." He points out that "it is by no means uncommon to find men whose knowledge is wide but feelings are narrow." "Such men," he writes, "lack what I am calling wisdom." (Source: Russell, Bertrand. Portraits from memory. Knowledge and wisdom. New York: Simon and schuster, 1956) 

1 + 1 = 2 is an arithmetic rule, just like the rules of a game, which are propositions assumed to be true before proof. Like Euclid's postulates, it is a postulated truth. Mathematics used to have a great many postulates until someone speculated that mathematics can be reduced to a very small number of postulates. The creation of a rule like this is an inductive process starting from counting, measurement and many other daily activities: people first figured out how to count and knew what one thing and two things mean. Then they discovered that one horse and another horse are two horses; one mile in addition to another mile are two miles, etc. Then people generalized that one and one equals to two with an aura of mystery. The conception of numbers detached from things is a great leap forward; it is very likely that a very small number of individuals, perhaps only one, made this breakthrough. For a long time this rule is used to solve problems without precise definitions of 1, 2, + and =. Since people have no problem with understanding one thing or two things, for a long time, no one ever questioned what 1 or 2 means - anyone who raised a question like this would have been considered laughable. This type of fuzzy thinking is not peculiar to arithmetic. Take "yellow and blue make green" for example, everyone understand this proposition, but few know the precise definition of yellow, blue and green. As a matter fact, no one ever saw yellow or blue or green independent of things; no one ever mixed yellow with blue; what they actually did was mixing yellow paints with blue paints. People are so familiar with blue things or yellow things, they unconsciously think they know what blue or yellow mean, but no one raise silly questions like these until some great minds think precise definitions are are necessary for the sake of clear thinking. At first it was thought 1 + 1 = 2 has some objective truth in it until one day people realized that it was not always the case: if an emperor sends out 2 tax collectors and tells each to bring back a tael of silver, he has right to expect 2 taels of silver at the end of day, but if he tells them each to bring back a variety of exotic plant, there is no guarantee that he will have 2 varieties of plants after each of them brings one variety back. One had to admit that 1 + 1 = 2 was just a rule, which was sometimes applicable to the real world and some other times not. Mathematics consists of many rules like 1 + 1 = 2. Some people discovered that some rules can be derived from other rules; some other people speculated that the entire mathematics can be deduced from a very small number of rules which were called the foundations. They speculated what these foundations (rules) were and tried to deduce ordinary mathematics from them - this process had the appearance of proving 1 + 1 = 2, but, as a matter of fact, ordinary mathematics has greater degree of self-evidence than their foundations. If 1 + 1 = 2 can be deduced from a speculated foundation, it only gives reasons for believing the validity of the foundation, rather than believing 1 + 1 = 2, which is already self-evident. Similarly, if someone's theory prophesied a eclipse and an eclipse was observed as he predicted, his theory did not make the eclipse more true. Quite the contrary, it was the eclipse that gave reasons for believing his theory. Another analogy is the creation of by-laws of an organization. At first, ad hoc rules were added to address specific scenario. Later on, people discovered that some rules were already implied by other rules, and the whole book of regulations was equivalent to just a small number of primitive rules.