Depending on your skill level from your years of freelancing, it might be reasonable to apply for a job requesting 5+ years of experience. However, whether or not they'd consider your application would probably depend on the reasoning the employer listed 5+ years as the level of experience desired. They could be looking for someone who has spent multiple years working on teams doing large-scale websites, and is a master of meetings and scrum and agile or whatever technologies and methodologies they are in love with, who's been there long enough to have had to do bug fixes and upgrades on their own work. Or they could just be looking for someone who can hit the ground running a little faster than a fresh out of college hire who's never implemented a website that wasn't a homework assignment or dealt with issues of scale ever. Depending on what you were doing in those years of freelancing would affect how marketable those years of experience were. The technologies available and skills required to make a website 14 years ago are hardly comparable to what is expected to be competitive today. Certainly over time I'd hope to see progression in the difficulty of the work you took on and the scale of the sites you built and keeping up on the latest technologies. Keep in mind that working with customers, meeting their expectations, marketing and selling your services, finding customers, and so on are not without merit as experience. You may not have practice working with co-workers, but practice working with customers That said, claiming 14 years of experience would be misleading and tough to justify. Tcrosley gives a great example in his comment: 6 years of working 10 hours per week roughly is the equivalent to the number of hours you would work in 1.5 years full time work at 40 hours per week. While I wouldn't say it's necessary to count the exact days and hours you worked to come up with a "full-time equivalency" estimate, it would be a good idea to ballpark it. Don't just claim part time is full-time because it's not. If you worked half-time for 1 year, count that as half a year of experience...regardless of whether you were freelancing or doing an internship. 

Yes, I would say how long to wait depends on both how far ahead it is promised and how important or urgent the work is. It depends what the situation warrants. Urgent and Important Deadlines You should absolutely convey the importance of the deadline beforehand, and probably also check in once or twice just to check on whether we are still on track for reaching the deadline, especially if there is much time to elapse in between. A nice touch would also be to offer to see whether there are any hurdles you can help clear up for them, before the deadline to help them reach it. This will help more than following up after the fact. Keeping in mind why the deadline is urgent may help determine how quickly to follow up. Are there people in the lobby waiting for this document? Do you need this document to conduct an interview that is scheduled for 10:15? In many cases, if the document is needed within minutes of the deadline, you may want to call on the phone to quickly clarify whether the document is almost ready and on it's way, or being necessarily delayed as, presumably, at 10:01 they are still so completely focused on finishing up with the urgent document that they are not checking their email ;-). If on the other hand, you need to do a 4 hour task that has a hard deadline in response to their document, waiting a half hour to an hour to follow up after the deadline, would still give you plenty of time to complete your work, while giving them adequate time to finish up. Less Urgent Deadlines It's quite possible they didn't get to it because it got pushed aside for more urgent projects, or perhaps they just forgot to actually put it on their todo list. In this case, your follow-up might be more along the line of politely reminding them suggesting a specific deadline extension. "I didn't see that report yet, just wanted to make sure it hasn't fallen off the radar. Would you like me to follow up again next Tuesday?" Something that if they are swamped they could just answer with a one liner. A week or more extension, if it's not a big deal for you, might be very helpful to the other person if they have more urgent deadlines. In this scenario, several hours to a day later, or even a week, would not be an unreasonable amount of time to wait until after the deadline to follow up. Should you feel like following up much closer to the deadline, you could always blame your "outlook reminder" for reminding you to follow up, rather than leaving it to seem like you're hounding them to hurry up and finish. In any case, how you word your response may make a world of difference in whether you sound annoyed they aren't done yet, concerned about their workload, understanding that they're busy, and so forth. So focus on the tone of your follow-up more than the when. 

In general, I would wait at least a few days before replying to remind someone, probably a week or so before following up just to remind him--if it's a holiday week(end), perhaps even a few extra days more. However, if there was no clear communication already about when you should expect to hear from him, since he did not contact you the same day or following day, it would not be out of place to send a brief follow-up email asking if he could let you know (set an appointment) when he is planning to call so you can make sure you will be available and that he will have your undivided attention. 

Of course, even if the employer will not reimburse you, the job search expenses might be tax deductible, even if you do not itemize your taxes. In any case, I would ask. 

Absolutely ask, albeit politely. You may have some clues already about whether or not such a request is likely to be granted, based on whether or not the position you are interviewing for pays for relocation expenses or not. But if there is any doubt or uncertainty, it does not hurt to ask whether or not they would be able to provide any reimbursement for travel expenses since the interview is quite a trek from where you live. If reimbursement is available, you may want to follow up with clarifying questions about whether the reimbursement only includes the bus tickets or whether it includes other expenses such as meals and hotel costs. Point to keep in mind: 

What options are available may vary from company to company or country to country, but in my experience, generally your options are to make up the lost time or to take unpaid leave. In certain circumstances involving extended leave for an illness or injury you might become eligible for disability leave not included in your PTO balance. In general, if the absence is short, like a day or less, the preferred method would be to make up the time during the same pay period, either by working from home, coming in earlier, staying later, or coming in on your usual day off. Essentially in this situation, you are "trading shifts" with yourself. For longer absences, where making up the time would not be feasible, unpaid leave is an option many companies may offer. When I was a low-seniority employee at a salaried position, I had an opportunity for a three week trip to another country to do some volunteer-work unrelated to work. Being a low-seniority employee, my yearly vacation allotment was only two-weeks vacation time. Being a predicament, I talked to my supervisor to see if there was a way we could make my trip possible despite my insufficient vacation balance. Since it was not a "busy" time of year at work, she said it was no problem, but beyond my available vacation balance, I would have to take unpaid leave for the remainder of my trip. I did not accruing additional vacation time or other benefits during my unpaid leave, but at that company it was as simple as entering a special code on my timecard to get my pay docked for those days. Your company may also have a policy allowing you to take unpaid personal leave for extended periods--at my company, that period was up to 3 months--for any non-work related reason such uses as caring for an ill or elderly family member, travel, mental health, etc. But to know what happens at your company, should you unexpectedly need additional time off, you would have to talk to someone familiar with the policies and procedures at your company. 

Using CSS to improve the formatting and make the resume more readable would probably be effective at demonstrating a subset of your skills on a small scale. If, however, you went over the top with too much formatting or other bling, the presentation could become distracting from the actual content. You want to showcase your skills and abilities, with a tastefully chosen subset of your abilities that are relevant to the presentation of the document. Keep in mind, your interviewer(s) could also choose to look at your source-code, given the nature of the position you are applying for, so you would want to demonstrate the sort of clean-well-formatted code you would be producing for them should they hire you. You might even want to add some embedded comments in your source-code, if appropriate, explaining design decisions you made, etc. For example, you might explain why you chose to put your styles in a style block in the header of the page, rather than in a separate file vs attached to html entities with a style attribute. Obviously, the choice you would make for a file that might be passed around as an email attachment or possibly even read offline, might be different than what you would choose for a live-website. Having everything in one file, so when a less computer-savvy team member reads the resume and double clicks the attachment rather than saving all attachments and then opening the html file, you don't risk the formatting being missing. But all in all, don't lose sight of the fact that the purpose of this document is a resume, having well-written content selling your skills and past experience, all things that you feel confident discussing on your interviews may be even more important than the specific formatting you chose to use. 

At places I've worked in the past, as an engineer, standard protocol would be to call (or in some cases email would be fine too) your boss and tell him/her your appointment was canceled so you will coming in the office after all, but arriving late (due to the last minute cancellation). Taking a personal day instead of returning to work, for something that is usually partial-day absence, could come across in less than the most flattering light, though obviously, whether to come in depends on your line of work and the standard protocol. If you worked on an assembly line or as a teacher or waitress, a substitute may already be scheduled for your entire shift. When in doubt ask your boss or HR department what the protocol is. 

Whether or not it's rude may depend on the culture of the company. Every place I have worked, it's generally commonplace and others are not typically annoyed. If you see others eating or snacking at their desks from time to time or regularly, that may give you hints. The only time it has annoyed me that others were eating at their desk was when they were eating something I'm allergic to and the scent was wafting. If you happen to know someone who sits near you has food allergies to something that is a significant part of your lunch, it would be courteous to go to the lunch room. Otherwise, presuming it's not fish (which some people hate the odor of), and presuming there's no horrible ant problems in your building or the like, I'd probably continue to eat at my desk if that is what you prefer. 

If one leaves the workforce for some period of time, upon re-entering the workforce, one is sure to get asked for references for that first job back in. Is it better to provide older references from previous similar technical work, or personal references that are recent? Is it better to stick to purely professional ones, even though they may not be recent? 

There are pros and cons to each option, the point is to find a way to be somehow truthful while presenting yourself in the best light, and balancing the downsides to which choice you make. 

List actual salary List adjusted salary including the value of benefits Fill in zero or leave blank (if possible with a note explaining you'd prefer to discuss salary in person, care not to diclose, etc) 

Do you feel comfortable discussing basics of what happened with your degree program an interview if asked? If you can explain, as you did here, why you chose not to return in a way that doesn't sound like you dropped out out of laziness or some other poor self-attribute, include those achievements. As you describe them as exceptional achievements, they may be worth including, and could work well toward a positive overall impression. 

If one attended meetings for a professional organization (example: IEEE or Java Users Group) on a repeated basis, but did not actually join the organization with a membership, is it a good idea to list such on one's resume and LinkedIn profile? LinkedIn has a place on the profile specifically for organizations, but would it be misleading to list there?