one small rear pannier multiply the time by 1.0333 (3.33% longer) two small rear panniers multiply the time by 1.0667 (6.67% longer) 

In road racing there are lots of way to try and gain an advantage (or not to give others an advantage). Because this is a friendly race, I will break it down into friendly, indifferent and hostile tactics. 

TLDR - Weight training is the wrong activity for improving both your sustained speed (26-30kph) and your 1-minute speed (40kph). Read below to understand why. Background There are three main types of skeletal muscles: slow twitch (type 1), fast oxidative (type 2 a) and fast glycolytic (type 2 b). Your make up of the three types determined primarily by genetics (with some interchangeability between type 2b and type 2a). These muscles differ by the metabolic pathway used to power contraction, as well as contraction speed and strength and ability to perform repeated contractions. Slow twitch (type 1) are weak and slow but are what power sustained efforts. These muscles generate power through aerobic glycolysis (i.e., "burning" oxygen). While weaker total force output these muscles have high endurance (due to the use of oxygen). If you are doing any sustained activity over 1 minute in duration you are primarily using these muscles. If you are a professional endurance cyclist you were likely gifted by genetics with a higher proportion of type 1 fibers than the regular joe. (Aside from doping, it really is easier for them.) If you are sprinting (efforts under 1 minute - like your 40kph efforts) you will be primarily using type 2a. When you are mashing the pedals hard in a maximal effort (under 10 sec) you are using type 2b fibers. Type 2a uses a mix of anaerobic and aerobic pathways while type 2b only use anaerobic pathways. What weight training actually does... That leaves us with the question of what will happen when we weight train and gained 10 kilos of muscles (hypertrophy). Muscle hypertrophy occurs primarily through chronic anaerobic, high-intensity resistance activity. This means you will be developing type 2b primarily along with some type 2a (actually changing your type 2a behave more like type 2b) and a bit of type 1 (the actual splits depends on type of resistance training). Your ability to accelerate quickly would likely improve the most. Your 40 kph (type 2a powered) could increase a bit. Your sustained 26-30 (kph) might increase a little bit, if you kept up aerobic training as well. The specificity principle This gets us to the specificity principle. The training needs to be specific to the task. This comes in terms of strengthening the right muscle for the action (circular pedal motion), building up connective and support tissue (strong core is important - you can't fire a cannon from a canoe! - although...) and muscle recruitment pattern (how your brain activates individual muscle fibers). For cycling, the circular motion is un-natural. As such we need to train your muscles with the activity at hand. Improving sustained efforts To improve you 26-30 kph sustained speed you would need to stay away from the weight room as we need to train type 1 muscle fibers. We can't make these muscles much bigger per say, but more efficient. 

Unfortunately, there is a fairly straight forward reason why you actually need to ride hills in order to get faster at them: crank inertial load. We have two main types of skeletal muscles. (Skeletal muscles are responsible for our locomotion and movements, cardiac and smooth muscles make up the other muscle types in our the body). The two main skeletal types are slow twitch which has slower contractile speed, lower force, but higher endurance and fast twitch which has a faster contractile speed, higher force, but lower endurance. Fast twitch can be further broken down into an additional 3 sub-types, which again vary from each other by contractile speeds and forces generated. Each person has a unique make-up of these skeletal muscle type which is controlled largely by genetics, but the relative strengths of each type can also be trained plus there is some evidence for inter-conversion of the fast twitch muscle types through training. This gets us to hill climbing. The conditions experienced by your skeletal muscle when climbing is very different from riding on the flat. On the flat you are typically carrying a lot of momentum (kinetic energy). If you stop pedalling you will still be carrying a lot of speed and will not slow down much immediately after you stop. As such you have all this energy which helps to overcome the drag and rolling resistance. In order to accelerate you will need a quick burst of work which means you need to fire your muscles more quickly in order to perform sufficient work in a short enough time period. These conditions are more favourable to including more fast twitch fibers (although all fiber types will still be contributing). Conversely, when climbing you have less kinetic energy. If you stop pedalling you will slow down much quicker. These conditions are more favourable to longer contraction times, which in turn favours the use of slow twitch muscles over fast twitch. This all has important consequences when looking at replicating riding conditions with indoor trainers. This quote from R Chung (who is a frequent contributor on bicycles.se) summarizes nicely why this is the case: 

As an owner of a B15 I can must advise you to carefully consider this saddle decision as it is really designed for race bikes. I am relatively average in stature and on the lighter side for weight. I found this type of saddle was only comfortable in a racing position (i.e., 5-10 cm of drop on the handle bars). Anything higher and my pelvis would rotate enough that the my sit bones would strike the metal rails. Now everyone's anatomy is different, including sit bone width. But for more general applications and for a more diverse array of body types, I think you should consider a wider saddle such as a Brooks B17. Either that or measure the width of the BLB and compare it to the Brooks B17 to ensure the saddle is a bit wider. As far as build quality, I haven't the foggiest about BLB! Leather Saddle Caveat Most seem to be drawn to leather saddles for their looks. I am so-so on the looks, and a much bigger proponent on the comfort, once you choose a model that is appropriate to the application. This is where all the marketing speak has let us down. The descriptions on how the saddles can be expected to fit is basically non-existing. This is unfortunate as the saddles can be quite uncomfortable for some application/body type combinations due to the fact the saddles work as a hammock and use a solid rail. This is where modern saddles can be better as they can be expected to provide adequate comfort to a larger array of body sizes due to the use of padding. That said, once you get the kinks worked out, in 15+ years of competition and 20+ years of cycling, I have never found a more comfortable solution.