Let me pitch you a setting... The year is 2017 and economic unreast is everywhere and a gang by the name of "Fukdahrooles" is trying to cause societal collapse. My question being... how could Fukdahrooles cause the collapse of society and make America a free-for-all brawl for terrority Note: here are the limitations. 1: The only source of income they have is the Drug Trade and odd jobs. 2: they are widely hated and are considered a Terrorist Organization (like ISIS). 3: THEY DON'T HAVE ACCESS TO NUCLEAR WEAPONS. my question is... How could Fukdahrooles cause societal collapse in the easiest way possible? 

You want a giant tortoise that is screwed over by the Square Cube law if I understood your question correctly? Well I have numerous propositions for your. No. 1: The turtles live in an environment with enough Oxygen to sustain gargantuan-sized life forms. The bigger an organism gets, the harder the heart needs to pump in order to get oxygen to every cell in the body (if I am not mistaken). So maybe you could increase the amount of Oxygen within the water, Or you could say that their hearts are more efficient at pumping oxygen throughout their bodies (or you can handwave and say that they don't need oxygen) No. 2: The Turtles are nanotechnologically enhanced. Okay here me out on this one. WIthin the Nanotech community there's a thing called a Respirocyte. A Respirocyte is essentially a artificial blood cell which can store up to 236 times more Oxygen than a regular blood cell can. $URL$ $URL$ $URL$ No. 3: The turtles are robots meant to confuse biologists This one is pretty much self explanatory. Anyway I hope you enjoyed my answer! 

Anything between those extremes would work just fine. You could also mix in other inert gases, like argon or krypton, if you had the need, though you'd have to be careful. Which option you choose depends on a lot of factors. If you have powerful engines and aren't too worried about weight, re-creating Earth's atmosphere would be ideal, since the nitrogen dilution reduces flammability. If you're trying to save weight, pure oxygen will do, but you need to be worried about fire. 

Imagine a species of eusocial arthropoids, each about the size of a dog, that live in complex, multilayered nests. Each individual has very little brain - a brain about the size of a tic-tac, to be precise - but as a whole, the nest is powerful sentient mind. An individual needs to be able to perform a complex task in real time in order to operate some technologies. Rather than the individual knowing how to do the task, it would receive a series of subtle radio signals from the other individuals nearby, a cascade of meaningless pulses from thousands or millions of individuals that converge on this individual to give it the impulse needed to carry out its task, moment by moment. What physical structures would an individual need in order to send and receive these radio signals? To clarify: By 'radio', I don't mean 'any form of electromagnetic radiation'. I'm referring to the range of frequencies known as 'radio waves', that is up to around 300GHz. This is because the signals need to be able to go through the solid walls of the nest. Basically biological wi-fi. 

If you want to go beyond the year 25,800, you could add yet another counter, to track the Great Years: 

Ah entropy, whether you hate it or love it, it's here to stay (at least until someone responds to this question). What I mean by Entropy Reversal: Let's say you drop a cup containing coffee, now. In normal circumstances you would just have to accept the fact that your cup is broken... HOWEVER, since you have an Entropy Reverser™ you can restore you "broken" cup to it's prior form. My question: How can I scientifically explain Entropy Reversal (within a 2 foot circular radius of the device) I am well aware that Entropy can be slowed down. But what about reversing it? (or bringing it to a halt? I'll go with either). 

I'm currently working on a Sci-Fi story. Many of the super-materials in my story are composed of "Neo-Matter". List of Neo-Matter particles: Up-Neotron, Down-Neotron Neo Matter is essentially like regular matter except with a few unique traits 1: Neo Matter can interact with particles that cannot interact electromagnetically (ie. Neutrons, Neutrinos) 2: all Neo Matter particles have a neutral charge and are their own antiparticle 3: Neo Matter particles have the half life of a neutron. 4: Neotrons are the smallest unit of Neo-Matter and cannot be divided into anything smaller. 5: Neotrons are as big as neutrons. 6: Neotron atoms do NOT contain electrons My question being... Is it possible to scientifically explain "Neo-Matter" and if not... what can I change to make it scientifically explainable? Note: If Neo-Matter IS scientifically explainable then could you explain how Neo-Matter Molecules could form? Note: the ONLY force Neo Matter interacts with is Gravity $URL$ If you want an example of something similar here you go. 

How big do you want it to be? Until the Dawn probe came close enough, this was our best picture of Ceres, the largest object in the asteroid belt: 

Limestone caves Build your fortress in a region already full of caves and passages. Limestone is absolutely ideal for this, since it naturally forms all kinds of caves and other strange structures. Case in point - the Tsingy de Bemaraha in Madagascar. You would conceal the entrances to your fortress in existing, natural caves, and yes, that's 'entrances', plural. If you have a single Great Gate, the enemy can locate it and besiege it. Instead, you'd have a main gate, then several smaller passages leading to outlets all over the mountain. That would allow your forces to sally forth during a siege and harass the enemy's rear and supply lines. Ultimately, the mountain itself is your best defence. It's difficult to campaign in the mountains, and defenders always have an advantage anyway. 

Look for quantisation For the sake of argument, I'll assume The Game uses something like the D&D system of levels, skill points, and d20s. That gives us a pretty interesting lever to get into the rules of the universe. Does an individual's performance in a certain area scale in an analogue progression, getting slowly better as they practice and improve, or is their performance quantised - average ability suddenly jumping from one level to the next? Do people identified as "Players" suddenly become more effective at certain apparently unrelated tasks immediately after a traumatic experience? Do Players lose skills they don't practice with, or are gains effectively permanent? Do people suffer from decreased effectiveness when they're wounded, or do they operate at full strength until they suffer enough damage to kill them? Once you have the rules figured out, you can start making predictions. Person A has no attack bonus; his chance of hitting this target, which has an AC of 10, is exactly 50-50. Person B's ability to charm the opposite sex was measured before and after going into combat; their success spiked 25% after combat, suggesting they leveled up and put skills into Seduction. Essentially, you're looking for digital or quantised effects in situations you would expect to be analogue. Sudden changes instead of steady progression. Of course, if your players are sufficiently god-like, they may be playing with rules far too complex for mere humans to understand, rules which would effectively mimic analogue change. Which means... Look for Plots Does the world appear to run on Narrativium? Even if the players' actions don't produce quantised effects in the universe, they're still going to need compelling storylines to keep people playing. So find out - do people identified as "Players" keep finding themselves in unusual and challenging situations with a defined plot that they can follow? And, more importantly, does this happen to a statistically significant degree? Are they regularly put in situations where they need to kill large numbers of people single-handed, without apparent remorse? In Terry Pratchett's Discworld series, there's actually an element that causes storylines to happen - Narrativium. It's the element or property that all things have that tells them what they are, and what they are supposed to be. You can look for a similar element, and demonstrate that it favours some individuals (the Players) over others.