There's not much that could happen to cause the shifter to pull and hold an incorrect amount of cable when you click it. A simple test to see what the shifter is doing is to loosen the cable anchor (or slacken the system by pulling a housing out of a stop), pull the housing away from the shifter, pull the exposed cable there gently taut with pliers, and shift back and fourth through the range. You'll be able to see if it's working normally, missing shifts, releasing too many steps at once, etc. Once they're this old, Rapidfire/STI shifters are prone to issues with lubrication around the pawls getting gummed up, causing engagement problems. From your description it sounds like this may be what's going on. This is common and easy to fix with some cleaning and relubrication. However, it's also the primary mechanical problem with these shifters that's fixable at all. If there's a broken spring involved, which is also pretty common, there's not much you can do. To service them, the important thing is to never under any circumstances take apart any part of the mechanism itself. Depending on the shifter, there are usually covers that can be removed or nudged aside to let you spray the guts and/or work the pawls around. The usually recommendation is to use a silicone spray lube because it won't degrade plastic. If possible I like to put a small dot of grease at the pawls, roughly emulating how they come new. 

Yes, despite other differences between chain models (directional vs not, IG vs HG, etc), there is only one model of Shimano replacement pin for each speed generation of Shimano chain. 

Get one made by a bicycle framebuilder. It's a nice enough bike to warrant it and it's the only way to get one that's really right. Basic replacement 1" threaded forks are readily available, but nothing you'll find is this long. Framebuilders will also be able to make appropriate choices about either finding a steerer that will work (1" threaded steerers this long aren't common catalog items for them either) or fabricating one that's got the strength and alignment needed for the application. 

Normal aluminum cans are basically .1mm thick, so a wrap gives you .2mm. Most of the smaller scale clamp diameter discrepancies, say from a tolerance problem or from a mismatch like a 26.0 aux lever on a 25.4 clamp area, one encounters clamping controls and acessories on to bars can be resolved with aluminum can shims, or stacks of them. Going up to putting a 23.8 aux lever on a 22.2 section with them gets dicier; other kinds of shim stock will work better, but even there putting 8 layers of can on is probably fine. As long as your shim material is metal and as long as the finished product doesn't slip readily, it's probably fine. Fiber grip/carbon prep can lend a lot of solidity to such hacks. Use scissors and math to prepare the shims. Don't cut yourself. 

Flipflop disc brake hubs don't exist. If you were willing to ride without a rear brake, you could switch the existing wheel back and fourth by using a bolt-on track cog. I believe they give a chainline in the 41-42mm range. This plan would however be asking for trouble if you were using a hydraulic brake, since it wouldn't have its rotor in place to prevent the pistons getting pushed out. 135x12 is weird enough that I doubt you're going to find a fixed gear one stock, but supposedly Paul Components has made 135x12 singlespeed freewheel hubs, and they're the kind of company that you might be able to convince to make you one for a track cog, since the shell would probably be the same with the addition of lockring threads (unless it was too thin, in which case nevermind.) 

If the shell is aluminum and we're talking about the whole thing and not just the bearing races, the literal answer is flat out no, because aluminum doesn't have a fatigue limit. It will crack eventually. As to the question of can a hub bearing race, real or hypothetical, last literally forever in any kind of use, that's the kind of question everyone likes speculating about but I think you need a bearing engineer to begin answering, so I'll say I don't know. In practical terms the answer is most cups/cones with enough preventative overhauling can be made to last a very, very long time, much longer than they normally do. In my experience for a nicer hub with very hard, precisely made races it's more or less indefinitely. I've tried to keep more modest hubs going the same way and wound up wearing them out despite my best efforts, but I'm heavy and ride where it's wet. There's a side conversation about using ball bearings whose hardness is a good match for the races, which is a topic usually glossed over in bike shops. I don't know the details but I've come to suspect it can matter quite a bit in the long-term lifespan of a hub. How much flex the axle is experiencing is also a pretty major factor over time. All freewheeling mechanisms wear out eventually as far as I know. 

I believe that in terms of compatibility, there's only one iteration of the Shimano 8-spline spider design that was used on various Shimano cranks, so the spider in question should work on all of them, including FC-M952. 

In general manufacturers each give specific numbers for this, and it tends to be 30-55mm of total spacer between the headset and the stem. Beyond that there isn't really a universally agreed upon rule of thumb. I would use the number 30mm lacking any specific recommendations, including any large conical spacers that are part of the headset. (In other words, the big spacers or the headsets that use them as a top piece don't let you "cheat" here; what's in question is the distance between the upper headset bearing and the bottom of the stem). 30mm is conservative, but this really is a good area to do what the fork maker tells you. The maximum steerer length for a given frame gets into the stack height of various stems and whether you're running a spacer above the stem (a good idea unless you're using a compression plug that reinforces the clamp area, in which case some manufacturers recommend against it), so it's probably not the most useful number. You need to know your stem's stack height to determine it. It's that number plus the stack height of your headset plus your headtube length plus the spacer limit plus about 3mm if you're using a 5mm spacer on top of the stem, or minus about 2mm if you're not. It doesn't make a difference whether the fork is tapered or not. 

You have it correct. You basically need any QR disc road wheels. Note that 135 is the standard for QR disc rear ends but non-disc road is 130, and some other bike genres use other numbers. 

Those levers are from the days when road bike levers mostly all came in one reach "category," which is quite a bit longer than ideal for probably a good 50-60% of the adult human population. You may be able to get it a little better without changing components by adjusting either the angle of the bars (where they're clamped into the stem) and/or the position where the levers are clamped to the bars, which involves messing with the tape. It's normal to have to tweak both before one feels the lever ergonomics are as dialed as possible. That said, they may very well still be too far out. If by tight you mean the brakes are adjusted now so there's little lever travel before the brake firms up, that's pretty easy to adjust by giving the brake cable some more slack, either by screwing in the barrel adjusters if they're out now or by re-clamping the cables, being careful not to leave any overly crimped spots in the system. That might make the brake feel in use a lot better for you even if it doesn't help the initial reach. There are at least two different modern brake-only levers that you could get that are designated as "compact," for smaller hands. Tektro makes them and a bunch of companies have versions of them with their name on them, like Cane Creek and Origin8. Current road bikes usually have integrated brake levers/shifters, which these days all have some way of adjusting reach. 

The published max large cog for both RD-6700-SS and RD-6700-GS is 30. They can sometimes work acceptably with 32, but they're not designed to and it's hit or miss. The variance is because dropout design is not universal. Putting in a longer b-tension screw or running it in reverse can help. You can also get something like a Wolftooth Roadlink. Total capacity is 34t for SS and 40t for GS. 

It appears to be a clamp-on pump peg that got moved down out of the way either intentionally or from coming loose. 

No and yes. You could do this, but the brake basically doesn't have any room to give before rub is going to be an issue. If you're having problems with the lever bottoming and using the reach adjust doesn't help, you might try just bleeding the brake(s) if you haven't done so already, in case that helps. If it's easy to bottom out the lever, there's some kind of problem. If the lever isn't bottoming and you just don't like the amount of travel necessary to reach full power, yeah, that's kind of how these are. If you really want to intentionally overfill a brake, I believe that bleeding it with the pistons extended more than usual would do it. I.e., sand some material off the plastic caliper block so it allows more protrusion. You could also try very carefully just pulling the lever with the wheel out and intentionally over-extending the pistons. This is definitely an at-your-own-risk plan though.