Your instinct to think about humans was the right one even though you don't want to consider humans particularly. What do humans have that only a handful of other animals do? 

The answer, I think, comes from baseball and not zoology, as I explain below. Bio-projectiles @Peufeu notes several animals that use bio-projectiles (spit or glue or spider silk), and another class of bio-projectiles could be numerous disposable spores or spines that could be hurled at prey. Another bio-projectile would be poisonous feces dropped by a bird (or better yet a whole flock of birds since birds in flocks tend to poop in unison at roughly the same target) from the air on you. Poisonous or caustic or acidic poop from a whole flock of carnivorous killer pigeons at once is something you have to take seriously. It would be the moral equivalent of napalm. Tool use The other option is tool use. Quite a few animals use tools (a few even turn other animals into zombies to do their bidding for them), rather than actually attacking with parts of their bodies. Tool users, especially those that attack at range, can afford to be psychologically much less tentative because they aren't putting themselves at risk. Is this far fetched for a much more primitive animal than man? No. For example, have you ever had a squirrel throw acorns at you? If you haven't, I absolute assure you that the do it, ruthlessly, with impunity, from high in a tree where you can't get them. They do it to dogs too (something I rather admire them for doing). Suppose that your velocikangaroo, rather than using his tail like a mace, used its tail which had a sling-like pouch at the end of it, like a baseball pitcher to throw medium sized rocks at prey at 200 miles per hour at distances of 100 feet with deadly accuracy. Now that is a predator who might not be timid at all, and that predator, unlike those who used bio-projectiles, wouldn't have to pay much of a biological/energy supply/healing cost to gather up unmodified medium sized rocks to stack up and throw at prey. Thus, the velocikangaroo could be a tool user simply by throwing ordinary, easy to find rocks, without being a tool maker, which is a much more sophisticated thing. You'd also want to give your velocikangaroo kean, stereo hearing to locate threats and prey before they go to close and accurately aim at them, and keen binocular eyes to aim with, and a good sense of smell (again to prevent ambush attacks). Color vision might be unnecessary for an obligate carnivore since color vision can actually make it harder to see camouflage and the purpose color vision evolve for (distinguishing ripe from not ripe or rotten fruit) isn't important to a carnivore. Finally, he'd still have to be pretty fast because if he ran out of ammo he'd probably want to run like hell. 

Essentially this would take a major cultural shift. Considering our world will be dealing with major changes in the coming century. Rising population, dwindling resources, the shift to renewable energy, the necessicity for recycling of resources, global warming, multipolar geopolitics, displacement of people from the workforce with robotics, and a rebalancing of culture and political power away from the European nations (and, yes, the USA is a European nation) to the non-Western. It is possible that probable there will be cultural, social, economic, and political realignment on a grand scale. In circumstances like these, precisely the kind of cultural shift to much more selfless society could arise. There is, of course, no guarantee this could be the outcome, but if a plenitude of factors happened to fall out the right way, then it might be possible. 

There is speculation that the early stages. immediately after the Big Bang, when the universe was much smaller that it was awash with dense amounts of matter and energy. There could have been a brief window of opportunity for complex structures and functions to form based on the abundance of particles and radiation. This could have assumed the richness of organic life. (In fact, what you are for is akin to biology but made of stuff other than the usual molecules of life as we know them on planet Earth.) Before the universe expanded sufficiently for it to cool down and become inhospitable for early hot life which could included early hot intelligence life too. The science fiction writer who has employed this concept in some of his works is Stephen Baxter. One version of this concept appears in his recent novel Xeele; Vengeance (2015). Another version on a vaster cosmological scale is in Baxter's short story "Artefacts" which may be found in his collection Obelisk (2016). 

There is a biometric scaling formula that deals with the size of animals (in kilograms) in relation to the area of their habitat (in square kilometres). From this formula it is easy to calculate whether animals will undergo dwarfism in the habitat of any given size. 

There are aspects of this question which make it quite tricky to answer. The physics demonstration of charged droplets spiralling around a charged knitting needle gives a reasonable idea of the concept you are trying to consider. Any answer will have to substitute a gravitational field for the droplets' and the knitting needle's electrostatic field. This may not be so straight forward. Anyone who knows I am wrong about this proposition, this please jump in and demolish it. It is suggested that the ringworld will need to be massive to have an Earthlike planet in a spiral orbit around the ringworld. While it can be assumed that the Earthlike planet has a mass equivalent to that of the Earth, that's the easy part. Now to look at the unknown factors in this model. The mass of the ringworld is unknown. The velocity of the Earthlike planet is unknown. The ringworld's mass will determine the gravitational force acting on the planet to keep it orbiting the ringworld. While the velocity of the planet will determine its probability in maintaining its orbit around the ringworld. This suggests that the ringworld will need to be extremely massive indeed. Quite likely, the ringworld's mass will be of the order of a solar mass. That is to say a mass similar to that of the Sun. In which case, the ringworld will need to be made of ultradense matter of the type proposed by Robert L Forward in his speculative article "Far out Physics" (Analog, August 1975, pages 147-166). The planet will have to be moving at a high velocity. This is high compared to normal planetary orbits. The Earth orbits the Sun with a velocity of 30 km/s. However, it isn't easy to devise a way of conceptualizing the relationship between the mass of the ringworld and the velocity of the planet in a spiral orbit. This depends on the distribution of mass along the length of the ringworld and the force it exerts upon an Earth-mass planet so that the planet can be kept in a spiral orbit around the ringworld. One thing that is a worry is the fact that the charged droplets all end up falling on to the charged knitting needle. If the same behaviour applies to a planet in a spiral orbit around a massive ringworld, then the planet end up crashing onto the ultradense surface of the ringworld. While this is exciting and dramatic, it won't be good news for any inhabitants of the planet. Any answer that can come with a solution to the problem proposed by the question will need to devise a model that describes the gravitational and velocity relationship between the ringworld and the planet in a spiral orbit in order to timescale of the planet's orbit and, possibly, the stability of this system. Currently the unknown factors make determining an answer difficult. This answer has explored the limiting factors of the problem, but has not been able to propose a solution to the OP's question. ADDENDUM: The main problem is the shape of the gravitational field of a massive ringworld. With planets & stars the gravitational field is concentrated around a point source. The ringworld's field has an extended source. The planet could have two components of velocity. One the orbital velocity around the star, the other an orbital velocity around the ringworld. That would yield the spiral orbit. Now this consideration suggests a possible solution. Assume that the mass of the ringworld is equal to that of the Earth-mass planet in a strip that is 12,742 kilometres wide. This width is chosen because it the diameter of an Earthlike planet. This gives a reasonable approximation for the minimum gravitational field of the massive ringworld to keep an Earth-mass planet in orbit around it. Assuming it has an orbital velocity of 8 km/s as this is the orbital velocity needed to maintain a satellite in orbit around an Earthlike planet (in this case the strip of a ringworld). The planet orbiting the ringworld will have a heliocentric orbital velocity of 30 km/s, which is exactly the same as planet Earth, and this is only one velocity component of the planet. The other velocity component keeps the planet circulating around the ringworld. The combined velocities result in a spiral orbit around the ringworld. The OP can plug whatever dimensions of the ringworld to establish the size of the orbit around the ringworld. A quick calculation indicates that the mass of the ringworld will be 73,966.237 Earth masses (where 1 AU equals 150,000,00 kilometres). Just divide the circumference of the ringworld by 12,742 because we have assumed each 12,742 kilometre strip has one Earth mass. The planet's orbit around the ringworld will be an high orbit. Possibly, something like a forty-eight hour orbit which will keep the planet far away from the ringworld. This should keep the planet safe. Also, the ringworld will have to have a narrow width. For example, around 12,000 km, that's right, roughly the Earth's diameter. Again this is to make the planet's spiral orbit safe. The radius of the orbit from the ringworld is 220,015.79 km. Offhand it's not certain if this orbit is viable. Note: this assumes the orbital velocity is 8 km/s. 

Reactor Design It doesn't have to be a mistake. It can be a necessary part of something else that is a feature. If the basic recipe for nuclear fusion propulsion is to have a nuclear fusion bomb-like chain reaction and the only thing that normally prevents it from destroying the ship is an active containment system that "squeezes" the reaction so that it happens more gradually, turning off the control mechanism while the chain reaction is in progress will blow up the ship. But, you might have an manual override for the containment system, because sometimes engines experiencing multiple chain reactions of nuclear explosions need some repairs and the idea would be to do so normally, when the fuel for the fusion drive is exhausted, so that the containment system itself doesn't kill the repair crew. It needs to be manual because one of the things that can break is the sensor that says a reaction is still going when actually, the fuel is exhausted (which would otherwise be the fail safe to prevent a shutoff of the containment system when it could self-destruct). Indeed, that's one of the most fragile parts in the system (just like the warning indicators in my car). But, once you have a manual override, you have a manual override and it can be used at inappropriate times, turning an EMO into a self-destruct system. 

Given the date 1050 CE-ish, it is worth noting that most of the "civilized" places in the world at that time didn't have "law" as a concept for the most part. In China (at nearly its modern extent), Europe, West Asia and India, for the most part, there were feudal systems in which the only law was that the lord has absolute power over those below him and was subject only to people above in him the feudal hierarchy. In China's Confucian philosophy, it was the predominant view that rule of good men was a better path to a good society than rule based upon abstract laws. So, there was no equivalent to a set of codified laws or even a British style common law. The only law was that the relevant lord had absolute power to make decisions and resolve disputes, and you hoped that the person who was doing that was good and just and wise. Rule of law was considered an invitation to clever but evil lawyers that who not advance the good of the society to take control. While this might seem foreign, this is basically how almost all modern firms (both businesses and NGOs) handle their internal affairs, and also how most families handle their internal affairs. Abstract, universal laws are tools to allow strangers who are equal in status to deal with each other. It has no application within hierarchical organizations whether they are families or vast feudal nations. 

The Hong Kong dollar is pegged to the US dollar. See @elemtilas's answer for other examples. if your currency is pegged to the AU dollar it will experience the same inflation and valuation as the AU dollar. Ditto the HK and US dollars. The same way any currency does when it changes its basis for rates of exchange. Cross your fingers and hope your economy to strong enough not to make waves. Vide the Australian dollar back in the 1980s when they "floated" the dollar, taking it off a Treasury mandated rate of exchange. 

Wait a bit who numbered the universes? Basically identifying which universe you're in, will only be a matter of practical convenience. Assuming you have a mechanism for transporting persons from any one universe to another, it's only a matter of establishing a beacon or a marker to indicate any given universe. Your home universe will have its own specific beacon. Provided there is a way of navigating between beacons and universes, then intercosmological travellers will know they have left their home universe and arrived in given universe whatever. Where "whatever" can be any identifier you care to use. This can be a number or a name of your choice or it might be based on a distinguishing feature of that universe, for example, this is the universe where skies are green instead of blue or people have orange hair and purple skins. Sorry whoever gave each universe an irrational number may have been a great mathematician, but he was a lousy navigator. Finding your way about among even an infinite set of universes is a problem of navigation not mathematics. So how can someone identify which universe they came from? They will name it their home universe and look for where their home beacon is located. 

The concept is feasible, doable though not now but certainly in future, and offers long-term stability and reliability as an energy source. 

To abduct humans and return them unharmed on a regular basis from a low-tech planet requires a systematic process. The method of transporting the humans from and back to the planet is via a wormhole. The wormhole is transported to a region south of the equator. There is a framework containing the wormhole mouth. This is also a drone vehicle that has a camouflage hull to make its presence undetectable even during daylight. This accompanied by a swarm of surveillance drones and micro-drones. The abduction procedure is simple. The surveillance drones locate sufficiently isolated humans. This can be single persons or small groups or up to whatever size can be handled without detected. Once the target is selected the micro-drones approach silently and unobtrusively inject low doses of tranquillizer to sedate and dull the target into submission. Then an intravenous anaesthetic is administered and as the target falls into a state of unconscious the wormhole drone arrives. Robots send through an automated medevac gurney. The target is placed in the gurney and shunted through the wormhole to arrive at the processing centre. This can be located either on a space-based facility or the moon where the abductors have their base. Once the processing is finished the citizens can be shunted back through the wormhole. The citizens are left to recover from whatever has been used to sedate or anaesthetize them. For efficiency the abductors could use a pair of wormhole carrier drones. One of the wormhole drones is used to extract the abducted citizens. Once it has been removed one citizen or a group of citizens it moves on to the next target. The second wormhole drone is used the return the processed humans to their original location. Once it has done this it moves on to the follow the first wormhole drone and subsequently return the other abductees. The wormholes drones and their swarm of support drones can be controlled by machine intelligences. Robots can be used to move the abductees through the wormhole and carry out all the processing or whatever is done to abductees. Basically this entire process can be carried without attracting too much attention. The bright light experienced by the abductees will be the result of light radiation circulating back and forth through the wormhole. Theoreticians in our era surmise this sort of radiation multiplication would be fatal for anyone traversing a wormhole, but this problem will have been solved in the future epoch where these abductions take place. 

IIRC, the people of the Philippines voted on the question of independence, rather than having it forced upon them. Suppose that a wealthy industrialist with political connections in the Philippines really needed the free trade with the U.S. and tax breaks that were made possible by its current status and feared that he might use it because some random Congressman had been talking about imposing tariffs on trade with the Philippines if it became independent. The industrialist with political connections organizes a vote no on independence campaign and prevails. After all, Puerto Rico which was acquired at the same time is still a Commonwealth within the U.S., and has put the matter to a vote several time and rejected independence and has not been forced to leave the U.S. involuntarily, and the decision in those votes has been driven to a great extent by considerations of free trade, free immigration, the subsidy of not having to finance defense, and tax breaks. 

Each of the smaller successor states to the U.S.A., each with their greater degree of internal political consensus, would be much easier to govern than the entire United States as it exists today. But, diplomacy that was never necessary before between these factions would now become a major preoccupation. Also, some successor groupings would be more tightly bound than others and with the U.S. Civil War's spell discouraging secession broken, internal politics would always be hunted with exit threats (some more credible than others) in the six federal or confederate successors that would be present. The DSA would probably not have a legislative branch or judicial branch that handled private law cases. It would have a high court of military justice and some administrative law courts and would be run by unequal delegates of the eleven member nations a bit like the European Community before it became the E.U. or NATO or the UN Security Council with its peacekeeping units. Its headquarters would be in Denver because of its central location and because the Rocky Mountain Confederacy would be a weak member of the alliance since strong members would be too envious if the headquarters were located in one of the stronger or more unified members of the DSA. Organizationally, the DSA military would be more like NATO with significant distinct member state sourced military units, than like a truly unified military force. It would probably also be underfunded relative to the current military and riddled with distrust between member forces who would fear both a bid for reunification a some coalition of member states and a member state gaining advantage that it could use against another member state. The DSA would probably not be able to maintain a unified front on trade or immigration policy which have always been the source of strong regional divisions in the U.S.A. The Eleven Member States Of The DSA