Your core likes it when all your limbs are close and stable to your body. When you put your arms to the side or behind your head, your core has to work extra hard in order to balance things out. So to answer your question, across your chest will make the exercise easier while behind the head makes it harder and works a bit more stabilizers. Keep in mind, putting them across your chest makes it easier to round your upper back, which is not what you want out of a crunch. Similarly, behind the head can also make you pull with your head, which is also not good. When you do put them behind your head, don't actually touch your head, maybe just with the fingertips, the exercise only benefits from your arms being away from your body, all actually touching your head does is make the exercise lazier and easier to get injured. 

Now, to make an entire workout of this. I would suggest starting with dips (3-4 sets of as many reps as you can do). Then moving onto to the pushups that I described above. After these two, presume your regular pushups. The reason being, that once you do these two predominant lower pec exercises, your lower chest will be exhausted and therefore will have to work harder for regular pushups, hitting them even HARDER! As you get more advanced you can try supersetting the dips with the pushups and etc. 

Please don't forget that you can't "buy" results. You can use all the L-carnitine in the world, which will certainly help a little, but unless you're actually in a caloric deficit, your cardio and supplements won't lead to anything but disappointment. I learned this through my years in high school, you can NOT outtrain a bad diet, so please make sure your diet is appropriate first! For burning fat it's been proven that cardio after the workout is a lot more effective. This is because when you do a workout, you are burning the glycogen that your body has stored via carbohydrates. Since after the workout your glycogen stores are lower than they were when you started, when you do cardio you have to burn less glycogen in order to get into the fat burning zone. This also burns more fat indirectly since the workout itself actually has quite an effect on fat burning. There is something that occurs called post exercise oxygen consumption, which is basically your body using energy in order to repair the muscles you've damaged through the workout, i.e higher metabolic rate. So, if you put more energy into your workout by not doing cardio first, this amount will be higher. So that's 2 very good reasons to do cardio after the workout. As for other supplements for fat burning, I won't give specific ones but there are some proven ingredients for this purpose. The first is the ECA stack, stands for ephedrine, caffeine and aspirin (ive never actually used the aspirin part I don't see a point). Just pure caffeine is also pretty good, it mobilizes fat cells for you to burn them faster. Yohimbe and l-carnitine have also been shown to be effective. Green tea extract helps with insulin levels and apparently has been shown to help metabolism to a very small degree. But in my honest opinion, nothing beats a proper diet with caffeine as the fat burning/ pre-workout supplement in terms of pure simplicity, price, and effectiveness. The rest of the supplements you see have very questionable ingredients using bogus science studies to say false and over hyped claims to make people think they can "buy" fitness. 

To be honest, I actually like what you've done. When I was cutting weight for a powerlifting meet, I did something similar. Now, you say you want to look good (i.e aesthetics), balanced, and be strong. In other words, you want to lose body fat and keep or increase all your strength. Let me break it down a little. To look aesthetic, you need to lose body fat, and hence you need to REALLY get your diet down. I know, everyone will say "yeah yeah I eat healthy its no problem", but no you NEED to have a very good idea of what your diet is going to look like. For example, since you're 171lbs, to lose about 0.5 lbs of body fat per week, you would need around 171x14 = 2400 calories roughly to maintain the weight you're at, and 2400-500= 1900 calories every day in order to drop 0.5lbs weekly. Obviously most of your calories should come from protein in order to keep most of your muscle and strength (1g per lbs of bodyweight should be good to start), and tweak your carbs and fats depending on how well you tolerate them. So basically...really get your diet down first, can't out train a bad diet ever. Second, I see that you like doing 3x5 on the big lifts. This is OK, but you definitely want to change this up and add a bit more volume for these, since they are your bread and butter. For example, try doing 10 x 3 one week, 6x5 the next..etc. If you're gonna train them all twice a week like you laid out, try going "light", and focus on speed work, for example 5-10 sets of 3 with about 50-60% of your 1RM, and the other day, go "heavy", for example 5-6 sets of 5-3 for 75-95% of your 1RM. To sum up, for aesthetics, you need to lose body fat. This means DIET, and retaining muscle mass (best kept through strength training). To get better at the big lifts, you need to just do them. That's it. You want to perfect/improve something? Then you practice it as much as you can, while allowing for proper recovery. Vary up your rep/set schemes, as well as your intensity, and you'll be golden. All of these assistance movements you added, should target your weaknesses in the big 3 lifts. For example, if you're struggling at the lockout of the bench, work on your triceps for 2-4 assistance exercises, instead of just throwing a bunch of random exercises and doing them all for 3x10-12. I suggest reading up on some of Layne Norton's articles (natural PL, bodybuilder) who has a phD in nutrition, they are very informative. 

To conclude and make sure you really understand what I'm trying to say. If you want to do muscleups, you absolutely MUST master the basic fundamental movements first (dips and pullup variations). Do them as often as your body lets you, at LEAST twice a week (maybe once with weights for strength focus, and once focusing on high reps for muscle size and endurance). DON'T rely on the assistance work, practice your sport; do your pullups and dips and do them well, ONCE you stop progressing in these movements, find out where your weaknesses are and incorporate the assistance movements accordingly. For example, if you find out that as you're doing your pullups, your grip is slowing you down, THEN incorporate some dead hangs and grip work. You know the cliche, a chain is only as strong as its weakest link. If you're finding that you can't push yourself up when you get to the top, work on overhead press, work on getting stronger triceps with DIRECT TRICEPS work, close grip bench, anything... I will say it once again, if you want to do muscle ups (i.e an explosive pullup into a dip), then you must do exactly that. Pullups and dips, as best as you possibly can as often as you can. It's the same with any sport, if you wanna get better at golfing, you go to the pitch and you practice your swing, you play golf! 

The importance of weight training as it pertains to fat loss specifically depends on your goals. Weight training, when done properly, will add muscle mass. Increased muscle mass equates to a higher metabolic rate, i.e a faster metabolism. This makes losing fat and keeping it off a lot easier, i.e you can eat more calories relatively, you have more room. Vice versa, when you're in a caloric deficit in order to lose fat, you will undoubtedly lose some muscle in the process. When you lose muscle, your metabolism also slows down and hence fat burning will become harder and harder over time. In order to minimize muscle loss during a fat loss program, you need to signal the muscles that you still need them so your body doesn't burn them for energy and this is achieved through strength training. You will also improve your insulin sensitivity which basically dictates how efficiently you use carbohydrates. A higher insulin sensitivity means the person is more likely to store the carbs as fat and hence you can see how weight training comes in here. Cardio alone IS enough for fat loss, and moreover, you dont even need cardio to lose fat. You just need to have a very good diet, and to be exact, a caloric deficit. But cardio and weight training are tools that help make this process much quicker and easier. Changing your lifestyle is a big part of this.