Mathematics is the formal study of axiomatic systems and that which can be derived from them through logical consequence. The results are purely defined by the logic and the axioms. Historically, mathematics evolved from attempts to study the nouminal world. Therefore a lot of our mathematics are well suited to describing this type of reality. However, there is no reason that we have to use those axiomatic frameworks, and it also is difficult to tell whether or not an axiomatic framework truly represents reality. For instance, I do not need to use a mathematical system that assumes logical consistency. This would allow a statement to be both true and false at the same time. This flexibility may fit reality, in which case reality is a lot harder to understand than we normally think, or it might just be a fun abstract thought process. So, mathematics is not concrete at all. It is made concrete by the way in which it was constructed and how desire to take mathematical constructs and figure out if and how they can be applied to reality. 

_____________ edit _____________ By the way, I found this article about the discrepancy between Wittgenstein and Russell with regard the argument I mentioned; I'm looking for similar sources or other explanations and with regard to Ramsey's misurnderstanding as well. 

Is it correct to say that the problem Russell is focusing on is that of the impossibility, for logic, of representing the logical form? Could you explain to me more specifically in which sense the solution provided does solve the problem I quoted? 

But Kant also consideres transcendental logic to be a doctrine, so I cannot see in which sense he "doesn't speak about the subject in the limits of the world", since Logic is a theory and therefore I'm allowed to speak about it. Given the considerations below, and/or more suggestions, if any -> In which sense Wittgenstein is to be considered a kantian thinker with regard to metaphysics? 

The final question is the "easiest" to answer. Our current method of determining whether or not a computer is "conscious" is to see if we can tell it apart from a human. This test is called the Turing Test. If, after talking to both computers running the AI and actual people, we cannot tell who is who, we say that the AI has passed the Turing Test. Is this test really able to determine if an AI is conscious? No. But then again, we cannot really tell whether or not anyone we are talking to is really conscious. Will an AI ever be created which at least appears conscious? I think so. The processing power of computers is still evolving rapidly. Machine learning has certainly made great strides. But it will still take a while before true AI (what is not referred to as artificial general intelligence) to come into being. As for what is needed, that is a harder question to answer. There are a number of theories on the topic. My personal theory is related to language. I think that we need to have an AI that has an outer voice and an inner voice, much the same way that we talk to ourselves to work through problems. I also think that we need a better test. The current Turing Test is either an all or nothing result. It does not tell us how far off the mark we are or in what direction we need to move. 

Given the following assumptions: 1) When Wittgenstein speaks about meaningful propositions he does refer to propositions of natural sciences. 2) About the problem of the perfection of language, he believes that at least a part of ordinary language is already perfectly ordered, as well as propositions of logic, if we refer to that part which has been purified from methaphisical assumptions and other nonsensical propositions. I want to ask-> Are propositions of natural sciences to be considered propositions of natural language? 

I'm doing a comparison between the Tractatus Logico Philosophicus and the Philosophical Investications. I want to remark the difference between the solid formal edifice built in the former, in accordance with the tautologies of logic and the necessity of complying with the classical principles, the mechanical decisions, the having a reference for each one of the constituents of the propositions and so on, AND the less solder and less austere multiperspectival scheme of the latter. Since the adjective "nomothetic" has to do with laws, I would like to use it to define the tractarian approach (focused on the necessary laws of logic) but I'm not sure if it is the appropriate one. My sentence would be somewhat as follows: "There is a transition, in Wittgenstein's philosophy, from an univocal and nomothetic viewpoint to a multiperspectival and more flexible one". 

I don't think that Kant overtly elaborates on the arrow of psychological time as such, even though it resides implicitly in his descriptions of the series of events in time. On a rough characterization, Kant seems to hold the conditional relation between the events to be irreflexive and transitive. This relation would arguably determine the direction of the psychological arrow for Kant. To answer your question, I do think that it can be said that Hawking is expounding upon Kant's view of time as a part of the Transcendental Aesthetic of Apperception, but on strenuous grounds. At least judging from your summary of Hawking's position, it doesn't seem like he is picking upon any particulars that would indicate that the theory of time he is elaborating on is Kantian. That is because there is so much more to Kant's theory of time than just its psychological aspect. The modern cognitive science holds multiple theories regarding the psychological perception of time, so, given the generality of his statements, Hawking could have just been 'refining' upon them. To digress, I also don't think that Hawking succeeds in merging (1) and (2). For, suppose our brains perform the thinking (computation) and that in turn increases the entropy. Thus, the occurrence of thinking can be correlated with the increase in the entropy. However, that doesn't establish the fact that our thoughts present themselves to us as moving in the same direction as entropy. I'm not sure if this counter-argument works, so any comments would be appreciated. 

In the Tractatus Logico- Philosophicus there is a tension between the aim of achieving a language perfectly ordered, with regard to natural language, and the evidence that the latter is not really completely ordered, because it contains pieces which are nonsense (since some of its linguistic expressions don't comply with the rules of the extensional formal scheme built in the Book in accordance with the picture theory). This tension was probably one of the reasons why Wittgenstein changed his philosophy in his intermediate period and started thinking not in terms of syntax and semantics but in terms of pragmatics. This is connected to Russell's introduction and Ramsey's review of the Tractatus, since the tension explained above was underestimate by both; more precisely they misunderstood Wittgenstein while assuming that his logical system is not perfect and may be improved: Wittgenstein actually did not assume logic to be nor a system neither a doctrine (TLP 6.13 "Logic is not a doctrine but a reflection of the world. Logic is transcendental") and therefore it couldn't be the language perfectly ordered he was referring to in the Tractatus. The language he was referring to was the natural language instead. In other terms, logic is a mirror image of the world, not a raffiguration of it in the sense of the picture theory. Given the backround above, I would like to compare more specifically the different ways Russell and Ramsey did treat the problems of the perfection of language and logical language, with regard to the discrepancies between them and the very Wittgenstein viewpoint explained above: