Also, take a look at this image and house-plan for a house called The Four Gables. This is a design where, clearly, there is no possible place for a fifth gable. Each direction of the house is already taken; above the gables, the house ends in a single point. Hypothetically, you might stretch the house out, add another story above the crossed gables ("Perhaps they would hurt her so deeply that she could at last ascend to the fifth gable"), but that would seen like very odd architecture, and less likely to be described as a four-gabled house to begin with. Possibly More? Google shows me that additional configurations with four gables are entirely possible, e.g. this one, in the gardens of Burrswood Hospital: 

This could be read simply: before the women convened together, the third woman lived in a different house, and that house had only one gable. But knowing the story's conclusion, knowing that magically-appearing gables are an option, and knowing the third woman's unique significance, does offer us an intriguing reading: rather than the fifth gable being a magical feature of the house or the coven, each woman brings a gable into existence. We eventually learn that the third woman is the linchpin; the other women are primarily there to cause enough suffering, that the third woman will be able to give them a child. This casts the above paragraph in a very different light: not that the third woman was one among many, and lived in a different place. Rather, she had a unique ability, and gathered others around her, in order to be capable of actually putting it to use. So there is reason to see this description as significant, see the third woman as she was as being significant, and guess that it might be the same house. The other component in this reading is: the story is deliberately misleading you. Until the end, the women appear to be of a kind -- all of them barren; none of them able to help; none of them able to carry infants to term. The story appears to be Marigold trying one after the other, all of them inevitably failing, Marigold growing more despairing -- just as the women have. This story pattern, given the title of "The Fifth Gable", might be pointing in a clear direction: that Marigold, too, will despair, and join the women, getting a gable of her own. (On my first readthrough, her constant baked goods seemed like it might make for her eventual modus operendi -- crafting children out of dough, perhaps.) So that's an example where there's a strong implication that the women create the gables. Further support for this can be found in the third woman's line: 

Strictly speaking, it is not possible to determine whether Shakespeare invented the words that had not been recorded before they appeared in his works. It is possible that at least some of these words circulated in spoken language before Shakespeare picked them up. Of course, I am not claiming that Shakespeare invented none of the words that were first recorded in his works. Typesetting errors may be a hint, but these could also result from bad handwriting. (Sidenote: Typesetters did not necessarily work from a manuscript by Shakespeare. They might work from the author's foul papers, a fair copy, a prompt book, or in some cases, especially many plays in the First Folio, from an earlier printed version.) According to The Shakespeare Miscellany (Penguin, 2005) by David Crystal (a linguist) and his son Ben Crystal (an actor), 

The metre in Macbeth is already fairly irregular but the lines spoken by the Witches or "Weird Sisters" still stand out. In Act 1, scene 3, Banquo describes the witches as follows (quoted from Open Source Shakespeare): 

In A Song of Ice and Fire and the television series Game of Thrones, Bronn is a low-born "sellsword" (i.e. a mercenary) who, in the first few seasons of the television series, he is coupled with the high-born Tyrion Lannister. When Tyrion Lannister flees King's Landing, Bronn starts to assist Jaime in military campaigns. Illyrio Mopatis is introduced in the first episode in the series as a wealthy man in Pentos. But long before that, according to this History and Lore video Illyrio was actually a mercenary who took Varys under his wings, who was at that time a young thief; together they started a scheme that made both of them rich. Varys later leaves Illyrio to become an adviser to Aerys Targaryen in King's Landing. So there are a few parallels (two couples; two sellswords, both of whom eventually become rich) and a few things that are inverted (Varys was in the service of former sellsword Illyrio; sellsword Bronn in the service of Tyrion Lannister). So here's my question: do George R. R. Martin's novels draw attention to such parallels and, if yes, what are they? 

As far as I can tell, this seems not to be quite a formal, well-defined term. Rather, it's the use of an iconic cultural touchstone as shorthand for issues and tropes that come up often - and, just as the original creation can be interpreted in different ways, can be admired or criticized, people's use of the phrase "Devdas syndrome" seems to depend on their own interpretation of the story. Devdas is a tragedy -- rich Devdas and middle-class Parvati are in love, but the match is prevented by family, class, and culture. Devdas goes into a self-destructive spiral of melancholy and alcohol. "The Devdas Phenomenon", by Corey K. Creekmur, summarizes: 

A proposal for a possible connection - tenuous, but no more than those you've suggested: Nurses work at hospitals, which are full of machines and medical instruments. Think of patients hooked up to IVs and beeping machines of every shape and size -- this is what nurses deal with constantly; it's a lot of what their care for patients look like. Now, medical instrumentation isn't quite "parts of old radios and tractors," and have more beeping than "the spinning of propellors." But the essential idea that machinery is what sustains and creates life, sounds like a conclusion you can certainly choose to draw. 

The later quote is much more straightforward -- it's clear that we're talking about somebody being analogous to God, and not actually being God itself. The statement here is that, somewhere in the infinity of the library, there must exist a perfect and accurate index. The Librarian who stumbles across it may be no different or better than any other Librarian -- but by having discovered the true index, he will be able to find anything in the Library he desires. This, in this story, is akin to Godhood. This is a complex and unusual view of godhood -- one in which godhood is a thing of beauty and inspiration, the idea of finding order in chaos, and also almost impossible to touch or come near, because the library is so vast that the god, or the book, cannot be found. 

As a student, I read metafictional novels such as Wide Sargasso Sea by Jean Rhys and If on a winter's night a traveler by Italo Calvino. When I checked the Wikipedia article Metafiction, I found, much to my surprise, that it lists The Lord of the Rings as an example. The Wikipedia article The Lord of the Rings does not explain why this trilogy would be metafiction. So, can anyone explain why these books would be examples of metafiction? 

One easily recognizes the names Azog and Bilbo. (Azog is actually white in the film version; his role in the novel is much smaller.) Tolkien was professor of Anglo-Saxon, but the above example don't derive from Old English (Old English origins of dictionary entries are always mentioned in Skeat's Glossary). So my question is: did J. R. R. Tolkien, or possibly his son Christopher Tolkien, ever write about how he drew inspiration for certain character names from literature written in Early Modern English? 

One should read this quote with the preceding lines in mind, for example, when Beatrice says to Benedick: 

In the old Nordic tradition, e.g. the Hrólfs saga kraka, which may have influenced Saxo, violence and revenge often requires little "justification" and can easily lead to a cycle of violence. Family feuds and the quest for revenge are common themes in e.g. Old Norse literature. In Saxo's version of the story, Amleth feigns madness to shield himself from his uncle Fengo or Fengi, who has killed his father Horwendil and married his mother Gerutha (Amleht's father and mother, of course; this isn't Oedipus). Fengo gets suspicious and sends Amleth to England with two escorts (Rosencrantz and Guildenstern in Shakespeare's version). The two escorts are carrying a letter instructing the King of England to immediately kill Amleth. Amleth discovers the letter and replaces it with another one ordering the execution of the two escorts and asking for the hand of English princess in marriage. (There are a number of important differencees between Saxo's and Shakepseare's versions. For example, in Saxo's version, Fengo's guilt is known from the start, and there is no ghost demanding vengeance.) In Saxo's version, Amleth's revenge does not depend on overcoming moral or psychological barriers but on overcoming barriers that are of a practical nature. The same appears to apply to Amleth's plotting of the death of his two escorts. It is not a matter of "justification" but what you can get away with. Shakespeare may have known Saxo's version only through François de Belleforest's version and/or through the hypothetical Ur-Hamlet. For simplicity's sake, I will treat de Belleforst, the Ur-Hamlet and Shakespeare's Hamlet (writting in 1600–1601) as belonging to the same period. For moral views on revenge, I'll refer to Francis Bacon's essay "Of Revenge". Bacon's essay starts with the following words: "Revenge is a kind of wild justice; which the more man's nature runs to, the more ought law to weed it out. For as for the first wrong, it doth but offend the law; but the revenge of that wrong putteth the law out of office." This reflects a totally different view on social order than Saxo's story. But the next sentences have greater relevance to Hamlet's plot against Rosencrantz and Guildenstern (my emphasis):