It's a bit unfair to take a word like god, the semantic of which is fairly understood, and demote it to something that only constitutes a first cause. What's the point doing this? The concept already has a title - first cause. Imagine I walk in the street and this girl walks to me and say: 

On the nature of science As a closing remark, I hope we have a shared understanding that science is not concerned with deriving at absolute and independent truths - science is about adopting the most rigorous tools at our disposal to approximate patterns. 

(The skeptics will surely have their say on this, but this is manageable alright.) The commutative low for addition is another axiom that serves us right. Anyhow, with circular reasoning being nonsense, and infinite regress out of the question, all you have shown is that arguments must stop at some stop condition. Let's put this to the test: 

OK. Seems like a reasonable argument, but note that this in itself depends on an axiom - that there are only 3 ways an argument can go. But lets assume the 3 way axiom is reasonable. Now you argue: 

It really depends on what you mean by "stronger". Your question seems to be looking for a way to make two very different concepts of belief somehow comparable. There are a few ways to go about looking at that, but we first need to get clear on the two different versions of "belief" in your question. You "believe" axioms for the sake of argument. Let's call this belief(1). You generally "believe" in God in a different way - you don't just accept God's existence for the sake of argument, you accept it as an impersonal reality. We'll call this belief(2). Belief(1) is systems dependent - when you move from Euclidean to non-Euclidean geometry, the axioms change. They haven't been falsified, but largely because you also never made a truth claim about them. You simply said that these assumptions look very reasonable and we need them to do interesting things with bearing on reality, so we'll treat them as though they were true, sidestepping altogether the question of whether they really are true. Belief(2) is different. You don't just treat the claim as true for the purposes of doing something else. Belief(2) is an impersonal, systems independent truth claim. It's more impactful in that you're not just treating the belief as the foundation for an extended thought experiment. In some ways, this makes it more sturdy, in others, less. Now, as I say, there are a few different ways of comparing these two to see which is stronger, and it depends what you mean by "stronger." I'll give three, but I don't claim this as an exhaustive listing by any stretch of the imagination. First, we could consider the capacity of each for impact. In this respect, belief(2) is pretty clearly stronger than belief(1). Because belief(1) is systems dependent, it has no real facility to reach beyond the system into which it is bound. It has impact on the (intellectual) world only so long as its system is widely accepted. Belief (1) may give us new ways of looking at things, but it ultimately makes no claims about the way things really are. As such, it has relatively little power to change the world. This is not to say that its power to change is small, merely that by comparison to belief(2), belief(1) generally won't change as much as fast or for as long. Closely tied to that first method of comparison is a second, the commitment each requires from adherents. Belief(1) is easily abandoned. Once the system to which it is tied falls out of favor or ceases to be useful for a current project, belief(1) can be left behind quickly and easily. Students learn to do this as their intellectual life gains complexity and they discover that principles which once seemed sure bedrock are actually more like sand traps. Belief(2), by contrast, requires significant commitment. It requires more intellectual and moral investment, more time to create, and more time to destroy. It would be appropriately cognized, I think, under the name "worldview", in this respect, and many people have belief(2) about things like religion or politics. There's a reason civil discourse steers clear of those two items in the interests of remaining civil. The contrast here may be nicely brought out by considering what it might look like to have belief(1) concerning one's political views. Consider, for instance, the explanation of a senior civil servant to a junior civil servant concerning the nature of his beliefs: "I have served eleven governments in the past thirty years. If I had believed in all their policies, I would have been passionately committed to keeping out of the Common Market, and passionately committed to going into it. I would have been utterly convinced of the rightness of nationalising steel. And of denationalising it. And renationalising it. On capital punishment, I'd have been a fervent retentionist and an ardent abolishionist. I would've been a Keynesian and a Friedmanite, a grammar school preserver and destroyer, a nationalisation freak and a privatisation maniac; but above all, I would have been a stark, staring, raving schizophrenic." (Yes, Minister, "The Whiskey Priest"). The senior civil servant very clearly holds his political views as belief(1) in the interests of being able to do his job. Most people are not so flexible. The third way we might compare the two is in fallibility, and here, belief(1) shines. Because it's not making a truth claim at all, just presenting a hypothetical set of principles for the world to see what comes of it, belief(1) is basically unfalsifiable. Belief(2), on the other hand, is making a truth claim, and usually a very strong one. It therefore can be falsified. Belief(1) is the less prone to being wrong, but largely because it doesn't try to be right. All of which is to say, you've asked a very complicated question to which no simple answer exists. 

This is an infinite regression alright, but it's nonsense as well - humans don't create other humans. Biological processes 'do'. We are merely hosts for a biological phenomena. You have to be careful when using the word create. Does a carpenter create chairs? Language is fuzzy and abstract - a carpenter merely converts one form to another. The end result can be seen as having been 'created', but really, its just about cutting wood and assembling it in a particular way. Now you'd be a famous person had you managed to prove that infinite regress is impossible. For all we know, perhaps the most empirically tested paradigm we have is cause and effect - break it once and science will be reduced to a pile of nonsense. All these talks about initial singularity are based on general relativity, which is by many seen as fit to explain the early universe as Newtonian physics was explaining the orbit of mercury (both are phenomenal theories of unprecedented utility, but neither is all-encompassing). Notwithstanding, lets play along - lets just assume that infinite regress is nonsense. Stop condition A stop condition can be many things. An axiom or justified belief, for example. Now stop conditions are not evil. In fact, they are highly practical. Consider this: 

Mill would, I think, say that yes, we must account both the immediate unhappiness and the subsequent happiness in our calculations. Bear in mind that Mill has a way of balancing pleasures and assessing which is better, i.e. more desirable - those who have experienced both vote on which is better/higher. This means that pleasures, even if not quantifiable, are nonetheless comparable. Moreover, one can (and really must) address both the immediate unhappiness and the subsequent happiness as separate in calculating the best outcome - these are both outcomes of the same action, and no action is so simple that it has only good or only bad outcomes. Every outcome of every action is always mixed, so a utilitarian calculus really must be able to deal with mixed situations, and Mill's can. The key is to separate the good from the bad and value each individually, then weigh them against one another. So, when someone's best happiness is achieved through momentary initial suffering, Mill would very simply weigh the likely initial suffering against the likely subsequent happiness, and if the happiness accreted over time is of a greater magnitude than the unhappiness in the immediate term, it is, on balance, a good thing to do. 

Takeaway: for an argument to be reasonable, the premises have to be reasonable, and the argument valid. Infinite regression Let me give you an argument to tinker of: 

Impossibility If it is impossibility we debate, then cause and effect couldn't serve as a better example - we have all the evidence in the world such principle is in effect. We haven't got a single evidence that there is an effect without a cause. In other words, infinite regress seems much more reasonable (possible) than any 'natural' stop condition. The same principle is in effect elsewhere (forgive a few leaps): 

OK, we have a stop condition, it's even god itself. But is the argument valid? Is it reasonable? Now consider this argument: 

Hume has argued the paradox of miracles in his famous Of miracles. The short version goes like this: 

It's 3AM, so I'm unsure how much sense this makes. Probably not much. But I hope this helps. Possibility vs practicality In light of your comments, I'd like emphasis a point that so far may have been implicit. I believe your line of reasoning is this: If we'd have to regress ad infinitum, we'd get nowhere. This is absolutely right. To make it as bold as I can, knowledge depends on stop-conditions. Euclid's proof of the infinitude of primes is a proof alright, but only for being based on some mathematical axioms, which are its stop condition. We must stop somewhere on our way in, in order to get results back out. But this doesn't make infinite regress impossible, it is simply impractical. Alice By way of analogy, consider you walk in the woods and suddenly see a door. You open it and see stairs. A white rabbit pops from the bushes and says: