All of this to say that backloading a contract is not always a negative, if you have a limited payroll and a limited window to compete then you might want to use a backloaded deal in order to be even more competitive than a balanced deal would allow you to be. However this comes with some serious risk if you either do not manage to win a world series or if you manage to stay competitive longer than you planned. This is a challenging business situation and I do not see this as quite a cut and dried situation as the media sometimes makes it out to be. However, it can go incredibly badly if it is done poorly or too often (see 2010-13 Chicago Cubs). 

From the looks of it, this was initially recorded as an error by the official scorer, but was reviewed and changed to a hit at a later date. 

I'll start with the why. The reason that there are so many Latin American baseball players is manifold. It's part socioeconomic, part lack of professional sports opportunities in their home countries and it's part the amount of money, time and effort various Major League Baseball (MLB) organizations have put into recruiting and signing Latin born players. Similar efforts are going on in Korea and other Asian countries, however they have not met with the same success, probably because there is not quite the same rich history of baseball tradition in those countries (although it's coming) Let's start with the socioeconomic/lack of pro-sports opportunity issue. In most places in Latin America, if you want to play pro sports you play soccer (futbol). It's the only major organized professional sport in several countries, and the only one besides baseball in most of the others. However, the salaries are not like professional sports in the US or Europe, and while they are a decent living, most truly amazing players in soccer or in baseball quickly find themselves whisked away to better competition in the US or Europe. While Latin America is progressing economically, many of these countries have huge areas of poverty. For kids with athletic talent sports is a great way to get out of where you are and find a better life (same can be said of many low income folks in the US as well). Baseball, like soccer is an easy sport to find equipment for (you don't kneed a glove or a real bat, just a ball and a broom handle if you really want to play). With low barriers to entry it can become a fun game for kids to play in the street and they can get quite good. Baseball teams have capitalized on this desire to make a better life, and the abundance of athletic children with limited opportunities in their home countries and have opened academies in several Latin American countries (Puerto Rico (I know Us territory, but still), the Dominican and Venezuela are the primary ones), and have begun recruiting kids at very young ages. Children as young as 16 may be signed by MLB teams. Until the current Collective Bargaining Agreement (CBA) MLB has been fairly lax as to how much money these players can be given (the new CBA now has a pool of money that may be spent on international signings of players under 19). Because theses players do not have to go through a draft process they are free agents and may go to the highest bidder. Recent young Cuban defectors have signed for millions of dollars upfront. So the why, in my opinion, is a combination of lack of opportunities in their home countries, combined with a significant investment on the part of MLB teams and also the ability for teams to freely sign these players rather than force them through the draft (although this part is going away gradually). Finally lets get some history. Obviously for the above to have happened there has to be some history here. Baseball came to Latin America in the late 1800s starting in Cuba and Venezuela shortly thereafter. According to the Hispanic Baseball Museum Cubans have been playing in the United States since 1871. And the first Hispanic to play in the Major Leagues was Louis Castro in 1902. So we have well over 100 years of Hispanic players playing major league baseball and doing very well doing it. Significantly, black Latinos did not start playing in the Major Leagues until 1949. According to the timeline MLB clubs have been routinely recruiting in Latin America since Cincinnati around 1911. The first baseball academy in the Dominican did not open until 1973 (although I suspect they opened in other places much earlier). There are numerous Hispanic Hall of Famers. And many more successful players that have not made it to the hall of fame. Based on this, and the fact that MLB teams continue to invest heavily in Latin America, it looks like MLB's investments in Latin America are both historic and seemingly well founded. 

A lot of grip will resist drifting, but will also allow you to catch better on the road surface allowing you to regain control quickly after a slide through a turn. As far as the stunt in the movie, I haven't seen it, but IF you has a sufficiently high rate of speed, a sufficiently round and smooth course, I'd have to say that you could slide all the way around a circle, however it would be very difficult as if you lost the slide you'd be in big trouble. Final note: Drifting is incredibly dangerous as it involves losing control of your vehicle, it may also damage your vehicle, please do not try this at home. 

As far as the no-hit bid, he would be eligible for credit on a no-hitter or combined no-hit bid in extra innings provided that he or a reliever continued to pitch no-hit ball. if a hit is allowed, even in extras the no-hitter is lost. 

The "Front Office" is the teams management, this is usually the owner, general manager and other executives who are involved in organization level decisions. The term "Front Office" or "Front of the House" are the people who interact with customers, vendors and in general the public. So the front office in sports are the people who directly interact with other teams' management, the fans and other business considerations. 

This is basically a restatement of the previous rule I quoted, but it makes this case more explicit. So the long story short is, if you're a runner and grab an in play ball when there is still a play available, both you and the runner will likely be called out. I've checked the logical places for a rule to be discussed about what a runner could do during a dead ball, and neither section 5 nor section 7 specifically call out any particular rule to this effect. However, I could see it going against an "unwritten" type of rule of which baseball has many (I don't know that it explicitly does). Typically a violation of unwritten rules are considered etiquette violations rather than having in game consequences. 

Lets see if we can find some corroborating evidence to this theory. (changes like this can be made mid-game or after the game by the scorer, or be protested by either team later). Fox Sports has a scoring correction tracker that supports this: 

Recently Jonathan Vilma was sidelined by the NFL for the entire 2012 season. Vilma is an impact player on the Saints' defense. What measurable impact does a full season suspension (or injury, like in the case of Suggs' with the Ravens) have on a team? 

I've noticed that sometimes an offensive lineman will seem to get down in his stance but then stand back up to listen to the Quarterbacks' audible. But when he is in his stance and merely twitches its called for a false start. When can an offensive lineman move and when is it a false start? 

If there is still a force in effect (the batter is running towards first and has not been put out), then the runner is not entitled to first base and can be tagged out. This is more specifically laid out in 7.08e