Edit: It is a McKinley. The difference is the padded hip belt vs the frame extending to the side of the hips. The backpack in OPs picture features the padded hip belt. $URL$ Previous post: It is the D2 or McKinley. I can not spot a difference in the picture and description below. I think they revamped the pack at some point, newer images of the D2 show a slightly different version of the backpack. 

The basis is indeed "find a trail and run it". Or for fell running "found a summit and run up and down it". I like to stress this first of all, because all the well-meant (and very sound!) advice often makes it sound harder than it really is. In addition to the other great answers, which brought you a lot of very useful information, I'd like to add some more specific English aspects, because that is where your profile puts you and because you also asked about fell running. 

My personal preference is for gasoline (yes, even ethanol added). I've never had to clean any of my stoves since I started using it. Given that the quality is pretty closely monitored and regulated in the US this is an extremely consistent, clean burning, and cheap option. It's also extremely easy to find... It should be noted that the "white gas" available for purchase in lots of stores is pretty similar to low octane gasoline, but is priced at 17$ per gallon instead of 2.25$. In my experience it burns about the same (maybe just a tiny bit better), but any marginal advantage isn't worth the cost. Octane of the gasoline used doesn't seem to make any difference, nor does 10% ethanol. 

In the Ardennes there are at present 14 places. Nine of them are in the Viroinval-Chimay region (south of the provinces Namur-Hainaut) and five are in the Parc Naturel des Deux Ourthes in the Luxembourg province. A site that gives a very good overview of such places (for all of Belgium) is $URL$ (in Dutch). On this site you can also find information about hiking trails in the area. If you google, the magic words are "aire de bivouac". That should give you all the information you want. 

This depends on the state, and the kind of course. In some states you don't need a license any more, or could even purchase a tourist-license valid for few weeks. The course can take just a few days, with a final test at the end, but sometimes it is difficult to find a course in a certain time frame. It can happen that you will have to wait a month, or even more, to be able to take a course at all. If your brother actually has a course with a fitting time frame, he should be able to tell you how long the course is, ask him. Otherwise you should check out which laws apply the the state, when courses are offered, and how long they take. 

In my experience, the biggest culprits for leaking fuel are bad o-rings, but replacement o-rings of the wrong size and loose caps have also played a part. Over-tightened caps can also be a problem especially if the o-rings are a bit off size. Another consideration is the amount of fuel spilled on the stove or canister during fueling and use. Especially if one fills the stove and then immediately puts it into the car. Solutions are to make sure all o-rings are the right size and in good condition. Then make sure everything's tightened down and the outsides of canisters are washed off. (This last is especially true when using unleaded or white gas as fuel because spills are likely.) For long car trips I also have occasionally put stoves and fuel bottles in a rubbermaid type plastic box. (Also my stoves usually live in the thule when possible.) 

All these things are important, however there are some nice quality-of-life features, or gimmicks you could look into: My head torch allows me to lock it by holding the power button for some seconds. To unlock it, I have to press it for some seconds again. No more empty batteries after your torch lit up the inside of your backpack for 20 hours straight! It even has a battery life indicator - very useful! If the angle of the lamp is adjustable, you can more easily do stuff in front of your face, or the normal height, when you are tying knots, or do anything that requires your light to not shine at something at 90 degrees of your forehead. I never realized how much I love this feature, until I didn't have to temporarily move my crappy old head torch down to my neck to do something in arms reach below nose level. For a more "serious" use, you might want to have a strobe function to defend yourself, or signal SOS. 

When melting snow to obtain drinking water, what is the most efficient strategy if one needs more water than results from one pan of snow? Most efficient for me is using a minimum of fuel, not necessary the fastest way. I can think of multiple strategies: 

Is there a camping stove that works with fuel you are allowed to take on a plane? Often I fly somewhere without possibility to buy any fuel for my stove after landing. In those cases I take an Esbit stove with me. The Esbit tablets are not allowed on a plane, but don't stand out when going through the scanner so they almost always pass without a problem. However, illegal is illegal and I would feel better having an option that will not get confiscated when detected. Does such an option exist? I realise that there is a very bad fit between the words "flammable" and "airplane", but hoped that someone knows an option that I didn't think about. Border condition: regular commercial flights where you have to go trough a security check at an international airport. Liquid fuels and camping gas are usually mentioned in the pictograms with forbidden objects. The time that my Esbit tablets were caught the discussion was over when the flammable icon on the package was spotted. Problems that I've encountered with gas/diesel: 

To answer your first question, it doesn't matter very much whether you put the prussik on the same strand as your dcd or on the free strand. One reason it might be considered safer is that putting the prussik on the other strand would allow the other rope to prussik to catch you if the line you were repelling on somehow failed. As this event is extremely unlikely the gain in safety is marginal. To answer the second question about double strand raps, it depends. If you'd like to pull your rap line (a common thing in climbing and canyoneering, very uncommon in caving) you wouldn't want to tie a knot in it. If you're planning on ascending the line later you probably would want to tie a knot in it. All this said, the common strategy caving is to fix a single line to the anchor. While in climbing the rope is usually doubled over so that it can be retrieved. The setup you've described isn't super common which is why the answer is a bit wishy-washy. 

Unless there is a certain terminology for "backside" plugs, this is a plug (or as I know it: a wobbler. No idea which term is more commonly used around where you live). Wikipedia Link I had to bust out my detective hat and pipe to find information on these ones, but I stumbled upon this: an article about this bait They are(?)/were made by bomber, and nowadays you find them as Arbogast Mudbugs. (Note the two notches vs one notch in the bomber) Now on to plugs as I understand you question being for plugs in general, not your bait specificly. There are some different types, some with shovel, some without. The ones without shovel usually sink, and depend on you to perform, you twitch your rod and work the bait to make it "jump" through the water like an injured fish. With some skill you can walk it through the water impressively (you make make it do sharp 90 or even 180 degree turns). But I don't want to focus on these baits, lets focus on the baits with this "shovel". The shovel can determine how deep your lure runs at certain reeling speeds. These lures typically float (or suspend in the water), and only start to dive once you start reeling them in. You can make it more attractive by adding some twitches again, sometimes you even have to. But usually it "wobbles" from side to side, which attracts fish. To answer your questions specifically: