This isn't to say I agree or disagree; I find it helpful to understand that focusing on the demand side cannot help if we have a supply shock. To my knowledge, the best preparation for a supply shock, like the California Drought leading to food prices quadrupling (ONLY in theory), would be to have a supply surplus saved or ready in case of such events. 

So when they confiscated land from the land owners in Zimbabwe, why wasn't there a HUGE boost to the economy? Again, this would be like confiscating Steve Jobs' wealth (a lot of which was in Apple) when he was alive and redistributing it, thinking that the overall effect will be good, when what you've really done is stifle innovation. A good example of wealth redistribution is Zimbabwe. As you can read, it turned out very well! Another good example is the Soviet Union - there has never been a more equal society as far as wealth (excluding bureaucrats, of course). 300% inflation and many people starved to death. If wealth is a product of skill, redistributing wealth may discourage skill; and in the long run, it won't be pretty. At least the two examples I provided show some pretty significant inflation. 

There are likely two major (and closely related) reasons for this: First- stock prices aren't purely reflective of what a company is worth today, instead, stock prices reflect the expected future prices as well. Events like this, which increase uncertainty and instability, might change expectations about future stock prices. This is then incorporated into current stock prices, which leads to a fall. Second- a lot of automated trading algorithms incorporate news keywords into their pricing structures (for example), which can lead to reactions based on the headlines themselves. These can then create a feedback loop with other funds, like ETFs, which trade based on volatility indexes. I'm sure there are other reasons as well, (perhaps the breakdown in the summit led some traders to reevaluate the relative bargaining power of the US and China in their upcoming summit, which in their mind might lead to an increased likelihood of a trade war, as a hypothetical), though those two can explain many large fluctuations! 

I came across this post by Krugman and I think for those interested in learning about these different theories that the below quote helps when thinking about supply shocks and Keynesian economics: 

I agree that this question is too broad, but here's a perspective: much of the criticism of modern capitalism is from people who've been in the system. What about people who haven't been in the system, like in Vietnam or China, where they haven't been under capitalism in the past? Do they tell us what we're missing out on? One study I've seen all over: 

I realize this question might be too old to reply to, but it was just bumped to the homepage. But anyway: I think other answers might be missing the forest for the trees a bit. Most basic economic models could be defined with either "stocks" or "flows" as you've defined them. Ultimately, it's about measuring productivity in a generalized production function. You can define the inputs however you'd like- labor could be defined in "full time employee equivalents," or "hours worked," or a vareity of other things. Capital, as many other answers have noted, is incredibly hard to pin down in some cases. That said, it can often be defined and measured through depreciation, investment, "hours of machine X used," "number of tractors used," etc.. More generally, both are pinned down by their relative factor income shares: an early estimation of which led to the creation of the Cobb-Douglas Production Function, which is an instructive example. For that, you define labor as the number of person hours worked (so if you worked for two companies, four hours each, it would count as 8 total "units" of labor), and capital as the total value of all machinery, buildings, equipment, etc.. You then look at how productive resources are allocated between the two, and back out income shares. For this, you never needed to really touch the "stock vs flow" issue, you just had to make sure your definitions were consistent. 

This is over looking the fact that much of the wealth is invested in companies who hire people. As an example, if 90% of Warren Buffett's wealth was in Berkshire, and he had to liquidate to re-distribute his wealth, that would have an affect on the economy, some inflationary, some deflationary. But it would also cause some people to lose their jobs; that money invested is providing jobs - it's lending to a business, which in turn hires people, buys resources, etc. 

This is part of the reason why this question is too broad. We could say that while some systems abandon it, others will use it. I also don't know if a capitalist-like system didn't exist before Adam Smith, as from reading some Roman history, there seems to be times where there was a merchant class featuring open markets with entrepreneurs where they would meet the needs of those they traded with and while they certainly didn't call it capitalism (I assume), like we do, seems very similar. I believe Plato pointed out that civilizations often move from one system to another, like Oligarchy to Democracy, before reverting, so the very nature of a Meritocracy may be a transitional stage in a civilization's history. 

Interesting observation, but I think the answer is partly explained by several factors: First, any calculation of real GDP would eliminate the year-over-year variance that could be due to taste shocks leading to significant price changes. Second, I think your observation is partially true, however. What makes an iPhone more valuable than an old Motorola smartphone? Sure, some inputs might be slightly different, but the "production technology" of the iPhone makes it such that we (in general) do value it higher. While some measures like CPI try to account for some of those issues by considering benchmarks for certain performance criteria (like processing power, memory, etc.), in the end, there absolutely is some taste-based component. I think it's partly accounted for by aggregation, as you mentioned, but I think the third point is that there's a bit of a disconnect between what value is trying to measure, and what GDP is interested in. Theories of value attempt to explain why we attach certain "utility amounts" to different goods. But that doesn't mean the output of any particular "theory of value" is subjective: the observed prices and quantities are quite objective. GDP (like other macroeconomic indicators) is more interested in tabulating those objective outputs of the theory of value and observing their change over time. For example, I know I value the green mechanical pencil in front of me at \$2, despite the fact I only paid \$1 for it. Assuming the production costs are negligible, GDP would observe that as \$1 of economic activity. It doesn't consider how much I would have paid for it, which is what different theories of value attempt to explain. Furthermore, why I value it at \$2 might be for any host of reasons- perhaps its a subjective value, or perhaps that valuation reflects what I think the pencil will be worth in a year's time. Regardless of what that reasoning is, the objective measurements that GDP considers are the price paid and quantity. 

You may be seeing the same thing that I'm seeing (on social media), and I've added the links below as evidence of this, more often than not, they don't define what they mean (in this case, they do - for instance, you'll see "the smart money is moving against the USD" etc). This term is very common on social media stock discussions. StockTwit example Tumblr post The way that I understand is that these are individuals who have a commercial interest in a position. For instance, if the price of oil goes through the roof and a company has a lot to gain from that, they may take a hedge out against the position, in case of a fall, especially if the price goes to an extreme and they know it can't be sustained (you'll see a massive short movement). This is true with currencies as well (ie: an export driven business must watch exchange rates). It should be of note that they aren't always the "smart" move and they generally are early to the party, as you can see with their bets against oil (very early, and notice how quickly they cut some of the shorts as prices plummeted). The key is to watch their positions; they will generally be short, but when they make a strong short position, that could spell that something will happen. I do not think that this is an economic term; more of a trading term. 

There are a few reasons why, at least in a broader theoretical context, substantial government influence in a market economy may have negative consequences. A few are: Crowding Out Effect Increases in government spending can potentially lead to a decrease in investment from the private sector. This can be thought of in the more formal definition of the term (that an increase in government demands for loanable funds can lead to an increase in the interest rates faced by the private sector) or in the more informal one- that government involvement can change the profit motive faced by private entities in the field. If you assume that those private firms are, on balance, more efficient with resources than the governmental agency, it can lead to negative economic outcomes. Market Distortions One potential problem of increased governmental activity in the economy comes from unforeseen distortions that can ripple through other sectors. For all their problems, one nice feature of market equilibria are their ability to reflect private information and demands, and aggregate the individual actions of hundreds of millions of people effectively. That is no small feat; it is hard for a centralized agency to mimic that effectiveness. One of the major problems with centralized economies in practice is their practical inability to allocate resources "efficiently." Modeling government interaction in a repeated game-like context. Another (albeit more philosophical) problem some see is that, even if a larger government would be optimal for right now, it is often difficult to cut bureaucracy once it becomes entrenched. Therefore, we should consider that "future value" of inefficiently large government spending in the future (even if it is optimal to increase government's size today) into today's perceived "payoffs" of different actions. Problems with the Multiplier Effect: The multiplier, as learned in econ101, is a bit oversimplified in its presentation. While there almost certainly is some multiplier in every case, it isn't really just a single number that turns on an economy wide "marginal propensity to consume." Instead, it's far more subtle, and often depends on who is receiving the benefit, what the context of the payment is, etc. Furthermore, some conservative economists argue it is often too small to justify the expense. Now, note that I personally don't really believe much of what was said above. I'm not trying to suggest that Mr. Corbyn should or shouldn't increase the size of government expenditures (I haven't studied the issue enough to make an informed opinion). Furthermore, I think it should be noted (in the interest of fairness) that many times these theoretical concerns can be misapplied in practice: for example, The Laffer Curve may be the most poorly applied theoretical concept in political economy. Let me know if that didn't answer your question, or if you'd like more detail! 

A few pundits have been stating that we have a student loan bubble, and this bubble will pop, similar to housing. I'm struggling to imagine the economic impact of what this would look like if these pundits are right, outside the obvious bailout or student loan forgiveness. Hypothetically, let's say a scenario where 15% of students are unable to pay back their loans occurs, and the government bails them out (or forgives their loans), how would that be a negative economic event? Would it create inflation? Would it cost in terms of productivity, in that students would spend more time borrowing money and staying in school than working and producing? 

There is a broad literature that attempts to address the very question you pose- what is the impact of immigration (legal and illegal) on native wages? However, if you're interested in the 'real world' evidence, I'd suggest focusing on empirical labor economics as opposed to more theoretical labor models. The reason for my suggestion is that theoretical economics makes no clear prediction without a lot more information. There are a variety of factors, such as the production function being considered, the labor market conditions observed, the relative substitutability of immigrant and native workers, etc. which tends to make answering the question more of an empirical exercise. As far as the findings of the empirical papers, they actually tend to find relatively little impact of immigrant labor on native wages, with a few notable exceptions. For some examples: This survey paper, though a bit out of date as it's from 2005 outlines the results of 18 papers and finds wide discrepancies depending on modeling techniques and underlying assumptions used. Borjas, 2003 is one of the better known works, and finds what one might expect based on Econ101 models- that an increase in immigrant labor supply leads to a decrease in wages for native workers. A couple very well known articles have tried to tease out the impact of immigration on wages by focusing on particular events (called supply shocks) where the number of immigrants increased "suddenly" for reasons having nothing to do with the economic climate at the time. A pair of papers examined the impact of the Mariel Boatlift, which led to a spike in Cuban immigrants in Miami: The first, a paper by Card 1990 found no evidence of a negative impact of immigration on wages, while Borjas 2015 finds a substantial decrease in the wages for the least educated Miami residents. Several other papers have found either no negative effect, or even positive effects, of immigrants on various worker wages. For example, this paper by Peri in 2011 finds no negative impact of immigrants on wages, but a strongly positive impact of immigrants on productivity. This paper from 2013 finds significant positive impacts of undocumented immigrants on the wages of native workers in Georgia. Ultimately, the exercise of determining the impact of immigrants on wages really depends on the method of analysis and a number of underlying parameters, and applying "standard" (i.e. Principles of Micro) models can lead to erroneous results and a false sense of certainty. If there's anything else in particular you're interested in, let me know and I'll try to improve the answer! EDIT: Sorry, I forgot to include a link to this additional survey paper in the original answer! 

A few years ago, Peter Schiff and a few other Austrians (not all Austrians, as Mish was stating the opposite) were adamant about hyperinflation and Paul Krugman stated that it was like talking about fire problems during a flood, which made sense because of the credit crunch (the inverse problem). However, Schiff kept pointing to Zimbabwe and the Weimar Republic as examples of hyperinflation and even now, we're seeing it in Ukraine. As far as Ukraine and Zimbabwe are concerned, neither appeared to have much gold before their hyperinflation. For instance, Ukraine has next to 0, if not 0 and Zimbabwe, from what I could find, had less than 5 metric tonnes. When I was looking online to see if anyone knew how much gold they estimate the Weimar Republic had, I couldn't find a figure and was curious if anyone knew, or could find a historic estimate? The reason I ask this is because the United States owns the most gold in the world (and it's not a close competition), assuming we don't believe the people who think it's not there, and thus it's hard to believe that, unless the U.S. begins to liquidate its position, that it would face hyperinflation like these other countries even without a currency backed by gold because people know that in a really bad situation, it could trash the dollar, create a new currency backed by its gold (note that I'm not saying this would happen, but the US is hardly a country comparable to Zimbabwe when you consider its gold holdings).