Looks not unreasonable to me. Superficially, that looks like the US Naval Uniform, Summer white, enlisted. I did a google search on that term. I'll admit that I was disappointed by the amount of noise in the results, but I found the following examples that are similar to the pictures you've cited. 

According to the theory, victory depended on the ability of the nations involved to muster an unprecedented level of industrial committment, and to deliver that to the front. Defeating the adversary's army merely prolonged the conflict; victory was only possible by degrading the adversary's ability to produce and deliver military supplies. Dresden was a critical junction of communications and industrial production. Destroying Dresden halted the production of military supplies and delivery to the battlefield. 

Probably unable to answer in the short term. The parties involved do not want to reveal their participation in any details, and the blogerati on all sides want to claim credit. It is difficult to sort out the signal from the noise. Having said, that, based on several minutes of research, I suspect the answer is: Both. There are conflicting sources that assert that French commandos carried out the raid and that Pakistani commandos carried out the raid. The most plausible answer I suspect is: 

I believe I found the answer in Wikipedia's article on the Marinid dynasty; quite simply the dynasty was in decline from the 13th century; in the 15th century (OP's reference period), the decline was complicated by a financial crisis. 

As @Luke has said, this is a far broader and more provacative question than is normally covered on this site, but I choose to take OP at his word and attempt a brief answer. I'm also going to endorse and respect OP's request to ignore the moral side. That isn't to say that there is no moral side, but merely that the OP requested that it be out of scope for the answer. WWII was a total war 

Google's first response provides an answer, that describes the likely toxin. The paper mentions that, "Animals hit by a poison dart, irrespective of the part of the body that is pierced, start to twitch after a few seconds." and, "Reports on dosage specify that 0.3 mg would be lethal for a rabbit. One mg. causes death in dogs (Boer et al. 1999:127), while 0.1mg. is the lethal dosage (L50) per kg. weight for cats (Zahorka 1986:58). The toxicity of [beta]-Antiarin is much higher than that of curare." I am not a pharmacologist, nor do I play one on the internet. I haven't seen the documentary. With those caveats out of the way. 

I suspect that it isn't that the Franks were that successful in projecting power as it is that the people who were successful in projecting power happened to be the Franks. Kind of like the lottery; someone will win, and the identity of the winner is more important than the specific forces that caused those numbers to bubble to the top of the pile at the exact instant of the drawing. I'll assert without evidence that human organization tends to oligopoly - an even balance of power is unnatural, and once you cross a certain boundary the balance of forces shift in favor of gaining even more power. (difficult for a coalition of 25% power to contest with a coalition of 75% power). Someone was going to win, and it just happened to be the Franks. Geography, population, culture, climate, all play a part, as do things that are more difficult to measure (relative strength and charisma of leaders at inflection points, etc.). It is somewhat useful to study those factors, but in no way can you develop a useful model for prediction or even for analysis. There is too much (literal) chaos to permit modelling. I acknowledge in advance that this is a bad answer because it provides no sources and doesn't fully answer the question. I thought about it and decided that it was worth posting. 

In general, the only successful espionage is the espionage about which the target is ignorant. There is a term for espionage where the target becomes aware the term is "failed". Kind of like asking why the recipient didn't know about the suprise birthday party; if they know, it isn't a surprise. Now if your real intent is to ask how the Soviets successfully penetrated the Allied weapons effort, that is somewhat more interesting, but it is definitely a book length answer. 

Citing the work is really critical. Knowing the title permits me to access the Wikipedia page which gives me the legal statue under which the marriage occurred. 

(Aside: I'll be surprised if anyone finds a debt that is much older than that; I lack the scholarship to make a coherent argument, but the nature of debt, credit and money change around that period.) How are these debts paid?? Like all government debts since the time of D'israeli, they are secured by the faith and credit of the government and paid through government revenues. Government has a variety of ways to raise money including taxes, fees, inflation, seignorage, etc. Note that in direct contrast to OP's assumptions, these are first world debts paid by first world debtors, and as far as I know, the creditors are also first world entities. Interest on government debts is always paid to the holders of the debt, and since debt can be bought and sold, there isn't really an answer to the "who" question. The historic cause of the debt is the same as the cause of all debt; Britain borrowed money. In this case Britain borrowed money to pay off the South Seas bubble. 

Implicitly Britain acknowledges Chinese rule over Tibet. That means that both of the countries involved agreed that Tibet was part of China. So why did China "invade" Tibet? Because Tibet was always part of China. China merely moved to re-assert control and prevent chaos or foreign incursion into Chinese territory. In Milwaukee Wisconsin there is a militia that rejects the authority of the United States. If the Milwaukee police were to show up one day and arrest all the members of the Milwaukee militia and demand that Milwaukee residents receive civic services from the city of Milwaukee and the State of Wisconsin and the United States government, that wouldn't constitute an invasion. It would just be a re-assertion of normal authority. According to the Chinese, this is what is happening in Tibet. Does that help? I need to finish with the same disclaimer - I'm not taking a position on international relations; I'm not qualified. I'm trying to boil down the Wikipedia page into something a bit more understandable. 

As I understand it, immunity or susceptibility is on a bell curve. After generations of exposure to any specific disease, those who were most susceptible to the disease and variants vanish from the reproductive pool. Native Americans had not had the benefit of that exposure so the susceptible individuals were still alive. Guns Germs and Steel explains that urbanization selects for individuals with stronger immune systems generally. Those with weaker or less adaptive immune systems don't reproduce. Native Americans had a lower level of urbanization so statistically speaking their immune systems were less adaptive. 

Quantitative Easing - pioneered by the Bank of Japan circa 2007. This is the most probable answer to OP's question, but QE doesn't require electronic money or banks; the government can buy and sell bonds without a central bank, and can use those bonds to increase or decrease the money supply, so long as the government is comfortable with deficit spending. Deficit spending - government spending beyond assets & revenues, but not through inflation - This happens in every war when the government commands that economic activity take place without remuneration. Although the exact conditions can be argued, the traditional first example of this is D'Israeli's financing of the Suez Canal backed by the full faith & credit of the British government. Electronic money - This is a complex topic taught to every economic undergrad (and then gleefully forgotten by most of them at the first opportunity) - the dollars and cents (currency in circulation is only a tiny part of the monetary base MB. In the modern era the government should have little or no interaction with paper currency (with the exception of the Mint). All government accounts should be managed by Fractional Reserve Banking. Fractional Reserve Banking - the difference between currency and money. The money you put in the bank doesn't stay in the vault. Every dollar deposited is the basis of tens of dollars of loans - so "money is created". Inflation - where the government devalues the currency by printing more currency. This has a history reaching back as long as there have been coins. Inflation creates money (although electronic inflation is relatively recent). Inflation is the tax that nobody needs to vote for, and is the dirty little secret that goldbugs don't want anyone to talk about. Aside: "Inflation is always and everywhere a monetary phenomenon" Milton Friedman Discussion of inflation as a consequence of monetary/fiscal policy is outside the scope of this answer (and I'm not competent to do it tersely), but Friedman's quote is relevant to OP's question. (thanks to Mr. Geerkens for the reminder). 

1) Generally he wouldn't; his parents would find someone to give him employment. Family connections were key. 2) Free labor. Apprentices worked for you at essentially no wages; there were almost no limits on the surplus value the master could extract from the apprentice and almost no oversight. Update @jwenting points out that the relationship between master and apprentice is more complex than I've presented here. He's correct: I'm going to incorporate his answer here with full credit 

I wanted to expand on my comment; the traditional formulation of the economic principle is "Inflation is a tax for which nobody has to vote." In an autocracy like the Roman Empire, the maxim would be slightly adjusted, "Debasement is a way of funding the government without generating opposition from strong stakeholders." Debasement reduces the buying power of the individual and shifts that buying power to the state - it reduces the wealth of everyone who stores wealth in coin. Like most "flat" taxes, it is regressive and has a greater impact on the poor. Like most flat taxes, it is also easier for the wealthy and powerful to minimize the impact of the tax. (when debasement is imminent, shift wealth to non-coin assets such as land or art.) Infographic summarizing Roman currency debasement - Note the graphic "Silver content of an individual denarius" - debasement occurred repeatedly and frequently. There was no single event. Econtrader on currency debasement