Notice the beam's sharp cutoff, very little light is sent upwards, to the eyes of incoming people. This is what you need. Now, you should find a light of this type, small and light enough to mount on your helmet. 

At the restaurant, while the girls eat their salads, and you ravenously chomp barbecue ribs and french fries, casually mention that you lost XX kilos of fat on your bicycle. 

If it rains, yeah. From the last time I visited Toronto, definitely. Rack and pannier at the rear ; no backpack (makes you sweat). Lights (very important). For commuting what determines the average speed is : 1- choice of route (safe and slow or fast and dangerous, your choice, you must explore around to find a fast and safe route) 2- traffic lights In a typical city 20kph average is already very fast, you can't go much faster unless you burn all red lights and generally behave like a suicidal maniac. That's much faster than a car at rush hour, or a bus, though... 

You'll need 3 days of rest to get on the bike again! At which point you will realize all the equipment you never truly tested will begin to break (like cheap saddlebags, cheap gloves, etc). Also, if the bike breaks down, you'll have no experience to fix it... Also, on your first day, you will stop a hundred times to adjust your saddle, tune your bike, adjust the damn helmet strap that doesn't fit, realize your shoes give you blisters, and all sorts of tiny pet peeves that don't happen anymore when you got a bike and equipment setup that Just Works. So... start from the beginning LOL 

However the type of pedals is very important. I hate SPDs. Cranks are the best but the axles and bearings break. TIME is a good compromise, clip/unclip is quick and instinctive, and getting out of the pedals happens naturally. 

In traffic you need to look far ahead, and also look back over your shoulder pretty often. Drop bars make this harder. Also your hand should always be ready on the brake just in case. So, I prefer straight bars. 

Since the headtube is at an angle, it will not raise the bike as much as if it was perpendicular to the ground. How much height that would add will depend on what angle your headtube is at, probably something around 70d. Now, adding travel will cause your bike to have slower handling. It will make it more stable in a straight line, but more effort will be needed to change direction. It will also move you farther back in the cockpit with may make it lift the front wheel more on steep climbs. Also, by adding this travel, it will probably void the warranty on your frame because it is putting stresses on the frame that are outside what it was designed for. There is also a possibility that you could stress the headtube to where it breaks, but 20mm probably wouldn't do it. 

Pro-Pedal provides bob resistance when on, 1 being lowest. Try this. Pull out the numbered knob and position it so that "3" is in line with lever. That will give you the most Pro-Pedal. Now, try riding up a hill with it off and again with it on. You should notice markedly less bob with it on. If not, I might take it to a shop to make sure that it is working. 

First, in the front they are called chainrings, god knows why they need to have a different name, but they do. The fronts can be sold as a set, but can just as easily be gotten individually. I actually purchased a 26T chainring in the front for something like $10. For chainrings you will need to know the diameter (in millimeters) of an imaginary circle that would pass through all the bolts that hold the ring on and also the number of bolts that hold it on. Often there is one diameter that holds that smallest ring and another that holds the two larger ones. In the rear, you don't need to know the diameter, just the number of gears. Cassettes are often sold as a group and the two big names are SRAM and Shimano and for 9 speeds they are compatible with each other. At the small end of the cassette, your current setup is about as small as you will find (11T), but if you are wanting more climbing ability they make big cogs up to 36T (or bigger if you want custom). There is currently an option to go with 10 speeds but that will require replacing your entire drivetrain, not a cheap option. Before you go replacing the chainrings, try the cassette first and see if that resolves you skipping issue. 

Concerning bike saddles : Sit on the edge of something hard like a public bench. You will notice there are two bones in your butt carrying your weight. Those are your sit bones and are meant to carry your weight. On a saddle you want these two sit bones to rest on the two bumps at the rear. Girls have sit bones spaced more than guys so you should select a girl saddle. If the saddle is too narrow, it will press on your crotch, and wedge between your sit bones, and that's not comfortable. You will feel this very quickly. If it is too wide, it will rub inside your thighs and they will get sore. Wear cycling underwear, it works. If your butt is not used to cycling, all saddles will hurt a little at first after 10-20 minutes. So, at first, do not ride for too long. After getting used to it, a saddle that is well suited to you will not hurt at all, however a saddle that is not suited to you will always be a pain in the ass no matter what you do. Do not choose a saddle that is too soft or plushy. This may seem like more comfortable at first, but your sit bones will sink too much into the plushy foam, allowing the center part of the saddle to dig into your crotch. This is a beginner mistake : it skips the "getting used to it" part (you have immediate comfort) but after say, 30 minutes it's hell. Also, adjustment is key, if the front part is too high the saddle nose will hurt you, if it is too low you will slide on it and your arms will get tired quickly. About the riding position : In the city I don't like race bikes, position is too low to look at traffic. Dutch-style bikes appear more comfortable, however being too "upright" is not good. First, you have less leg power. Second, when you ride over a bump, your back and your butt get compressed by the shock. With a slightly "bent forward" position, on bumps your back will just bend a little more, absorbing the bump without harm. About bike geometry : Test ride at walking pace, some bikes balance much better than others. This is useful in parks with pedestrians. Normally you'd need to test ride at a very fast speed too, but I don't know if you'll be able to do that. About the bike itself : I won't mention specific brands of bikes etc. If you intend to really use the bike and get some mileage, get some quality components especially in the transmission, all brands (shimano, sram...) have many product lines from "breaks down completely after 1000km" to "lasts more than 10.000 km if properly maintained". The cheap crap actually costs more if you consider you need to change everything pretty often. In Shimano, get Alivio/Deore range, for example. Since you're heavy, get a rear wheel hub with a cassette, not a freewheel. Freewheel hubs are cheap junk, break axles, and usually have crap bearings. NYC is pretty flat but maybe you'll want to cross some bridges or go out of the city for a ride. You are probably out of shape so your power to weight ratio is going to be pretty bad. So, if you intend to do any kind of climb, you will need some decent granny gears. This is important, since walking to push the bike will kill your motivation. If you don't want flats, put some schwalbe marathon plus tires, those are not cheap but last forever. If you want to go shopping with the bike, you'll need a rack and panniers, and a good lock !!! Anyway. Last year after a long break I resumed cycling. I got a fitness/city bike with a decent granny gear (28T front/32T back), good for climbs. Result : before -> after weight 110kg -> 100kg and lots of new muscles (still lots of fat to burn though) tired after climbing 150m -> i'm now at 1500 and 150km in a day feel much better now too ! If you do the cardio training part right (get a cheap heart rate monitor) cycling is an excellent way to lose weight and (more important) get in shape and feel great...