I'm somewhat sceptical of the claims of fuel companies, especially given the price of premium fuel. Have independent tests been performed? 

Very simply, it could but with modern electrical safety systems, it's unlikely. A modern television is not earthed, as the casing is usually plastic, although some bigger sets have grounds. The reason for this is because the class Y capacitors used to filter EMI require an earth conductor. Bigger sets emit more EMI because they use more power, thus can require an earth connector. In which case, earth must be connected to exposed metal parts, if any. If they have a direct ground, water is likely to short live to the earthed case and trip the RCD/GFCI within 30 ms, with a current as low as 30mA. A general rule is that you can feel 1mA, 10mA is painful and 100mA can stop the heart. As you can't get out, this leads to death... and it's not nice. If not, then it could be fatal if the bathtub is not correctly earthed which according to regulations it must be. If the bathtub is earthed, the water will allow enough current to flow from live to earth to trip the RCD/GFCI. It would hurt, but you'd be able to get out usually. Modern household RCD/GFCI devices will trip on the current required to cause fibrilation - often much lower to make it safer. Note that RCD/GFCI devices don't measure earth current but instead the imbalance between live and neutral so even without a proper mains earth for the bath they will work. All that is important is that the current has some way to avoid going from live to neutral. If that is through the plumbing, it could save your life, though any assailant throwing TVs at you is likely to have more devious plans in mind. 

Short answer: No. Long answer: A heater is about as efficient as you can possibly get for an electrical device. Almost 100% of the input energy that goes in is converted to heat[1]. For a newer heater to be 50% more efficient, it would have to use about 67% of the energy to give the same heat - which is difficult, because the original heater is already 100% efficient, so this new one would have to be 150% efficient. Ceramic materials are very good electrical insulators and have excellent thermal conductivity. The only difference between his ceramic heater and your normal electric heater is the element is probably wrapped around a ceramic core and this then heats up the outer plate, whereas yours just has elements and relies on natural convection to circulate and spread the heat. Both will be equally efficient at providing heat energy, but they provide it in different ways. Maybe the heat plate is better for heating up one part of a room, but the convection heater is good for the whole room, for example. If you were only using one part of the room, then it would be less efficient to heat up all of it. There are heating systems that are more than 100% efficient - they are known as heat pumps. They are typically in excess of 300% efficient. However, a heat pump would require an external connection to outside the building to work, as it works by using the thermal energy from outside (and electricity is only drawn to move the heat one way.) And, they are very expensive. 

Toxic waste stream of nuclear While nuclear fission produces more cadmium waste compared to CdTe solar panels, cadmium is hardly the only waste from fission. Nuclear waste includes many categories of radioactive waste, all with different storage requirements. Spent nuclear fuel is a small fraction of total radioactive waste. Nuclear power waste includes: (IAEA 2018) 

No. Nuclear energy produces far more toxic waste than solar. Distribution of the fake news story The fake news that began circulating at the end of June 2017 stems from a self-described "study" conducted by the nuclear industry advocate, Environmental Progress (EP). James Hansen, a nuclear proponent previously a lead in climate modelling at NASA, has unfortunately been dispersing this disinformation. In February 2018 he said he had been unaware of the method used to produce the graph he displayed. EP published the graph only in their blog, where they described their method: "The study defines as toxic waste the spent fuel assemblies from nuclear plants and the solar panels themselves." They used TrinaSolar module specifications, assumed a 25 year lifetime, and used the module's entire installed volume as the volume of toxic waste. For nuclear, they used only the spent fuel assembly. They arrived at the two numbers displayed in a bar graph and repeated in various articles and Hansen's presentation: 34,000 cubic meters per TWh for solar and 101 cubic meters per TWh for nuclear. (Deasi and Nelson 2017). The blog was immediately embellished by several conservative news outlets, including SlashDot and the the National Review. Some articles added to the strange logic. One, for example, did a life cycle cost analysis comparing solar to nuclear by using the assumption that this solar panel waste will need to be buried in 2-5 km deep boreholes being considered for spent nuclear fuel. (Middleton 2017). Another article in the Daily Caller explained why solar panel waste should be considered more dangerous than nuclear waste: nuclear waste is radioactive and will therefore go away, while after 30 years on your roof, the solar panel module doesn't radioactively decay and will have to be disposed of permanently. (Follet 2017). Toxic waste stream of solar PV The majority of a solar panel module's mass is glass, which can be recycled. The steel housing is also recycled. The panel itself is usually silicon, which is also non-toxic and can be recycled into new semiconductor material. A fraction of solar panels use CdTe as the semiconductor material. Lead and silver are captured in the waste stream for all solar panels, but the cadmium is the most problematic waste generated by manufacture and disposal of solar panels is cadmium. Even for CdTe solar panels, nuclear power generates more cadmium waste on per-unit-energy basis. (Mulvaney, 2014) Manufacturers of CdTe panels monitor for worker safety and environmental emissions and have 0 incidents across ten years of US manufacturing. (Heard, 2014) Even if you only look at cadmium and make the faulty assumption that solar panels will be disposed of instead of recycled, nuclear power generates more cadmium in waste than solar panels use in the entire manufacturing process. Nuclear power generates a wide variety of toxic waste materials, and one minor constituent is cadmium. Even as a minor constituent of the total nuclear waste, it is still significant compared to cadmium produced by other energy sources (Mulvaney, 2014): 

HLW is only 0.06% of the total radioactive waste, and only 1% of the HLW is solid, the portion of waste that includes spent fuel. So less than 0.0006% of nuclear waste is the spent fuel assembly, the only part of the waste included in the EP blog. Said differently, nuclear power creates 160,000 times more radioactive waste than the spent fuel assemblies alone. (IAEA 2018) Per unit of energy, this means nuclear produces 500 times the waste compared to solar panels, but only if you count the entire solar panel and ignore the waste produced by nuclear plant decommissioning. Spent nuclear fuel rods must be contained for several thousand years. In the case of breeder reactors such as a thorium reactor, the 0.0006% of the nuclear waste stream that is spent nuclear fuel is recaptured. From the spent fuel, the plutonium is separated, introducing the additional hazard of nuclear weaponization. (Ford and Schuller 1997, p111) References Desai, J. and Nelson, M. (2017). Are we headed for a solar waste crisis? Retrieved from $URL$ Follett, A. (2017). Solar panels generate 300 times more toxic waste than nuclear reactors. Retrieved from $URL$ Ford, JL and Schuller, CR. (1997). Controlling threats to nuclear security: A holistic model. Washington DC: National Defense University Press. Fthenakisa, V. and Kim HC. (2010). Life-cycle uses of water in U.S. electricity generation. Renewable and Sustainable Energy Reviews, 14. pp2039-2048. Retrieved from $URL$ Heard, A. (2014). Response to Mulvaney. Retrieved from $URL$ IAEA. (2017). Trend in electricty supplied. Retrieved from $URL$ IAEA. (2018). Status and Trends in Spent Fuel Radioactive Waste Management. Retrieved from $URL$ Middleton, D. (2017). Waste from solar panels: 300 times that of nuclear power. Retrieved from $URL$ Mulvaney, D. (2014). Are green jobs just jobs? Cadmium narratives in the life cycle of photovoltaics. Geoforum 54 pp178-186. Retrieved from $URL$ World Nuclear Association (2017). Radioactive Waste Management. Retrieved from $URL$ 

There is an interesting trend in test scores in exams (GCSE and A-level) in the UK: they are increasing, or so the trend in the grades would tend to show. This is known as grade inflation and affects other countries, too. Why is this? I have heard several reasons. The first is that students are just generally getting smarter. The second reason I have heard is that exams are getting easier. To me (as a student), it personally seems like the exams are getting easier, although it is hard to judge. What independent research has been performed to determine if it is exams or students? 

That means producing 25 Wh of electricity produces 0.034 lb of CO2 (about 15.4 grams.) An average tree absorbs from 22 pounds (1 tonne / 100 years) to 48 pounds of CO2 per year (depending on who you ask - these are quite pro-tree planting, so I'd like to see if there is a source of raw data); there does not seem to be any definite figure given. That means one tree could support from 647 to 1,411 hand drying sessions. But you can get far more paper from the average tree. This paper suggests that from just one cord of wood (8ft x 4ft x 4ft), smaller than a whole tree, you could produce 942,000 sheets of paper (A5 size, normal density.) Even if you used 10 sheets per session, it's still 66x better (in the best case for hand dryers!) And, you can recycle the paper used. So no, hand dryers are not better. 

This got me thinking: does this 24-48 hour period really exist, or is it just so they can cover themselves in case unforeseen problems occur? 

improves performance; and/or improves engine longevity; and/or improves mileage so that money is saved on fuel, even when taking into account the extra cost of it 

I've heard this from almost every domain name registrar: your domain name "needs to propagate through the DNS and may take 24-48 hours to do so." And yet, bar a few registrations (which might take half a day), they all are ready within 1-2 hours, in my experience. For example, on a recent registration with DreamHost, emphasis mine: 

My friend told me that he doesn't bother voting any more in elections, because "it's not like one vote ever made a difference." I will vote when I can and I think it is important, and although I share his sentiment about politicians... it got me thinking. Has there ever been any major election (around 1 million votes or more) where a single vote has decided the result? e.g. Candidate A got 1,000,000 votes and Candidate B got 1,000,001 votes. If the voter for candidate B did not vote it would be a tie and there might be a run-off election or some other system used to determine the winner and thus B may have lost if that one vote was not cast. 

Let's see (US perspective on this issue): A hand dryer probably uses around 3000W to run the motor and the heater. It might be on for about 30 seconds. During that time, it consumes 1.5 kWm (kilowatt-minutes) or about 25 watt-hours. According to this source, about 45% of the US energy supply (the largest proportion) comes from coal as of 2010. (185 GWh / 412 GWh = 44.9%), so I'll pretend that the energy comes from coal. Of course, if it comes from wind turbines, then CO2 production will be almost nil. This source tells us how much using 1 kWh of energy contributes to production of CO2 from coal (this is the latest data I can get, but it shouldn't drift too much):