According to this article, and dozens of others Chuck Norris was indeed hired by T-Mobile to appear in their television advertisements on Czech TV. 

I have thus far found only one original study on this topic, entitled Chronobiology of trees: Synthesis of traditional phytopractices and scientific research as tools of future forestry, and it details experiments with germination of seeds at various times of the lunar calendar. The study was conducted in 1990 and 1991 (with a brief preliminary study in 1989). A few relevant excerpts (emphasis added): 

If we only consider the "recent" users (excluding the 77.2% who have not used in the last 12 months), we are left with: 

But is there any science behind this? I understand that certain exercises will target certain muscle groups, and can therefore specifically tone your thighs, stomach, legs, biceps, etc, which may make the selected body area look more attractive by some criteria. But do specific exercises actually burn fat from particular parts of the body more than from others? 

The prose style seems quite typical of pseudo-scientific pro-"Christian" apologetic sites, so I'm naturally quite skeptical. What was actually found at these sites? Is there any (compelling, accepted) evidence that the artifacts are Egyptian in origin, and/or date to the supposed time of the Hebrew Exodus? 

The author of the site (not of the letter quoted) makes the additional claim, however, that fluoride was sold as rat poison prior to 1938. I am willing to accept as granted that fluoride was sold as rat poison prior to 1938. What I find a bit harder to believe is the jump to the author's conclusion that fluoride being sold as rat poison prior to 1938 is the reason it was grandfathered in under the (then) new FDA rules. Was fluoride also sold as a medication intended for humans, that would have exempted it from the new rules, or is it true it was only considered a rat poison in 1938? 

Note I realize there are at least three alternate explanations for the statements made in the article: 

It includes a video clip of a bunch of bison (not really buffalo) running down a road--but it's impossible to tell from the context of the video if this is abnormal, or if the bison are even fleeing the park. Are animals leaving the park in exceptional numbers? 

Several sources claim that a person's apparent eye color can change (primarily and perhaps only in lightness or darkness) as the result of mood changes, illness, or stress level. Your quoted article doesn't give any details about the reported eye color changes in patients diagnosed with MPD, so it's hard to know if they may be referring only to such a phenomenon, or making some loftier claim. 

It is easy to find anecdotal evidence of people who's eye colors seem to change, allegedly according to their mood. Typically in those with hazel eyes, their eyes may appear blue (particularly when happy) or brown (particularly when upset or sad). Although it's unclear to me how much of this is truly related to mood, and how much may be environmental factors that affect the light reflecting off of the eyes. I can say that as a person with hazel eyes myself, I frequently have friends comment on my changed eye color. But I've never paid close enough attention to notice if my mood, the environment, or perhaps the sunglasses my friends were wearing were a common theme. :) From The Merck Manual, Dissociative Identity Disorder (aka Multiple Personality Disorder) is "attributed to the interaction of ... overwhelming stress," and "patients often have a remarkable array of symptoms that can resemble those of anxiety disorders, mood disorders, posttraumatic stress disorder." So it seems plausible that eye color can change, at least in terms of shade, by mood and stress changes brought on by DID/MPD. However, the closest I have found to a credible source directly linking eye color change to DID/MPD is in this review of this book on the topic of DID/MPD. The book itself appears to be well-received, based on the reviews on Amazon, including at least one by the spouse of a diagnosed "multiple" (DID patient). I'm not sure how much this all says about the credibility of the book, but at least it's not obvious poppy-cock, eh? So it seems the answer is Yes, DID/MPD can cause temporary changes in eye color, at least if you accept that a change in the eye's shade counts as a change in color. 

Google will show you many claims related to "miracle" cures related to Oil Pulling. But for the purpose of this question, I want to focus specifically on one claim. I can imagine how something like this might help with gum disease or other oral health issues. And I'm pretty skeptical of the claim that this can cure AIDS. So I've chosen one of the "mid-range" claims for my focus: 

It probably depends on what he means by "market research." Almost any research a company does is related to the market they're in, in one way or another. This article examines Apple's recent Customer Pulse initiative, and talks about how this is clearly market research. It sounds to me like Jobs' quote is using a very narrow (and effectively completely incorrect) definition of "market research", to mean "market research done by a third party firm." In the past, Bruce "TOG" Tognazzini, in his book TOG on Interface, discusses quite a bit of research done in the early stages of designing MacOS. From page 133 of the book: 

Lactase is an enzyme naturally present in cow's milk, which is essential for the complete digestion of lactose (milk sugar). The process of milk pasteurization destroys this enzyme, thus leaving the consumer of the milk (a cat in this case) to his own devices to digest the lactose, and many cats (and other animals) don't have the gut flora necessary to digest it, thus leading to digestive problems. The above part of my answer appears to be incorrect (thanks to @Scott for raising the question); although that doesn't change the results of the above quoted study; only the mechanism by which these results can be explained. I will try to edit this question as I find additional information. 

While this doesn't prove that the hypothesis "70% of marijuana users also use while working" is false, it certainly makes it look unlikely. $URL$ Using data from this site, I was able to come up with the following table. This represents employed (both full-time and part time) people who say they have ever used marijuana, and how frequently they have used over the last 12 months: