Actually, I'm reading a book, "Turing's Cathedral" that discusses the development of computers. From my reading of the book it appears that the principal developments in computing, with respect to actually engineering a device that could implement computing principles, and bringing a product to market, occurred in the United States. The research in the United States was devoted to making a machine which could handle the computations necessary for the development of nuclear weapons. I would check out a brief history of the computing developments at the Institute for Advanced Studies. 

The economic effects of the Cuban Revolution were somewhat of a mixed bag, and depending on the timeline you are interested in the immediate impact was negative, whereas on a longer timeline it was more positive. The following paraphrases, and quotes relevant parts from Jose Pérez's work Cuba: Between Reform & Revolution 

France: France scores relatively low on "Functioning of government," "Political participation," and "Political culture." Israel: Israel scores pretty bad on "Civil liberties," and sort of mediocre on everything else. India: India scores bad on both "Political participation," and "Political culture." So these countries have good governments, but there are certain issues typically related to the political culture that bring their overall score down and make them flawed democracies according to the index. 

Your question seems focused on the intent behind the passage of a particular law. The difficulty with the "intent" of a law is how do you define it? Often times laws are passed and nowhere does it say "this law is passed for the specific purpose of doing X, or preventing Y." Even in situations where there is a passage in the law that says "this law's intent is to combat Z," that may not be trustworthy because the politicians that draft such language know that a court will look to that passage for the "intent." And, as society changes at what point do you no longer consider the intent of a law? For example, think of the "Jim Crow laws" in the US. The intent of a law is rarely concrete, but what is concrete (basically) is the letter of the law. Now even a textualist like Antonin Scalia will try to figure out the intent if the letter of the law leads to an absurd result. The point is that the intent of the law often looks clear to one person, but many times another person can marshal an equally strong argument that the intent is different in some way, so then you are left with the question of who wins. Furthermore, you cited one case which definitely looks absurd on its face, but is not necessarily representative of the entire US legal system. 

This article on the end of the ancient Egyptian civilization posits four different points at which the civilization ended: 

Professor Fisher notes that prohibition was essentially forced upon the large cities of the East Coast by the rest of the country. The Anti-Saloon League is cited as a particularly effective organization that saw prohibition through to its ultimate success. It is also interesting to note, as the Howard McBain (a law professor at Columbia University) did in 1928, the sheer amount of popular support for prohibition: 

I can't seem to find information about economists, or others, warning about the overheated stock market of the 1920s in the US that would culminate in the stock market crashing on Black Thursday, October 24th, 1929, and Black Tuesday, October 29th, 1929. I keep seeing general statements that "prudent experts" warned about the overheated stock market, but that is it. If you could provide paper names, or books, published prior to those dates that would be great. If it has to be a post-event book, or paper, it needs to be one that provides the names who warned against the possibility of a crash. 

If your question is specifically about the candidate hitting the campaign trail and personally campaigning then the answer is the election of 1880. According to the Miller Center at the University of Virginia during the election of 1828 "neither candidate personally campaigned in 1828, but their political followers organized rallies, parades, and demonstrations." So it seems unlikely that anyone personally campaigned prior to this election. Additionally, since Jackson didn't campaign in 1828 he probably did not do so in 1832 either. I looks like Winfield Scott was the first presidential candidate who campaigned around the country during the election of 1856. However, his opponent Franklin Pierce did no campaigning of his own so it would be a stretch to say that the practice was acceptable. It was not until the election of 1880 that both candidates (Winfield Scott Hancock and Chester A. Arthur) campaigned around the country. 

Moreover, I have a feeling that you may actually mean "free market"/"Lassiez fair" economy when you say "capitalism", despite the fact that these are not at all equivalent. We will explore that in detail below. As a special case of the above, "democracy/dictatorship" is not straightforward. You can have a country that is somewhat of a functional democracy as defined by populace having elections and a choice in next rulers, which has significant economic freedom in its laws yet very strict social rules (Singapore), and vice verse (France). Very few countries (I'm gonna go for "zero") have pure democracy, pure capitalism and pure communism. Most are on a continuum, some closer to the edges some more mid-way. USA is nowhere near a real capitalist country at least since Roosevelt (Teddy, never mind F.D.); and USSR had some chunks of private economy, mostly in black market area. Some of the rules described below take a long time to take effect, and therefore a country in transition from one form of government/economic combination to another may very well violate some of the rules for a period of time, until equilibrium establishes itself. A good example of this is early Nazi Germany, which continued to have a fairly strongly capitalist and even free market economy early on, and moving to somewhat-capitalist NON-free-market economy (as note above, there's a major distinction) later on, with the end goal being a mostly socialist economy with some elements of oligarchic capitalism. (As a side note: in case you immediately start wondering why I mention socialism and Nazi Germany in teh same sentence, the answer can fill a whole book, but for a short version, you should recall the actual name of Nazi party: NSDAP. As in, "National Socialist German Workers' Party" 

I wasn't able to find great cites for this, but many popular accounts credit Count of Tilly's dramatic loss to Gustav Adolph of Sweden at Battle of Breitenfeld to the fact that his second in command Graf Pappenheim leading the heavy Black Cuirassiers prematurely - and against orders - attacked Gustav's flank (being routed in the process), which in turn freed Gustav's cavalry to go after and capture Imperial artillery. Tilly was born February 1559; and Pappenheim May 29, 1594, making them ~35 years apart (Making Tilly 72 in 1631, and Pappenheim 37). 

Basically, unless russians got into knife fighting range, they were out-shot, severely so. So, the answer to your question of could they have done MORE damage by charging straight ahead is "quite possible". However, the other factors listed here means that they probably would still have lost the battle. Extremely important was experience. Not only Japanese were incredibly more trained (including gunnery practice), they also had several other battleship battles worth of experience by that time, which the Russians did not have. So, the answer to the original question's "Why not charge line abreast", while not explicitly known, can very plausibly be "because the commanding officer(s) didn't have enough experience and talent to make that decision". Their only Admiral with practical experience of BB battles was killed in battle in Yellow Sea before Tsushima A very important example of the officer experience was that Japanese concentrated their fire, extremely effectively using their shot weight parity and rate of fire advantage. Intelligence. Togo's forces knew 100% precisely what the Russian ships' positions were, from long before the battle, thanks to their scouting cruisers. Russians didn't know they were about to be attacked till almost the start of battle. 

Moreover, it confirmed that assertion when discussing a second decade-later, smaller version of the painting that Repin started in 1889: 

Buckwheat is a very useful crop, resulting in healthful food. It was (and is) extremely popular is Eurasia (especially Russia and China). However, despite the fact that - as per Wiki - it was one of the earliest crops introduced by Europeans to North America, it doesn't seem to have taken here very widely as a crop - USA and Brazil, two biggest growers, each devote less than 1/15th of the cultivated area to it than Russia or China, and yield <1/10th of crop tonnage. Canada 10 times worse. If you scale that up to the whole continent, Americas are even smaller share compared to entire Eurasia. Aside from the growing stats, buckwheat as food is virtually unknown in USA - the only 2 subcultures that show it are places with many Eastern European immigrants (Polish, Russian and Ukranian, e.g. NYC) and Japanese cuisine, which is of course somewhat new. It didn't seem to have penetrated any further than that, even in multicultural centers like NY. Is there a specific reason for that through the last 400 years of history? Climatological concerns (Buckwheat can't grow in too hot a climate)? This seems weird given Canada's low volume. Soil specifics? Relative cost to nutrient ratio vs. other crops? Pollination issues? Ideally I'm looking for some sort of research, as opposed to WAGging. 

It appears that the Terrorism Exclusion List ("TEL") is still used. It has actually been updated with some regularity since its creation in 2001, most recently in 2012. The TEL is used to deny individual access at the immigration level. It is often referred to as a black list. The list originally had 39 members, and is currently at 59 members. The State of Ohio has a nice compilation of the different lists that they use for security purposes. In 2012, the State Department removed the Communist Party of Nepal from the TEL. Furthermore, the TEL is referenced on a current Immigration Services website. The TEL, and the Foreign Terrorist Organization ("FTO") list, appear to work in tandem to disrupt terrorism, etc. The TEL was created for purposes of immigration, probably to beef up the ability to prevent associated individuals from entering the US. 

This timeline from the Washington Post says that the United States Department of Agriculture issued its first food guidelines in 1916 for children, and then did one in 1920 for adults. My question is, what were the surrounding conditions that led to the federal government deciding it need to tell people what to eat? 

Brown v. Board of Education was not really about education. The case was about whether facilities could be separate and equal. The Supreme Court held that separate but equal was "inherently unequal and inherently unlawful." So jfrankcarr is right to point out the segregation cases that led up to Brown, as well as the wealth of information from the Brown Foundation. For Further Reading: 

I know that some African nations participated in the slave trade by providing captured enemies as slaves to Europeans, but what are some of the reasons they did? Was it simply a new economic opportunity that they took advantage of and sought to use to gain advantage against their rivals? I'm looking for a nice synthesis of the issue and some decent sourcing to other materials, or book recommendations. 

The idea that King George III would be the first to meet the friendship of the United States is taken from The works of John Adams, second president of the United States pp. 255-257, which is straight from the horse's mouth. However, this website states that Thomas Jefferson 

I know that "The Great Game" was originally concerned with Russian-British competition in Central Asia, but my question is was this competition and British fear founded on anything? My understanding of Russian history at this point leads me to believe that the Tsarist empire was not in a position to try and undertake such a massive task. Perhaps I am mistaken about this, but I would like to see evidence supporting, or disproving, the British concerns. 

The Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy states that Bayle was considered to be a skeptic in many ways. He was engaged in theological debate his whole life, but at a time when atheists were extraordinarily rare. As a son of a priest I think it's hard to believe he was an outright atheist, but he was certainly not a devout believer. He seems to be a person that was a little ahead of his time. 

Just to expand on MichaelF's answer, the House began to debate the increasing size of Congress after the 1910 census. There was worry that the House was becoming unwieldy, but as Representative Edgar Crumpacker stated: 

The answer to your question is that both the CIA and Canadians were responsible for the escape of the American diplomats. The Canadian Broadcasting Corporation, Central Intelligence Agency, Al Jazeera, Ottawa Citizen, New York Times, Montreal Gazette, and many other sources confirm the story. Once the crisis started the CIA contacted the Canadians in Tehran, and coordinated with them to ensure the escape of the American diplomats. That is what the facts tell us because that is what happened. 

I am specifically interested in the period right before the beginning of the newspaper era (which I'm broadly defining as the 18th century) so let's say 1600-1700. Was there a phenomenon like our present day "current events" that people, ie commoners, would be aware of? Or, were the going ons of royals, and sovereigns mostly the province of the elite?