A monk would not enter certain places with dirty feets. People who might get arware of such situation, and take such as a change of skilful deeds in generosity, service and also paying respect. Very Fruitful deeds, if having directed the mind to tge Sangha or meet even a worthy person. As for the relation teacher and studend, such is a service good to be done. It also happens, that if people see you walking, might give a monks feets refreshing and cleaning. All of those meritiouse deeds fall eighter under generosity (giving water, time and towel), paying respect or doing a service (later two are already part of the virtue section of the path, and require right view as prerequisite). In regard of Seniour Monk: even if washing the feets of a lay person, worthy of gifts, worthy of respect (for everyone his father and mother), not to soeak about a young novice, having mind right set, or meeting even a already Noble Person, is of real high benefit. 

As I have learnt in S.N. Goenka's Vipassana course, you have to be aware of normal breath only. If you are not able to concentrate on breath in normal mode only then you make a forced breathing to be long or short. So the normal is norm. 

The concept of rebirth is an axiomatic corolary of 'Karma'. Also if rebirth does not exist then nibbana i.e. 'blowing out' doesn't make sense. For e.g. without rebirth and without afterlife in heaven or hell you will be essentially 'blown out' nibbanafied without doing anything. So nibbana makes sense only because rebirth exist, because in rebirth the flame continues. Also, murdering sentient beings (in a painless way) would also be equivalent to liberating them from suffering if rebirth does not exist. So it is a pretty central doctrine, even if you don't emphasize on Karma. 

People who have children have them for the sake of their own happiness, and ultimately the child suffers. Can we justify not having children at all even for householders stating that all life is bound to suffering? 

By touch (phassa) of the certain sense-base, certain recognition (viññāṇa) is caused or vici versa. If there is ground, meaning that mind takes it a object (ārammaṇa), as a whole or in detail, it leads to feeling (vedanā). If there is no ground, surface, having release as Object, such as suffering does not appear. The meeting of ground here, the touch of ignorance (avijjāsamphasso, SN 22.81), should be understood. A good, even it merely motivated to discuss about a certain teacher, Dhamma lesson can be found here: Phassa People love philosophy since it does not require to let go of thought of "me, myself and I". 

Uuu, interested reader with respect in regard of the Tripple Gems, Once my person asked Bhikkhu Bodhi on the matter of critism and he gave an answer according to the Dhamma of the Buddha, at the same time confessed that (like most "Bodhisattas") did not investigate much this matter. A good an nice illustation is the Khmer folktale "Great Hermit Saves the Tiger, incl. a detail work about the matter of defilements in judging and whom better not to ask/believe. 

Buddhism differs from others in that rebirth is not a transmigration of a Soul, nor of any specific entity. It is more of a statement that perceived experience being subject to conditions - finding itself empty of any and all self referential properties - cannot logically be seen to either have a concrete beginning nor a concrete ending, whilst the conditions for the arising of said experience are present. When the notion of an Essential, Independent and Unchanging Atman/Soul is taken at its word, then at birth and death, that Soul must either appear from somewhere, or disappear somewhere, respectively, as Essentialist religions infer. The Buddha's aim was to show that what is directly perceived - impermanence and non-self - does not allow for termination of the conditioned (as that would be a process with a permanent conclusion), nor does it allow for some unconditioned and unexperiancable entity flirting off to invade somewhere else, as that is not directly perceivable by entities that depend on conditions for their perception.. The point is that there is no duality of 'cessation of the conditional'+'non-cessation of the non-conditional'. There is simply the continuation of conditionality. Ending the process of rebirth is the act of removing whatever conditions make up the necessary support for some conditionally-defined object: there is no 'rebirth' for my desire to drink, because I have removed the necessary conditions for this conditioned entity called 'me' to lunge for booze - the condition removed is craving for beer. This craving is removed volitionaly - volition being the arbiter of Kamma and its fruit: empty of volition? Empty of Kamma and hence empty of rebirth. (I will be the first to say that this logic works a lot easier for 'beer' than for the entity labeled 'me'. But there is no concrete dividing line between the two concepts - as for any two concepts - given that true Independence is not possible within conditionality, so the beer example should be a decent starting point!) 

Mudita. An possible extended answer, as well as possibility to ask further and discuss, can be found here, invited, given and welcome: [Q&A] What happens when your tank is empty, and you’ve got nothing left to give? [Note: This is a gift of Dhamma and not meant for commercial purpose or other wordily gains] 

Ransara, Yes, in regard of the question, it's possible that one is not aware of certain paths and fruits. As for the Arahat, my person is not sure about it, but one could investigate some situations in the Suttas. Many do not know their current wealth, but that is mostly good, since it caused suffering thinking "I am this or that", not to speak of questioning "Am I this or that. So when asking your self or other, simple ask if this or that work has been already done. So if not "the task is done, there is no more further for this world (or a next)" arsises, is know simple: Work, and take on all possible given possibilities for it. One having done Not easy to do Should not be scared To delight in it Nor should one Reject done merits. For it is hard To gain such a life And its even harder To gain such again: Meeting either The good Dhamma Or upright leading man. What ever good Has been done Achived, sacrified, Only those delighting, In deeds hard to do, Having gratitude, Form themselves and In regard of others Their sacrifies, their deeds, Are able to carry themseves Beyound. Anumodan(e)a! (Note: this answer is a gift of Dhamma and not meant for any commercial purpose or other worldily gains.) 

People who have done wrong to me remain in my memory and continuously stay in my mind. I have feelings of ill will and hatered towards them...to revenge...how do I get out of the feelings of ill will... 

The very first point is to make sure you are not doing it for Ego gratification. The purpose of 'debate' per se is to win over other. However this should not be the case. You should try in utmost polite language to get your poibt across. If the other party still hold on to their opinion you should end it up as just that-- 'their opinion'. Make sure the dialogue exchanged contributes to exchange of knowledge and you both together end up with broadened line of thinking. Dont use Ad Hominem arguments. If the debate gets centered around things which cannot be proved or confirmed no matter what...for e.g. you enter into debate 'wheater there really is a heavenly or hellish realm as told in scriptures or its just a metaphor'. Now no amount of intellectual and logical thought exchange is going to settle that. In such cases dont go into debates. Its a waste of time and mental energy and moreover it leads the sangha nowhere. 

If serious with the practice, if having real faith in the Buddha, or even insight, YES: never ever lie and become more innovative in complicated seeming cases. There is no reason to ly. If starting reasoning all precepts have no use at all, but actually to simply cut of the danger of reasoning (opposition of the defilements) is the Sīlas purpose. In regard of this merely polemic question, Breath had posted, here some general and specific answers to help those still having the need of reasoning in regard of strict precepts for a strict aim: release. 

It would be not possible to give a better answer than the Buddha and his formost disciple in regard of teaching gave to this question, and further broad explainings to it would be not proper, so read carefully of who or what causes pleasure and pain: 

"It appears that Buddhism depends on a central premise -- that all worldly existence = suffering / dukkha." This is a correct result of an investigation. "Are there Buddhist teachers or traditions that teach a joyous approach to worldly life?" There are many if not most "Buddhist Teacher" and Traditions calling themselves after the Noble Ones. How ever, neither the Buddha, nor his good following desciples, not teacher of the Buddhas Dhamma do such. Why? Becaus they tell what is true and conductive for the path. Every time that one does not see the danger, does not put effort into the training, is wasted time. You can enjoy the reat when work is done. "Are there any teachings that profess existence is a joyous, if sometimes painful experience, or at least a tolerably pleasant experience? An eternal roller-coaster ride of birth-and-death, joy and sorrow, that one need not seek to escape?" There are, but not founded in Buddhas Dhamma. Mara constanty teaches such and so those overwhelmed of him as well. Who ever does not see him/herself the first noble truth, or reject faith, firm faith in it, is incapable to make any long therm conductive and wholesome use of Buddhas teachings, is still a wordling and regarded as outsider. In regard of the main Question: "Is it necessary for a Buddhist to believe that existence is suffering?" A self called "Buddhist" may believe what ever he wants, and yes, there have always been follower not really knowing the deeper sense of Buddhas teaching and he did not much worry about it. 

It is possible to bend the Buddha's message (if you so wish to do) because the Buddha never denied Atta in an Essential sense, he only pointed out that within empirical experience (all the way up to the perception of cessation) no 'thing' can be said to be constant and unchanging, as a self would be required to be.. hence the Mulapariyaya Sutta. Whilst the Buddha was very clear with regards to the lack of evidence for Atta within the empirical world, the Brahmajala and Potthapada Suttas shows that with regards to the Transcendental Atta (which is the Atta that most darshanas went for - Brahman/Atta is usually seen as beyond experience, commonly stated as 'neti neti' - 'not this, not that'), he asked people to avoid speculation (because whatever that 'transcendental' is inferred to be, it cannot be perceived and therefore cannot be verified) The Anatta doctorine is very subtle, a not insignificant number of schools of Buddhism have gone towards either essentialism (brahmanism) or annihalationism (nihilism) at some point. Yogachara has the nature of Parinispanna, which is a transcendental Atta. Mahayana developed the Tathagatagharba, which makes the Buddha a kind of Atta for Existence. The Buddha would have likely not concurred with these though! 

Swapnil, Love does never conquere anger and hatred but is actually the reason of it. Look how angry you are, aren't you? And why? Love is simply greed and it's not proper to blame another trader of not taking your deal, or? Of course it's not a crime perse, but actally the reason for all crimes in this world. To deal unfair, in cases where others do not like to trade with this dangerous item, lead also often to direct "love-crimes" That is why the Buddha and wise people taught and teach, "Suffering comes from what is dear" and to make best nothing neither dear nor put anger into it. And since no being loves any thing more as him/herself, on should not harm others and derive them from their beloved. (Note: This is a gift of Dhamma and not meant for commercial purposes or other wordily gains.) 

Alan, while it is right that on the path, practicing (Dhamma) is the real refuge to reach the targed of refuge, awakening, which means Buddho, one need those who guide one (Sangha) to be able to make one self an island with the Dhamma (practicing). That means one needs to cut of the greates obstacel fist, and that is wanting to become a "Buddhist". To work against ones usuall desires one works in a way to train one self in what is called practice in veneration or paying respect. This practice goes against the raw defilement. Once a person has gained the throwing away of all what is normaly taken as real (five aggregates) having sacrified them for his refuge, one comes to see the Dhamma, the Buddha as well as the Sangha as it really is. From this time on, one by one self becomes member of the Sangha (in perfect context) and so also knows all the values of the three juweles as they really are. It is foolish and sadly a western or better modern approch to motivate people to see more value in the own person and in becoming "a real Buddhist" so that most never ever start even to work against raw defilement. Thats the maketing of industry to be able to sell a product for many. Usually the training of Veneration as one of the ten meritious deeds, starts with bodily and verbal actions and step by step one also learns how to sacrify the mental factors in the same way. Just such a practice, even if not full comprehended, will be the foundation to be once able to maintain proper attention while hearing the true Dhamma, so able to gain right view and the doing the conductive rites and rites naturally. So one is good introduced to do not wslk the "cool" way, jet still very hot and cut the fundamental practice off right at the beginning. One having become different already would never have a problem with veneration of the gems nor would he/she ever tell somebody that it does not make sense to practice Sila, since veneration of what is worthy to counts as virtue right on the path and staightens one views. A huge topic, leading direct to awakening. Just be taking really refuge in the Gems one becomes a person no more able to fall off the path. Hier a useful short essay: