The whole "Must be eligible to work in ______" thing is extremely common to see on EU jobs, mainly because obtaining the work permit is an expensive, difficult and time consuming process for an employer to go through so very few are willing to do so except for exceptional candidates or for jobs which are very hard to fill. Sadly for you candidates with web development skills are pretty plentiful in those areas (they certainly are in the UK) so there is very little incentive for a company to go through the hassle and expense unless you are somehow truly exceptional. I'm not overly familiar with mainland Europe or Australia but certainly for the UK I doubt you'd qualify for an Exceptional Talent visa because (and I mean no disrespect here) that would require you to be "internationally recognised as world leaders or possess potential world-leading talent in the fields of science and the arts" and I'd be surprised if that was the case here so therefore you likely be looking at a "Tier 2 General Visa" and for a company to be able to successfully sponsor you for such a visa they would have to be able to demonstrate that they couldn't have reasonably filled the position with a UK/EU national. As IanSoNotListening's comment says looking for remote work (as an external contractor) would likely be much more fruitful as it sidesteps the whole work permit aspect entirely. Obviously though this is only feasible if you aren't looking to immigrate. If you have your heart set on immigrating to one of those countries then I would suggest contacting the country's embassy in your locale and discussing your eligibility with them. 

If they already have a tendency towards laziness then it's probably not a surprise that they don't willingly engage with optional tasks. 

I wish I could say otherwise but from what you've said here and from my own experience I'd have to say no. Even if it's not an area where they would look to commercially exploit themselves if they allow/encourage you to pursue it and then it takes off they'll be risking losing an employee that they presumably value during their own business operations. A financial incentive for it to succeed may possibly offset this but only if it's going to be worth more to them than the value you bring to their existing business. 

Just list it in your education section as normal - many people are in careers that aren't directly related to their degree subject so it shouldn't look odd. The fact that the subject isn't directly related isn't a reason not to include it - many employers will take it as a positive, i.e. it indicates that you have the requisite intelligence, commitment and work ethic to complete a degree. Obviously a more directly related degree is more of a positive to have on the resume but other than the outside chance that they might assume you are only applying to the job because you can't get one in your degree area (and you're using the rest of your resume and cover letter to demonstrate your interest and enthusiasm for coding presumably?) I highly doubt it will be taken negatively. 

As Joe states it is a clear indication of the amount they are envisaging paying for the role - but in most cases even when they don't advertise the salary the organisation will already have a number "in mind" as it were when they start the recruiting process. In my experience it is worth negotiating as long as the shortfall between the advertised salary and your requirements isn't massive. If we are talking £1-5k difference then that's not necessarily insurmountable, if we are talking £10k+ then I highly doubt it would be worthwhile. What I've done in the past is indicated to the recruiter that the job is appealing but that the money would have to be more like £Xk instead of the advertised £Yk. The recruiter usually then contacts the company to see if that level of flexibility is something they can offer, if so the process continues from there, if not then you go your seperate ways. If the advertised salary is within the bounds of what I would consider then I would continue in the process, attempt to impress them in interview and if that succeeds I would then attempt to negotiate higher. 

I've recently made the jump from perm to contract myself (I'm also a .NET developer in the UK) so here's some info you might find useful: 

No Unless the experience is directly relevent to the job in question of course! As a hiring manager if I see someone's extensive travel history listed on their CV it would definitely put me off. Especially if it is regular and/or relatively recent as this positively *screams" that the candidate is just looking for a job to work at for a while so they can fund their next "adventure". In the case of travel that is further in the past then I tend to think they are either desperate to sound "interesting" or trying to "stand out", or worse - they are the sort of person that will never shut up about their "life changing" year backpacking round Asia when they were 19. Ugh! 

If you're interested in pursuing a tech lead or a more management-focused path in your career development then it may be worth looking at even if there isn't additional compensation being offered (although I would at the very least push for the title of team lead) as it will be valuable experience. If that's not a move you are looking to make then I'd steer clear as it could otherwise be something of a poison chalice. 

Nope, unless you can prove your employer expressly violated the terms of your employment contract you are on a hiding to nothing. Nothing to do here but chalk it up to experience, polish up the CV and move on. 

So you're giving them some context about it and they are probably better placed then to know whether it's likely to be something they can deal with quickly or not. One thing I would stress is to make sure that while courtesy is important you really don't want to end up taking ages explaining that it's quick or that you don't want to disturb them. Otherwise you risk making the whole thing be not "quick", an ex-coworker of mine would literally spend 10 minutes apologizing for disturbing me and saying how he knew how important my time was all to ask me a 30 second question and it was utterly infuriating! 

This to me sounds very much like the sort of environment where the whole "family visit" concept isn't really a thing.. I'd say that you've been taking the right course so far in keeping work and home life a bit more separated at this company. 

Erm.. no, not really. It might help prevent the client you talk to from revealing it accidentally because they thought your employer knew already but they aren't your doctor or lawyer so it's about as binding as a paper bag with a rip in it. 

Let them know that you understand that the role as-described is an unpaid position (otherwise you'll just look like you didn't bother to read the job posting) but that you feel that with your existing experience and the fact that your personal circumstances mean you are looking for part time that would there be a possibility of having the role be paid. The key would be to frame the proposition as being of mutual benefit to both parties - they get an experienced worker rather than a complete beginner without having to shoulder a full time wage and you get the lighter time demands that suit you right now. You mention that the role is at least partly business development so offering to work on a commission-only basis is an option as that would at the very least keep the company's fixed costs down if there is sufficient margin in each sale to pay a commission.