You will almost never get such feedback in the US. Mostly because people are concerned about lawsuits, they'll never say "it appeared to us that you were weak in area_Q" because that invites an argument/discussion that no, you are fully qualified in area_Q. Likewise, if you rubbed them the wrong way, you won't get an accurate assessment of the issue. 

It is nothing personal, it is just business. This is a phrase you'll hear in every day life in the corporate world. Everyone has different abilities to deal with stress - what is considered chaotic and stressful in some companies will be considered normal in others. It all depends on what the company environment is. The sort of stressful levels for people at some consulting companies (say, "white shoe" consulting companies like KPMG or McKinsey) will be too much for many people. Add to that the "up or out" mentality and some people would be reduced to tears in months. People who thrive in those environments "die of boredom" in less stressful environments. 

From what you said, I don't get the impression that your supervisor treats you as a resource. There are situations where the term "resource" is fine: If your supervisor is asked to handle a job that takes six people working 40 hours a week and there are only four in the team, then he hasn't enough resources. How he treats people is a different matter. 

Your obligation to your employer is to give them notice, as specified in your employment contract, when you want to leave. That's your obligation. Now if you arrange things in a way to minimise damage to your current employer, as long as this doesn't put your own interests at risk, that's a sign of good character and recommendable. Minimising damage to your own employer while putting your own interests at risk, that is stupid and very likely to backfire and cost you dearly. Let's say you tell them "maybe you shouldn't buy this API because I might not be here to implement the application". Quite possible that they give you notice, demonstrating that you were less needed than you thought, and if your new job falls through, you have nothing. 

In some cities/states, sexual orientation is a protected class like race or gender. In such a place, this is clearly a "hostile work environment". I would first ask the people to stop. If they don't, then start a diary with names and dates. Keep this diary at home, or in your purse/murse/briefcase. Read Corporate Confidential at home before approaching your boss or HR. HR does not work for you, their job is to protect the company. In the past, when I've been around such coworkers, I take 2 different tactics. One tactic (shame) is to turn it around by saying things like "really? You wouldn't say that about a black person would you? Or are you that bigoted?" Another (taking the bite out of the remarks) is to camp it up and set the dial to 11. Such as telling a man who is saying a homophobic remark something like "oh hun, you just haven't met the right man yet." It takes time to determine what works better for each person. 

Fact is, you are working on an old code base that probably over the last 20 years has grown worse and worse, making changes is hard, harder than it should be - and you are not going to change it. The other fact is that whatever your boss tries, adding the new features that he wants will take its time, and nothing your boss can do will change that. Now if your boss wants daily goals and daily results, give him daily goals and daily results. Take half an hour first thing in the morning to determine what you want to do in that day. That's half an hour where you could have been coding, but that's what your boss wants. Half an hour before you go home, stop writing code and determine and write down what you have done that day. Now important (especially as a junior developer): Keep track what portion of your plan you have achieved each day. Once you've done this for a week, you'll get to know what actually is achievable in a day and change your plans for the day so they match what will actually happen. Your plan for the day shouldn't be "what you would like to happen" or "what your boss would like to happen", but "what will happen". The fear that you may be experiencing is mostly caused by not achieving what you think you ought to achieve - that fear goes away once you learn to plan realistically by adjusting your plans to what you achieve. Meanwhile, let me guess how much training you get during your job... If it is as much as I think, your working day shouldn't exceed what you get paid for, so you are fresh enough and have time to learn things on your own at home. Especially aimed at learning things that would help you in a different job. 

My current employer is in this situation. Folks hired get hired at the market rate, but since 3% raises don't keep up with the rise in market rates, new hires end up making more than experienced employees. The only solution for folks wanting more significant raises is to actually quit and go work somewhere else - then come back. I quit to work elsewhere and about 18 months later they needed me back, so I'm back here at about 20% higher than I was making before leaving (everyone gets 3% annual raises and even folks who are about to be fired get 2% - it is a privately held company). Negotiation is a very important skill in IT, and one that seems to be undervalued by technical workers. I think it will be the most valuable skill you can learn this year. And the most important part of negotiation is the ability to just walk away. You need to know what your "best alternative to a negotiated agreement" actually is (the term was coined in the book Getting To Yes, and a review is here), and negotiate from that point. The point behind understanding your BATNA is that you will know what you will have/get if negotiations fall through, and that you won't accept a deal that is worse than BATNA without knowing it. Many companies like to write policies that say discussing salary/wage/benefits to be a fireable offense. The purpose of this is to strike fear into their workers and to practice the doctrine of "divide and conquer." The National Labor Relations Board has repeatedly held that discussing salaries, wages and benefits to be an "organizing activity" covered by section 7 of the NLRA and that company policies forbidding such discussions are banned because they violate section 8 of the NLRA (one example upholding this view is Handicabs, Inc. v. NLRB, 95 F.3d 68). If you aren't going into a negotiation knowing what others are currently making for the same job, then you are going to be coming from a much weaker position than you should be coming from. You need to be able and willing to leave. You mention working in project management. If you don't currently have a PMP certification, I recommend getting that credential and use that in your negotiations. If you don't get the raise you are looking for, the PMP will show other employers that you are a PM and are serious about being a PM. This should get you more money than you are making now. 

I am preparing to complete a bachelor's degree in computer science, but previously completed all of the requirements for a major in business/CIS before switching to computer science. It included the typical business courses such as marketing, macro/micro, accounting, finance, law, etc. I also completed a strategic management capstone. (I will have completed two capstones when all is said and done) My school only allows double-majors within the same discipline (arts, science, business) so they cannot be combined in one degree. The school doesn't offer academic minors. A second degree requires gaining 30 credits after graduation whereas these are already completed. The coursework does not align with any undergraduate certificate offered. They offer a lower level associates degree in general management but I am a mid-career adult with enough public-sector management training and experience behind me that a lower level degree is unnecessary. I would like to call out this higher level coursework on my resume somehow as it can be relevant to my future career. But I'm unsure how to actually reference it on the resume. I've considered placing it at the end in a section containing miscellaneous info, but have also seen the word cognate used in reference to majors and minors in the education section. For example see the education section of this resume from a Mozilla engineer. What is the best way to highlight this correctly in my resume? 

The governing statute in the US is the ESIGN ACT (text of statute). Generally, courts have treated the situation as "if both parties treat it as a signature, then so will we" (section 1-303 of the UCC calls this "course of performance, course of dealing and usage of trade"). I used to work for a company where we dealt with the signatures and attestations; ESIGN is a bit complicated as the supporting regulations also require things like the electronic documents be readable and provable for at least 10 years. PDF/A is an attempt to make PDF documents suitable for long-term archival. 

In most Windows environments, the account is locked in Active Directory. You never delete the accounts because they may come back, or you may need to set up the next guy with the same roles/permissions as the one who quit. Someone should have a list of what each person has been issued (such as SecureID tokens), and check them off upon departure. 

What rights does the ex-employer have? They have the rights to any company data on the computer, and the right to have that computer in a usable state. With hard drive encryption, the computer might not actually be usable. Throwing out the employee and turning him into an ex-employee without making sure they have these things is of course stupid. What rights does the ex-employee have? He has the right not to divulge his password, which he is using for his private banking as well (I know it is stupid to use the same password), he has the right that private data on the computer stay private and are not used against him. Remember he is an ex employee. He has the right not to do any work for the company without payment. A reasonable thing to happen would be for the ex-employee to come to the company at a reasonable time, with expenses paid, and change the computer password to "1234" or "Password" or whatever, so the company can exercise their rights. The next reasonable thing to happen would be for the company to accept that other or to make a different reasonable offer. The former boss has no right to know the password, but he has the right to get the computer made usable. But not for free; the notice period is there for exactly that kind of thing.