He is possibility violating the federal minimum wage laws, the Federal Department of Labor can help you determine if this is the case. 

The answer to (1) is easy. Except in the unlikely event that you have an employment contract that binds you to your current employer, and likewise binds him to you, then it's not unethical for you to look for another position, just as it's not unethical for him to look for another person to replace you. This is called 'at will' employment. The answer to (2) is very difficult unless there is a strong positive relationship between you, your current company, and the other company. It is the case that in the US there have been costly law suits over 'stolen' employees (Informix v. Oracle for example). Short of a lawsuit, it is also possible that the first thing the other company's manager might do is call his counterpart at your current company and say 'Anonymous1 is asking about a job here, is it ok with you if we pursue this with him?'. In practical terms if the other company looks to you like a great fit for you, and you have a positive relationship with the management of the new company, then you might just bring up the subject in a diplomatic way, perhaps over lunch or in some other neutral settings. It'll be a gamble, but sometimes gambles pay off. 

Ask you lawyer to seek an injunction preventing the (automatic) publication of any future name change on the basis it will cause undue hardship (or something like that - the lawyer may be able to find a reason a court will accept). If you can get that then you should be able to change your name legally without it becoming associated with you in searches. Note however that if your picture has been published this may not entirely eliminate the problem. But it would be a starting point to work from. Note that you said : 

Ask management for a simple partition be be placed at the side of your desk because people going around the corner crowd your desk and it's distracting. This is a very sensible use of partitions - to create a distraction free environment (in relation to your field of view). 

You have a medical reason not to. It should, in principle, merely require you to provide evidence of this to your managers and HR to justify closing your door as a norm. This is the direction you need to take, IMO. 

This is a very bad notion that I need to address. You cannot do work, paid or free, for another person without your existing employer's permission (unless you have a very unusual contract). And supplying internal documents from your current employers to anyone for money would be grounds for instant dismissal and possibly even accusations of industrial espionage. Giving it for free would almost certainly get you fired as well, for a breach of NDA. Under no circumstances let the idea that being paid creep into your mind as making this reasonable. If there was any discussion of your former manager paying you for this information it is extremely serious and you must tell this to your current employers. Once again, you do not know the full story on why this guy left but you know it was on bad terms. Protect yourself. 

Everything except the replacment bus ticket, airline club daypass and room service are appropriate for most American corporations. For sure they will be disapproved if your are applying to work for a U.S. government contractor. Unless you are applying for a senior position you very well may get push back on those items even in a pure private sector organization. You really have three options: 1) Claim these expenses, and shrug your shoulders if they don't reimburse you. In the past this would be my choice, but since participating in this forum I've been astounded at the many trivial and unimportant things that seem to worry some interviewers and hiring decision makers (tie color, shoes, email addresses, etc). 2) Don't claim them out of an abundance of caution. In case you have a 'tie color is critical' hiring authority why risk claiming a questionable expense? 3) Contact the admin or HR person who coordinated your interview and ask the question before you file your expense report. This is commonly done and shouldn't raise any eyebrows. Unless you are applying at a place that considers tie color etc as important. 

I screen a lot of resumes, and am in the 'two pages or less please' camp. I do appreciate links to more information at the bottom of your resume. Linked In is a good place to include the information that would be contained in a full CV. If you have a blog or other web presence related to the job you're interested in, I'm interested, by all means include those links. On a side note, I have a pet peeve about 'References available upon request'. My reaction is always 'Duh! - Thanks for clearing that up, Captain Obvious'. References are pretty much a given in every job I've ever applied for, and I've never noticed any reluctance on anyone's part to request or provide references. Why waste precious bits typing that? Edited to add: If you are handing in a paper resume at a job fair, provide a link to an electronic copy of that resume! Trust me, this is VERY helpful to your screener! 

As I mentioned above your colleagues "offshore" (from your narrow viewpoint !) are probably equally frustrated by comms from your locale. Your use of the term "offshore" does seem to indicate a failure to appreciate that they're a perfectly legitimate part of a global business and you need to accommodate them, not just the other way around. 

Really silly thing to say. You've now got direct evidence that they are threatening to fire you if you don't do unpaid work. I don't know employment law in your area, but to see if this helps you you need to speak to someone more expert -union, lawyer, that kind of group. And what is "a valid reason" ? I bet it's "nothing". So what to do ? If you want to fight this you need to get legal advice. There may be agencies that give cheap or even free legal advice to part time works. If you have a union (teaching ?) you may get advice there - even if the union is not recognized by your employer, as long as you're a member. If fighting sounds like a pain the other solution is to get a new job. Honestly, I'd strongly suggest looking for a new job. The fact the owner is now taking such a direct role instead of normal management may be a sign they're in financial difficulty. Owners usually don't get involved at this level unless there's a problem. They'll talk to management and management will work out the details. I'd call this intervention as a "sign of distress". Certainly it's clumsy and I'd bail if possible simply because this is probably going to get worse (how the company is operated). Note : I have a cousin who was a teacher (recently retired) and there certainly is a lot of homework and prep done after hours - lots of hours. However your employer seems to be pushing that envelop a lot more and as you're also part time ( not regular full time staff ) the events as well seem pretty rough. 

In the United States we have two basic systems for Unionized workers. Twenty three states have 'right to work' laws which in general prohibit collective bargaining agreements that force all employees to join the union and outlaw forced collection of union dues from non-members. The other states all allow some form of compulsory union membership contracts. In general the states with forced union membership have slightly higher average wages, but they also have significantly higher unemployment. If you are considering forming a Union in a right to work state you'll have a steeper hill to climb. Keep in mind that union membership has been steadily declining in the U.S. private sector, dropping from 20% in 1983 to 12% in 2010. If you are interested in forming a union then the first step is to talk to an existing union, such as the AFL-CIO, Teamsters, or Service Employees International Union. They will be glad to help you take the first steps if you decide to try and unionize your employer. While union membership by technical professionals is unusual in the U.S., it's not unheard of. Boeing engineers in Washington state unionized a few years ago. 

Before I was a software developer I worked in aviation. 5s type rules are golden for any aviation production or maintenance organization. Keeping every tool and part in exactly the right place is not just for looks, it's a manner of life and death. I almost lost a friend when a wrench left in an airplane caused a crash on takeoff. That's why every tool must be controlled and accounted for at all times. Aircraft maintenance is typically done in shifts. It is a matter of life and death that each incoming shift has no doubt as to the state of the work left by the prior shift. If shortcuts are taken between shifts then it is very possible that people could die. Creativity is needed in the design process, but not in maintenance or line production. The one thing you don't want in production and maintenance shops is creativity. Everything must standardized, carefully designed procedures must be followed be, rules must be strictly enforced. Authority must be respected. Or people die. Software development isn't like that. Rules that are very appropriate in manufacturing or maintenance organizations are not appropriate in a software development organizations in which individual creativity, out-of-the-box thinking, and experimentation are keys to success. Nobody dies if my monitor and desktop are different than that of another developer. If the other dev and I are forced to use some kind of authority dictated 'standard' then both of us lose productivity. Attempts to enforce the factory floor regime suggested by this question will drive away all the best software developers and result in only mediocre software products. This 5S system is a recipe for disaster if imposed on a software development team. 

You is the operative word here. They probably can. And they probably will dump your client and you quickly. What your employees might accept : 

None. But it might irritate them. OK, they might want to refresh their memories, but then again if they don't already have you in their minds after the interview, your resume is not going to make any difference at this stage. The time to plant yourself in their minds was the interview. Anything after that is too little, too late. 

There is no need to alter these errors or address them in this email unless they materially affect the meaning of the document. If they do affect the meaning you need to email a response to the author to alert them and possibly to get them to issue a correction. But if the errors are simply grammatical or spelling or form of address or similar non-critical issues, then if you feel the need to address these at all you should reply to the original author and draw attention to those issues and suggest/request they avoid them in the future. Also consider if going through corrections like this is efficient. The whole idea of email is that it's efficient. Grammatic perfection, while desirable is not necessary for efficient communication. Lastly any editing runs the risk of introducing unintentional errors or ambiguity. You may think you're doing it right, but I see edits introduce issues almost as often as I see them fix them. 

We've had some good luck here (Austin, Texas, USA) by going to college job fairs where we can meet the candidates directly and conduct an initial screening with the interesting ones. We also hire a lot of interns, some of whom wind up as full timers and all of whom have friends that they can introduce us to. 

Assuming this wasn't just banter, I think Chad is communicating to 'the boss' that he won't tolerate open disrespect just because 'the boss' got there before he did. Possibly Chad has in demand skills and knows he can find a job where he's not publicly disrespected in front of his peers. Or maybe he figures no job is worth putting up with a 'boss' who is clearly an idiot. 

I've got a stack of resumes in front of me right now. Here's a fellow with an 'additional' section that list "Team Captain, Podunk Marathon" and "Secretary, Irish Music Society". Here's another guy with a 'Community Support and Interests" section. He does Yoga and rides a bike 50+ miles a week. He's a Deacon in his church. Here's a candidate with an 'Additional' section that lists 'Team Captain, Podunk United Rugby Club'. I see 'additional' sections all the time, and I like them. It gives me a little more of a picture of the whole person. As a resume reviewer it's all well and good to screen resumes looking for that candidate who has 15 years of Ruby on Rails and five years of iOS 5 experience. But it's still interesting to see just a glimpse of who the person really is. Just a bit of 'additional' gives your resume a hook. 'Let's see, I remember, there was an F# guy who was President of his chess club". In your case, your religious activities are a very important part of who you are. You don't want to be hired at a place who would find this part of you distracting (and yes, it's not legal in most places for the employer to consider your religion, and we hope everyone follows this principle.) So add your title and part time position as 'Community Service' at the bottom of your resume. Don't make a big deal about it, but it will be best for both you and your potential employers for this activity to be disclosed.