It's nice to be reserved against hasty generalization based on (however carefully collected) statistics -- but it is laughable to argue one's pathetically minute sample of observation trumps that of, say Pew research and similar (which I think can also be considered hasty generalization but in a non discriminatory way). What is the name of that fallacy? 

Are axioms nothing but assumptions and, if yes and in accordance to Occam's Razor, should they be minimized? When postulating scientific theorems which, unlike axioms, are subject to the scrutiny of proof but do factor in axioms, are there formal systems which at least attempt to quantify the amount of axioms, or assumptions, that are antecedents to the theorem? Put simply, can we sort theorems based on how much of their input are axiomatically accepted assumptions? 

I've been reading on the holism-reductionism continuum. Reductionism strikes me as compliant with general principles of the scientific approach and method because it seeks to explain complex phenomena by breaking them down into smaller units and building theories bottom up, focusing on specificity and detail. Holism is the opposite and seems to me it could easily serve as a seemingly respectable (who doesn't want to tie it all together in a big "theory of everything"?) curtain for poor, insufficient or downright misleading and sloppy research. This is not to say we shouldn't seek to explain relations among phenomena -- only that it should be preceded by a thorough understanding of individual parts. In modern scientific circles, is holism generally regarded as a conduit for pseudoscience? 

Of course, these three questions are just microscopic inquiries when approaching and evaluating religious thought and its titanic impact on society throughout the ages and different parts of the world. Furthermore it is important to distinguish between the individual actions and beliefs of religious folk in sometimes contradistinction to the official teachings and promulgations of the central religious body. Furthermore, are you referring to the Abrahamic religions? The Hindu religion? Those of the Far East? These are certainly big questions, but perhaps you could refine the approach and adjust the focus through one of many scientific lenses. This already sounds like a topic that would suggest familiarizing yourself with the English biologist Richard Dawkins, who has written a number of books on the matter. Best of luck. Edit: I figured I better append my response with the clarification that the vast majority of human beings are not subject to the same evolutionary forces and principles that act upon populations in the wild. But it is still worthwhile to consider how religiosity might affect the favorability of traits and behaviors. 

I happen to believe that strong writing and speaking skills are a non-negotiable requirement for any intellectual and philosophers in particular. While I obviously disclaim that as a personal opinion, I don't see it as particularly controversial because how valuable are your ideas if you can't communicate them properly and to as wide an audience as applicable? The applicability scope does matter -- a publication on tardigrade reproductive behavior understandably has a much narrower audience than a philosophical treatise on ethics, which their language should reflect (hint: it's more okay for the former to be arcanely worded as its target audience is more controlled). So when a philosopher who is speculating on matters that affect pretty much every human walking the planet has downright awful writing skills, let's mention Hegel as one of the not so few examples, why do you cut this person slack? Why, if they are so brilliant, do they need an interpretor (e.g. Kojeve) to translate their ideas to the general audience? If they are so brilliant to dispense ethical imperatives that apply to wide audiences, shouldn't they be held in high expectations to themselves make their ideas easily digestible to those audiences? What prompted me ask this rather broad question is that I notice (even on this forum) a level of disdain for any thinker who does offer philosophical insight but is not a formal philosopher and writes in clear, understandable manner. Famously Foucault said that 

As with many instances in the progression of intellectual history, in order to understand the now, it is important to understand what has come before the now. With specificity to Nietzsche, it is important to recognize the influences of European philosophers, psychologists, scientists, and even musicians upon him (an aside, music was an important aspect of his life). Specifically, such names that come to mind are Schopenhauer, Kant, Hegel, Darwin, and who can forget Wagner! Each of these individuals, and more, produced an impact upon his thinking, whether in his approval or disapproval of their ideas, or even more analytically, a strange, sometimes ironic mixture of both. I highly suggest reading Friedrich Nietzsche by Curtis Cate, who crafts an excellent and truly enlightening biography of the personal and intellectual history of Nietzsche, which has helped enormously in understanding his later works. I think it somewhat vain for me to try to "correctly" answer how to "properly" read Nietzsche (or any philosopher for that matter), so I will outline how I approach his texts. Remember, this is after having read the biography mentioned above and having gained the reference, context, and knowledge of the milieu and events surrounding the numerous inceptions-and completions-of his many works. Furthermore, the astounding work of Nietzsche scholars (such as Walter Kaufmann) in the form of historical and comparative research has produced conveniently organized footnotes in most texts that I urge you not to ignore. This advice, I think, is also not particular to Nietzsche, but is a generally helpful and advantageous approach to reading philosophy in general. And as a final note, do not forget that the English text is and always will be a translation of the original German; take that as you will. For larger, continuous works (i.e., not aphorisms): 

Not that I have read any of his books but I've watched the documentary and several of his magazine articles and he totally seems like a centrist. On some subjects (like Islam/immigration) maybe even slightly right of center. Why is he considered a Marxist? 

Many in the Frankfurt School, notably Adorno and Horkheimer, regarded rationality with criticism as, in their view, led to dehumanization and enslavement. But what did they offer as an alternative principle or ethos in guiding personal or social heuristics? I assume not religion/god, as they were mostly Marxist. 

This is a great question that spans many fields of inquiry and would be incomplete to confine it within the boundaries of traditional philosophy. In order to discuss it competently, input from various disciplines, such as biology and evolutionary psychology is desirable. Limiting the terms of its discussion to philosophy only would be tantamount to religious dogma. The reason I mention that is because the two authors on the subject I am about to recommend are not indeed traditional philosophers. Richard Dawkins explores the thesis of evolving morality as reciprocal altruism in his book The Selfish Gene. According to it, morality is optimized through the evolutionary process (as is everything else) as we learn that being nice is likely to pay better returns than brute pursuit of immediate self interest. It's a relationship that can be viewed as a game theory proposition. As we acknowledge that kindness pays better, it becomes a behavioral guideline that advances itself on the evolutionary continuum. Steven Pinker's book "The Better Angels of Our Nature" also examines a decline of violence and can be interpreted in an evolutionary context. 

As for his aphorisms, given their pithy and brief nature, you need to think long and hard about them, and not cave to the temptation of appropriating them out of context. Furthermore, it is beneficial to seek the expertise of Nietzsche researchers, who can better provide the context and clarity of how and why he wrote with an affinity for aphorisms. I could write on and on, but I hope this is a good modus operandi for approaching his fantastic works. Best of luck! 

Read every word, with particular attention to unfamiliar vocabulary. Nietzsche, as a philologist, was particular about his lexical and syntactic choice, I'm sure. Performing a close read of the text will benefit you enormously, particularly when you understand the then contemporary, historical meaning of his words and phrases, for which you will need the aid of footnotes and research. Taking his words merely for granted in the modern definitions and ideations proves inaccurate. Of course, what you are reading is a translation, which I am not qualified to evaluate, but a keen attention to every word, sentence, and paragraph will fully bring you into the experience, and set you up for the next "step". Note the stylistic, punctuational choices. You will notice that many texts use italicized, parenthesized, or hyphenated text, which to me at any rate, presents a thrilling experience for reading. And this makes sense, given Nietzsche's own opinions on how to write effectively, and I believe such mechanics were present in his original drafts. Feel the words, the phrasing, the tempo, the gravitas, of what you are reading, as it will convey far more emotion and impression than a mere clinical clean read. It should 'disturb' you and make you think, which prepares you for the next "step". Read the text again, but at a different time. If you have this luxury, try reading the text after some time off, or perhaps in a different mood (one that is still conducive to reading, though). You may be surprised, offended, or confused by what he writes, which dangerously lends to the temptation of dismissing his ideas and style. Understand that he may be speaking ironically, craftily, or earnestly, but all with intent and purpose. He is not an easily philosopher to understand! Ruminate! This is the most important step, and is not necessarily the last. Think, think, think, about what you have read, and consider the implications of his writing. Nietzsche was extraordinarily productive and crams so much in so little space. Think, at any point in time in your reading or even just in the everyday, about what could have led him to write what you read, and that exactly, and not something else. Think about particular paragraphs, sentences, even words, but without forgetting an understanding of the overarching themes of his message. 

What would be (the closest) logical fallacy when one demands that their proposition be accepted axiomatically and exempts oneself from providing reasonable argument or empirical evidence? E.g. "The simple issue is actually more complicated (so that I can attach my unrelated strings to it) but that's subject of another conversation" 

Because we live in an age in which science, which can be defined as a reason-based epistemic framework that relies on testing and evidence, is, at an unprecedented speed, closing the gap of knowledge of universal phenomena. Not all answers are here yet but we're getting there. Skepticism and doubt in the existing knowledge are some of the fundamental bedrocks of science. Faith, on the other hand is an unsubstantiated moral and belief system that relies on superstition, supernatural, and, by definition, discourages doubt. Most religions practiced today were conceived thousands of years ago in a world very unlike what it is today. Religions have made numerous attempts to explain the universe, most or all of which have been superseded, therefore not deserving any further benefit of the doubt. It could be said that, as both an epistemic and moral framework, religion has run its course and serves no purpose to humanity. 

Having read some of Friedrich Nietzsche's philosophical works, as well as the acclaimed biography of Nietzsche by Curtis Cate (which I suggest all those who are interested in Nietzsche should read), I understand that Nietzsche did not view Plato and his philosophy favorably, specifically, the Platonic ideal, and the notion of otherworldly truth and knowledge. Whether or not there is any record of Nietzsche's specific opinion on the allegory, I am unaware of, but I shall still try to opine on the matter. Given his scrutiny of Plato however, I'm inclined to believe it is somewhere out there. I conjecture that the element of the story that Nietzsche would most approve of is the particular man's escape from the cave, and his venturing out into the 'real' world, out beyond the confines of the cave. Allegorically and in a Nietzschean spirit, the primitive and suffocating cave, and its residents, could represent the mediocrity of the prevailing intellectual and moral system, which would rather continue a fixation with mere reflections of 'reality' than attempt a constructive investigation of ethics and reality. My current understanding of Nietzsche lends me to the belief that this man, who has escaped the mirages and projections of what is real, would posses the opportunity of truly escaping "the herd" that resides within the cave, a term Nietzsche usually uses to describe the prevailing morality of the masses, influenced by Christian dogma as well as ossified by historical inertia. Thus, this lone man (the primordial Übermensch perhaps?), who has escaped (by chance, if I remember the allegory correctly), has triumphed over the rest in his opportunity to grasp the world as it really is. The interesting literary and situational parallels to Zarathustra are many to be considered. As to whether there was anything 'real' outside of the cave, I believe that Nietzsche would not deny a physical reality 'of the way things are' outside of the projections and pretenses of conventional morality, and how morality influences the worldview. After all, he believed very much so, based upon what I can gather from On the Genealogy of Morality, that science during his time was one of the factors that contributed to the abandonment of traditional knowledge and virtues, so much so that he may have feared its unintended or insidious contribution to cultural nihilism. At any rate, Nietzsche did now infamously quote "there are no facts, merely interpretations", or something to that effect, though there is a greater context to that statement within The Genealogy. Still, Nietzsche was not anti-science, and within the understanding of the allegory, the man's escape from projection and duplicity towards reality and empiricism (after all, he relied upon his senses to absorb and intake the real, outside world) would be consistent with Nietzsche's urging of 'self-overcoming', which is another related concept. 

I am looking for reference recommendation on the subject of analyzing responsibility in victim situations. I am curious which philosophers have written on that subject, ranging in scope from individual crimes all the way up to war crimes and genocide. E.g., the modern prevailing narrative, at least here in the West, frequently discourages culpability analysis any deeper than blaming the carrier of the crime itself. To clarify, I am not looking for some vindication of victim blaming but that mainstream encouraged scope is shallow for my intellectual standards. For example, to which degree can the victim be, not held legally responsible, but to some degree morally accountable for not doing enough to prevent what happened to them? In a fair and balanced analysis of different concrete scenarios. So I'm not satisfied with the general sentiment that any further dissection of an incident beyond obviously blaming the final executor of the act is "victim blaming" and should be discouraged. Therefore, I would like to research philosophical treatises on how each and every one of us, and we as a collective, can do our best to prevent catastrophes by avoiding prior exposure to it. If an angry dog bites a person who foolishly tried to play with it, with him, the usual moral imperatives are to blame the dog owner, which is fair. But shouldn't we assign at least some responsibility to the bitten person for not being prudent enough not to play with a strange dog? Which philosophers have delved in this topic, especially in a dialectical format? I'm not looking to have a discussion whether my motivating premises are crazy or not -- simply for reference to philosophers and their works who worked on that subject. 

If you wish to claim that, historically in the West and near East, the imposition of the will of a religious body against other actors within society has delayed 'inevitable' advancements in the technological, social, scientific, and philosophical realms, then you are essentially correct and do not need to look far for instances of historical evidence. Mind you, this is a phenomenon that is not unique to religion. Now whether or not 'religions' necessarily preclude or at least discourage secular 'innovation' is much less clear, and difficult to prove. Attempting to do so would require a massive surveying of history since early Christianity, and perhaps even before, and would become an interdisciplinary approach. Attempting to isolate the effects of religious forces on society would prove even more difficult a task, so instead I shall attempt to opine on your thoughts. Essentially, it can of course be argued from an evolutionary perspective that predominately those organisms (in this case, humans) that can change and adapt positively to the flux of the environment are better suited to survive and perpetuate their genealogy. "Innovation" is a just sophisticated term to describe the human version of this effect, that is, the engaging of the mental, physical, and sometimes social faculties in order to improve the standard of living, and therefore the likelihood of survival, and ultimately, procreation, to continue the evolutionary argument. Adopting this view is consistent with your proposal of how innovation manifests and what it entails. The difficult question I think you are implicitly posing is whether or not the ideas and attitudes that accompany (theistic) religious piety has an evolutionary advantage, or disadvantage. E.g., 

The land has indeed be explored by science and testable and evident theories provided by it have superseded their religious equivalents. TL;DR: (to quote the 1st comment to this answer) 

I'm aware of the compatibilist attitude by some philosophers, such as Hegel and Daniel Dennet. I am interested in some philosophers who are firm determinists (deny free will). 

I am almost sure there is a name for the fallacy whereby its exponent tries to apply a very small sample of observation, usually anecdotal evidence, as representative of the population, of which that sample is part, at large. For example: 

What fallacy would "pot calling the kettle black" be, or basically discharging criticism at someone who doesn't substantially differ from you, only in a nuance of the same deviation? I can see a form of special pleading for a completely arbitrary line of acceptance drawn in between the critic and the critiqued, which would be a form of hypocrisy. Is there a better fallacy to in which to classify this phrase? CLARIFICATION: I don't mean saying "pot calling the kettle" itself is a fallacy -- I mean what it is being called against