When looking at the diagram of the focal plane of the Hubble Space Telescope I noticed that the aperture sizes of most of the scientific instruments are very small. They occupy a very tiny fraction of the focal plane. I understand that for a spectrograph (like the COS) you need a very small aperture to look at point sources. But why the Advanced Cmaera for Surveys or Wide Field Camera 3 also have so small apertures? Most of the focal plane is not used and it must be very tedious for the guidance system to move the target object exactly into the small aperture of the selected instrument. Even though the WFC3 is called "wide field", its field of view is less than 3 arc minutes. What were the reasons behind selecting these aperture sizes? Is HST designed to observe details of small targets? Are the sizes optimized for majority of observations? On the other hand the HST is taking images of large objects like nebulae and usually it is necessary to stitch a number of individual frames to create the whole image of a bigger object. For example the Carina nebula (stitched from 48 frames) or the Crab nebula (24 frames). 

The $v_{GSR}$ in the linked paper seems to be the radial velocity (RV, in $km.s^{-1}$) with respect to the GSR. This information is mentioned in the Abstract section. I don't know exactly what kind of coordinates you have and how exactly are your velocities expressed (Cartesian vectors?), but what you probably need to do is to convert the velocity vector of a star into the radial component using the formula $r=\sqrt{x^2 + y^2}$ You need to make sure where the origin of your coordinates is. This link clarifies what GSR is. Basically there are several frames of reference that are used on the galactic scales. LSR (Local Standard of Rest) is co-rotating with the gas and dust of the galaxy (so an average star is at rest in LSR), while GSR is not rotating with the galaxy and can be calculated from LSR using a formula $v_{GSR}=v_{LSR}+220sin(l)cos(b)$ where l and b are the Galactic longitude and latitude. 

Why is the Hubble Telescope in space? Do we get enhanced clarity and range by placing it in space? What can it achieve from space that it could not achieve from Earth? 

What does it mean for a star when people say it goes 'nova' or super nova, what are the differences? More importantly, can I safely observe these with an amateur telescope? I imagine they would be big enough to spot should one happen! 

Minor Planets Minor planets are things such as asteroids, they are usually small mass, rocky bodies. This is different from small mass bodies that might be predominantly ice or water. Dwarf Planets Size and Mass The IAU have not specified an upper or lower limit for mass to be considered a Dwarf Planet, therefore it is predominantly determined by one other feature called: Orbital Dominance Orbital dominance is achieved when a body has cleared it's orbit of all other bodies. For example planets are able to remove small bodies out of their area through impact, capture, or gravitational disturbance. Any body that is incapable of doing so is therefore classified as a dwarf planet. So if Jupiter was incapable of clearing its neighbourhood of bodies then it too would be a Dwarf planet. 

(A) Outer radius of Mercury’s liquid core. (B) Average density of the solid shell that overlies the liquid core Conclusion Essentially, specific readings taken by a Laser Altimeter allow us to map out the three dimensional shape of a planets surface. Analysis of the shape shows us that the crust is thinner at the poles which is likely due to a liquid core. On top of this, Mercury is believed to have a small magnetic field (1% of our own) and this might be due to a liquid outer core circulating a solid inner core, acting like a dynamo. Though there is still much speculation given over what causes the magnetic field so this is unreliable to use for a solid footing. Aside from that there is the logical thought process that larger planets are capable of creating huge amounts of heat and pressure at their cores which create a molten core, or at least a molten layer. This is why there is much skepticism over Mercury because it is such a small planet that its core should have solidified long ago. 

The expansion of space means that objects in cosmological distances are receding away from each other. You may ask: is it the same thing like if there were 2 rockets in empty space (stationary with respect to each other) and then one of them starts its engines and accelerates away? The answer is no. The above described case is not expansion of space. It is a simple movement with respect to an inertial frame. Notice that the accelerating rocket would be able to detect its motion with an accelerometer. The real expasion of space would manifest itself in the following way: you have 2 rockets in empty space, stationary with respect to each other. None of them starts its engines, but yet, they start moving away from each other. As if dragged by some invisible force, but not feeling any acceleration (the accelerometers would indicate zero). This is very similar to the case of inhomogenous gravitational field. Tidal forces would also increase the separation between the 2 rockets without any readout on accelerometers. However in the case of inhomogenout gravitational field there is usually a nearby gravitating body and the 2 rockets would be in free fall towards the body. But in expanding space there is no such body towards which objects would gravitate. The space is expanding because the spacetime metric is changing. All this means that in expanding universe you cannot find one global inertial frame. Distant objects initially at rest would start moving away from each other immediately. This is not how an inertial frame behaves. 

White holes are purely hypothetical at this point and are considered only because it is assumed something like it could exist as the balance to black-holes. Reading this article seems mostly writers taking liberties with the information but poses an interesting question. What is a White Hole? 

Mercury Laser Altimeter So how does the MLA aide us in determining if Mercury has a liquid core? Well the purpose of the MLA is to: 

Solar Flares obviously release extreme amounts of energy and extend thousands of miles out into space. Because they are so big I would like to be able to observe some of these events through a telescope but I am wary of damaging both my eyes or the sensitive telescopic equipment. How might I safely observe a solar flare through an amateur telescope? Might this be solved by using light filters to dim the amount of light entering the telescope or is a more specialist piece of equipment required? 

If you are not hoping to look for nebulas then I do not suggest a light filter, as this will also dull the stars. Examples of which can be found here 

Sometimes when using my telescope late at night or early in the morning, especially in the more humid of seasons, I notice i sometimes get dew buildup on the lenses. How can I minimize damp buildup whilst using my telescope? Simply dabbing away the liquid with a dry cloth doesn't seem to do the trick as I am still left with some water tracks and residue that I just can't soak up, this then means that all of the light is refracted providing a very fuzzy and blurry image. What preventative measures can i take to stop damp build up in the first place? 

I wouldn't say it's stupid. But I would say it's presenting hypothesis as some kind of fact. For all we know our universe does have a centre and an edge. 

Because of the infinite gravitational time dilation. The thing to understand is that temperature is a measure of motion. A hot gas is one where the molecules are, on average, moving faster than in a cold gas. See the Wikipedia temperature article and note this: "The coldest theoretical temperature is absolute zero, at which the thermal motion of all fundamental particles in matter reaches a minimum". Gravitational time dilation means things are moving slower. When the gravitational time dilation is infinite, things aren't moving at all. This is why the black hole was originally known as the frozen star. Stephen Hawking wrote a paper in 1972 with Brandon Carter and Jim Bardeen where they said "It should however be emphasized that κ/8π and A are distinct from the temperature and entropy of the black hole. In fact the effective temperature of a black hole is absolute zero”. Robert Wald said much the same in black hole physics. On page 69 he said in classical black hole physics “κ has nothing whatever to do with the physical temperature of a black hole, which is absolute zero by any reasonable criteria”. The black hole is said to have an effective temperature by virtue of Hawking radiation, but as Fraser Cain said, it's very low. And as Mark said, "under GR alone, BHs are utterly black and don't have a temperature at all". More importantly, Hawking radiation is said to be emitted from outside the event horizon. So it isn't actually the temperature of the black hole. Just as "the accretion disk that surrounds a BH can be very hot indeed" but it isn't actually the temperature of the black hole.