In my opinion, since Japanese is a head-final language and since the verb comes at the end of a clause, a sentence-final noun would be enough to indicate that the clause is a pre-modifier of the noun. In English, the relative clause post-modifies its head noun and, even though a relative pronoun can be optional at times, there are certain clauses that require its use. For example, subordinate participial and subordinate passive clauses may be reduced. Relative pronouns are also optional in relative clauses in which the modified noun is coindexed with the object. The contiguous noun phrases could serve as an indicator of there being a relative clause, hence the optionality of the relative pronoun. However, subordinate clauses in the simple tenses require the use of a relative pronoun, if the noun being modified is coindexed with the subject of the relative clause, to explicitly indicate that what follows the noun is a post-modifying relative clause, not a simplex main clause in which the noun is the subject. Present participle 

Without assuming the Split-INFL hypothesis, the adverb will have to be adjoined to I'. With the Split-INFL hypothesis, things can be kept consistent in terms of where adverbs adjoin to—only maximal XP projections, not X' projections. 

Are subjunctive and imperative clauses finite? In English, the verb form used in subjunctives is unconjugated, so it's tempting to say that at least subjunctives are non-finite. It's less clear for imperatives though, because of the 2nd person. The examples below do not permit prospective aspect marker 'will'. 

In cases of predication, can there ever be no linker or copula? This makes it enticing to say that there is the copula 'ialah', although unpronounced, in the structure. This is to serve as a linker for the wh-phrase and the nominal predicate. However, I can't find any evidence to support my claim about there being a zero-copula besides the fact that copulas are largely optional in Malay. My intuition is that tree 1 seems more plausible. Tree 2 seems a bit strange to me because I've never seen a [+wh][-pred] wh-phrase followed by a [-wh][+pred] complementizer as in tree 2 before, but I'm not so sure about this. 

Are the clausal complements of the nouns above relative clauses or appositives like in the sentences below? 

Has anyone ever regarded isolated NPs like the ones below as complete sentences and extended the pseudosluice analysis to such isolated NPs? 

One way to confirm this is by substituting the NPs with adverbs, e.g. "I ran fast" and "I am very tall". "A mile" in the first sentence may seem like the object of a transitive verb, but it isn't as how passivisation proves: 

Relative clauses usually involve the movement of an operator, either overt (wh-operator) or covert (silent operator) 

Perhaps in the examples involving intra-DP 'only', 'only' is an adjectival of sorts as it seems to be modifying the DP/NP in examples (1), (3), (6), (7) and (8). This could be supported by 'only' being infelicitous with expletives such as raising-it and weather-it. 

From what I've learnt, structural case is assigned in certain structural configurations. For example, nominative case is assigned by tensed I/T to nominals in SpecIP/TP. Therefore, the case filter allows the nominal subject to become overt. My question relates to the VP-internal subject hypothesis. In Greek, the subject is said to be able to remain in SpecVP: 

The reason that subordinate clauses in the simple tenses where the head noun is coindexed with the subject of the relative clause require a relative pronoun is that without it, the head noun could potentially be parsed as being part of a simplex clause, not the head noun of a relative clause if the relative pronoun is omitted. Participial and passive clauses, regardless of coindexation, can be reduced due to the fact that native speakers intuitively know that there is no way a participial or passive clause can be a simplex clause without its auxiliary 'be', so there is no other alternative but to compute the clause as being a relative clause. 

Fragment answers may convey a complete thought, hence being complete sentences on their own. They've been analysed to involve either sluicing or the elision of a copular construction (pseudosluicing). 

Later, the analysis of tough-movement was revised in G&B. It no longer involved object-to-subject movement but the movement of an operator to SpecCP and the generation of PRO in SpecIP of the infinitival clause (control). 

It is difficult to pin-point the exact source because there don't seem to be any etymological dictionaries of Malay just yet. This is purely speculative, but the word for 'Dutch' in Portuguese is 'holanda', whose pronunciation is nearly the same as 'Belanda'. The Malays could've borrowed the word from the Portuguese during the struggle between Malacca, the Portuguese and the Dutch in the mid-17th century. Another speculation is that the proboscis monkey could've been likened to the Dutch who conquered Malacca (perhaps their hair colour, their pot bellies and their big noses). The proboscis monkey is found in Borneo, which makes it unlikely that the Malays in Malacca came up with the term. Maybe the term was coined when there was interaction between the Dutch and the people of Borneo. One last speculation is that, since the turkey is not a species native to the region, 'ayam Belanda' could've just been brought to Malacca by the Dutch, hence [ayam belanda = Dutch chicken/chicken of the Dutch]. 

I'm looking for languages that have extraction markers or wh-agreement markers like those cited in Chung (1994) in Chamorro below: 

This, therefore, means that "run" is an intransitive verb with an adverbial, which is "a mile", an NP. In the second sentence, "tall" is obviously an adjective that functions as the subject complement. This is confirmed by the use of copula "am", an intensive verb. The problem comes when one tries to parse such adverbials in phrase structure form. Can NP appear on the left branch as the sister of Adj (denoting premodification of Adj) as how an AdvP can? 

The context of this utterance is one where 2 persons notice something weird, thinking that it's a ghostly entity or something paranormal and one person mentions what s/he sees, smells or hears. It's something like the 'knock on wood' gesture. The active counterpart of this utterance is the following: 

This is, however, just my opinion. Whether there is any psycholinguistic evidence for such parsing complexities is not known by me. 

However, does V always move to v even in simplex, non-raising/control declaratives such as "he only ate chicken"? If it does, is AdvP an adjunct of vP when the adverb precedes the verb? (By the way, which is a more recent and widely accepted analysis of control - null PRO or subj-to-obj raising?) An additional problem is when raising verbs such as 'appear' are involved as in the example below. How is 'only' able to appear between HeadIP and SpecIP? The split VP hypothesis doesn't seem to be able to account for this. 

In Japanese, on the other hand, whether the head noun is coindexed with the subject or the object does not matter and there is no need for relative pronouns as there is no structural ambiguity whatsoever, since nouns never come after the verb in simplex clauses; when a noun does come after the verb, the clause preceding the noun is most certainly a relative clause. 

I think I can figure out how they get case if the verb of the matrix clause is a regular non-copular verb as in the sentence below with a perception verb, but the sentence above having a copula as the matrix verb makes it very difficult to analyse because I don't think the subject is able to obtain ECM from the copula. 

Expletives are not compatible with most of these verbs in English and not many people nowadays accept the ones that are. They sound pretty archaic: 

So, adjectival 'only' modifies "he" in (1), Max in (3), "the chicken" in (6), and "chicken" in (7). The adjective 'only' is known to modify the NP within the DP, e.g. "the only child", which is different from 'only' coming before D or after N as in "only the child" and "the child only". So, how us this formalised? Could it be a quantifier? What do you all think? 

It is well known that morphology influences phonology to a certain extent. This can be seen with how vowels that should shift do not shift when the words are affixed by certain morphemes. Some affixes seem to inhibit vowel shift, whilst some don't: 

I'm coming up with an analysis of Malay copulas that goes along the lines of the question above based on the observation that they are nonverbal, cannot occur in non-finite clauses, are non-overt when there are aspectual markers, negators and/or modal verbs in the same clause, etc. If there is any literature on the topic, please send me the link. 

"Always a menace" would be analysed as a reduced relative clause postmodifying "the woods". The adverbial "even in the past" being a FocP can be disputed though. 

The adverb 'only' is known to be able to come in a variety of positions. The following examples demonstrate that it may be generated in positions that aren't so simple to syntactically analyse. The examples below involve control/subj-to-obj raising: 

Is it plausible to say that there is a zero-copula that links the wh-phrase with the relative clause in the sentence as in tree 1, or is it more plausible to say that there is no zero-copula and that the complementizer is a nominalizer (as argued by some) as in tree 2? My take is that the complementizer is still a complementizer, not a nominalizer, due to the fact that the noun modified by the relative clause is optional. E.g.: 

Based on the retention of the word-final /a/, we could arguably say that 'bola' is a foreign word. If so, what might the native word for such a basic word be? If not, why is the vowel not reduced? 

An imperative may convey a complete thought and is regarded as a complete sentence even if it is only a VP, because it actually is underlyingly a complete sentence - the subject is omitted. 

In Classical Greek, neuter nouns, whether they are themselves singular or plural, trigger singular agreement on a verb, but plural agreement on an adjective. 

In MP, constituents move as a last resort in order to get certain features checked. For example, subjects in English move from within the predicate of a sentence to SpecIP in order to get its strong EPP feature checked (Adger). What about focus-moved constituents? What feature causes them to move? A strong contrastive focus feature? It seems to me that features are created on an ad hoc basis to account for movement as a last resort such that someone could easily whip up some feature nobody has ever heard of to explain an instance of movement. Is there any restriction on the type and number of features there can be? 

Vocatives, which are basically nouns that refer to the person to whom the speech event is directed, are said to be detached from the sentences in which they occur. 

The example shows wh-agreement morphology on the verb when the questioned constituent is extracted. The constituent moves successive-cyclically and triggers wh-agreement on each verb of each clause it passes through. I don't have an example of a general extraction marker or displacement marker (caused by focus movement, topicalisation, or any kind of movement in general) but, if I'm not mistaken, some Bantu languages have these. If you know any languages that have either or both of them, feel free to comment or answer with a list. 

In English, the NP in the genitive is the specifier of D' under which the genitive 's head subsumes. 

Matter seems to be an unaccusative verb based on the semantics (especially the volitionality) of the subject; however, the internal argument of the verb is able to remain in object position, as in the following sentence: 

Radford (2011) merges AdvPs in the specifiers of the phrases that they modify. What are the advantages of such an analysis over augmented XPs (AdvP adjoined to XP)? 

I'm formulating an analysis of S-adverbs without positing that they adjoin to X' projections. S-adverbs such as probably, possibly, certainly, etc. may come immediately after the subject of a sentence, which means that they also precede items that are known to be generated in HeadIP/HeadTP such as auxiliaries, modals, aspectual markers, etc.. 

It is, however, possible to denote plurality without changing the form of the noun, as does reduplication. The use of cardinals with (optional) classifiers doesn't change the form of the noun: 

If I'm not mistaken, specifiers are usually reserved for constituents that play certain roles in the meaning of a sentence. For example, SpecTP is reserved for subjects, which originate in SpecvP in which it is assigned its agent role. If this is the accepted analysis of AdvPs, are other modifiers (such as adjectives) also analysed as such? 

Copulas are regarded as semantically vacuous auxiliaries merged in V, then raised to T. Lexical verbs are merged in V and are raised to v. I have not found any literature discussing the copula with regards to the split VP hypothesis. Therefore, this question remains: Is the copula merged in V or v? If you have found any references or links to articles discussing this, please post the link or title in the comments section. My bet is that it is merged in v like light verbs. 

In transformational grammar, it is said that the internal argument is raised and the thematic subject is turned into an optional adjunct by-phrase. Using the by-phrase in the utterance above is anomalous. However, an imperative necessarily needs a second person subject in English and Malay, but the utterance above demonstrates that there is a mix up somehow. The negator "jangan" is a direct order which means "do not". This means that the subject absolutely has to be the second person. In English, it would be very strange to use "do not" with a 3rd person subject. How is this utterance possibly an imperative when the grammatical subject is not the second person? How can one register this utterance as an imperative when SpecIP has been occupied by the moved internal argument, not the second person? 

The internal arguments of unaccusative verbs in English must raise to subject position to obtain case and satisfy the EPP. For example, verbs like melt, fall, die, arrive, etc.must have their internal arguments raise: 

Adverbs are usually analysed to modify VPs, so the AdvP is usually generated adjoined to VP. This enables the adverb to occur before or after the VP on the surface. Moreover, adverbs can be preposed to SpecCP. The problem arises when analysing the adverb 'only' when it comes between the verb and (raised) object (3), the subject and HeadIP (4), and between the determiner and noun (7). In (3), it is conceivable that AdvP is generated as an adjunct of VP with "want" moving from VP to vP. The split VP hypothesis does deal with this problem in fact. 'Only' is unexcitingly generated as an adjunct of VP. 

This could be supported by data from Japanese where such phrases are ended with the copula だ(da)/です(desu). 

Is it because the internal argument of matter is a clause and that clauses do not need to obtain case? I think it is, because matter can also take a DP complement and DPs require case, which causes them to obligatorily raise. This is why when matter takes a DP complement, the expletive is ungrammatical: