Check these two links: $URL$ $URL$ Germans were subject of expulsion or even genocide during the war, while soviet troops were entering to territories inhabited by germans. But after the war they were not killed in masse, except in the Soviet Union, where former prisioners of war died in great numbers. Also germans of Volga and from the baltic states were expulsed from their lands and their number was reduced as result. Since most germans were expulsed from eastern Europe, is difficult to estimate a death rate in those countries, because after the war no german was living there. Maybe you won't find a higher death rate after the war outside the Soviet Union. But for those who died in the gulag you might use this graph as reference. 

Nowadays is still less expensive to store or backup in tape or other offline media than in hard drive. Since information stored in offline media can't be reached through internet that data has to be reached on site. Besides, if you share information on the internet you also need to pay the internet connectivity and the digitalization process, which is still too expensive. Summary, you need to pay more to get that data online. Because the incentive is to keep the files offline. $URL$ 

Speer wrote a couple of books. Also Gitta Sereny wrote a biography of Speer. In neither of those books Speer explains in detail what he did. Basically he explains that he centralized the requirements of human labor and raw materials that each industry demanded. So they distributed according to the importance of each industry. Therefore, they didn't change the way the companies worked, it was only logistics intervention. 

The culture in Europe is called Western culture, hence, they didn't change their culture. While middle east belongs to another high culture, sometimes called islamic or arabic. Since high cultures are strong enough to reject foreign influences, is quite normal that in the middle east they will resist western culture, in the same way as do Indian or Chinese cultures. Even though they still get some stuff from western culture, like the technology. Only when a foreigner culture is by far more attractive for people who belongs to another culture you'll see a change. Otherwise people keep their habits and reject what for them looks barbaric. 

No. With more aircraft Germany would have had the chance to reduce Stalingrad to debris. But debris are actually a good place to defend, even more than a city no being bombarded. In the city itself, Russian tactic in Stalingrad consisted in reduce as much as possible the distance with germans, to prevent german bombing since both sides were too close. More aircraft would have been useful only to bombard artillery positions in the easter bank of the Volga. But not to eliminate infantry in the city. Hence, the only available effect of having more aircraft would have been less deaths of germans during the first stage of the battle (before the counterattack), due to less russian artillery fire. Germans mostly needed transport aircraft in the last stage of the battle (when they were already encircled), but these kind of aircraft was not used against United Kindom. I also assume that reconnaissance would not change (to discover on time soviet preparations), because that kind of planes were not used in Battle of Britain. Finally, as a reality test. Without the Battle of Britain, germans would have invaded the Soviet Union earlier. But this is fiction. So everything is different in that alternative reality. 

Greek knowledge was mostly written in Greek, which was only known in medieval times on the easter side of the former Roman Empire. Arabs took this knowledge after they conquerer these lands (Egypt, Palestine, Siria, etc) and moved it to the west to Spain. There, in Spain, several erudites like Ibn Rushd (Averroes) wrote important works based on Greek knowledge. And were the works of these arabs the ones that entered to the west in the late middle ages. Finally, after the fall of the Roman Empire in the west, few people actually was literate, most of them monks (who were able to read Latin, not Greek). That's why most Greek scripts were lost there. 

First: Since the OP made the question based on roman and greek names, I'll ignore other countries in this answer. Second: Let us make a difference between Greece and Rome. Usually in Greece people used only one name, while in Rome they used three (name, gens name and family name). Hence a Greek name would be like Nike, Plato, Aristotle, etc. Once in a while a person with a common name would be differenced by including its origin, best known example is Thales of Miletus. But Rome used longer name (for males usually), like Publius Cornelius Scipio, Quintus Fabius Maximus or Gaius Julius Caesar. Third: Usually people uses the shortest name available, only including a family name, origin or other reference to make a distinction between people who share the same name. That's why some famous people might own a name shared by many; like Caesar or Alexander the great. Even nowadays a person might own a name; like Warhol, Lennon or Shaquille, even if that name is common. Summary: Last name has not been introducing in world history. Is basically a cultural use or a need whenever a name is shared by many. 

Discarding city sieges, where encirclement is the idea, in the battlefield there are some examples. Napoleon started the battle of Leipzig in the middle of the battlefield, and he never avoided the encirclement. He moved his forces to each flank depending of the battle development. Later on in Waterloo (Quatre Bras and Ligny), Napoleon started the battle attacking the middle of the enemy line in order to separate english and prussian forces, neglecting the risk of being encircled. Caesar in Alesia didn't avoid encirclement, and he fortified himself in order to keep his position sieging the fortress of Alesia. Alexander in Gaugamela fought an enemy so big that he was innevitable encircled, so he planned the battle expecting being encircled and then he attacked the weakened center of the persian line. 

The ritual was before the sanitation. Even the old cases (40000 years ago) of burial shows some kind of ritual. In fact, some traditions during the classic era didn't use burial or cremation, but instead the body was given to the vultures. So the ritual was even in recent times more important than the sanitation. That makes me remember the last epidemia of ebola, where the ritual was so important (cleaning the body) that many people got sick during this process, and they rejected the idea of cremation of the body without fulfilling the body cleaning first. 

Spengler uses one definition (around 8 civilizations), Toynbee uses another (around 23 civilizations), Huntington has its own (actually close to 10 civilizations). Therefore the question is quite open. in fact, Toynbee dedicates almost half volume to describe the definition of civilization as a study field. Under Toynbee definition: A civilization would be a subject of study that can be analyzed as a whole ignoring its relation with other civilizations. I mean, to understand the history of France you need to understand the history of Germany, therefore both countries belong to the same civilization, at the same time, you can ignore the history of Russia to understand France, which means that Russia should be a different civilization. A civilization often ends in a universal empire which cover the whole civilization irradiation, like Roman Empire which covers all the roman-greek world, or Incan Empire that unifies the whole andean region, but these empires are only visible at the end of the life of a civilization. Once a universal empire falls the civilization might be close to its end. Under this definition, the Roman Empire was the end of a civilization, and the Bizantine Empire was one of its children in the eastern side of the empire, while the western civilization started in the western side of the empire. I highly recommend to read the first volume of Toynbee, but maybe the abridged version of Sommerville will be easier to digest. Links: Spengler $URL$ Toynbee $URL$ Huntington $URL$ 

Allied forces where driven back not only in the Ardennes, but also along the whole Belgian front. Hence, even with a poor strategy germans would have won the battle. Most important reason was the lack of reserves in the french side, while germans had two complete armies behind their main thrust, allies have none. So any opening would be impossible to close in a short span of time. Many french forces where in the Maginot line at the beginning of the battle, but the battle was fought in the north. Second; Lack of coordination between Allies, not only british and french. Belgium and Holland did not coordinate their forces with them. Once their countries were occupied they left the battle. If you sum forces from all these countries, they were almost equal in number compared to german forces. Third; Lack of experience in the allied side, germans made a lot of changes after Poland campaign, but allies did not have experience, so their first battle in world war II was France. It is noticeable that while more advanced the battle of France better was the performance of allied forces. Fouth; Brute numbers, at the end of the campaign germans had 155 divisions, Allies never had more than 135 divisions at the same time. Fifth; Geography, western front is actually small, so a tactical defeat easily turns into a major defeat in few days. Russians had the same problems at the beginning of Barbarossa, but the country is so huge that they had space to give in. Actually, the distance from the frontier to Calais is similar to the distance between eastern frontier and Minsk in Russia (of from Minsk to Smolensk, or Smolensk to Moscow). Battle of France was lost in six days, because the gap by that day was so big that it was impossible to close without reserves, removing any chance of a organized retreat.