My mother tongue is Chinese and I speak neither Japanese nor Korean yet I don't think they really sound close. I will definitely not mistake Japanese speakers as speaking Korean. It's very easy for "close" languages to borrow and share a lot of features. An example I remember quite well is the pronunciation of "r" in became quite similar in French and German over time (for a lot words at least), even though those languages fundamentally don't have much to do with each other, however that doesn't make them belong to one language family. So the issue in a large part is how do you separate features borrowed from neighboring, but essentially unrelated languages from features that stemmed from a common language family. It's true that Japanese and Korean share certain common features (e.g. grammar) between themselves and also with some other languages in the area, for example Manchu Language, but the sources of such similarities are debated. Also, the Altaic hypothesis is largely based on the idea that a large portion of the ancestors of modern Korean and Japanese came from north/northeastern Asia (and then they mixed with the population coming from further south to form their respective races), which might be true to a large extent. However, even if that's true, since the geographical conditions of those two places were largely isolating (especially Japan), and also since there were another large portion of the population who came from completely different places (e.g. from Southeastern Asian islands in the case of Japan), they might well have developed a lot of their own features during the tens of thousands of years so that it would be hard to still classify them as belonging to the same language family. Apparently all human beings eventually came from the same place... So at what point of a language's evolution do you draw the line on language families is a somehow subjective issue actually. 

In dictionaries, however, what is never defined semantically. If I meditate on a word like car, I inevitably associate images, feelings and experience with the word. Even if I think of nothingness I somehow associate sensations and a mental image of emptiness (even if it may be wrong). When I contemplate the word who, I associate the word with a "person whose identity is unknown". When I think of what however, in terms of pragmatics, it seems to suggest a request for more information to the interlocutor, but semantically, I cannot find any meaning to it. Hence this odd question: What is the semantic meaning of what (or its equivalent in any language)? Could the meaning of what be defined as "a thing unknown to me"? 

Complements mostly immediately follow the head. They bear a much closer relation to the head than adjuncts 

I've read the paper (de Boer 2000) which represents vowels with two dimensions: f1 frequency and a weighted result of f2-f4 frequencies. Now we're trying to add the tone property into a similar model. My main concern is, whether pitch frequency is completely independent of formant frequencies. If so, I might be able to just add it as extra one or two dimensions which are supposed to be independent of the already existing dimensions for formant frequencies (Though the scale of such dimensions would still be a concern). If not, then the task of adding tone into the model might be considerably more challenging. Somebody has suggested that pitch is only related to the base frequency/base f0, and thus shouldn't interfere with the two dimensions already existing in de Boer's model. Does that make sense? 

The first is colloquial and the second literary, it may possibly be found in poems, tales and fancy names only. 

I doubt that with so many nouns, adjectives and verbs borrowed from English,this sentence would be accepted as a correct French sentence, if considered to be French at all. To figure out what rules adjectival positions, one needs to rely on usage. Although I don't have full-fledged statistical evidence with me (but mere examples from NGrams), it is clear that in spite of some adjectives allowing pre- as well as post-nominal position, many others are used in either positions only (where the other position remains marginal in usage). For instance: 

most adjectives are post-nominal; some semantic categories of adjectives determine the position (eg. numbers are pre-nominal); some morphological categories of adjectives determine the position (eg. past participles or adjectives in -able are post-nominal); some phonetic constraints force an alternative position to facilitate pronunciation (eg. une femme aimable, un homme aimable, une aimable femme but not un aimable homme); some adjectives can take a figurative meaning if pre-nominal (eg. un grand homme); pre-nominal adjectives usage can be prescriptive and post-nominal descriptive (eg. "glycosylphosphatidylethanolamine" est un mot long, "glycosylphosphatidylethanolamine" fait partie des longs mots français or cf. c'est un sympa moment i.e. a pre-defined class of "nice moments" vs. c'est un moment sympa i.e. a moment that has the quality of being nice); pre-nominal adjective usage can emphasise a literary style (see above) or be enunciative (eg. aujourd'hui est un sombre jour dans l'histoire humaine or il s'agit d'un incroyable individu). 

I'm using Praat for the first time. When I try to annotate a Chinese speech segment, for some reason the Chinese characters I entered all get displayed as blocks in the corresponding tier: 

For typological questions you can consult related databases, such as The World Atlas of Language Structures (the most widely used), AUTOTYP, SSWL to get the answer. As mentioned, Arabic might be one such example. 

One research group at our university is particularly interested in the statistical properties of language. One professor, Michael Ramscar, is teaching us some classes this semester on related topics. And basically the idea is that this kind of logarithmic/exponential distribution is considered optimal in an information theory point of view, since it ensures that the entropy of the whole probability distribution would be the lowest, ensuring the most effective communication in general. Some of these ideas can also be found at his blog, for example this article about the distribution of names. P.S.: Actually he also made the argument that the "Zipfian power law" view is not entirely accurate while an "logarithmic/exponential" distribution might be a better description. He said that the shape of the curve under the Zipfian power law would be largely impacted by the sample size, while the shape of the curve under simple logarithmic/exponential distribution wouldn't, because it would only have one parameter, while the Zipfian power law distribution also gets a scaling factor besides the simple exponential factor. I'm not sure I completely got this point to be honest, but the point about entropy should still stand regardless, since I think Zipfian distribution is basically logarithmic/exponential as well. 

In the second example, I used a proper name to emphasize the individuality of the instance, which is multiplied. In the former case, if dog is understood as a class, then dogs could refer to multiple instances of that class as well as to multiple sub-classes of that same class. By the same logic, dog (singular) could mean a class or an instance of that class. 

Is the semantic distinction between class and instance here a shortcoming of the English language? Could a hypothetical language have distinct words for dog-class, dog-class-single-instance, dog-class-multiple-instances, etc.? Another example which may suggest the distinction in English would be fish: 

So what rules adjective order in French? The question hasn't really been answered yet, and I don't see a single rule that can explain all possibilities. I don't claim to hold the entire solution to this problem, but in an effort to explain this feature to students of French languages, I have found several factors that can explain adjectival position: 

Are the languages spoken in various Arabian countries actually mutually intelligible? If no then it makes more sense to regard them as separate languages. In China the government likes to officially categorize various Chinese languages as "dialects", but the reality is that the difference is really huge between some of them, e.g. comparing Mandarin and Cantonese is more like comparing Italian with Spanish than American English with British English. Most Mandarin speakers don't understand nor speak Cantonese at all. Therefore there are many language codes for various Chinese languages as well and it makes sense to me. I wonder whether the situation is similar in Arabic: If you can't even understand some of the Northern African Arabic then how can you claim they're the "same language"? Some people might try to do so politically but linguistically it would be far-fetched. The situation is just fundamentally different from American vs. British English I suppose. 

With regard to morphology a common example of a lexeme is [dog, dogs] where dogs is the plural inflexion of the lemma dog modified by the -s suffix, marking plurality. Although I can accept that dog and dogs are, morphologically speaking, the same word i.e. the same lexeme, it still bothers me because each has a different meaning. Semantically speaking, can we say dog and dogs are the same words? How does plurality relates to dog semantically: 

Same adjective usage from homonymic adjective usage: The examples provided in the question (here in French): 

I will agree with Denis Bouchard that "pragmatic likeliness is not a measure of grammaticality". Yet we can not just speculate on the possibilities of a language based on grammatical ambiguities. For instance, French allows loan words from English, but looking at the following sentence: 

It's not very different at all. I'd say the difference is much smaller than the difference between say Spanish in Spain and Chilean Spanish, which have undergone 500 years of evolution after all. Yet they are still classified as both Spanish and certainly people from both countries would understand each other's written texts. The separation of China (the end of the Chinese civil war) is not even 100 years old. One would naturally expect the difference to be much smaller. One would also consider the fact that written text is much more formal than spoken language and involves much fewer slangs, as is the case across different languages just like Spanish. In fact you don't even need to map the characters for the language to be understood. Simplified Chinese is mostly just that. "Simplified". It might take longer for a Taiwanese to react but they can still make out the meaning just fine. Vice versa. Unfortunately I don't have references at all but this is based on my experience as a native Chinese speaker and my interaction with Chinese/Taiwanese. 

offer a case of homonymic usage: while the first translates as "a tall man", the second translates as "a great man". Nevertheless, it is possible for the latter to mean "tall" as well as "great" depending on the context, e.g. c'est un grand homme mince, dont la tête touche le plafond, "it's a tall, thin man, whose head touches the sealing". The same is true in the example provided by Denis, where ancienne église can mean both "former" as well as "ancient": 

does dogs means multiple instances of a class dog? or does it mean the multiplicity of a same instance? 

If more can be added to complement or challenge this explanation, I'd be glad to read it, as I am not fully satisfied with it myself. Meanwhile I hope it helps. 

There really isn't just one high-level, abstract, "language production/comprehension process". That view would be much Chomskian and is now generally derided. Language production/comprehension is the result of cooperation between several cognitive capabilities. There are definitely overlaps for spoken and sign languages, especially in meaning comprehension and production (not in the sense of the final muscle movement, which is different of course). There would also be differences, in terms of concrete perception mechanisms. Language acquisition researchers also looked into the acquisition of sign languages (e.g. for children that are born deaf). Those who had normal parents showed demonstrably worse results than those with also sign-language using parents, presumably because the normal parents can't provide an immersion environment. This is the same as what happens in the acquisition of spoken languages.