The US has essentially threatened military action against Iran if they block oil shipments through the Strait of Hormuz, and has no problem ignoring warnings to keep bombers away from artificial Chinese islands, so it's no stretch to say that weapons would be drawn in order to keep exports from stopping completely. Hopefully there would be some sort of transition period during which China agrees to (rapidly) ramp down exports rather than cutting them off cold turkey, which should help avert open warfare. Economic sanctions wouldn't work; they're already refusing to sell stuff to you. But it would be hard to define what "China" is for the purposes of this question. Are we only considering products made by wholly Chinese-owned companies? Then the global impact would not be much. But many western companies (not just Apple) have operations in China. If the Chinese government blocks or seizes those other companies' assets, then things would get complicated. In any case, what the OP is asking about would almost unquestionably be seen as an act of aggression. Edit: It would be interesting to see how China then intends to get back the $1.3 trillion owed to it by the US, as well as other countries' debt. Do they simply write it off? Are they self-sufficient so they can survive without imports (how will they pay for them? Money generated by purely domestic ventures?)? This would be a sticky situation for the Chinese as well. 

The biggest deciding factor in how much magic affects technology is what kind of magic you have. Here are a few questions to narrow that down: 

To answer your first question: The story of The Dog and the Wolf ends with the wolf telling the dog, "Better to starve free than be a fat slave." Of course, the reason the dog's slavery came up at all was the rope marks on his neck - the dog may have gotten free food, but his freedom was curtailed more than the wolf could bear. Slavery usually conjures images of chains, beatings, starvation, isolation, and the complete removal of human rights. In many cultures, slaves were not even considered human. Consider jobs in a capitalist economy; jobs exist with great pay, great benefits, many perks and bonuses, and yet still have a high turnover. Even with the obvious positives, enough negatives exist to push people away from those jobs. There may also be invisible negatives: for instance, a slave that ate nothing but the finest cakes, breads, and beer may be envied by many, but if that slave suffers from Celiac disease, he will be in constant torment, and would much prefer water and dried meat or basic vegetables. To answer your follow-up question, however, in Rome slaves could own land and use it as their own (though it belonged to their master) and earn their own money. Well-regarded slaves were often freed, which meant they were allowed to vote; many freed slaves became highly regarded citizens. In fact, there is such a thing as voluntary slavery - choosing to be a slave rather than free. It may be that slavery under a good master is preferred to death from starvation with no master. On the other hand, there is always the chance that there are slavers - people actively enslaving the free. In that case, it may be better to choose a master, rather than have one chosen for you. Further, there are workers today that may seem to be in unstable, poorly paid, or even dangerous jobs that nonetheless will staunchly defend their workplace, even working for free to help their company. In the end, it comes down to what the slaves themselves believe; I could easily believe that one slave would take up arms to defend his master and his own slavery to keep even a somewhat comfortable lifestyle, while another slave would try daily to escape from what seems like a life of ease. 

DNA storage has the potential to store petabytes of data and can last for centuries, possibly more if they come up with a good error-correction algorithm that works for DNA. If you want to transport massive amounts of data in a practically undetectable way (who's going to notice a few cells with unusual DNA? And even if they do notice, you can brush it off as a harmless mutation if you figure out some type of genetic steganography), DNA is a great alternative. Its long-term stability also makes it suitable for space probes that could be traveling for thousands of years before being picked up by an alien civilization. The potential for its use in covert operations broadens if you use cadavers as your transport. Since you don't have to worry about the harmful effects of changing a large percentage of a person's DNA, you can store absolutely massive amounts of data in a typical corpse just by replacing some body fluid, say spinal fluid (blood is likely to be drained during examination or embalming), with a few ounces of bio-data liquid. 

How were the settlers anticipating feeding themselves? I would assume that seeds and farm animals would come along for the ride; even if the planets were habitable, there is no way to know what plants and animals live there, or if they are even edible; however, without the anticipated crop and ranch land, the animals and seeds have to be kept in cryo-storage until habitable domes are set up. That said, synthesizing food is possible, though not easy, and it's not a good long-term plan. The human body needs a lot of different nutrients to survive, and synthetic sources aren't always as good for you as natural ones. Water Without water, there's no point in synthesizing anything, because no one will live long enough to see it. Hopefully, the population has enough water to survive, and a way to recycle waste; there may occasionally be water to find in space, but there is no guarantee. If there's no water, then the population is dead. Micronutrients Micronutrients are required in small amounts; the inorganic nutrients would be easy to either find or synthesize: Boron, Cobalt, Chromium, Copper, Fluoride, Iodine, Iron, Manganese, Molybdenum, Selenium, and Zinc. Any of those not found locally could be even be pulled from parts of the ship; with requirements in the microgram to milligram range, supplies would last quite a while, and generally could be extracted from waste. Organic nutrients (vitamins A, B complex, C, D, E, K, and Carotenoids) are harder to make, but not impossible, especially if you have some basic building blocks and the right equipment. Certain vitamins (especially vitamin D) are created naturally in the body; other vitamins like C are quite easy to synthesize. Many of the B complex vitamins, however, would be fairly difficult to synthesize, and unfortunately are required for healthy living. Difficult, but not impossible. Luckily, the human body can go without many micronutrients for months, even years, with only minimal health impact. Small amounts of micronutrients, far below the recommended values, would be enough to sustain a population of adults for quite a while. Children, of course, should get as much as possible, as their developing bodies need more nutrients than adults. Macronutrients Macronutrients are needed in much greater amounts: carbohydrates, proteins, fats, fibers, and alcohols, the basic sources of calories, as well as essential structures like fatty acids. Of those, carbohydrates and alcohols are very easy to synthesize; both have simple structures that can be created in a lab, though it is much, much easier to distill them from organic sources like plants. Synthetic fiber is fairly easy to create as well, and only needed in low amounts, especially with a synthesized diet designed for minimal waste. Synthetic fats have fairly simple molecular chains and could be synthesized. Synthetic protein, however, has yet to be created in a lab, except by cloning - which, frankly, might be the best option. Cloned meat would be much easier to create than chemically-produced food, and the cloning process would use much, much less material. Assuming there are farm animals, samples could be taken from still-frozen creatures for cloning. Bacteria While bacteria isn't technically a nutrient, it is required to break down food into a digestible form. On Earth, helpful bacteria is easy to come by, but in space, in a sterile environment with no access to other living beings, it's possible for the bacteria in your gut to go extinct - especially if everyone takes any medication that kills off bacteria. I expect one of the biologists will be a "bacteria rancher", keeping a healthy population of gut bacteria in a maintainable way. Otherwise, all it takes is one round antibacterials to wreck your digestion process forever. Short term Many nutrients can be ignored for quite a while; not taking any vitamins for a week (or a month) won't kill you, though going for months on end will make you sick. Most people can go without food for a month without dying, and living on reduced calories for several months would have no lasting side effects apart from weight loss. Synthesized nutrients can replace "real" food for even longer, but be aware that synthetic sources of food often have reduced impacts - that is, eating natural vitamins from a plant will have more impact than synthetic vitamins. Frequent, mandatory checkups can help lessen any nutrient deficiencies. The best case is that the worldship anticipated a "ramp-up" period before the first crops came in, and kept a large stock of pill-form micronutrients and desiccated macronutrients to tide the settlers over. In that case, there would be enough to time clone protein and synthesize the other nutrients, and hopefully get some plants growing. Even basic fungus would be an enormous help towards synthesizing many nutrients. Long term While it may be possible to sustain a population indefinitely on cloned meat and synthetic vitamins, the population will begin to develop various diseases and disorders over time. They will need to focus on building a suitable long-term habitat; assuming they can find a planet with suitable gravity, they should be able to set up habitation domes within a few weeks, have viable gardens within a year. With enough room, in a few years they should have enough herd animals to start eating real meat. Life will still be tough, but at least they won't starve. 

There is a society with a similar level of technological and cultural advancements as what we have. But there are no police officers. No government entities dedicated to investigating and punishing violations of the law. No prisons. No notion of a criminal court system. Law enforcement as we know it does not exist. What kind of governments and social norms would give rise to such a society? What forms would crime take, if it even exists? This is not a post-apocalyptic scenario, unless the catastrophe happened so long ago that society has essentially been rebuilt. Law enforcement simply doesn't exist as a distinct function of the government. You can ignore the question of whether a military exists. 

If your creature exists in higher dimensions, it might be able to just pluck the star out of our own dimension, like a 3-D being can lift a 2-D being off a sheet of paper. This avoids the problems you would have with conventional physics if such an enormous creature tried to eat a star in our regular three dimensions. It would also be extremely disruptive to anything that was previously in its gravity well, like inhabited planets, which may or may not work for your story's plot. 

From that point on, Britain would not be much of an influence, nor would the Dutch. The French retained what would become Canada, but lost Louisiana to the Spanish. Spain not only regained West Florida, but French Louisiana as well. 1800s The entire gulf coast of North America, from Florida to Texas and far to the south, belonged to Spain. In 1800, France secretly purchased Louisiana from Spain - an area stretching from modern Louisiana to Montana. However, without a "united wallet," the individual states would never have been able to afford the purchase; France would have kept their territory. In the short term, France would have lost money on the deal, but in the long term they would get a strong stream of income. Without the incursions into Florida by the US, Spain would keep control of that area: Spanish Florida. Escaped slaves and native refugees would make up a majority of the population, along with Spanish immigrants. Without interference, the country of Florida would eventually be more fully settled and defended by Spain. Divided by France's Louisiana, it wouldn't have taken part in the 1821 Mexican War of Independence. Texas would still become a Republic in 1836, breaking away from Mexican control. However, since the weaker Independent States wouldn't then annex it, the Mexican-American war would never take place, and thus Mexico would continue to hold California. With the gold rush just a few years later, Mexico would become much more powerful, retaining and building up the land between our Mexico and California. The Northwestern Territory would eventually become several states, though with much different borders; it may even become one large country. With plenty of land, water, wood, and natural materials, the area would grow quickly. As the northern states moved from farming to factories, they would have little use for slaves, though southern states like Georgia would probably continue to own slaves. The American Civil War would never happen. If any slave revolts occur, the slaves will run to Florida, joining the indigenous population. French Louisiana (as well as much of the country to the north) would continue growing, bringing in money for France. As trade expanded up and down the Mississippi, the two French nations would eventually merge together. With land from south to north, France would be making much more money, with much greater span of income generation. Farming, furs, hunting, timber, and taxes on any goods going through the Mississippi river would make a lot of money, all funneling towards France. War of 1812 Rather than between the USA and England, the war of 1812 would be between the French Colonials and England. With French pressure from Europe and a huge base and revenue stream from the North America French, England would lose terribly. In our world at that time, England controlled much of the northern-most of North America, including Rupert's Land; in this world, the war of 1812 would kick England off of North America entirely. That would leave the northern land to the French territories to envelope the entirety of what we know as Canada. The Independent States would be sheltered from conflict, though probably offer France aid, as France took on all comers: France vs. Spain, France vs. Britain, even France vs. Russia as it expanded west. Towards the middle of the century, Canada/Louisiana would merge, and shortly (and successfully) declare independence. Spanish Florida would gain independence as well; its people would be a mixture of native Americans, Africans, a few French, and the Spanish. It would be a much wilder place - no retirement homes and snowbirds there! I imagine it as a blend of modern Mexico and Brasil; a few major, modern cities along the coast, mostly populated with Spanish and French, and many tiny villages near the swamps and forests, populated by native Americans and Africans. If any conflict occurs, I imagine the French (now Canadians) will shave off a bit of the westernmost side. The Independent States would most likely remain independent, but as their population grows, their borders would not. Cities like New York City would never happen; the state of New York isn't large enough to support such a massive city on its own. The nations would need a lot of trade to survive, and would form a strong coalition. Additionally, the northern French tended to make peace and trade with the natives, rather than drive them off or enslave them; while they would still have trouble with the more nomadic tribes, the Trail of Tears would probably never occur. 1900s By 1900, the land from California to Mexico would be a rich, growing nation. Corruption would grow just as quickly, and without the US to support the 1910 Mexican Revolution, the country would be a much different place. The rich northern California would become the new capital; the south's metropolitan population would shrink as the rich moved to the nicer, cooler north. As King-Ink mentioned, the State of Deseret would probably succeed; it may not be as large as originally intended, though. My guess is that it would cover what was the Utah Territory. As a border country between Canada and Mexico, it would actually have a greater chance of survival. Neither would really want the desert there, and it would act as a buffer between the two. Canada would be rich as well - richer, in fact, stretching from Louisiana to Canada along the Mississippi, from Oregon to Michigan. A SuperCanada, if you will. The border with SuperMexico from California to what is today's Oklahoma would be tense, more so than the border between the US and Mexico was, since both countries would be much richer and much larger. Mexico's land stopped at the northern end of California; our states Oregon and Washington would be absorbed by Canada. The Oregon Trail would be much hazier; many immigrants would start in Louisiana, the largest port, or St. Andrew's, the closest Canadian port to the east. Still others would drift from the Independent States, passing through to reach Oregon. World War One The first World War would be radically different. Mexico would likely be a much earlier ally of Germany, and would probably attack SuperCanada. While the USA wasn't be around to get them angry by meddling in their affairs, SuperCanada was. With the greater strength of a larger, much richer nation, Mexico would be a force to be reckoned with. In Europe, the more powerful France and Spain would be able to turn back Germany earlier, but in North America, the war between the two superpowers would be rough. The Independent States and the Republic of Texas would take up arms against Mexico, but wouldn't be able to help much in the war in Europe. Florida would likely stay out of any fight. In the end, the superior factory power of the States and SuperCanada, and the oil from Texas and SuperCanada, would crush Mexico. Without as many natural resources as the combined American Allies, Mexico would lose a lot of land; Texas would take the gulf side of Mexico, and SuperCanada would extend south from Oregon into California. Mexico would be left with the (poorer) southern half of California, Arizona, New Mexico, and the western half of modern Mexico. Its greatest resources would be gone. The Great Depression would not occur; though the droughts would be harsh, the new resources from Mexico would push SuperCanada to greater heights. Post-war SuperCanada, Texas, and Independent States would flourish. Without the destabilizing effect of the Great Depression, World War II would not occur until much later. As more oil is discovered along the Mississippi and North America, SuperCanada quickly grows into the top superpower, with resources to spare. The Republic of Texas hits its oil boom. Mexico, already poor from the earlier war, would eventually split into several nations. Hawaii, meanwhile, will likely remain its own nation, a small, poor country in the middle of the ocean. While Russia would try to claim Alaska, SuperCanada would have better access. Alaska would be very similar to how it is now - used for oil and military bases, but otherwise largely left to the natives. World War Two (1950s) By the 1950, the biggest threat is not Germany, but Russia. Without World War II to kill off their population, Russia grows much more powerful, eventually trying to expand into Ukraine and SuperCanada, and sparking this world's second World War. The sides are much different; for one thing, Germany and Russia have switched sides. Instead of fighting Fascism, the Allies are fighting Communism. German engineers create the atomic bomb, but it never needs to be used; Russia's European and Asian allies are much weaker than Germany's allies, and the war is over before the bomb is complete. 2000s North America would be vastly different; in fact, the whole world is a much different place. The Americas, Europe, Asia, even Africa have different borders, even different countries; France, having made it through both wars relatively unscathed, is a much stronger nation. Germany, having rebounded from its failure of WW I and joined with Europe against Russia, isn't the "bad guy" any more. England would be slightly weaker, having lost its stake in the New World much more quickly. Russia would be destitute, and probably would become several small, poor nations. With the major differences in Europe and Asia, politics would take a drastically different turn. SuperCanada would be a superpower, if not the superpower; the Republic of Texas would be a rich nation, rolling in oil. With the close relationship between the North American countries, they would all (save Mexico) be quite well off. The smaller nations would likely form a conglomeration similar to the European Union. Florida may eventually turn itself around; being next to the richer nations may make it a resort destination, in which case it will eventually become similar to the Bahamas. If it doesn't embrace tourism, however, it will remain poor. If Deseret manages to hold on long enough, it will eventually become a stable nation, though resource-poor. The language of North America and the world would be very different as well; SuperCanada would speak French almost exclusively. The Republic of Texas would speak both Spanish and English. The Independent States would mostly speak English, though the northern and western states would speak some French, and Georgia would probably speak some Spanish. Florida would speak Spanish and English, as well as several odd dialects. Mexico would speak Spanish, for the most part. 

If there is no more communication from the aliens, and the weapon cannot be tested short of actually blowing up the world, how do governments know the schematics are legit? It would be interesting to see if it devolves into a climate change-type argument between scientists and naysayers. That aside, absolutely huge amounts of resources will be poured into researching how to mitigate damage caused by the bomb. You've basically told everyone that they can die at any time, anywhere, more certainly than anyone during the Cold War could have dreamed, and that no form of shelter ever devised (or that can be devised within the next few decades) can protect you. Every other military/political/economic/social conflict pales in comparison. Martial law will be imposed immediately and any facilities capable of preparing this bomb will be seized by the government. Ironically, nations that are open about their nuclear capabilities will probably be left alone because they are assumed to be somewhat responsible enough not to mess with the weapon. On the other hand, nations that like to tease nuclear threats, like North Korea and even Israel, will be under extreme pressure to publicly declare their nuclear capabilities, if they aren't invaded outright. 

The national guard dealt with, the monster next goes up against the full forces of the army, taking long-range missiles to the face (always to the face). These are bigger than the previous missiles, and may cause it to at least halt its attack; the response is, usually, widespread destruction that causes the government to halt its actions, even though they seemed to be working, and instead retreat. This weapons has to be flashy, over-powered, and useless outside a minimum range. Fire breath, laser-beam-eyes, and sonic shockwaves are all possible; however, I suggest: 

But what if there are no predators? Islands often have very small, specialized ecosystems; it's not difficult to imagine an island populated by nothing more vicious than a blue-coated critter with green hair and a long nose. In that case, the only limiting factor is food. But what if the food remains plentiful until a certain point, then almost overnight is gone? Rather than a slow, constant, more/less cycle, the food is almost a binary switch - food today, none tomorrow. This would have a huge impact on the survival of the critters. As their population grows, they come closer and closer to destroying their food source, wiping out the entire population. If their population grows too much, they may wipe out the species entirely. So, nature installs a switch. The critters are natural introverts; the more time they spend near other similar creatures, the more stress-induced chemicals build up in their brains. As their population booms, more and more critters accumulate chemicals. At first, the chemicals have little effect, but eventually they cause the critters to essentially go insane, their desire to be away from other critters overriding their self-preservation. The critters will begin chasing other creatures in an attempt to drive them away; a stampede of critters begins, sweeping up a large amount of the population, and terminating in the ocean. The more stress chemical acquired, the stronger the desire to chase, and those initiating the chase are most likely to survive. With a significant portion of the population gone, the rest calm down, and the cycle begins again: 

If the government knows a year ahead of time, they have time to shape society so that telling other people is either unfeasible (other people are too far away, you don't have adequate communications technology, etc.), or you just don't care enough about other people to tell them. You state that the chosen ones are notified one day prior, but the government should have been planning for months ahead of time. If the world is going to end, and you have no qualms about making things start to go downhill early, start your own little dystopia just to get the chosen ones in the right mindset. Tank the economy. Quadruple the rate of pollution. Cut off funding for all but the most basic life-sustaining services. Sabotage any high-tech infrastructure people can use to get the word out. Pretty soon, your chosen ones will be so disillusioned with the world they're living in that they won't want to tell others about their ticket out. 

Let's see if I can make what you're saying make more sense. Entering a number effectively tells you how many "retries" you get. When you enter a number on the device, you choose what event you will be affecting - numbered locations, stock market fluctuations, randomly assigned IP addresses, whatever. For example, if you're looking for the best route home, you could enter 3: 0 for the Highway, 1 for Rocky Road, 2 for Smith Lane, and 3 for whatever fail would be - presumably, not making it home in any situation. You decide that when you reach home in under 15 minutes, you'll push "keep." You push the button, and the universes are created. In universe #1, you arrive in 14 minutes, 8 seconds, and push keep; in universe #2, you arrive in 12 minutes, 57 seconds, and push keep; in universe #3, you arrive in 22 minutes, and push undo. The device randomly decides between #1 and #2, resulting in you choosing to take #2, Rocky Road. This results in an acceptable time home. What this means is that anyone who holds the device will always make the best decisions. Rather than an "undo" button, this is a probability reducer; given the probability of any timed or yes/no event, it will automatically present the best decision, regardless of the probability of that outcome. For instance, the odds of rolling a 6 on a standard die is 1 in 6; however, by entering a suitably large number - say, 100 - and deciding to press "keep" if you roll a 6, and undo otherwise, you are guaranteed to end up with a 6. Probability simply goes away. All events that are possible become equally probable, for a large enough number of retries. Which is pretty terrifying. If the device were hooked up to a machine able to calculate the probability of any event quickly, it could effectively control time. Any event where there is a non-zero chance of something happening, the computer and device could make that happen. As long as the machine could reduce an event to a distinct number of outcomes (even if that number were huge), it could create that version of events.