High Aptitude (Jumping grades in school and allowed to take multiple classes) Hard working ability (worked 80+ hours, multiple projects, etc). 

Unless you have a very good reason not to do so, you should accept 5 AM. It is early in the morning but lot of people do start work (or getting ready to start) at that time. So it is not completely unreasonable to expect to attend a phone call. You can sure request for a later time but rather save this opportunity to request for something more important later on this process. (Like your joining date, relocation, etc. if you get hired). 

Send him an email first that you have decided to move out. Email will give him sometime to digest and process rather than the shock in 1-to-1 meeting. Also, being assertive that you have already made that decision (if you really have), will help in not giving any hope that you will change your mind. Always mention that it is because of current opportunity and his mentoring you were able to find another great opportunity. It is not that something was missing in the current role, but you just wanted a change for personal reasons and also you think change in company/work environment would add more insights to your experience. Emphasize that you will stay committed till your last day here to finish whatever is required for smooth transition and follow up on that commitment. That gesture goes long way! 

Say you think you'd be a good fit with the company, but ask if they are hiring for a more senior position. They'll know what you mean. Some companies will have a very fixed idea of who they are hiring, some are always looking for good {whatever you do}-ers. You don't want to work there for £40k, so there's no harm in asking, just don't invest any more effort than one email before you're sure they're offering sufficient cash. There are plenty more fish in the sea though, and I'd be inclined to ignore under-market adverts unless I had some special reason. 

Confirm your verbal resignation in writing now. If your employer disputes the validity or existence you don't really have much of a leg to stand on, but they might not bother. This problem gets harder every day you leave it. You and your employer can always mutually retract it. 

Proceed as usual. Giving early notice is a bad idea for a host of reasons already covered on this site. In your particular case: it's unclear whether your offer is solid offer yet. What would do if it fell through and you had to remain at the place you've essentially already resigned from? No. Terrible idea. Your notice should be enough to handle any subsequent handover, that's what it's for. Perhaps you could encourage your colleague to document things (or document things yourself) rather than just teach you, to make it easier for the next guy to pick up. 

People at workplace usually respect each other's preferences and should get hint by your minimal effort. If they do not then you cannot take extra effort to remind them. They will most likely convert it into an internal joke or start calling you just to annoy you. 

I am getting out a very similar experience. Company paid a lot for my interview, flights and hotel expenses and a high salary. But as soon as I joined, they just stopped spending on things which would help me do my job better. (Not hardware or equipment but some other things where I could not do everything I am capable of). I quit after 6 months of frustration (may be I stayed too long) and based on my experience, things will not improve. It is just poor management and shortsightedness. 

You obviously will not give out your current company's business card in a job interview and I do not think it is worth to print a personal business card just for this purpose. If you have reached the interview site, then they have all the information to find you on linkedin/SO anyway. 

If you have proof (like research notes, emails, etc) that you worked on the paper, you need to collect that and raise it to either HR or one over your manager. Someone higher up in your company should listen to you. If you do not get enough support from the company, you can write directly to the publisher and explain your situation. They should ideally either investigate it more or reject the entire paper. Whatever approach you take, understand that you are accusing your manager of lying. If you go through this till the end, you better win. Otherwise, it can end very ugly for you and you may have to look for alternate employment. 

If it is a government agency, probably face to face. Freedom of Information Act would allow the subpoena of instant messages...or in a case of a lawsuit against the agency, instant messages could be subpoenad. 

This varies from agency to agency. My job gives me access to the building from 6am - 6pm Monday - Friday. The state that i work in does not allow state employees to work more than 10 hours a day. So I can work 4 10's if I want. Basically I have to get my 40 hours in between 6 am and 6 pm and between Monday and Friday. Most people I work with choose to work 7am - 3:30pm, including me. But I could go in at 6am if I wanted, or in as late as 9:30am... Any suggestions on what I should do? Obviously you were at the top of the list or they wouldn't have offered you the job. Sometimes government jobs don't attract the best talent as private sector positions are usually higher paying. But as I mentioned before, it is stable work and usually have awesome benefits. Guess it depends on your personality and what you want. But fresh out of school, I can't see where you could go wrong. Government jobs can be good resume builders. Also something to remember is the fact that your degree is basically a sideshow to your job. For example, where I work for the tax commission, a new programmer coming in and working for the agency would likely spend the next 4 months or so learning about tax law and tax rules. We use that as a basis for writing our rules to check for fraudulent returns, etc. So your employer is expecting that you will have a steep learning curve about the public service the agency provides before you can even begin writing a software application around those services. 

At this point, I think you are reading little more than there is to it but I understand your concern. 

In last two US companies I worked for(although in India offices), Moving expenses and temporary housing are covered/handled differently. Just the moving expense is typically a lump sum amount as offered to your wife. Above that, companies usually give 2-4 weeks of temporary stay in a hotel or guest house to allow you sufficient time to find a permanent house. Your wife can try to ask for both the components separately. The relocation amount is typically fixed based on the position of the new hire and they many not change that but anything is possible. You should definitely ask for temporary stay. Another thing which companies generally provide is 'signing bonus' and in most cases it is to cover hidden cost of relocation. You guys can try asking for that but it differs greatly even within a company. 

If you can make a technical (as opposed to sales or marketing) presentation on that skill for an hour and keep people without any skills in that area interested, then I think it is okay to write that as a on your resume. Just look at YouTube videos on variety of skills. I do that for learning lot of technologies. (lately it has been IoT on Raspberry pi). The videos which have kept me engaged for an hour (or even more than 20 minutes) are people who I really think are skilled in that area. Day I can make a presentation similar to that, I would put it on my resume. It is still possible that skill is not sufficient for your job but that is something the interviewer would have to decide. You can be just be confident from your side that you are not faking it. 

Calm down. There's no need to bomb the recruitment agency. You encountered a bad recruiter, just don't field their calls. Having said that, as a recent graduate your CV probably does suck and you would do well to respond to critics in an adult manner (not like this). Incidently, the reason they want .doc CVs is so they can edit it. I would stick with pdfs. 

Are you contracting or are they employing you? Have they sorted out pensions, benefits, national insurance, employers' liability insurance etc in employ you? Since this arrangement is in $s, I doubt it. They probably expect you to be a contractor or self employed. This is complex and it seems like you don't have a great understanding level of this currently. You should expect to be getting "paid" much more because you have your own employer side tax to pay and benefits to purchase. This is not where the complexities of working for yourself end, but it's genuinely not worth getting into unless they're paying you more in the range of double what you'd like for a normal job. Just forget it and move on. I know it sucks, but keep looking for a normal job. 

So, really the problem is loud behavior from a senior colleague. If you have a look through most of the question on this site that ask "how do I complain about this behaviour", the key missing competent is usually "have you talked to the person you're complaining about"? So talk to them. State that you found they were being too loud and you couldn't get on with your work. Perhaps ask that they book a conference room next time. Perhaps you've tried talking to them and it didn't work. Perhaps this a serious problem and you don't feel able to resolve it on your own. Talk to your team leader. Someone was being to disruptive for you to work, this is your team leader's problem. Incidentally, don't jump above your team lead. It won't be appreciated by anyone and it misses the possibility that your team leader is probably the best person to have that informal conversation with the director of IT. Even if this is a matter for formal bureaucracy and complex hierarchy navigation, your team leader is better placed to manage that for you. I'm not really in a position to judge, so this comment may be nonsense. But there is the possibility that to fit in your workplace's culture you need to be capable of chilling out a bit on the afternoon before a bank holiday weekend. 

Serve your appropriate notice period at B and join A. Keep your "unemployed" time in between as minimum as you can afford. There is nothing more to it. You may or may not burn bridges with B but that is something you will have to take chances with. There are several related questions like this on how to accept/decline responsibilities when you know you are leaving soon. You can get more insights from there on professionally maintaining your stay while you are at B. 

If the new company is paying you from 17th April, then I think you should just commit to that date and company full time and focus on whatever they need you to train yourself and prepare. If this is not occupying your full day, this could also be any opportunity to go an extra mile and do some learning/training/ on your own which can help you prepare for next job. There is a chance the new company will positively look at your commitment and help in your career growth. I just think trying to balance two corporate jobs will not do justice to either of them. Of course every situation is different, so you would have to take that call if you are able to do each job without conflicting on commitment to other. 

If you do not enjoy the nature of the work, you should absolutely state the true reason. I don't think you are badmouthing your current employer if you say you do not like the profile. It is just that you did not know or realize how it will turn out when you took up the job and now you do. It happens all the time. 

I doubt the person or persons interviewing you would even know what that means. Depends if the position you interviewed for is a position that was just created, or if they are filling an existing position. I would still argue that those facilitating the interview was given the task by someone to find the best candidate possible. ...not really knowing anything about software development. 

One aspect that most everyone that have replied seem to have missed is that you applied and interviewed for a government job. You didn't specify which branch of government you applied for, or which and if it was Federal or State government. I have worked for state government off and on over the years and currently work for the Tax Commission for the state I live in. So as a government employee let me try to help you out... First you seem to have some ideals about what working in the real world is gonna be like. And from your post I get the sense that you are making some kind of life-long commitment. And maybe you are, Working for Government can be a pretty good gig in a lot of cases. You're basically guaranteed a paycheck and and the benefits packages are awesome. The downside is the hourly rate is less, and your work is well defined by your position so your work is gonna be in a narrow scope. In the private sector, your work is usually far more fluid based on what the company needs and/or client. In government, if something different is needed, they usually run to the legislature to ask for a budget. There is a lot of waste. In the private sector, the whole goal is to get things done with as small of a budget as possible. In government, the motivation of management is to get as big of a budget as possible. Also, if an agency does not use their entire budget they typically loose it. I've seen agencies blatantly waste money to keep from loosing their budget or a portion of their budget in the future. They want the argument that they spent all their money and that they need the same level of funding or more. Usually when a government agency opens a position, a small committee is formed to hire someone new. In most cases, I see 2 or 3 supervisors/managers from a department make up the committee. Sometimes larger, sometimes smaller depending on the size of the agency and a variety of other factors. I have been involved in these hiring committees a handful of times. We make a list of questions to ask during the interview. Sometimes we do open it up at the end for the interviewee to ask questions. And then we are done. So the interview process is very structured. far more structured than what it is in the private sector. That has been my experience.