Finish the things your boss wants you to get done on time. If your boss allows/expects you to improve your skills (hopefully they don't want you to be a jr. dev for life), make sure you're learning what they think is important. There may be plans to work with a different technology stack. Those who are proficient may suffer at this firm. 

Your company probably pays taxes, so the owners of that company have a right to campaign. If I drove by and saw the sign, I wouldn't assume that all employees endorse this person. I've probably held different political views than most of the people I've worked for and would only have a discussion in this area if I had a very strong working relationship and felt the owners were capable of accepting a different opinion. Otherwise, I would not discuss politics with my boss. 

Serious problems rarely have one solution nor are they always solved to a specific degree. There is some gray area. Like all engineers, you want to solve problems (which is good), but managers also have to factor in risk. Consultants can mitigate risk: 

Whatever you decide to do, make sure it is in alignment with what your supervisor expects out of you. 

Putting things you don't like on your resume is pretty unconventional. It's going to attract attention and initial screeners (HR) may just remove it right away. If someone is willing to go this far, it just sounds like you're not flexible enough to work in some places. I'm a pretty flexible person. When I've managed others, I was open to their ideas and allowed them to use the tools and techniques they thought worked best. There is a point, that for whatever reason, I have to make a decision that they don't like, I'd appreciate the same courtesy I gave them and go with my decision. Nothing and no one is perfect. There are factors to consider that go beyond costs. As a programmer, you constantly have to work with unchanging constraints. I'd suggest finding a way to put in your resume that you are willing to offer input and suggestions, but when decisions are made, you're willing to comply. Again, this is not an all or nothing situation. You have to pick and choose your battles. Very few managers can put up a fight on every single little decision make. Eventually, they'll just shut you down. Edit: Instead of putting a list of things you don't want in a job, consider having a paragraph in a cover letter describing the type of job you do want. When dealing with a recruiter, be upfront about the things you want to avoid. They don't want to waste their time either trying to place you in a job you would never accept. 

Startups are more likely to offer some sort of stock options if they make it big one day than a stable company. And "stable" companies get bought all the time, but they tend not to fail as often as startups. That's how you get to be a stable company I guess. You have to decide what you want and what you're willing to do to get it. If you're so caught up with the negative notion that your work makes other people money, get over it. Bill Gates made more off of Microsoft than just about anyone else, but the company did create a couple of other billionaires and over a thousand millionaires. None of this includes the people who use their software (like programmers) and make way more money off of their software than they paid for it. Even if you own a company that gets bought out, the company you sold it to will get even more money if they sell it again. Maybe you should consider working for non-profits? 

People who are shy in person, may be exceptional in written communication. I think this is going to be more and more important; however, lacking in social skill and/or tollerating those less technically inclined, can come across in written communcation as well as spoken. It could also be worse since people often take email the wrong way. The faux pas is now documented in writing and can be forwarded to supervisors. Here are some steps to take to evaluate the social skill requirements for your current position: 

I know this sounds like more work and it is. I've bought a few homes and prefer an agent that pushes everybody to get things done so the close is on time. That's how everyone gets paid including you. Nobody at the airport wants their flight delayed, but if it is going to be delayed, they need to know how long. Imaging if your company told you your paycheck would arrive some time next week. 

How are you and the team being evaluated? What does your boss think of your performance? This is what counts. Maybe the only reason this person is kept on the team is because he is willing to put in more hours doing easier tasks in order to be as valuable to those working just 9 hours but getting much more critical work done (The things that pay the bills.). If your boss thinks you're doing well, why change anything? When your evaluations indicate you're not getting as much done as expected, you know you need to work longer hours. It just seems that either this person is evaluated differently than the rest or your manager has a very blunt instrument (checking off items on a list regardless of difficulty or importance) for evaluating people to what I feel is the detriment of the team. Wouldn't it be a shame if you left the company because you felt like you would not get a favorable review because you don't want to work 14 hr days when in fact, no one is asking you to? 

This is what is known as "dollars waiting on dimes" and is counter-productive. You are trying to manage your day as well as the team's so everyone needs to cooperate.