Once again, if they're nocturnal hunters, they'll have to rely as much on sound as on sight. They may need to be able to fold their ears down when flying, though, to reduce air resistance. Or maybe not- some owls have prominent earlike tufts that don't seem to give them any trouble. 

Earth's animal kingdom has an entire class of warm-blooded live birthers, so no problem there. Even bats fall in that category, so flight is clearly no barrier to either qualification. 

I've actually mused on quantum mechanics being little more than floating-point rounding errors in the simulation that is our universe, so your scenario seems legit enough to me. I don't believe QM actually does work that way, but I admit to not knowing nearly enough about QM to say that with any certainty. If you want my opinion on whether your explanation is enough to suspend my disbelief, I'd say you're good to go. The only thing that doesn't really make sense is how this extradimensional visitor was able to enter the simulation. You could say that the person we see is actually a sort of holographic avatar, and the real researcher is sitting in an office in her dimension, wearing a 23-dimensional VR headset of some sort. And that'd be fine. I also think you should look at the holographic principle, which is a result in string theory suggesting that all the information in any three-dimensional volume (such as a black hole... or the entire universe) can be encoded on a two-dimensional surface enclosing it. A 3D string theory problem can be translated into a 2D quantum mechanics problem, and vice versa. This also applies to other dimensions- our 3D universe could be the event horizon of a black hole in a 4D universe. Repeated applications of this could be how your extradimensional researchers managed to collapse their 24 dimensions into just 4. 

If you're open to messing with the gravity and atmosphere of the planet, heavy fliers become much more plausible (although at the cost of potentially making the planet less hospitable for visiting humans). Relevant parameters: 

Easy. At any point in their evolution, would some of them find individuals with unusual eye colors attractive? If the answer is yes, there you go. Do note that they likely won't begin to show different colors until they're well established as social fire-wielding hunter-gatherers. Before then, each individual needs camouflage. Afterward, only the hunters will need to be camouflaged; and eventually, even they may not need to be. 

In a universe that obeys the cosmic speed limit, you could not have a hive mind with a central "brain" somewhere in the galaxy that instantly controls the actions of all the drones everywhere. Instead, each planet, station, and ship (heretofore referred to as "entities") would be able to function independently and make its own decisions, all while using standard lightspeed communication (e.g. radio or laser pulses) to communicate with other entities, synchronize information, take orders, and pass on information. Rather than a uniform, Borg-like hive mind, you'd have a network more closely resembling computer networks. There could well be a central nexus where information from across the galaxy flows and orders originate from (perhaps on these creatures' home planet), but there's be a hierarchical network of entities (planets they've taken over, ships and space stations they've built, even individuals off doing their own thing) that exchange information, but operate independently, allowing them to respond to things more quickly than speed-of-light delays would allow the central nexus to. 

You've got 47% of Earth's gravity and 62% of Earth's atmospheric pressure. Therefore, flight there will be about 0.62 / 0.47 = 32% easier there as it is on Earth. Great horned owls have a 4-foot wingspan, on average, and weigh around 3.1 lbs. Scaling that up by a factor of 1.625 gives a 6.5-foot wingspan, with the ability to support about 8.2 lbs in Earth gravity/pressure. Mass goes up with the cube of length, but wing loading is proportional to the wing's surface area, which goes up with the square. So in order to match the flight ability of great horned owls, your creatures will need to have proportionally smaller bodies and/or larger wings. The gravity and pressure on your planet will compensate for that somewhat, but not completely. They could weight up to 10.8 lbs and still fly as well as owls do here. Great horned owls, I should point out, have proportionally the highest wing loading of any raptor (source: the second paragraph here), so too much more weight and they won't be able to fly at all. Getting a height of 2-3.5 feet while also having a 6-7 foot wingspan and weighing no more than ten pounds will be... difficult. Especially since bat wings are heavier than bird wings. 

Yes. Star systems form when a cloud of interstellar gas and dust collapses under its own weight. See Jeans instability. When this happens, the cloud is almost certainly going to be rotating just a bit. This means that the cloud has some angular momentum. As the cloud collapses, it starts spinning faster and faster so as to conserve its angular momentum, causing the cloud to flatten into a disk. And a disk it will remain, even as the gas and dust coalesces into planets and a star, and the stellar wind from the newly-formed star blows the rest of the gas and dust away. Some binary systems* form in exactly the same way, except by producing two star-sized clumps of matter instead of just one. If these form close together at the center of the protostellar disk, the result is a Tatooine-like system that could well have planets orbiting the stars' combined center of mass. If they form very far apart (a few dozen AU, perhaps), then the result could be the other type of binary system, with planets orbiting each star individually. In either case, the stars and the planets will all lie in the same plane (that is, the ecliptic plane), at least at first, since that's where all the matter that formed them was. However, that's not to say both stars and all the planets will always lie in the ecliptic. A close call with another star or another star system can disrupt the orbits of the planets or even the stars themselves. Do note, however, that such encounters will almost certainly affect the planets in a Tatooine-like system before they affect the stars. So a Tatooine-like system with multiple planets where the only things orbiting on another plane are the stars is highly unlikely. * Binary systems can also form when a single-star system captures another star from somewhere else, but you won't get a Tatooine-like system this way without destroying both stars' planetary systems completely. 

You could probably do it by loading up the atmosphere with carbon dioxide. I have no idea how much would be required, but Earth gets a substantial greenhouse effect from the 0.04% CO2 in its atmosphere. Although adding more CO2 does have diminishing returns on the greenhouse effect due to a process called band saturation- each gas can only absorb infrared radiation of certain wavelengths, and once there's enough of the gas to scatter most of the light of those wavelengths, adding more of that gas won't make as much of a difference. So you may be better off throwing in a bunch of different greenhouse gases. However, there is a way to increase the luminosity of a star without changing its mass: let it age. You're right that the mass and luminosity of main-sequence stars are very tightly correlated, but once a star burns up all the hydrogen in its core, it expands into a red giant, increasing its radius by a factor of 200 or so and its luminosity a thousandfold. A bit more than the 3x luminosity increase you're looking for, but your planet would briefly be habitable as the star transitions into a red giant. I have no idea how long this habitable period might last. Following the red giant phase, when the star's core becomes hot enough to fuse helium into carbon and oxygen, it drops down into the horizontal branch, with only 50-100 times the luminosity of the Sun. Closer to what you're looking for, but not all the way there.