Asking people to be available after 6 PM certainly is a violation of general "business hours" norms, but there are reasons why a business would have a legitimate reason for requiring this, and having people in widely separated timezones is one of them. This is a situation where both you are the business have legitimate needs that are conflicting, and both of you should be making accommodations for the other. The business should be limiting these meetings as much as is practical, and using them only when the meeting is truly important, and you should be willing to occasionally stay late. You seem to have two main concerns: the lack of dinner, and the length. For the first, if you have time before the meeting, you can have dinner then. You should be able to go two hours without eating. If you don't have time before the meeting, i.e. they are scheduling things before a late meeting, then it is perfectly reasonable to ask them to move things around so you have a break. As for the meetings that go for four hours, that's an unreasonable amount of time, regardless of when it takes place. If the company really needs that much time, they should have at least have a 30 minute break in there in which you can have a meal. This is not just a matter of food but also four hours without a break being rather exhausting. If they refuse to have a break, it's reasonable to have a meal during the meal (although, if you can, put your side on mute while chewing). Snacking during a half-hour meeting would be unprofessional. But if a meeting is four hours without a break, at that point you're having a meeting during a meal rather than a meal during a meeting. Ultimately, some jobs are more demanding than others, and in different ways. Your job requires more flexibility on schedule than most. You can try to negotiate more accommodation for your schedule, you can look for a different job, but taking the job and then refusing to do what the job needs is unprofessional. 

It depends a bit on what your goal is. If your primary goal is to maximize the chances of legal consequences for the company, then you should file a complaint with HR. Either they respond to it properly, in which case the issue stops, or they respond improperly, in which case you have a further cause of action against the company. You should also look at whether there are any other places to file a complaint: legal department, executive hierarchy, etc. You can also file complaints with external agencies, such as EEOC. Make sure to document the behavior, your complaints, and the response to the complaints, and get as much cooperation from co-workers as possible. If you have a different primary goal, such as wanting as little hassle as possible, then other courses of action may optimal, such as finding a different job. 

You should phrase your response more towards "asking" in the sense of inquiring (perguntar), rather than requesting (pedir). Ask something like "How flexible are you as far as in-person versus phone interviews?" Your goal should be to come across as trying to find out what the company's needs are (they really feel like an in-person interview is crucial versus they don't really care and are just offering it as a default), rather than trying to get them to accommodate yours. 

As far as the newspaper being low quality, that justifies little more than a mild expression of disappointment. But mixed in with that issue are intimations that the paper is racist. That is more serious, but requires more than it having a "reputation". If an issue delivered to your office has a clearly racist article, then you should file an official complaint with HR, and if nothing is done, escalate to filing a complain with an appropriate government body. 

It depends a bit on how your resume is organized. If your resume isn't chronological in the first place, then it's less of an issue. Also, if you've had several positions at the same company, adding one more isn't going to be out of place. If most of your resume is one-company-one-job, then it's going to be more jarring. You'll want to avoid making it look like you had a job for six months; make sure it's clear that you had the role for six months. While the "acting" part makes it less impressive, it also make it more understandable that it was only six months. As for how to explain it, one question to ask yourself is "Was it a reasonable possibility that, had I done a good job, that I would have been kept on?" If the answer is "no", then think about why that is, and how to express that in a way that doesn't reflect on your skills. Examples: "My role as an engineer was so crucial that it was easier to find a new director than to find someone to step into my engineer role." "My company has fixed guidelines for position qualifications, and while I was doing good work, there was just too much red tape to keep me on permanently." "Although the company was satisfied with my performance, there was a concern that stockholders would prefer to have someone with an established track record in the role." The key issue when you apply for a new job is to establish that whatever the issues that kept you from keeping the position permanently wouldn't apply to this new job. You seem to agree that you aren't experienced enough for this role, yet you are considering applying for a managerial position someday. What do you anticipate changing? Are you going to apply for a position with less responsibilities that the director position? Do you think that you'll have more applicable experience later? Whatever the difference is, you need to articulate this when you apply for a new job. 

There is a concept in linguistics called implicature. This is based on the fact that when we say something, not only the content of the words, but the fact that we are saying it communicates meaning. By saying that you are gay, your boss is communicating not merely that you are gay, but that she thinks that it is relevant. Someone in the comments compared this to telling a caterer that someone keeps kosher, but that does not have the same implicature. Telling a caterer that someone keeps kosher has little implicature beyond "You should have non-kosher options". Randomly telling people that you're gay has the implicature that identifying gay people is important. My next paragraph is going to present what I have surmised is going on. This is what I think likely is the case; I by no means am assuming that it definitely is the case. Rather than qualify each sentence, please mentally prepend "likely" to the following sentences. You don't object to people knowing you are gay. You at some level realize that your boss is not merely telling people that you are gay, but implicitly asserting that it is important that they know that you are gay, and it is this that makes you uncomfortable. While you have detected this implicature, you aren't fully consciously aware that you have ascribed a meaning other than the literal one. When you talk to your boss, you object to her literal statements, and you implicitly consider yourself to be objecting to her implicature. However, you boss is insisting on addressing your objections merely on the literal level. You are trying to tell your boss that there's something wrong with the idea that it's important for people to know that you are gay, and your boss is, rather than addressing that issue, simply insisting that she doesn't think there's anything wrong with you being gay. You need to take this implicit implicature and make it explicit. Instead of saying to your boss "I don't like it when you tell people that I'm gay", say "I don't like it when you tell people that it's important that they know that I'm gay". She will then likely deny that she has said that, so you'll have to have a discussion about how language actually works. What she is doing is discrimination and sexual harassment. If she insists on continuing, a complaint to HR is warranted. 

And what, just leave the children unsupervised? The ADA requires employers to make reasonable accommodations for medical conditions. Asking several weeks beforehand to be excused from working in high heat has a reasonable chance of being found to be a "reasonable accommodation". Leaving a bunch of children unsupervised and expecting the principal to find a replacement at the last minute, much less so. Asking when her shift has already started is quite late. Even doing something the day before would be significantly better. What sort of duties she felt comfortable performing should have been a conversation she had in her second trimester, if not first. You don't have state tag, but 90 degree heat in late May is not unforeseeable in most parts of the country. Your wife can insist on a replacement or cancelling the activity, but shouldn't expect there to not be repercussions. What she should do should be based on how much of a risk she perceives, how much that concerns her, and how much she values a good relationship with her employer. 

What strikes me about your question is that there's no indication that you have provided any means for recruiters to become aware of what location you want to work, other than you telling them. That's something that should be one of the earliest things to filter on. You should look around on the jobsites to see if there's a place to say where you want to work. If you can't find it, see if the jobsites have a contact form to ask them. Something to consider would be to simply register with an address in the city you want to work, although there are downsides to that. You can also consider putting on your CV that you're planning on relocating. You can also mention this when setting up a phone call. Just say something like "I'm looking for a job in New City, so if that's the job location, such-and-such a time would be good, but otherwise I'm going to pass". And if you still can't figure out how to tell recruiters that you're planning on relocating, the recruiters themselves are likely a resource to figure that out. Say something like "I've been getting a lot of offers for jobs in Current City, but I'm looking to get a job in New City. Could you tell me how I could modify my profile to help recruiters know about my location preferences?" Recruiters are probably even more frustrated than you at going to the trouble of setting up a phone call only to find out the person isn't interested in jobs there, and likely have some system for indicating location preference that they wish people would use. 

No. It is professional to weigh commitments, and sometimes you'll have something of greater weight than remaining in the meeting. But leaving a meeting early just because it runs over "work hours" is unprofessional. Especially if you're salaried. How would you feel if you were at the dentist, and at 5:01 the dentist goes "Oh, it's after work hours now." and walks out? You have a job, you do the job until either the job is done, or it's imposing an unreasonable burden. If you're staying several hours over, that's unreasonable, but an occasional 15 minutes or half an hour isn't. You should make a reasonable effort to not schedule things immediately after work. If you have something you can't reasonably avoid (and there is significant wiggle room in "can't reasonably avoid", but it shouldn't just be "I shouldn't have to be inconvenienced at all outside of work hours"), then it is professional to inform the other participants prior to the meeting, and stick to the deadline. And when you're scheduling meetings, it's perfectly reasonable to express a preference for times that leave a margin between the end of the meeting and the end of work hours, but it's not reasonable to outright refuse meetings that go up to, or even slightly past, work hours. With people in other time zones, it may even be necessary to have meetings entirely outside of work hours.