Note that this might be skewed big time as 44% of all casualties are not accounted for, but I could not find out how to query the GTD for absolute numbers. These are numbers for the time range 1970-2013. 

In the end, the most competent person to answer these kind of questions would be a doctor, not the internet (or someone who would directly make money from a given therapy). 

Lithium batteries are based on a chemistry that can fail in combustive fashion. To avoid this, elaborate safeguards are in place to avoid those exact failure modes. A defective battery can still self-ignite, though. This can happen in a variety of ways. The electronics avoiding overcharging could be damaged. The battery could be physically damaged. There could be a construction defect. Generally speaking, overnight charging or overnight use is no more dangerous than daytime charging / use. Yes, you might be asleep, but at the same time the environment is very quiet, and you are more likely to be alerted to a violently exothermic reaction happening on your nightstand than during noisy daytimes. Factoring in all the failure modes that are more likely to happen at daytime -- your phone falling down, the battery being bent or pierced by something etc. -- charging your phone overnight is no more dangerous than charging, using, or carrying it at day. 

Statistics A 2015 study pitting the ~50 autonomous cars in California against the nationwide statistics for conventional cars found the accident rate of autonomous cars to be about five times that of the national average, with four times the injury rate. However, the study also notes the very small statistical base -- there were just 11 accidents on file for autonomous cars in 1.2 million miles. It also notes that the accidents were mostly at slow speeds with minor injuries. Google claims that in none of the mentioned cases, the autonomously driving car was at fault. A more recent article mentions other numbers. A federal inquiry to a deadly crash involving Tesla's autopilot found that Teslas with autopilot are crashing 40% less frequently than Teslas without autopilot. All this is somewhat inconclusive as to whether today's self-driving cars are already safer than human-controlled vehicles. But that is not actually the claim here, is it? 

...then the chances of getting into contact with the relevant pathogen is greatly diminished. Most people who contract the disease recuperate without passing it on, because most people are vaccinated against it. If the claim is taken at face value, and used to justify not vaccinating children against vaccinable diseases, the percentage of vaccinated people will eventually fall below the threshold at which the vaccinated-against disease will spread (and, exceptional cases nonwithstanding, it will spread among the unvaccinated people mostly). For measles, the threshold for herd immunity is estimated to be about 83-94%. And this is not even taking into account the possibility of contracting a vaccine-preventable disease while abroad, or diseases where the pathogen is endemic to the environment (e.g. tetanus, rabies). 

"Evolution of the brain and intelligence" by Gerhard Roth and Ursula Dicke in "Trends in Cognitive Sciences Vol.9 No.5 May 2005" lists the number of cortical neurons in a cat as 300 million (table 1, page 251). For ballpark figures like this, I usually settle for "same order of magnitude", and would state the claim is probably true. Note this doesn't make any claims about the relative intelligence of the human gut vs. a cat. 

So yes, plastics are there, they are a problem, but we don't really know how to test for them and how to classify them, yet. 

I don't know if the result was so surprising it required an "excuse", but yes, it is plausible. One could check the weather databases and hospital records if really interested, but I don't know if the event would be worth the effort. 

Yes, definitely plausible. Lightning does not need to hit someone directly to have severe consequences. A "near miss" is all it takes. The concussive force of a lightning's shockwave alone is significant. Depending on lightning strength, the shockwave can reach the equivalent of 30kg TNT. (Iris Hammelmann: "Alltagsphänomene: unglaublich aber wahr" (engl. "Everyday phenomenons: Unbelievable but true"). Compact-Verlag, 2008, ISBN 978-3-8174-6411-1 -- Link lifted from the German Wikipedia article on Lightning) (Don't picture a box on the ground, picture a length of detcord strung between the ground and the clouds. Still a pretty significant blast if you're up close. I found several sites warning of the shockwave while mountaineering.) A second effect is the electric current generated inside your body if touching the ground in two separate locations -- this is called "step voltage", and can amount to 1000 V and more. And third, shock also plays into it. So much for the physics. As for life footage evidence: 

It is a common misconception that something in (Low Earth) orbit (like the ISS) is far away. This is not the case -- orbit is more about going sideways really fast than it is about "being up". (xkcd -- Orbital Speed) The ISS has perigee at 402 km and apogee at 409 km ([1]). Unless you're further north / south than 51 degrees (The ISS' orbital inclination), at some point the ISS will be directly overhead, i.e. a bit over 400 km away from you. Compared to that, the oceanic pole of inaccessibility... 

A World of Terror by Periscopic provides some good visualizations of the data from the Global Terrorism Database. I cannot conduct a full-fledged research at this point, but using the "most victims" view, showing the 25 groups causing the most casualties (which account for 56% of all terrorist casualties), I count: 

"Commiting suicide" colloquially means ending your life. As a robot doesn't have life, let's assume it means "ending your functional existence". Suicide requires self-consciousness (being aware of your own existence), and a will (the will to end this existence for {reasons}). Self-awareness and will falls into the realm of hard AI, and has not yet been achieved, and possibly never will. If Knightscope, the producers of the robot in question, had achieved hard AI, they would be sure to herald it on their website, and we'd have heard about it as it would have been a major breakthrough in computer science. Absent true self-awareness, the robot just followed its program of pattern recognition and path finding. As there could have been no conscious "decision" to "commit suicide", he followed some subroutine. I am casually ruling out that Knightscope programmed a subroutine of "destroy yourself" into their main product for the fun of it. As Knightscope makes no claim that their robots can walk on, roll over, or hover above water, they probably didn't program their robot's navigational system to "move into that fountain" either. Both would be a rather poor business decision. So the purpose of the subroutine that made the robot move into that fountain was something different than "destroy yourself", or "move into that fountain", it just happened to have that side effect. It was a computer / software malfunction, pure and simple. 

Ole Raaschou-Nielsen; et al. (July 10, 2013). "Air pollution and lung cancer incidence in 17 European cohorts: prospective analyses from the European Study of Cohorts for Air Pollution Effects (ESCAPE)". The Lancet Oncology. 14 (9): 813–22. PMID 23849838. doi:10.1016/S1470-2045(13)70279-1. Cohen, A. J.; Anderson, Ross H.; Ostro, B; Pandey, K. D.; Krzyzanowski, M; Künzli, N; Gutschmidt, K; Pope, A; Romieu, I; Samet, J. M.; Smith, K (2005). "The global burden of disease due to outdoor air pollution". J. Toxicol. Environ. Health Part A. 68 (13–14): 1301–7. PMID 16024504. doi:10.1080/15287390590936166. 

It depends. While Tom77 has focussed on the subject of physical performance, there are other factors to be considered. People with hyperuricemia, for example, are urged to ensure they drink at least two liters per day, preferably unsweetened, non-alcoholic beverages. For some, this is significantly more than they would drink on their own, requiring them to consciously drink more than their thirst tells them to. On the other end of the spectrum, patients undergoing dialysis treatment have to monitor their drinking habits to ensure they do not drink more than their kidneys can handle. So, in the general case -- if you are healthy, and your thirst is "in sync" with your body's needs, you can probably trust it. But you should be aware that there are situations where your body will not tell you all you need to know. 

Post scriptum, the WHO estimates that measles vaccination alone has saved over 17 million lives since 2000. (WHO) 

I am not a lawyer. This is a laymans interpretation of German criminal code. The applicable parts of German law are § 176 (sexual abuse of children) and § 182 (sexual abuse of adolescents) of the Strafgesetzbuch (criminal code). § 176 forbids sexual contact to children (persons of ages less than 14). The attempt is punishable. § 182 (3) forbids sexual contact to adolescents (persons of ages less than 16) by persons of age 21 and up if the older person exploits the younger person's lacking capability for sexual self-determination with regard to the older person. The attempt is punishable. Non-consensual situations, situations involving states of dependency by the underage person, etc. are handled differently, but I take that to be outside the scope of the question. To answer the question as asked: 

Sapkota, Amir; Chelikowsky, Adam P.; Nachman, Keeve E.; Cohen, Aaron J.; Ritz, Beate (2012-12-01). "Exposure to particulate matter and adverse birth outcomes: a comprehensive review and meta-analysis". Air Quality, Atmosphere & Health. 5 (4): 369–381. ISSN 1873-9318. doi:10.1007/s11869-010-0106-3. 

Sorry for the two German language sources linked; I had a somewhat hard time finding English equivalents. Will keep looking for them, though. 

It is justified with (recent) evidence. Selectively quoting from WP:Pariculates#Health_problems, emphasis of publication dates mine: 

The production was conducted by Volker Schlöndorff. According to Tagesschau (in their 13:15 airing of the same day), on personal request by President François Hollande, so much for "the people in charge". 

This claims that being vaccinated has no significant benefit, and that is ludicrous. Just picking the measles for an example, which are highly contagious. One shot of MMR vaccine is 93% effective, two shots are 97% effective. (Source: CDC) The effect of vaccination is readily apparent from the significantly reduced number of cases after vaccination started: 

Post Scriptum: I had a look at the website you linked. This one (from the "about us" page) is a howler: 

No. It was an interpretation error of von Wolff's findings, of about a factor of ten. What happened was that von Wolff (correctly) measured the iron content of dried spinach, but his numbers were interpreted as the iron content of fresh spinach (which happens to be less by about a factor of ten). SPINACH, IRON and POPEYE: Ironic lessons from biochemistry and history on the importance of healthy eating, healthy scepticism and adequate citations has the whole story, and contains lots of links to further sources on how the myth began and was perpetuated. Funny sidenote: Our metabolism cannot even digest the iron...