About.com has a more extensive list of poses for the hips, as well. (A note on Yoga - Yoga poses don't have to be static. In fact, most practitioners will do sequences. If you put them together right, you can flow from one pose to another, keeping you moving for the most part.) As for your ankles, I'd look into not only ankle exercises, but also hamstring work, too. Again, about.com has a great list in Yoga department. I particularly recommend the Seated Wide Legged Straddle and associated bends. To do it right requires you to adjust your hips correctly, and keeping your feet pointed up puts a good stretch on everything in the legs, which will help give you more range of motion, as well as strengthening the muscles in the feet (make sure you don't slack!). These will help keep your legs straight in the V-sits. Again, Mark's Daily Apple has some other good ankle-specific work, including "foam rolling" with a tennis ball, and dorsiflexion exercises. I'd also suggest calf raises on a slightly elevated surface. That way, you can move your heels below the balls of your feet. It doesn't need to be fast, or weighted, the idea is to work the ankles. You can also roll your ankles around while sitting. Keep the balls of your feet on the ground, and make vertical circles with your heels. This will help get blood flowing to them and work the muscles. Another thing to do while sitting is to plant your heels and try to lift your toes and the balls of your feet as high as you can. With the help of the calf raises, you should see improvement here after a while. Finally, squats, squats, and more squats. Doing good-form squats, themselves will help with mobility. They don't need to be weighted or one-legged (again, because you're working on form and mobility, here, not so much major-muscle strength), just make sure your form is as good as you can get it. For the long run, you'll want to do these things (or things like them) all the time, especially if you have a desk job. Mobility and flexibility, like strength, are use-it-or-lose-it. To get improvements quickly, it might be worthwhile to take a couple of weeks off of your normal progression routine (if you have one), and work on mobility. You don't have to stop your usual stuff, just don't push for gains, go back to the basics and focus on mobility and form. Basically, treat it like you might a weak muscle - make a concerted effort to focus on it for a while, until it catches up with the rest. 

Lack of hip and ankle mobility is a common issue among most "Westerners," because we sit all the time. One of the best ways to improve hip and ankle mobility is the Third World Squat. Just do it for as long as you can, as many times during the day as you can. This can be as static or as dynamic as you want. Mark Sisson, over at Mark's Daily Apple, has a number of exercises that can help improve hip mobility. His list includes: 

As Chelonian mentioned, your daily caloric need is 1,650, plus whatever calories you burn during exercise. Also, you can't "spot-reduce" fat. So losing the 12lbs or so of fat in two months doesn't mean it will come from your abdomen, nor does it mean you'll actually get the results you're looking for, depending on what your goal is. Additionally, if you're doing the crunches in an effort to lose the belly, it's a futile effort. It will help you (sort of) get well-trained muscles, but crunches really only work the surface-level muscles. And again, you can't spot-reduce fat. At your current weight, running for 20 minutes at 6mph burns about 270 calories. "Cross training" is kind of vague, but let's say it burns 230 calories for 15 minutes (for the sake of math). That would be 500 calories you're burning, on top of Chelonian's calculation of 1,650 calories, for a total requirement of 2,150 calories. Generally speaking, it's recommended to have a goal weight loss of about a pound a week. That requires cutting back by 500 calories per day. This means that, with your current exercise, you can eat 1,650 calories and lose a pound a week. However, as I mentioned earlier, you may still not get the results you're looking for. Cardio is great for reducing fat, but frankly, you'll very likely just end up a smaller version of your shape right now, and still feel and look "flabby." To help remedy this, it's a good idea to include full-body strength training in your workouts. This can be bodyweight stuff, such as push ups, bodyweight squats, and so on, or it can be weighted stuff, such as barbell squats and bench presses or kettlebell work. This will help maintain muscle mass, which will give you a more "firm" look as the fat comes off. And no, you won't turn into She-Hulk if you pick up more than a 5lb dumbbell (in fact, most women are smaller than they were at the same weight), so don't be afraid to go after the Olympic barbells or the 25lb kettlebells if you have the strength to use them with good form. For detailed information, check out New Rules of Lifting for Women or even Starting Strength. Also, see about trading in your consistent treadmill runs for sprint intervals, especially if you're increasing the duration of your runs. This is known as "High Intensity Interval Training," which has shown to be more efficient at fat burning than steady state cardio (ie - 20 minutes of high intensity intervals burns as many calories as 60 minutes of steady-state). If you're just starting out with running, the Couch to 5k program uses interval training to work you up to 5k (~3 miles) and is a good one to start with. Finally, for diet - be careful restricting your calories too much. If we assume that your workouts burn 500 calories, and you're already at a deficit of 650 calories (1,650 - 1,000), then you're taking a total deficit of 1,100 calories, or a little over 2lbs per week. This really only works for people who are severely overweight and have 100+lbs to lose. While you have a decent amount you could lose, you're still at a low enough weight that this kind of deficit can backfire on you, in a number of ways (including plateauing). Additionally, eating such a small amount can lead to nutritional deficiencies, and just in general not being able to fuel your body's needs, leaving you tired all the time and requiring longer time to recover from intense workouts. If you find that happening, don't be afraid to increase your caloric intake by a couple of hundred calories. Make sure you're eating good whole foods. 1,000 calories worth of pizza won't get you far (and really, isn't that much pizza if you're getting it from a pizza joint; Pizza Hut's pan pizzas run about 400+ calories per slice). Good, whole foods, like steak and broccoli will carry you a lot farther. If you're not already, start tracking your food. I personally use MyFitnessPal, but there are others. If nothing else, use it for a couple of weeks to make sure you are, in fact, only eating the amount you think you're eating (and conversely, that you're eating as much as you think you're eating). A lot of people grossly underestimate how much they're eating, and it's good to get a baseline idea. Additionally, it allows you to see what it is you're actually eating, since a lot of people don't think about it much and think they're eating healthy, only to find that they have 3 servings of cookies and a 20oz bottle of Mountain Dew every day. If you carry most of your weight in your abdomen, then you might want to look into gluten-free and/or lower carb ways of eating. "Beer bellies" that aren't actually caused by drinking a lot of beer are often caused by insulin resistance and/or gluten sensitivity/intolerance. It might be worth trying each for a month or so to see if it has any effect on your tummy area. Again, it comes back to eating good, nutritious whole foods. Shop around the perimeter of your grocery store, or better yet, go to a farmer's market and butcher shop to get the bulk of your food. 

That depends on how much (and to some extent what) you're eating now. Generally speaking, you'll gain muscle if you're eating "at maintenance" or slightly above (usually, around 100-200 calories). However, you could be eating way more if you don't know what your maintenance calories are to begin with. There are a number of different ways you can calculate your calorie needs, and a dozen different calculators online (here's one using the Harris Benedict formula). For your size, that calculator puts your requirements at about 2300 for a sedentary lifestyle. If you're eating about that, you should be fine for the most part, just make sure you're actually eating about there (people are notoriously bad at estimating how much they actually eat, so it's a good idea to spend a couple of weeks measuring and tracking your food). Additionally, you'll want to take a good look at your diet. While you may be seeing muscle gains now, that's likely "newbie gains," which will taper off pretty quickly. If you want to continue to gain muscle (and lose fat during "cut" phases), you'll need to adjust your diet accordingly. You probably won't get far if you're living off of pasta and potatoes. Make sure you're getting enough protein, first and foremost - between .5 and 1g per pound of lean body mass, depending on how much you're working out, and don't go crazy on the carbs (remember, you're a lifter, not a runner, you don't need tons of quick-access energy). From there, you'll want to monitor not just your weight, but your body composition (your body fat percentage), to make sure that the gains you make are, in fact, muscle. There are a number of ways you can do this, with varying degrees of accuracy, but for the most part, the important part is consistency in its numbers (ie - if a measurement is 5% high, as long as its 5% high all the time, it can still serve as a way to track progress). As your weight and body fat percentage changes, you'll want to revisit your calorie needs calculator to make sure that you're still on target, as you may need more (or less!) to sustain your body. 

In short, you're very likely not going to be able to gain weight without gaining at least a little bit of fat. Likewise, you're not going to be able to lose weight without losing a least a little bit of muscle. This is why bodybuilders work in bulk/cut cycles. To gain weight, you have to eat more than your TDEE (total daily energy expenditure). Provided you get enough protein for your body to repair your muscles when you've worked them out, it doesn't much matter whether you get the rest of your calories from carbs or from fat - both are pretty much pure fuel (though some fat is require to properly absorb a number of nutrients). Controlling how much fat you gain means controlling how many extra calories you consume. You can really only gain a small amount of muscle at a given time. According to bodybuilding.com, you're looking at about 2 pounds a month, if you're extraordinarily lucky and insanely dedicated. You'll have to experiment to get the exact number that works for you, but a general starting point is TDEE+30% or so. Remember the limits above, and if you find yourself gaining more than about half a pound a week, you're probably eating too much and should recalculate. This helps ensure that you're providing your body with enough fuel to build muscle, without giving it so much of a surplus that you gain a large amount of fat. In a few months, whenever you get to about where you want to be in terms of strength (at least for now), or you start seeing a little more fat than you'd like. You can start a cut cycle, which will be something like TDEE-20% to help reduce fat, bringing you to your end goal of having more muscle and less fat. 

The exact solution is going to depend on several factors, including your other exercises and the type of pain you're getting. Are you getting DOMS? If you are, then you're probably fine and just need to rest a day and suck it up in the later days. Stretch more, get plenty of water and protein, and get back out there. Are your muscles spasming/cramping? If so, then you probably want to make sure you stretch more after your workouts and on off days, maybe do some more dynamic stretching, or more warming up, beforehand. You may also want to "deload" and do lower weight for the same number of reps and sets and work back up. Is it not muscle pain? When you're "out of commission," do you get sharp pain down one of your legs? What does the pain feel like? Where is the source of the pain located? If it falls under the "not muscle pain/DOMS", then you probably want to see a doctor. Lower back pain and sharp pain down a leg is a sign of Sciatica, where the Sciatic nerve gets pinched. Even if it's not Sciatica, if it's not muscle pain, you don't want to injure yourself further. Get checked out and make sure everything is okay. For any of these, and everyday activities, make sure your posture and form are correct. When standing straight, your spine should make a gentle S-shaped curve. Your skull should sit comfortably on top, your hips in a neutral position at the bottom, your shoulders back some, and your ribcage up and out of your hips. Your shoulders and hips should be parallel to each other and the ground, and your weight distributed evenly between your feet. When working out, make sure your back is as straight as the exercise allows (ie - when doing things like squats or deadlifts, the back shouldn't be rounded - the form should come from bends at the waist/hips, knees, and the other joints involved). Also, make sure you don't overwork your back. Just like you take rest days between the other muscle groups you work, your back needs rest. Remember, too, that if you're doing compound lifts, you may be working your back, already, so make sure to count them, as well, when determining how much you've done. 

Go back to the doctor, get other bloodwork done. Women are prone to a couple of different endocrine issues that are related to weight gain - namely PCOS and hypothyroidism. Both are very often under- or misdiagnosed. For PCOS, you need at least the following bloodwork - DHEAS, fasting insulin, and fasting glucose. Ideally, she should also get free testosterone levels checked, as well. For hypothyroidism, TSH testing isn't enough, get the free T3 and T4 tests done, as well. At the very least, this will rule out medical issues. Hammer down on the food tracking. That she's eating Paleo and tracking is great, but she can probably do better. After all, it doesn't matter if she's eating chicken and broccoli all day, if she's eating too much, she's going to gain. At the very least, measure everything. Even better - weigh it. This gets her the most accurate numbers she can get. Also, don't substitute. If the food item isn't in there, or doesn't match what is on the package or in a cross-referenced source, then either update the entry or add a new one. Get a heart rate monitor. MyFitnessPal is notorious for wild estimates for calorie burn. Get a heart rate monitor and use it for any and all exercise. Use its numbers over MFP's. Eat the calories back. If she's using MFP's system for calculating calories, and her workouts aren't figured into the calculation, then follow how MFP does it and when she exercises, she eats more to account for them. MFP builds in the deficit when you configure it, exercise above and beyond the configured value is gravy. Double-check other medications. Is she on birth control? Most hormonal birth controls are known to cause weight issues, and Depo Provera is often the worst offender. Does she take any other medications? Check them for weight issues and see if they can either be phased out (with doctor's supervision) or changed to something that doesn't cause weight issues. Go back to Paleo basics. As, Humans are not broken puts it you might be getting too good at Paleo. If the SAD-style "treats" have worked their way back in, though technically Paleo, they might be causing issues (particularly if they have some kind of sweetener in them). Do a Whole30 to get back to the basics and force a habit change. At the very least, go through your typical meals and cut the chaff and stick to the powerhouse foods. Tweak macros. Paleo isn't necessarily low-carb/high-fat, and some people do better on low carb, while others do better on higher carb. This will partially depend on what the aforementioned bloodwork comes back with, though. If she shows signs of insulin resistance, then lower carb will probably be her best option. If she doesn't, then she's more free to try increasing the carbs (depending on where she's at now). Change up the workout routine. It's possible that the intensity of Crossfit, plus the spinning classes are too much and too intense. Try dropping one and do some dedicated power lifting or strength-oriented body weight training, or just drop one for something less intense altogether. Mark Sisson puts it elegantly - "move frequently at a slow pace." You don't need to power through an hour of spinning at top speed, when an hour walk or leisurely bike ride will suffice and won't cause your body as much stress (and thus, cortisol production). Be patient. It took 2 years to gain those 15 pounds. They're not going to come off overnight. Give any changes at least a month, before giving up on them. And if she's anything close to normal weight, it might take longer to see the scale move. Fifteen pounds in 2 years is just over half a pound a month. Don't expect it to come off much faster.