So you are talking about a form of communication that uses sights, scents, sounds and such to convey information rather than words. Grammar can be broken down into a few parts. All definitions shamelessly stolen from Wikipedia. 

You have an even chance of getting matched with anyone around the world...global mobility is not something the average person can afford on a regular basis, not to mention the potential relationship issues that arise from cultural dissimilarity. If half the remaining are matched with people from thousands of miles away odds are the vast majority are not going to act on it. I could keep going eliminating the impact of this app on more and more of the population but honestly I think you see the point. 

As mentioned on a similar (but not identical) question that I can't seem to find, utilizing that iron to create steel is problematic. Even if you were to ship fossil fuels to mars (solar film is lighter and lasts longer) there is no oxygen to fuel combustion so really it would just be a black pile of rocks. In short, creating steel on Mars is going to require fuel and air be shipped from earth...so completely cost prohibitive. Other metals would be a better choice. 

Evolution would select for human style breasts ...given a few things are true. First, humans have effectively removed predatory pressure as a cause for human evolution, and with sapience I would say things would be the same for your merfolk. Without this pressure the selection for reduced breast size/improved aqua-dynamics simply doesn't exist. I don't need to be super fast to get away from predators if I don't really have any predators. Second, you need to define what the merfolk society values; function or appearance or some combination thereof. Since it is not specified I will lean towards they act like humans. This means it will vary from time to time. The ideal of beauty will be the primary procreation selection pressure. Which is weird because that means the pressure will vary based on the whims of your male merpeople. In the end I think this means that there is no effective directional pressure because the pressure would not be consistent enough over long periods of time for selection to take place. Additional considerations: Breast cancer is something to keep in mind if your mermen prefer a larger bust. It's possible that larger size = higher cancer risk ....so figure out how to do mammograms underwater. 

To define the culture at whatever moment in time you choose, start with the list, yours is pretty good but missing a few things and at times redundant in my opinion so I both elaborated and consolidated Keep in mind that these items overlap and you should make sure they are internally consistent. For example a continent spanning middle ages empire is going to need fairly advanced communication techniques, so chiseling the written word into stone...probably not going to cut it...get it :D 

Tai Chi would have been my first suggestion for a support character, though you specifically mention it not being right. One that note I should mention that ALL martial arts require disciplined practice so...if your character doesn't have the discipline he cannot be a martial artist. That said look at a character like Spike from Cowboy Bebop who practices Jeet Kune Do, which may be a great fit. Heck Aang from Avatar may be another model to work with, his style is based on Baguazhang In the end ANY martial art can probably be re-purposed to fit this character as someone who has truly mastered a martial art will insert their personality and personal style into a technique. Actually the idea of the character taking a strict/traditional martial art and making it their own in spite of masters and tradition may fit this character perfectly. 

In short, given the level of technology you make available in your world, the military can become basically any percentage of the population that you want. Without knowing your particular scenario its very difficult to give you a guess on what percentage that would be. You could also, if you were so inclined, create a society that is nothing but a big military. Militaries can be self sufficient, there is nothing to stop a grunt from building roads and doing farming while they aren't being shot at. 

I think the key subject to cover when discussing symmetry is motility. Motility is simply the ability to move of your own ability. So while a rock may be mobile it is not motile. I like to think of a peg legged pirate. When you are not symmetrical your mobility and agility are decreased, this, if it is the natural state for a creature will put it at an evolutionary disadvantage compared to symmetrical counterparts. There are of course other items to consider. Gravity as it exists on earth combined with creatures being able to move effectively have resulted in the selection of a symmetrical body type as the best functioning biology. Self defense is another aspect worth considering. An asymmetrical body type would have more obvious weak spots which could be exploited by predators. Even in an environment where gravity does not play a role there would be an advantage to being symmetrical. Senses this sort of plays into the other topics but symmetry also allows us to effectively observe the world around us. If we had one ear on our head and one ear on our left knee sure...we'd be able to hear, but we would not have the ability to ascertain direction and we get similar problems when we consider asymmetrical vision. 

Odds are anything that has that much power will not be mobile...a tank that can handle that just can't exist as we currently understand the word tank. The energy requirements and the impact/stress of such a weapon necessitate that it be stationary. A tank simply doesn't have the weight and structural integrity to handle that much force. Additionally the power requirements mean the tank would have to carry around multiple times its weight in batteries/capacitors to fuel the cannon (I don't know the math specifically) Something putting out 1GJ of force has to be able to offset that...a tank would go flying through the air from the recoil. You could build artillery style and put the whole thing on some sort of modified train rails so it is held down and allowed to slide back after firing. Graphene isn't a great idea. Strong yes, but relatively brittle. The frame materials will need toughness and strength. Steel for example has arguably the best balance of toughness and strength. 

Why would an ancient civilization be "targeted" by such a movement? Why would one ancient culture overshadow another? Why a certain civilization's influence would be prevalent centuries after that civilization's decline. 

So...its a cool idea what you are trying to accomplish. Unfortunately it is not biologically possible. Photosynthesis may be the basis of life on Earth, but it is horribly, horribly inefficient. There is a reason it take acres of plant life to feed a human. So to address your four main points/design items 

I am not sure the value they would give you. The popularity and name recognition of philosophers and thinkers isn't what it used to be...intelligence doesn't appear to be interesting to the masses anymore. 

There is no selection pressure that could get you to this point Now, that said you could have a sort of hybrid, or rather an animal who retains the ability in their skin cells to photo-synthetically respire. This would be sort of like having an appendix, its a vestige of some past need and is no longer necessary for survival, but it could hypothetically improve a creatures fitness. The shared ancestors between plants and these hybrid animals would go all the way back to single celled organisms in your reality. The surface area ratio to mass on a human is way way lower than that of a plant (obviously) so the net energy gain would be minimal...particularly if your people like clothes... But some smaller animals, perhaps snakes, could get a not insignificant gain from this system. 

The short answer is this would be situational, but the short answer is boring so lets dive right in. 

It is not the easiest, but in my experience this will give you the best, most consistent world and gives the world great depth and the history appears integrated and natural. 

If we consider that internet coverage and national age averages are equally spread...which I realize they are not, we would just reduce by 30%. But generally speaking poorer less internet savvy nations have a higher youth population. For this I am going to use the US number to do the estimate as it should decently reflect nations where dating apps are used. Per this we are looking at 24% being under 18. From 2,800,000,000 now we are looking at 2,128,000,000 

...ok I admit unless you are starting a brand new project (or making a sandbox) this isn't likely the scenario you are working with. When you are telling a story you likely have scenes in mind, ideas, plans epic moments. This is where I can feel your pain I have rewritten and redrawn maps more times than I care to admit. The short answer is unfortunately that there is no simple solution to this problem. I do have suggestions for you though to help you deal with the problems we all inevitably have. 

As a disclaimer...I am not going into every possible technology...just attempting to demonstrate how things can be looked at differently. I will focus this primarily on early technologies because you can then chase the rabbit down this hole yourself. 

So lets see if we can't estimate a population growth rate here. This little formula should help you play around with rates to give you an idea of what feels realistic (or what not to mention should you want it to take less time) Keep in mind these are average growth rates, not actual rates. True growth will have a curved, exponential style track. 

It will vary from nation to nation. The United States for example is large enough that it can probably retain a good portion of its power. Southern Europe, while not as wealthy and powerful as northern and central Europe should be alright as well. Northern Europe and Russia are in pretty big trouble. But like the US China is large and south enough that it should retain most of it's power as well. Australia is an interesting one. While not generally seen as a world power it is fairly wealthy and militarily strong. Cooling temperatures would possibly make its climate more temperate as well, which could mean more food production for them. The powers in the middle east would likely fare somewhere in the middle. While not particularly impacted by the ice the likely collapse of the global economy would mean a significant cut in demands for oil. But like Australia the middle east could potentially get nicer to live in (I've been there, its really hot...) Global temperatures will fall drastically. This will lead to a decrease in food production and a large part of the world's population will likely starve and global norms and the economy will collapse. With wealthier nations under intense pressure, or being wiped out all together there is no support system for weaker poorer nations. Which already deal with many problems. Massive conflicts over resources ensue and there is little poorer/weaker nations can do to stop the richer stronger powers from invading toward the equator and taking over things. So in the end the answer is...it sort of depends on each nation's situation. 

Moving overland is the trick and reason animals will never develop biological wheels. Just consider all the infrastructure we need to make wheels effective on a regular/safety basis. That said nature does a pretty good job on its own. You should meet the American Pronghorn. (He's faster and has better stamina than a kangaroo ;)) 

How would it evolve: Well similarly its probably going to have to be random mutation. If you combine these two ideas it is plausibly enough to make the random mutation (or more likely a series of random mutations) stick and be selected for. As an added unrequested idea you could make the tails have a pattern and move in such a ways as to sort of pacify both predators and prey. Oh and one additional note. It is not crazy that the male and female look different. That actually happens in a bunch of different species (though no mammals that I can think of off the top of my head). 

So it occurs to me one of the major logistical limitations that Santa runs into is the volume of gifts even more so than the weight...particularly once they are gift wrapped. Think about how much empty space there is just in foot balls, basket balls, soccer balls, rugby balls etc etc. Expanding that to all gifts there is just so much wasted space and from a logistician's perspective wasted space is a killer. That all in mind consider this. Santa is actually a very advanced robotic micro factory. Rather than building presents all year long he instead travels to homes and like a giant, jolly, dressed in red, 3d printer creates the toys on site. So my question is this, What resources (type not volume) would santa require to create the standard fare toys. Electronics, balls, stuffed animals etc etc. Santa's robotic form is able to keep virtually all known components in a liquid state within his frame and sleigh (he restocks his internal resources from the sleigh... 

There are probably a million different ways you can do this but the basics you need to account for are: 

Thats how building the system would work. I must re-iterate that this is incredibly difficult, the intricacies of ecosystems are still way more complicated than we understand. Rarely do you see a situations where humans 'helping' and ecosystem actually helps (with the exception of clean-up operations). Mainly I am referring to killing off predators or culling herbivores etc etc etc. Anyway, rant aside... Your questions/points: You can't just have a bunch of oxygen floating around in the atmosphere. Its pretty dang flammable...like a lot. The atmospheric composition of earth is a mix of course and you would need the same mix, or at least close to the same to create what you are talking about. Its tough for me to ignore the idea that you just BAM have an atmosphere like earth but no life on the planet. Planting outside the zone. If you have the atmosphere, all you need are nutrients (compost) and water and the correct temperature range/light (lat/lon). Super easy...I mean relatively speaking. In reality to terraform you would probably have to start with domes for people to live, each dome (you'd need many many many of them) would have a gas farm...which skipping the obvious fart jokes would help modify the atmosphere to something tolerable for plants, bacteria, insects etc. Over time the farms aren't necessary as the plants will spread etc etc etc. 

Unless you also change the dominant weather patterns and (in the case of Greece) provide a lot more open water they simply won't be as wet as they currently are. The Indian Ocean is BIG...and HOT, this pushes tons of moisture into the air. The dominant weather pattern brings that moist hot air north (hot air rises, right!) and then the warm air runs into the wall that is the Himalayas and splosh, things get wet. In east Africa your plateau is right on the edge of the continent. The weather pattern (prevailing winds) moves east to west, so it would be running into the plateau immediately likely leading to a narrow strip of tropical rain forest on the coast and then a drier plateau above. In Greece on the other hand you just don't have the same amount of fuel as you do around the Indian ocean. The Mediterranean is much smaller and not as hot meaning you have less moisture in the air. Additionally the air currents don't come from the south they come from the west and north, meaning over continental Europe, if anything Greece would likely end up drier than it already is.