There's nothing magical in GNC Mass Gainer, or in anybody's Mass Gainer. Take a look at the ingredients list: Maltodextrin, Mass XXX Protein Blend (Whey Protein Concentrate, Soy Protein Isolate), Cocoa (Processed with Alkali), Natural and Artificial Flavors, Medium Chain Triglycerides, Lecithin, Salt, Acesulfame Potassium, Sucralose. So, in order, it's a simple carbohydrate, protein, flavorings, and artificial sweeteners. The only reason that Mass Gainer supplements exist is that some people find it easier to consume calories in a liquid form, rather than as real food. If you want to gain weight and find that a mass gaining shake helps you meet your nutritional goals, then go ahead and use it. But if you'd prefer to get your carbs and protein from other sources, that's fine too. On a personal note, I'd advocate getting your carbs from whole grain sources, rather than maltodextrin, but at least in the short term there's probably no harm. 

In 2015, I ran four races of three different distances - 2 5ks (9:20/mile and 9:04/mile), a 10k (11:15/mile), and a half marathon (11:50/mile). In 2016, I'm planning on running 2-4 5ks, 1-2 10ks, a 15k, and a half marathon. I'm about to start generating my training plans for the off-season and into next year. Previously, I planned race-to-race. I did a very generic workout in the off-season, but I really need something more structured, and run-oriented, so I'm looking to start planning. Race season is April-October, so I'm starting to plan for how I'm going to train in the off-season. The training plan generator that I use takes the input of a recent race time and distance, a distance that I'm training for, an intensity level, a current distance per week, when to start the plan, when the race is, and when I long run. 

The ball bearings allow the weights to rotate without the bar in your hand needing to rotate. As you move a weight in most exercises, unless you have amazing form, some amount of rotational energy will be transfered to the weight. This is true in Olympic lifts even if you have perfect form. If the weight was not allowed to move freely, you would need to counteract that rotational energy in order to keep your grip on the bar. So instead of the bar rotating in your hand, a bar with ball bearings allows the weight to move and the bar to remain still. 

I once read somewhere (though not somewhere very reputable) that the incline bench press will build more muscle in the upper chest, while the flat bench press will build more muscle in the lower chest. Is there any truth to this idea? More generally, how do the different bench press variants (incline/decline/flat) affect the shape and growth of the various upper body muscles? 

I have access to a treadmill that has speed workouts and incline workouts. There are two types of each - intervals and ramps. In an interval, it alternates between a resting speed or resting incline and a working speed or working incline, with each interval being 1-2 minutes. In a ramp, the speed or incline starts low and increases to a maximum about half way through the workout and then starts to decrease. There's also a combination ramp that changes both speed and incline through the duration of the workout. I'm guessing that there's no one best choice - there are benefits to intervals and benefits to ramps. I typically do two treadmill workouts a week - one focusing on speed and one focusing on inclines. I'll do other easy runs or long runs on a treadmill if the weather is bad (or it's winter) or I'm crunched for time. I found some information about speed versus incline intervals and the merits of both, but it doesn't discuss speed and incline ramps where the whole workout is a build up followed by a decrease. Another article mentions "hill training" for use if outdoor areas tend to be flat (which is true for me), which sounds like incline ramp, but doesn't compare it to intervals. Another article talks about general benefits of incline training. Finally, there are many articles which suggest that you should have an incline of about 1% on a treadmill if you are training to run outdoors. How can I decide if I should do an interval or a ramp? My instinct is that I should mix them up, but I'm not sure if I should favor one or the other. Should I continue to separate speed and incline workouts or should I tend toward the ramp that increases both speed and incline? 

You can't reduce fat in a particular place. Your genetics determine which places you will gain and loose fat from. 

Having visible abs is all about having low body fat, and having low body fat is all about eating fewer calories than your body consumes in a day. It doesn't matter (much) what foods you eat, as long as you're eating fewer calories. 

The short answer is that you will build endurance in a particular task by repeating that task. If you do a lot of pushups, you will build endurance for pushups, and to an extent for other shoulder-push movements. Doing as many pushups as possible is a fine idea, if you want to be better at doing pushups. If you want to be better at carrying something heavy over a long distance, practice with something like a farmer's walk. 

The only thing that I have a question about is how to appropriately chose what recent training run I provide. I plan to adjust the distance I'm training for, intensity, and distance per week appropriately for improvement and maintenance throughout the year as the dates for the races settle. I see a few options: 

My apartment complex gym got a new hip machine that supports four types of hip exercises - flexion, extension, abduction, and adduction. I'm primarily a runner (I run 3.5+ miles three days a week, low impact cardio usually on an elliptical on the weekends), but I do strength training two days a week (3 sets of 10 reps, 70% of max) and recalibrate my max once a month. Of the four hip exercises that this machine supports, which one(s) should I be doing to best support my running? A few quick searches suggests exercising (stretching and strengthening) flexors and adductors more frequently than others, but it's kind of vague. Should I do all four, or just a subset? And would be 3 sets of 10 reps at 70% of max be suitable for this type of exercise as well? 

I would vote that you join a gym. It can certainly be expensive (and less convenient), but the net positives outweigh the negatives. First, an Olympic barbell costs ~$100. Basic, cast-iron weights cost a little more than $1/pound (at least where I live.) So just to get started, you're probably looking at $300, just for a barbell and weights. Second, unless your gym has a squat rack without a bar, you may find it very difficult to do squats, which are a major part of any Strength routine. I'd go so far as to say that doing barbell squats without a squat rack/power cage is genuinely dangerous. 

I don't know what would aggravate your knee injury or not, but I would give planks a try. They're a good abs exercise in general, and they don't involve any movement of any joints, just a static hold. 

I've been running for a few years now, but I still struggle with speedwork. I use an online training plan generator that takes previous race time and distance, target race distance, weekly distance, and schedule duration to generate a running plan that includes easy runs, tempo runs, speedwork, and rest or cross-training days. My training plan is based on a four week cycle. Monday is an easy run, Tuesday is an easy run on weeks 1-3 and rest/XT on week 4, Wednesday is speedwork on week 1 and 3 or tempo run on week 2 or an easy run on week 4, Thursday is an easy run, Friday is rest or cross train, Saturday is long run, and Sunday is rest or cross train. The plan also builds speed throughout, across all the workouts. Distance also increases. Total weekly distances range from 22 miles/week to 35 miles/week. The plan deviates slightly at the end, close to the race. When I'm on a treadmill, I tend to adjust the plan paces based on something like this conversion chart to account for the fact it's slightly easier to run on a treadmill than outside. I rarely take a rest day, opting for strength training and/or some time on an elliptical (usually strength + 15 minutes elliptical but sometimes 30 minutes elliptical or 30 minutes arc trainer). I do tend to take the rest days as rest days early on in the plan (which is usually following a race), very late in the plan (the week or two before a race), or if I'm not feeling well for any reason to avoid pushing myself too hard. To give an idea of where I stand, my 5k PR is 29:00, my 10k PR is 1:09:51, my 15k PR is 1:57:21, and my half PR is 2:35:07. Unfortunately, last year, I was coming off an injury. I was healed before the spring, but my winter training was almost nonexistent so my times were far worse. Last years times were 32:55 for 5k (April 2016), 1:17:35 for 10k (June 2016), and 2:53:03 for a half (November 2016). Based on my training, I'm edging close to a 5k PR this coming April. My easy runs on a treadmill are recently around 10:50-11:10/mile. I could probably even push that up a little and be comfortable. I've only had the weather for one good outdoor run, and it was an easy run around 11:30/mile. My tempo runs are around 3-4 miles long and I'm running at around 9:40/mile. Even though my easy and tempo runs distances and times are projecting a near PR, my speedwork runs are terrible. Today, I was scheduled for a speedwork run that consisted of a warm up, and 5 0.5 mile intervals at 8:20/mile, each followed by a 0.25 mile recovery interval (I used a pace of about 11:30/mile), and a cooldown for a total distance of 6 miles. By the middle of the third speed interval, I was physically worn down. Am I doing something wrong in my speedwork if I'm able to complete my easy and tempo runs on plan (and sometimes better than plan), yet struggle with my planned speedwork? What can I do to specifically improve my speedwork without huge deviations from my plan which is tailored to my upcoming 5k race? Are there any modifications I can make on training days that call for speedwork?