My tactic would be slower not faster and basically minimise the weight over the front wheel as much as possible by moving my backside as far back as possible. With higher speed and weight at the front I'd say you're more likely to dig the front wheel in. Again I'd use the back brake, you need the front for steering as much as possible and you may loose that with braking on the front, also with the weight at the back the rear will be better for braking. Forgot to add, try braking as much as possible before the muddy bit, and as little as possible whilst going through the mud. Braking will load up the front wheel and hence more likely to dig in. 

I would always recommend panniers rather than a backpack as I think it's far safer. When I was at college I used a backpack when cycling, unfortunately I had a nasty accident slipping on autumn leaves and I landed awkwardly on my back as I couldn't get out of my toe straps quick enough! I twisted and bent my back quite badly as I landed on my backpack. It was agony for months and ever since then I have always used panniers. 

The short answer is, no: There's no simple way to protect against this with certainty if you want to leave your bike unattended. The same thing can happen to a car: you return and the wheels are gone, the car up on cinder blocks. Your question doesn't say where your bike was parked, but I'm guessing it was in a public area. It sounds to me like the thief knew what components they needed, and that they had the tools to get at them. There's really no way to protect against that, short of sealing your bike in a box. You have a few options to discorage this: You can not leave the bike by itself, or you can park it in more secure areas. I prefer parking my bike where I can keep an eye on it. If I'm stopping for lunch, I'll try to bring my bike into the restaurant with me. This is easier when I'm riding one of my folding bikes, and can slide it under a table or behind a chair. Some stores will even allow you to bring in a full-frame bike, especially if you're obviously being careful and polite. If you have to leave your bike unattended regularly, such as at a train station or at an airport, look into renting a bike locker. If that's not an option and you have to lock your bike up "naked" in public, you can look into making your bike less attractive to thieves. (Spray-paint, duct tape, and so on can all serve well to this end.) 

I bought a DOGCAM Bullet HD Wide camera, on the basis of a decent camera at a good price. The Contour HD is a nice camera but too expensive for me. The DOGCAM Bullet is compact unit, 80mm long and 22mm diameter. Waterproof so strapped to my helmet for kayaking, on the bike I tend to strap it to the bars. It'll last a couple of hours on a battery charge, it's an internal battery which is charged via the mini USB port in the back of the camera. Plugging in via the USB it just appears as a removable flash drive on the computer to copy the video's. My only real gripe with it is the on/off switch, there's very little tactile feedback to know if I've pressed the button. It does have a small LED at the front to indicate when it's recording or the memory card is full but in daylight conditions it's not the easiest thing to spot. When it's on my bars I really have to lean forward and squint to see the LED. There is a fair review and example video on Cycleseven 

I love folding bikes, but unless you have no other options, a small-wheeled folding bike wouldn't be a good fit for your purposes. A folding bike with 26" or even 20" wheels, however, might work very well if you can fit it with a rear rack. Try one out in a store and see how it feels and if you can carry cargo easily. 

Which side of the pedal should you use? On some pedals, one side has an axis that protrudes a bit, and the other side is flat; the latter is the one you should use. However, if both sides of the pedal are flat, feel free to use either side of the pedal. 

I'm considering getting a repair stand, used if I can find one. Aside from the obvious (Park Tool stands), which ones are well-made? I'd like to try and snag a good one on an eBay auction if I can for very little money, but I don't want to waste my time with a piece of junk that will fall apart on me. 

Yes the cold will affect the foam! OK it's a slightly facetious answer but as you say it's a separate garage how secure is it? In the cold weather the local mice / rodents / what have you will love the foam and use it for bedding material. Make sure it is securely stored otherwise it might get shredded. I speak from experience! 

I'd recommend getting the book "Crunch Time Cyclist" by Chris Carmichael. There is a review here for more details. www.roadcycling.co.nz/Coach/cycling-book-the-time-crunched-cyclist.html He has a specific 10 week program for novices raising their training to Century rides, but he covers so much more as well, background, nutrition etc. I'm sure you could use this to then build your own program if you want to do it over more than 10 weeks. It worked for me, I went from a being a 10 mile commuter to a 2 day 170 mile charity rider in 8 weeks. 

A mirror is a great addition to a cyclist's toolkit. While all cyclists should be able to look around behind them without one, a mirror lets you do this more often and safely. And a mirror is no substitute for looking behind you anyway. Here's a summary of the kinds of mirrors I've used. Glasses-mounted mirrors like the take-a-look mirror are great for giving you a wide, easily adjustable field of view. Pivoting your head means you can "sweep" the area behind you, and the mirror is close to your eye so it's a fairly wide field of view. However, they're only usable if you wear glasses or goggles, and some mirrors won't mount to some glasses, particularly glasses with thicker temples like some non-prescription sunglasses. I find that the take-a-look is a great mirror, but it tends to pull my glasses off just a bit over time. Adjusting it is merely an annoyance that I've decided to live with, since the mirror is otherwise excellent. (My glasses are also extremely light, and this would happen with any mirror, although the take-a-look is fairly heavy for a mirror.)