The first motivation is not going to affect your chances of getting the job. The second might, so you need to answer in a way that shows you've thought about it, and you know you can manage both. You're confident that 20 hours a week leaves plenty of time for your studies, so you say that. You might also take this as a chance to express how much you like the industry you are studying to join, your excitement at getting to do real work on real projects, and your belief that what you learn about the industry on the job will actually raise your grades. However you seem to imply in your question that you think the interviewer's mindset is more like this: 

If your return to the workforce is to be a success, you must know the answer to this question yourself. What is going to be difficult? What are you doing about that? There are basically two aspects of it: 

Your examples don't tell me that she changes the rules. They tell me that she believes she is authorized to break the rules and you are not. Your solution to this is to follow the rules yourself, and try to not get worked up when you see her breaking them. She may actually know enough to know when exceptions are needed, or she may be a selfish bad person who is getting away with something. Since you don't have to manage her or run the library, don't worry about that. Don't lend laptops to students without receipts. Pay 100% attention to the kids at recess. Don't try to do what she does. Stop trying to figure out what it would take for you to be able to do what she does. You'll be instantly happier. You may also find she is nicer to you, but that's not why I'm suggesting this course of action to you. You're just taking on a burden you don't need -- why can she break the rules and under what circumstances is it safe for me to break them -- and your life will be easier if you stop doing that. 

If you're in "interview mode" what you want to do is come up with examples of this type that are larger, and that are relevant to the job you're applying for. That time the server was down but you needed to [something] so you [something'ed] instead. That time your boss was rushed to the hospital and couldn't approve the deploy scheduled for that afternoon, so you [whatever'ed] instead. It's ok to make yourself the hero in this story - that's part of the point of it. You can even practice telling the story a few times so that you get things in the right order. When I'm interviewing you, and I hear this story, you want me to think "this is the kind of person we need! Resourceful, imaginative, and yet respectful of the motivations behind the process." You don't want me to think "is that all you've got?" or "oh no, one of those cowboys who can't wait to abandon all the process because it's supposedly an emergency." Or, if the story is about getting a person to help you, again you want me thinking "yes, I can see what a benefit it would be to have this candidate on our team" not "oh lord I cannot let this one near Steve it would be a fistfight within a week". So make sure your story tells the truth about who you are and how you work. 

Generally speaking when your first interaction with a company is unorthodox, it sends a strong signal that they don't do things like everybody else. Don't ignore that signal: it might be good or it might be bad, but it's real. After all, they could have rented a boardroom somewhere for a day of interviews and demanded you take a vacation day or the like to free yourself up to see them. They chose to meet in a public place and that information shouldn't be ignored. 

There is a huge difference between a newborn and a 1 year old. While you might have to leave an online meeting early when your in-home caregiver signals you that the baby is fussing and needs to eat, by the time you have a toddler you can plan your meetings around the one or two times during the working day when you'll be nursing the toddler, and the rest of the time you'll be like anyone else working from home. There is no single solution but there is a "first few weeks" solution (don't work, focus on the baby and recovering from the birth), a "first few months" solution (in home help, be interruptible, probably don't do 40 hours a week) and a "years and years" solution (in home help, children keep to your schedule but get lots of your time, you're like anyone else who works from home) to use broad strokes. Don't try to prove in advance you can do it. You will have to solve some of it when you're in the moment. But it most certainly can be done. My oldest was born in the middle of my PhD (and we planned it that way) and I have worked from home in my own business her whole life - over 25 years so far. (For some years we also had an office outside the home and went there, but we worked at home as well that whole time.) Thinking on your feet and knowing your own priorities are key. 

Set aside your worries about whether others are also being punished for doing something wrong and focus on no longer doing something wrong. As a first approximation, just bumping up your estimates and taking on less work is a good start. If the group won't increase the estimates, then you have to face the possibility that you're not so much bad at estimating as bad at executing. It sounds like your group retrospective is leading to the conclusion that estimates are the problem, though. 

As you move to more senior roles, those for people with over 10 years of experience, it's common for the roles to require significant soft skills, such as leading others, managing a relationship between two firms (vendor and customer, for example), co-ordinating tasks and priorities without anyone feeling slighted, and so on. It's possible that you either do not have these skills, or are not succeeding in communicating during the interview that you have them. If so, this isn't discrimination, but it is still a problem you need to address. Another career route for many developers as they approach 15 years of work is into architecture and big picture design. It's possible that you don't want to do that kind of work, or are not communicating during the interview that you want and can do that kind of work. This, as before, is not discrimination but is a problem. 

Since several weeks of pay is a lot of money, and you're being pursued by the new employer, why not simply tell them that either you must wait until after May 6th to give your notice, or they must give you a signing bonus of $X to match the value of that paid vacation time? That way you don't need to worry that your notice date is too soon to qualify you for the paid vacation. If you, as HR, declare the rule to be something that benefits you personally you might be challenged. So since you have some control over the way in which you join the new company, use that. If it's vital to them to have you on board quickly, they can compensate you for the vacation you'll lose. If not, they can wait a few more weeks. 

Your mileage may vary, but let me tell you about one of my best hires. He contacted me for a job and told me this story: 

Also notice that I have switched the default from "you won't make my deadline, but it would be super cool if you happened to" to "you will make my deadline unless you tell me otherwise." Your manager may have access to other priorities and have a reason why your tasks are not first on the list, so you have to acknowledge that you might not get what you want, but don't make getting it the exception. 

I like having a life that lets me go with the first option every time. If you're younger, or you're worried that other candidates might be more qualified, then go with the second. I don't mean flat-out lie. But you can choose to emphasize how you'll spend your days rather than whether you'll be running your own business or working for them. You can choose to emphasize your skill set rather than your job title. You can choose to emphasize the impact of your work rather than a salary number. 

My approach was to pretend that I was unable to guess either of these underlying motives and was therefore genuinely puzzled by their actions. Rather like @gnasher's suggestion of "do you have a cold?" I would ask "why are you smelling my hair?" or "why did you move my chair?" or "I don't know why you would tell me that about Susan. Can you explain?" I actually found this pleasant because constantly correctly interpreting these things is tiring and upsetting. If there is even the slightest chance they have another motivation, this will actually be a useful conversation. And if they don't have another motivation (the 99% case) it leaves them at a loss for words. Without saying out loud either "I want to have sex with you" or "you don't belong here" how can they answer your question? I was once in a meeting with two male engineers (I have both undergrad and PhD in chemical engineering) who said of a coworker "she is OTR so watch out." With my most innocent face, I said "OTR? What's that?" They blushed, stammered, said it didn't matter, sorry, shouldn't have said it that way, and generally got more polite. Later I found out what they meant (spoilered because it's not nice.) 

For a small company, it might be. If they completely close down over that period, there may be nothing for you to do, or it might incur a lot of extra expense for them to make it possible for you to come into the office. However a company large enough to have an HR person for you to go to is probably large enough that you could work those days if you want to. There is then the matter of employment law. In many countries if you work a "statutory holiday" - one established by law or statute - you must be paid extra for doing so, and your company probably doesn't want to spend that money for no particular reason. But not all the holidays you mentioned are statutory in the USA. Christmas Eve isn't, for example. Plenty of atheists are happy enough to take the cultural holidays off for secular reasons, so I wouldn't bring that up in your conversation. Just ask "if I was willing to work Good Friday, could I take another day off later in its place?" Also make it clear you are not trying to work 5 statutory holidays to put together an solid week of vacation, you just want different single day absences. You might get them. 

If you buy twice as much milk, will the problem go away? Can you afford to buy twice as much milk out of your own pocket? If so, can you put half the milk in their fridge with a "gift from XYZ team" note? (Or, to be really blunt: "this milk is a personal gift from Clair, who manages the XYZ team.") I think this is what I would do, at least for the first week. I would take down all the "don't use our milk" notices and put milk in their fridge for them. Then wait. When things are somewhat calmer, a "kitty" labelled Milk Fund with a suggested donation of x per cup of tea, or y per week, might let everyone involved feel like they're not taking advantage of someone. If that seems risky, a chat with the other manager when things are calmer, asking if the other team could chip in for the milk they use, might be better received than your previous request, which came at the height of the note wars and involved deniability (it probably isn't my team drinking your milk) that evaporates when it's clear the labelled milk in their fridge is getting used. My guess is that at this point the hassle of running out of milk and the bad feelings on your team are outweighing the cost of the actual milk consumed. So I would (for a week or two anyway) just give them what they're taking, to eliminate those pains, and when things calm down address the lesser pain like how much you're personally spending to keep two teams, one of whom isn't even yours, in milk. 

In place of "shortly" you could say "later this morning" or "in 5 minutes" or "after the meeting." A general "later" runs the risk of being interpreted as "never". For someone senior to you, if you think "this isn't really the time or place" might be seen as a rebuke, stop after just the first question. In that case, you might want to be more precise than "shortly", saying "back at my desk" or "when I'm finished doing this" or "when I get to the sink". You don't need to clarify why - it should be obvious. You don't need to tell them about the general rule or anything more than that you don't want to talk about this now. Short and to the point. 

Notice the pattern? Context, outcome-based description of the plan, offer to be available if the question is leading in to suggesting you do something else today. As for "when did you hear the weird noise?" either you remember or you don't. Unless you think your boss is trying to prove you weren't even in the building for part of the day by quizzing you (which I doubt) there is really no issue with you remembering it at 2pm and someone else remembering it at 3pm. Relax, do your job well, and don't overthink why some people ask seemingly random questions. Answer them the best you can (which is not always just blurting out your first thought) and then go back to doing your job well. 

I have seen this on paper resumes. If you work in an industry where URLs are nonobvious (hotels and restaurants often don't have web sites, or have weird things buried under some parent company, and search results are drowned out by review and booking sites) then consider doing it even if your resume is not electronic. Considerations: 

I think this would alleviate the majority of your anxiety, the large expenses. If in the future you consistently lose money because you misplace a parking receipt or the company denies a claim (two things that worry you a lot, but I note have never happened) you might be able to press for a category of "very small" expenses that don't need receipts, just a manager's signature. Your manager knows you were sent to [location] and that parking there costs X a day, so can easily sign that even though you only have 4 receipts, you paid for 5 days. Some companies also have "per diem" for meals that don't need receipts (and allow people to claim more than they actually spent, if they chose to eat cheaply.) But I would wait until this actually happens to you before advocating for it. 

I would reserve this only for the sorts of situations in which it's ok to correct someone in front of others, meaning you're trying to prevent a dangerous situation, not just "actually the second Darren was played by..." I've been in the room when a "question" is just "you're wrong" and the thing is, it rarely enlightens the room. The presenter has the stage. It's usually just an interruption that lowers the quality of the rest of the session because the presenter is jangled now. Reserve it for exceptional circumstances. If you can help, help. That's more important than being right. 

If you're interviewing at a place that expects you to change roles every 18 months, and you want to find a role and stay in it, a truthful answer to this question will show both sides that this is a bad fit. And if you're interviewing at a very small company that doesn't really promote people or change their job titles, but gives them new things to do all the time, and you want a title like VP of Whatever and you want it within 5 years, then again a truthful answer will show this is a bad fit. What should you do? There are two strategies: 

You can do this either at the very first yell, or later when everything has calmed back down again. Similarly, if your manager calls you an idiot, you can ask 

And so on. You have to find a way to make P want to (or be able to) confirm what you need confirmed, or find a way to remove your need to have it confirmed. Those three things are within the realm of the possible. Putting magic words in an email that "force" P to confirm L is not within the realm of the possible. So either find a way to motivate P, or find a way to live without the confirmation. Those are your only options.