The phrase “twist the sinews of thy heart” in stanza 3 alludes to rope-making, like the ropes used in siege machines or to restrain the cannons of Blake's time when on-board a ship. Stanza 4 describes a forge (the furnace where the tiger's brain was crafted) and other blacksmith's tools (hammers, chains, anvils). Next come the two lines in question: “When the stars threw down their spears / And water'd heaven with their tears”. The previous stanzas implied a process of technological advancement, starting with the Promethean theft of the fire, advancing to rope-making, and then using the flame for metallurgy. The Tiger, a machine of war so fierce that not even the stars themselves could stand against it, is the culmination. But in something of a twist ending, Blake reveals in the next two lines that the Tiger is not a human creation: “Did he smile his work to see? Did he who made the Lamb make thee?” The immortal hand or eye that dared frame the fearsome Tiger is the same benevolent creator who made the innocent lamb from “The Lamb”. This leaves one question: why, specifically, the stars? Because it helps set up the “twist ending”. The first four stanzas, describing the tiger's creation, allude to a human creator with the reference to Prometheus and the mentions of physical body parts, such as shoulders, hands, and feet, and human tools such as hammers, chains, and anvils. The stars are clearly beyond all human power, but lines 17 and 18 imply that a human might have created something capable of overcoming them until the “twist” in lines 19 and 20. (I'm putting “twist” in quotes because it's not terribly surprising to anyone who's read “The Lamb” and recognized the parallel structure of the two Songs books, though line 20 does contain the explicit callback to “The Lamb”.) This study help page says the two lines about the stars “may refer to the casting down of the angels after Satan rebelled against God”, which would make “stars” a metaphorical term for angels. This interpretation, when taken with lines 19 and 20, also helps set up the “twist”. Now we can interpret line 19, “Did he smile his work to see?”, as asking whether God, upon defeating the rogue angels, making them throw down their spears and weep as they were cast out of Heaven, smiled and took pleasure in his victory at war. In this light, line 20, “Did he who made the Lamb make thee?”, becomes an allusion to the dual nature of God, who, to the poet's disbelief, is both the loving, gentle being who made the innocent Lamb, and the vengeful, warlike being who made the vicious Tiger and smiled to see his defeated enemies weep. 

Undoubtedly Woolf selected this passage for its subject as well as its prose style. Artistic productivity requires resources (not least a room of one’s own) that were only rarely available to women. Jane Austen wrote Mansfield Park, Emma and Persuasion at a tiny writing table in the corner of the front hall at Chawton Cottage, a situation of inadequate privacy, as Woolf points out: 

TL;DR: Lots. Introduction The post isn’t very clear about exactly what it’s asking, so I’m going to interpret it as asking the following questions: 

For Poe this is clearly a question of balance: coincidences detract from the quality of verisimilitude, but add to the quality of fatality, and he values both qualities. (Aside: Poe’s review refutes the idea, raised in comments, that “readers back then were much less nitpicky”. The review is a monument of nitpicks! But Poe’s nitpicks are directed at the effects Poe values, which are dramatic unity, which he thinks is spoiled by the inclusion of the Gordon Riots, and suspense, which he thinks is spoiled by the sloppy way the mystery plot is handled. Poe recognizes that coincidences are unrealistic, but realism is far from his most important concern.) What did readers make of coincidences? One way to think about this kind of question is to turn it around: 

Now the idea of fullness suggests to the narrator other things that can be full, in a process of free association. 

One thing that immediately struck me on reading the poem is how the two stanzas seem to form an argument and a counterargument. The first stanza ends with the assertion "All that we see or seem / Is but a dream within a dream", while the second ends by questioning that assertion: "Is all that we see or seem / But a dream within a dream?" I interpret the first stanza as the narrator bidding farewell to someone as they die, someone who basically thinks the narrator is wasting his life: "Thus much let me avow — / You are not wrong, who deem / That my days have been a dream". Given the next few lines about losing hope, it seems the narrator has spent a good portion of his life being hopeless, miserable, and melancholy, on what the dying person seems to think are thin pretenses. The narrator quibbles with that: 

As well as several more times afterward. My immediate thought when I first read Chapter I was that it symbolized his lack of empathy (i.e. metaphorical blindness to the feelings of others), which led his sons to revolt and throw him out, but he does seem genuinely sad that his wife, Myratana, has died. Also, the arc of the story didn't seem to quite fit this reading. His lack of empathy doesn't seem to ever come back to bite him in a straightforward way: he gets exactly what he wanted, killing all his children with his curse; his brothers Ijim and Zazel remain in exile where he put them; and he dies as he wanted, cursing his own father, Har, for creating one set of laws meant to apply to everyone. Aside from the rebellion of his sons, everything pretty much seems to go his way. What does the blindness signify? 

Who decided to change this couplet, Kipling or his U.S. publisher, and why? (Did they doubt that their U.S. readers would understand the puns?) Did Kipling even write the replacement couplet, or is it editorial meddling? Was it common for editors to rewrite parts of poems like this? Is there a connection to ‘Camp Song’ by ‘G.W.T.’? 

The term is pretty transparent: a bodice is an item of clothing worn by women in 16th to 18th century Europe (a popular setting for historical romances), and its laces might be ripped during enthusiastic or coercive sex. So a suggestion of violence is implicit in the term. Context The 1979 citation above says that ‘bodice-ripper’ was “known in the publishing trade”. It seems likely to have been a recent coinage, because a similar article in New York Magazine just a year earlier goes through a list of descriptions of the genre without mentioning the term: 

It’s the superficiality that Orwell is complaining about, not the emotion. For example, consider the first of Orwell's examples, Thomas Hood's ‘The Bridge of Sighs’. This eloquently expresses the poet’s sadness, but doesn’t go any further than that. The young woman in the poem has drowned herself because she was homeless, probably due to a pregnancy, but the main matter of the poem is how beautiful her corpse looks and how her sins are forgiven now she is dead. If there is a moral, it is only “Alas! for the rarity / Of Christian charity”. This is liable to strike the modern reader as a superficial response: surely some thought ought to be given to the sexual double standard and the cruelty of the patriarchal society that shunned her? Good bad books Orwell elaborated his thoughts on ‘good bad’ literature in the essay ‘Good bad books’ (1945): 

The tiger is described with military and industrial language. It was constructed in furnaces, on anvils, with hammers and chains and ropes ("And what shoulder, & what art, / Could twist the sinews of thy heart?"). Unlike the lamb, the tiger is a weapon of war, adapted for killing. But even though we've just spent four stanzas wondering what immortal being could possibly have crafted a weapon of war as fearsome as the tiger, the fifth stanza suddenly admits the possibility that it was the same being who made the gentle and innocent lamb, ending with the line "Did he who made the Lamb make thee?" The last stanza repeats the first stanza, but this time instead of asking who "Could frame thy fearful symmetry", it asks who "Dare frame thy fearful symmetry". The narrator is implying that God, who made the Lamb, is perfectly capable of also creating the Tiger, but wonders that he dared to do it. 

In both poems, other people chide the narrator for dreaming instead of living in the present, and in both poems the narrator defies them, but in "A Dream" the narrator asserts a greater truth to be found in the dream, and chooses to dwell there as a way of preserving the goodness in his life: 

One approach to interpreting these lines is to read them semi-literally: the tiger is such a fearsome creature that even the stars themselves threw down their weapons rather than face it, and wept at its power. Stanzas 2–4 use the conceit of describing the tiger's making as the construction of a machine of war: something mechanical, unfeeling, cruel by creation. Even the famous phrase “fearful symmetry” of the first stanza alludes to this: machines and technology are symmetrical, and their construction is plotted and planned, “framed”, in the case of the tiger by some “immortal hand or eye” which is equal to the task of constructing such a weapon. Stanza 2: 

Nonetheless, the outlines of the story are fairly clear: Theseus went to the land of the Amazons, fought there against the Amazons, and returned to Athens with a prisoner, who was either Hippolyta, queen of the Amazons, or her sister Antiope. Shakespeare was familiar with North’s translation of Plutarch, and used it as a major source for the plays Julius Caesar, Coriolanus and Antony and Cleopatra. In A Midsummer Night’s Dream there are only passing indications that Shakespeare had consulted Plutarch, but here’s one in Act II Scene I: 

In his autobiography ‘My Tedious Life’ (1873; printed in Joseph Severn: Letters and Memoirs, ed. Grant F. Scott, 2005) he wrote: 

This does not quite match the details in the post (in particular, there is no ‘time loop’), but could this be Twenty Trillion Leagues Under the Sea (2014) by Adam Roberts? In this fantasia on Jules Verne’s Twenty Thousand Leagues Under the Sea, the French submarine Plongeur suffers a malfunction: 

(Translation by Hugh Gerard Evelyn-White.) Theme The reference to Cyprus as the birthplace of Aphrodite is somewhat obscure, but it dovetails with one of the major themes of Jude the Obscure, that is, the contrast between the pagan sensuality of classical religion and the chaste austerity of Christianity. For example, in book I chapter V the young Jude addresses a prayer to the goddess Diana: 

We assume that he is a man known to the narrator. Dark could mean dark-featured, dark-skinned, dark-haired, dark-tempered, or some or all of them. Who is he? Someone important in the novel, we expect. 

I interpret the "golden sand" as life, time, or opportunities to do all the things that can only be done in life: spend time with friends and family, strive to create something, fulfill passion or ambition—all the things the narrator is not taking advantage of by spending time in melancholy. The "surf-tormented shore" can represent a few things, but to me the one that feels most right is to interpret the choppy ocean as all the things that detract from spending life well: all the cruelties and obstacles that the world will throw at you to lessen the value of your life. Since the sand represents a life well spent, the waves represent something which erodes that sand away. The next few lines also reinforce this interpretation: 

On a deeper level, the pair of "The Lamb" and "The Tyger" can represent a person attaining an adult, intellectual understanding of God and the nature of the world. God loves the little children, his little innocent lambs frolicking in their fields and knowing not how to do evil. To them "He is meek & he is mild". He is the God of love from the New Testament, who "calls himself a Lamb" and "became a little child". But the adult is closer to the tiger, capable of war, killing, and sin more broadly; and sometimes sinful adults meet the Old Testament God who smote Sodom and Gomorrah, the vengeful and destructive force who "smiled his work to see" when "the stars threw down their spears / And water'd Heaven with their tears". The second stanza also offers some support for this reading: 

The Fraser’s writer knew the “chopper” lines only in the context of ‘Oranges and Lemons’. But if they had previously been a “solitary couplet”, or part of some other verse, then their use in the children’s game would explain how they became attached to ‘Oranges and Lemons’. But this is just speculation: children’s games and oral transmission don’t leave much in the way of written evidence, so it is impossible to know with any certainty how it happened. 

TL;DR: If you don’t like Hugo’s prose, why are you reading Les Misérables?! The lengthy disclaimer is just one paragraph long, a drop in the ocean of this novel, so I will take the liberty of quoting it in full, in the 1887 translation of Isabel Hapgood: 

Can it be a coincidence that here we have caramba too? A footnote explains that the italicized phrases in the poem are “oaths of all languages, picked up by the mercenary in different countries.” So in this poem “Corpo Bacco” and “Caramba!” make perfect sense: they are oaths picked up in Italy and Spain respectively. It looks to me very much as though the writer of the replacement couplet was pulling a prank by taking oaths from ‘Camp Song’ and sneaking them past the publisher by deploying them in misleading contexts. My questions: 

TL;DR: No. Censorship Until the second half of the 20th century, it was not easy to publish literature in English that described sex in detailed or explicit terms. In England, literature was censored according to the Obscene Publications Act 1857; and in the U.S. according to the Comstock laws. These laws, prosecuted by private organizations like the National Vigilance Association in England, and the New York Society for the Suppression of Vice, made it necessary for mainstream writers like Conrad to approach sex obliquely, using implication, ellipsis, allusion and symbolism in place of explicit description. This code relied on a common understanding between writers and readers of what was permissible to say and what could plausibly be read into the gaps. But sixty years after R. v. Penguin Books Ltd and Roth v. United States it can be hard to accurately reconstruct what the original audience would have understood from a work, and easy to miss some implications and read too much into others. Evidence