Cargo shipping is always going to be a cost/reward balance - at some point, for almost any possible cargo, it's going to become more viable to produce the cargo at the destination than it is to ship it across. When it comes to interstellar travel, it's likely that the costs for shipping will be very high indeed. In all likelihood, you'll mostly be shipping machinery and similar hi-tech products to enable end-user production and possibly a few ultra-high-end goods, if you have any uber-rich colonists (how much might a billionaire pay for a truffle?). The exact numbers though are going to depend on how the travel works in your universe, why the colonies have been established and how far away are they. A good start might be how isolated the colonists are - if it's a one-way trip then that suggests difficult travel. Will they be holidaying back on Earth? Then it's probably pretty simple to get between places and trade will be much more likely. 

Autonomous vehicles have a huge advantage when it comes to deep-sea diving compared to manned ones, as they don't have to carry any gasses. As liquids are virtually incompressible, oil-filled devices are virtually impervious to even the greatest pressures. 

Why build a wall? Water is pretty easy to patrol, and a freely-living population with a whole city to play with wouldn't have much difficulty overcoming any wall you might build. As for question 2, it really depends on what you mean by 'under control'. If you want proper, Western-style prison control then you'll want some guards and use the same technology and procedures as prisons do now. You could throw in a few extras - perhaps a stunning ankle bracelet* or similar. If you just want to stop the situation inside the prison affecting the situation outside, then just shoot anyone who tries to leave and let them get on with it, with a regular food drop. *Stunning as in 'like a tazer', not stunning as in 'oh wow, your bracelet is sooooo beautiful!' 

Depends whether you want to use purely chemical and electrical means, or whether some genetic engineering is allowed. If it's the former then almost certainly not. Whilst we can realistically make chemicals out of simpler ones such as the constituents of air and water, to actually make all of the various chemicals that humans need to survive would probably be prohibitively expensive to synthesise. But if the question is "could you create a life-form that survives purely on photosynthesis (or perhaps heat or even directly from electrical energy), air and a solution of water and some salts then the answer might well be yes. If you get it all right, then there's a good chance you'll have a highly efficient process that could work underground. 

Well, the answer is they'd still work (until everything was sold) as long as the item is something that enough people would be prepared to pay the final price for - as long as there are no alternatives. For example, if there were no cars (and no car crime) and then 50,000 of them suddenly appeared (and everyone else was on a bicycle) then even if a Toyota Yaris cost $1,000,000 then eventually an IT billionaire would come and buy one to get off of his bicycle. Used prices wouldn't really help, as with a limited number these would also skyrocket very quickly (the first buyers would make a fortune if they sold theirs on to richer but not as speedy buyers - much as happens today with desirable cars with long waiting lists). The number of those shops doesn't matter as the item would become a commodity, and would likely be bought from the cheapest shop (which would change as soon as someone bought one) so everyone - over time - would make the same from each shop. Ultimately though, I wouldn't say it was a good business model. 

Have a sidekick who is a computer whizz. They hack the CCTV, monitor the feeds and direct you to where you need to be. DIY it - if you're able to hack the feed, then you don't need the sidekick (although that means a greater workload for you) Make a friend amongst the CCTV operators. If something goes down, then they contact you Create your own net, placing webcams in likely trouble spots 

Power. Once these robots are no longer useful, it stands to reason that no one will recharge their batteries. If there's no power grid to connect to, how does a robot recharge? Assuming they're not fitted with solar panels, etc, then they're going to have difficulty - but one thing a robot will need are motors of various sorts. These should be fairly simple to Jerry-rig into generators with the addition of a water wheel, so now your robots have a source of electricity again. 

To be honest, I'm not really sure what the question is here! With enough investment in infrastructure (and maybe some improvements in technology) this system would work on Earth. We already have 

In 1930's England, two people are taken much more seriously than they were in our history - Basil Liddell-Hart and Frank Whittle. Liddell-Hart's concept of fully mechanised forces means that the BEF deployed to France is more than a match for the Wehrmacht and SS; whilst Whittle's jet engine gives the RAF a huge advantage over the Luftwaffe. Meanwhile in France the the Maginot Line isn't over-relied upon, and the Allies stand ready to face the Germans wherever they attack. The net result is that Germany suffers a humilating defeat in 1940; Poland is liberated and Germany is split between the victors. Britain and France are able - now without having to worry about fighting on two fronts - are able to keep Japan at bay and keep an uneasy peace. Without Japan's entry into the war, the US remains neutral, and with Britain and France not worn down by years of war they are able to counter the US's interest in de-colonialism; the US protests their annexation of Germany but with the memory of two bloody wars with Germany in as many generations, the victorious Allies hold firm and turn their attention towards keeping the USSR at bay. The UK and US both independently create nuclear weapons (the UK's programme is much more successful in this timeline without having to fight a war at the same time) before Stalin's army is ready to do anything (remember that he wanted plenty of time to arm and was forced into action by the German invasion); thus the Cold War takes a fairly familiar course. Ultimately, in 2016 the US remains fairly isolationist but with shared principles of free trade and democracy, has close relations with Western and Central Europe. Europe is dominated by the three victorious powers; what was Germany is split evenly between France, UK and Poland and the three have an alliance similar to NATO (including the smaller military powers of Europe too). Russia is whatever works best for your story - either it collapses in the face of Western spending and its own financial ruin, or the fact that the Anglo-French-Polish alliance has less clout than real-world NATO means that the USSR remains in a Cold War.